Strategic review Governance Additional disclosures Financial statements Other information additional disclosures 1.
Financial and business reporting On 31 December 2012 there were downgraded to below investment grade due 712,830,959 ordinary shares of 25 pence in to a change of control, and the rating remains This Annual Report aims to tell a cohesive issue each with one vote.
There are no shares below investment grade for a period of six story, with the narrative section giving a held in treasury.
The total number of voting months thereafter, the bondholders may consistent presentation and a balanced and rights in Hammerson plc at 31 December require repayment at par.
understandable assessment of the Companys 2012 was therefore 712,830,959. financial position, results and prospects.
In addition, under the Companys credit facilities, A description of our business model and There are no specific restrictions on the size of the lending banks may require repayment of strategy are set out in the Chief Executives a holding nor on the transfer of shares except outstanding amounts within 30 days of any Report on pages 6 and 7.
The Going Concern UK REIT restrictions.
No person has any special change of control.
Statement is represented under point 7 below, rights of control over the Companys share and the Directors and Auditors responsibility capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Employees statements are on pages 80 to 81.
It is the Groups policy to give full consideration 6.
Purchase of own shares to suitable applications for employment of 2.
Principal activities The Company was granted authority at the disabled persons.
Disabled employees are The principal activities of the Group have Annual General Meeting AGM in 2012 eligible to participate in all career development continued to be property investment and to purchase its own shares up to a total opportunities available to employees.
aggregate value of 10% of the issued nominal Opportunities also exist for employees of the capital.
That authority expires on the date of Group who become disabled to continue in 3.
Dividends the 2013 AGM at which a resolution will be their employment or to be retrained for other proposed for its renewal.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 10.0 pence per share which, together with The Company places considerable importance 7.
Going concern the interim dividend paid on 5 October 2012, on good internal communications with its staff will make a total dividend for the year of 17.7 The current economic conditions have created and invests time in consulting on a wide range pence 2011: 16.6 pence.
It is intended that a number of uncertainties as set out on pages of matters which affect them as employees the final dividend will be paid on 14 May 2013 36 to 39.
The Groups business activities, including: reward practices, work life balance to shareholders on the register at the close of together with the factors likely to affect its initiatives, corporate responsibility activities business on 5 April 2013. future development, performance and position and approaches to internal communications.
The financial Consultation predominantly takes the form of It is intended that 4.0 pence per share will be position of the Group, its liquidity position and facilitated discussion groups and employee paid as a Property Income Distribution, net of borrowing facilities are described on pages 44 involvement on relevant committees.
The withholding tax where appropriate, and the to 45 and in notes 19 and 21 to the accounts.
Company also provides very regular internal remainder of 6.0 pence per share paid as a updates on business news and performance normal dividend.
The Directors have reviewed the current through formal and informal meetings, and projected financial position of the Group, Details of the Companys dividends can intranet announcements and special employee making reasonable assumptions about future be found on the Companys website: briefings question and answer sessions on the trading performance.
com on the Investors page.
the Directors considered the Groups cash balances, its debt maturity profile, including 4.
Fixed assets and capitalised interest 10.
Pension scheme undrawn facilities, and the long-term nature Changes in tangible fixed assets and capitalised of tenant leases.
After making enquiries, the The Companys defined benefit pension scheme interest during the year are set out in notes 12 Directors have a reasonable expectation that was closed to new entrants on 31 December and 13 to the accounts on pages 103 and the Company and the Group have adequate 2002 following which a Group personal pension 104, whilst details of Hammersons property resources to continue in operational existence plan was established for new employees.
portfolio are provided on pages 132 to 137. for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they The defined benefit pension scheme, The continue to adopt the going concern basis in Hammerson Group Management Limited 5.
Share capital preparing the Annual Report.
Pension and Life Assurance Scheme the Changes to the Companys share capital during Scheme, is administered by two corporate 8.
Provisions on change of control the year, are set out in note 25 to the accounts trustees, one of which is an independent trustee.
Five of the six outstanding bonds issued by The other is a subsidiary of the Company the Company contain covenants specifying which has five directors.
The Chairman of that, if the Companys credit rating is this subsidiary is David Edmonds, one of the Companys former Non-Executive Directors.
78 HAMMERSON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Strategic review Governance Additional disclosures Financial statements Other information David Edmonds continues as the Chairman David Atkins, Peter Cole and Timon Drakesmith The Groups creditor payment days as at of this subsidiary and chairs meetings of the have service agreements with the Company.
Two of the remaining directors are The appointments of the Non-Executive purchases 2011: 23 days.
employees, but not Directors of the Company Directors, including the Chairman, are and the other two directors are former governed by letters of appointment.
The Schemes funds are invested of the service agreements and the letters of Details of the financial instruments used by and managed independently of the Company.
appointment are set out in the Remuneration the Group and the Company are set out in note Report on pages 74 and 75.
Details of the 22 to the accounts on pages 113 to 119.
Substantial shareholders Directors interests in the share capital of the Company are set out in the Remuneration At 31 December 2012 the following interests 18.
Auditor Report on pages 76 and 77. in voting rights over the issued share capital of Deloitte LLP are willing to be re-appointed as the the Company had been notified: 13.
Directors remuneration auditor to the Company.
Their re-appointment has been considered and recommended by the At 31 December 2012 Details of the remuneration of each of the Audit Committee and a resolution concerning Ordinary Percentage Directors are set out in the Remuneration Shares of 25p of total voting their re-appointment will be proposed at Report on pages 62 to 77. each rights the AGM.
Directors and officers liability Groep N. V. 68,227,094 9.57% 19.
Disclosure of information to the insurance BlackRock Inc. 50,223,602 7.05% auditor Norges Bank Investment The Company maintains Directors and Each of the persons who are a Director at the Management 34,141,595 4.79% Officers liability insurance, which is reviewed date of approval of the Directors Report has Legal & General Investment annually.
The Companys Directors and confirmed that: Management Ltd 25,717,804 3.61% Officers are adequately insured in line with the guidelines produced by the Institute of so far as s he is aware, there is no relevant Legal & General Group plc 22,499,364 3.16% Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and No changes to the above have been disclosed 15.
Donations to the Company in accordance with Rule 5 of s he has taken all the steps that s he ought the Disclosure and Transparency Rules between During the year the Company made charitable to have taken as a Director in order to make 31 December 2012 and 28 February 2013. donations in the United Kingdom of 151,343 her himself aware of any relevant audit 2011: 144,845.
Under the Companys information and to establish that the Companys 12.
Directors charitable donations policy for 2012, donations auditor is aware of that information.
were made to a variety of childrens, youth and The biographical details of the current Directors This confirmation has been given and should medical charities and to charities connected to are shown on pages 52 and 53.
Jean-Philippe be interpreted in accordance with the provisions localities in which the Company is represented.
Mouton was appointed as an Executive of section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006.
Gwyn Burr and For 2013, the Company will make charitable David Tyler were appointed as Non-Executive donations focused on children and young people, 20.
Annual General Meeting Directors with effect from 21 May 2012 and health and local regeneration of community The Annual General Meeting will be held on 12 January 2013 respectively.
John Nelson infrastructures and facilities.
Donations to Thursday 9 May 2013 at 10 Grosvenor Street, will be retiring as Chairman of the Company political or religious organisations are not made.
He will be succeeded by Meeting and the explanatory notes will be David Tyler who will take the role of Chairman 16.
Creditor payment policy included in a separate notice to be sent to immediately after the 2013 AGM.
During the It is the Groups policy and practice that the all shareholders.
financial year 31 December 2012 there were terms of payment to suppliers are agreed in no resignations from the Board.
By Order of the Board advance of the supply of any goods and services In accordance with the UK Corporate and that payments are made in accordance Governance Code, all the Directors will retire with those terms and conditions provided that Sarah Booth and offer themselves for election and re-election the supplier has also complied with them.
General Counsel at the forthcoming AGM.
This excludes John and Company seCretary Nelson who will be retiring and not offering 28 February 2013 himself for re-election.
