Strategic review Our focus areas Experience Governance Financial statements Other information experience 20 prime shopping centres 357 restaurants and cafs across our portfolio ThE EnTErTainmEnT businEss We attract consumers and differentiate Creating the right environment Enhancing the consumer experience our offer by providing entertainment.
We develop or acquire to create the right retail Having created the venue, the consumer We create prime shopping centres venue in successful areas winning locations.
experience is enhanced through a combination in the UK and France, which act as For example, Victoria Quarter, Leeds The of targeted events and promotional activity.
retail and leisure destinations for Knightsbridge of the North and Les Terrasses In 2012 we hosted a wide range of events in the surrounding area.
du Port, Marseille, our major groundbreaking our centres including fashion shows, farmers retail and leisure destination overlooking the markets and student lock-ins.
We encourage visitors through the use of We combine a mix of the most current and social media marketing, to generate a buzz popular retail brands, in combination with and a loyalty that can only be created through known and trusted department stores.
We direct interaction with the consumer.
travel the world seeking out expanding We optimise our centre websites and provide international retailers to bring in retail firsts free wi-fi, so that our visitors can begin their such as Apple, Hollister and Forever 21. experience online before they reach the Increasingly, as shopping centres become centre, and continue once they are with us.
leisure venues in their own right, this is Our flexible and innovative approach in the embellished by introducing high-quality multi-channel arena is helping our retail catering brands and leisure facilities.
customers find new ways to support and grow their sales.
12 HAMMERSON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Strategic review Our focus areas Experience Governance Financial statements Other information Prime experience key facts 2 million m 1.25 gross rents 200m 2,215 units promotional events 2012 90 PRIME EXPERIENCE Bullring, Birmingham With a footfall of almost 40 million a year, Bullring is one of the UKs most successful retail destinations.
The regeneration of Spiceal Street has further strengthened the catering offer, with the opening of several new restaurants, including Browns Bar and Brasserie, Chaophraya and handmade burger Co. HAMMERSON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 13
