Governance Board of Directors Chairman, Deputy Chairman and Executive Directors Patrick Burgess MBE John Whittaker David Fischel Matthew Roberts Chairman Deputy Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Age 68 Age 70 Age 54 Age 49 Appointed to the Board: Appointed as a Appointed to the Board: Appointed as Appointed to the Board: Appointed Appointed to the Board: Appointed as Non-Executive Director ofthe Group in Deputy Chairman and a Non-Executive Finance Director in 1988, Managing Finance Director on 3 June 2010.
Director in 1992 and Chief Executive in Career: Matthew Roberts was previously March 2001.
Career: Patrick Burgess qualied as a Career: John Whittaker is the Chairman the Finance Director of Debenhams plc Solicitor in 1972 and became a partner in of the Peel Group which he founded in Career: David Fischel qualied as a from 1996 to 2003, andChief Financial Gouldens in 1974, serving as head ofthe 1971, and developed into a leading UK chartered accountant in 1983 at Touche Officer of Gala, subsequently Gala Coral Corporate Department for 14years and infrastructure, transport and real estate Ross & Co before joining the Group Group Ltd, from 2004 to 2008. as Senior Partner for six, culminating with enterprise.
Skills and experience: Matthew is a the merger of Gouldens with Jones Day Skills and experience: John is a highly Skills and experience: At Touche Ross, Fellow of the Institute of Chartered in 2003, from which he retired in 2007. regarded real estate investor, and has David worked in the corporate finance Accountants in England and Wales, and He has also been active in a number of overseen the growth of the PeelGroup department with experience in has gained significant executive level charitable and community organisations.
across many sectors such as land, acquisitions, otations and capital finance experience in his previous Skills and experience: At Jones Day, realestate, ports, airports, renewable raisings.
During his 27 year career with positions at Debenhams plc, where Patrick specialised in mergers and energy and media.
John is an experienced Intu, David has gained significant hemanaged its 1998 IPO and ran its acquisitions and corporate re-structuring.
property developer and business leader executive experience in numerous international business and property He also has considerable experience illustrated by projects such as The aspects of the shopping centre industry function, and at Gala where he led a incompliance, regulatory and stock Trafford Centre and MediacityUK.
His including shopping centre acquisitions number of acquisitions and fundraisings exchange matters.
appointment to the Boardfollowed the and developments.
He has also been including the creation of a 3 billion acquisition by Intu ofTheTrafford Centre closely involved with the Groups debtpackage following the acquisition Other appointments: Non-Executive from the Peel Group.
corporate development including equity ofCoral.
Director of Standard Bank PLC and debt nancings and a wide range of Other appointments: Chairman of the Chairman of the Capital other corporate transactions, including Peel Group.
Projects Committee the 2010 demerger of Capital & Counties fromIntu.
Chairman of the Nomination and Review Committee Other appointments: Non-Executive Director of Equity One, Inc and Prozone Chairman of the Corporate Capital Shopping Centres Limited.
Responsibility Committee Committees: Executive Committee Capital Projects Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination and Review Committee Corporate Responsibility Committee 60 Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report Overview Business model Business review Financial review Corporate Governance Accounts Other information and strategy responsibility Non-Executive Directors John Abel Richard Gordon Andrew Huntley Louise Patten Age 68 Age 54 Age 74 Age 59 Appointed to the Board: Appointed as a Appointed to the Board: Appointed as a Appointed to the Board: Appointed as a Appointed to the Board: Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in 2010.
Career: John Abel commenced his career Career: Richard Gordon previously Career: Andrew Huntleys career with Intu in 1972.
Until his retirement in served as aNon-Executive Director of commenced some 40 years ago with Career: Louise Patten began her career 2005, John was Managing Director of Capital Shopping Centres PLC between Richard Ellis where he served as at Citibank, working mainly in retail Capital Shopping Centres PLC, and 1996 and 2006 and was appointed as an Chairman from 1993 until 2002.
He was financial services until she joined global served as a Non-Executive Director alternate Director in respect of Graeme a Non-Executive Director of Pillar strategy advisers Bain & Company Inc in from2005 until 2008 before being Gordons directorship of the Group in Property plc from 2000 to 2005.
1993 where since 1997 she has been a reappointed to the Board following 2001.
He also served on the boards of a Senior Adviser.
Skills and experience: Andrew Huntley is Intusdemerger in 2010. number of companies within the Liberty a Chartered Surveyor and is one of the Skills and experience: Louise Patten has Life group and various companies within Skills and experience: John is a UKs most experienced property advisers.
extensive board level experience at a the commercial and residential real Chartered Surveyor and, through his number of retail and property companies estatesector.
Other appointments: Non-Executive career with the Group, has extensive and including as Chairman of Brixton plc and Chairman of Metric Property Investments specic experience in the shopping centre Skills and experience: In addition to Interim Chairman of Somereld plc, and PLC and a Non-Executive Director of industry, including in the acquisition and representing the Gordon Family Interests Non-Executive roles at Marks and Capital & Counties Properties PLC.
on the Board, Richard also has significant Spencer plc, where she chaired the real estate experience having been Remuneration Committee, GUS plc, involved with several commercial and Hilton Group plc and Harveys residential real estate companies, mainly Furnishingsplc.
Other appointments: Non-Executive director of UK Asset Resolution and of Control Risks Group.
Rob Rowley Neil Sachdev Andrew Strang Adle Anderson Senior Independent Director Age 54 Age 60 Age 47 Age 63 Appointed to the Board: Appointed as a Appointed to the Board: Appointed as a Appointed to the Board: Appointed as Appointed to the Board: Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in November Non-Executive Director on 8 July 2009. aNon-Executive Director on 22 February Non-Executive Director in 2004.
Career: Andrew Strang started his career Career: Rob Rowley joined Reuters Career: Neil Sachdev joined Tesco PLC with Richard Ellis 30 years ago.
He served Career: Adle Anderson commenced Group plc in 1978, and served as Finance in 1978, rising to the position of Property asManaging Director of Threadneedle hercareer at KPMG where she became Director from 1990 to 2000.
He has Director before joining JSainsbury PLC as Property Investments Limited for 17 apartner and held a number of senior previously been Executive Deputy Commercial Director in March 2007.
He was roles, including Chief Financial Officer.
Chairman of Cable & Wireless plc, and a was subsequently appointed Property Chairman of Hermes Real Estate Sheis currently Chairman of the Non-Executive Director and Senior Director of J Sainsbury PLC in June 2010.
Investment Management from 2009 to AuditCommittee of Save the Children Independent Director of Prudential plc 2011.
He is a current member of the International: a member of the easyJet Skills and experience: Neil Sachdev has and Taylor Nelson Sofres.
Norges Bank Investment Management plc Audit Committee and will serve on an MBA from Stirling University and has Real Estate Advisory Board and a the Intu Audit Committee.
Skills and experience: Rob Rowley is a gained significant experience in both member of the Investmentand qualied accountant, has an MBA from retail and property matters throughout Skills and Experience: Adle graduated Governance Committees at AEW UK.
Craneld Business School, and has his career.
from Kent University with BSc Hons in gained extensive financial experience Skills and experience: Andrew is Mathematics and Computer Science.
Other appointments: He was appointed throughout his career.
Rob also has wide aChartered Surveyor and has Sheis a qualied ACA.
She has to the Joint Advisory Board of the Audit Committee experience having substantially focused on property gainedextensive financial experience Grantham Institute for Climate Change in chaired the Audit Committee of investment throughout his career.
throughout her career and has significant 2010.
Since 2008 has been a member of Prudential plc, and currently chairing the Audit Committee experience.
the Business in the Community Mayday Other appointments: Director of Audit Committees of Taylor Wimpey plc Leadership team focusing on the climate the British Property Federation and a Other appointments: Non-Executive and Moneysupermarket.
change sector and is also a member of Non-Executive Director of Capital & Director of easyJet plc: a member of Other appointments: Non-Executive the Business Innovation and Skills Board Counties Properties PLC.
theBoard of Trustees of both Save the Director of Taylor Wimpey plc, and on Green Construction.
Chairman of the Children UK and Save the Children Moneysupermarket.
International and a member of the Independent Commission on the Chairman of the Audit Committee Chairman of the Remuneration Futureof Policing.
Committee Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report 61
