Governance continued Executive management Executive Committee Additional members of the Executive Mike Butterworth Susan Marsden Committee are the Chief Executive Chief Operating Officer Group Company Secretary Chairman of the Committee and the Appointed as Chief Operating Officer on Joined the Group as Company Finance Director, whose biographies are 3October 2011.
Fellow of the set out on page 60.
Institution of Chartered Surveyors, Instituteof CharteredSecretaries and Mikejoined the Manchester Ship Canal Administrators.
Commenced her career Company, now part of the Peel Group, in at the London Stock Exchange, and has 1981, and became Property Director of been Company Secretary of two FTSE Peel Holdings in 2002.
He has extensive real-estate sector companies prior to experience in the shopping centre joining the Group.
industry having served as Managing Trevor Pereira Director of The Trafford Centre Limited Commercial Director from 1996, responsible for the opening of the centre in 1998, until 2011 when The Joined the Group in 2007 as Commercial Trafford Centre was acquired byIntu.
Director, Capital Shopping Centres PLC.
Hewas appointed Group Commerical Martin Ellis Director in October 2011, responsible Construction Director forOperations, Commercialisation and Appointed as a Director of Capital Marketing.
Previously worked for airport Shopping Centres PLC on 1 October group BAA plc for 21 years, latterly as 2005.
Initially joined the Group in Retailand Commercial Director for 1990and was appointed in 2008 as Heathrow Airport.
ManagingDirector, Liberty International Peter Weir Construction and Development Limited.
Group Financial Controller Following the demerger of the Capital & Counties business in May 2010, Joined the Group in October 2008 as hereverted to being Intus Construction Group Financial Controller.
Previously Director responsible fordevelopment and worked in a number of finance roles in construction projects.
both listed and privately owned companies, lastly before joining the Hugh Ford Group as Finance Director-Europe General Corporate Counsel atFidelity International.
Amember Appointed General Corporate Counsel ofICAS.
Previously he was General Manager Legal at Virgin Atlantic Airways, and before that a commercial lawyer with British Airways Plc.
He qualied as a solicitor in 1992 with Freshelds.
Executive management Biographies of the senior management team are available on our website at: intugroup.
co. uk who-we-are our-people executive-management 62 Intu Properties plc 2012 Annual Report
