Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Our strategy Our strategy is evolving with an extension to the integration aspects of Excellence in Delivery and increasing investment in the business, with a renewed focus on organic revenue growth Over a number of years, Cobhams strategy has During June 2012, Bob Murphy became CEO, More detail on Cobhams strategy, the importance been to focus on its chosen markets, each with initiating a review which concluded that while of each strategic objective and the actions being significant technology value-add.
the Groups strategic objectives are a good base taken to progress it are set out on the following on which to build, the strategy needs to evolve double page spread.
The EiD programme commenced in 2010 and is in some important ways.
an area of considerable focus, bringing a number The table below shows Cobhams positions in of customer and operational benefits, in addition The integration aspects of the EiD programme each of its markets, demonstrating the progress to significant financial benefits.
This programme have been extended to further reduce the fixed to date in implementing its strategy.
is making the business more integrated and cost base to address expected declines in US more streamlined.
defence security revenue, given the overall fiscal Each market position shown on the Group table pressure the US faces.
The majority of savings below has been highlighted in the respective Cobham has used the significant amount of cash will be reinvested in business development, in Divisional reviews on pages 16 to 23. generated by the business to make acquisitions market led technology, in project management that reinforce its technology and market leading and in training to generate incremental organic The acquisition of Thrane & Thrane has positions, completing 44 discrete acquisitions in revenue.
This focus on generating organic revenue doubled Cobhams SATCOM revenue.
It has also been through periodic growth underpins Cobhams commitment to was previously contained within the Antenna and rigorous reviews to identify businesses that creating sustainable shareholder value.
Systems business unit but has now achieved the no longer fit the strategy, with divestments made, necessary scale for the Group to create an eighth including the non-core emergency locator beacon The Group will continue to use its balance sheet strategic business unit.
businesses during 2012. strength on carefully selected acquisitions to bring more balance between its defence security and commercial businesses, to promote long term revenue growth through the cycles.
Leading Market Positions US Defence Non US Defence Commercial security security Higher SATCOM Mission Equipment Aerospace Communications Aviation Antenna Services Systems Tactical Life Comms & Support Surveillance Defence Electronics Lower Building scale In top three Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 9 Market Growth Our strategy continued The Group leverages its innovative technology, know-how and understanding of customer needs to build and maintain leading positions in the second and third tiers of the global defence security and commercial aerospace, land and marine markets Strategy 13 2 Improve understanding of our markets Remain focused at the second and Identify adjacent markets where our and customers future needs, aligning third tiers of global defence security existing technology and know-how can PV investments with these priorities.
markets and commercial aerospace, be leveraged to meet the needs of new land and marine markets.
Why it is Technology and know-how are our key Our innovative technology and We have an extraordinary breadth competitive differentiators.
know-how are concentrated at of capabilities and a global reach, important the tier two subsystems and tier three giving us access to a range of The close alignment between technology components level, where we have markets and customers.
and customers will optimise our ability to market leading positions and technical ensure the right solutions are available differentiation with barriers to entry.
We need to exploit this breadth and when customers need them, and so This differentiation enables us to reach to maximise our content on maximise revenue potential from offer solutions to customers platforms and programmes and to technology investment.
increase the adoption of our must be focused on products and differentiated products, services services that address the customer and know-how in adjacent markets.
needs of today and the future not the problems of yesterday.
We take an increasingly collaborative approach to growing the number and value of our differentiated products and services on new platforms and programmes, using customer knowledge from across our businesses.
What we To give greater focus and insight Total Group R&D investment, including We have been making progress in to customer needs and a top-down, projects funded by customers, was adapting our technologies for new are doing market led view of investment priorities, 156m.
As part of this, we invested markets and new geographies.
Our a new Group level position has been 75m, or 5.3% of Group revenue, on wireless mesh network, NetNodeIS, established to address Business technology in 2012. has been used successfully across Development and Technology.
defence security markets and is From 2013, we intend to increase the being increasingly used in commercial Collaboration across the Group is level of market led company funded environments, including in underground increasingly delivering tangible results, technology investment to generate mines, in oil fields and for broadcast helping us win larger programme incremental organic revenue and applications.
positions which individual business gain market share.
units would not be able to win on their We have won our first significant order own.
Examples include broader content for surveillance equipment in Brazil, from across Cobham on the KC-390 and following the recent opening of KC-46 tanker programmes.
We will further leverage our technology and global footprint to identify new markets and applications.
This process will enable us to secure sustainable, long term positions and deliver additional growth.
10 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 4567 Drive a culture of continuous Improve programme execution Ensure the right capabilities are in Use M&A to shift the emphasis of the improvement and an integrated, across customer and PV funded place in changing markets, by portfolio ahead of market movements streamlined business across the projects to achieve sector leading increasing investment to build to ensure that the Group remains Group through Excellence in Delivery.
customer delivery and operational essential skills and capabilities.
exposed to faster growing markets.
Our customers want to work with Project management is a core Delivery of our objectives depends on We use our significant cash generation people who understand their strategic competency for the Group, with the right capabilities and organisation and balance sheet strength to reinforce objectives and help them become more consistent delivery of customer structures being in place, to meet the our technology and market positions competitive.
The first step in developing expectations a foundation stone demands of operating in an increasingly through carefully selected acquisitions, this relationship of trust is to have a on which revenue growth is built.
We with focus on bringing more balance to world class reputation for delivery need to ensure that we attract, retain our defence security and commercial and operational excellence across The ability to deliver programmes on and develop the skills that will support activities, to promote long term revenue every discipline.
time and on budget will foster closer future growth.
relationships with customers, result in The drive for operational excellence repeat orders and in the development of is helping us to reduce our existing greater levels of collaboration and trust.
manufacturing footprint and improve productivity, enabling us to integrate smaller manufacturing locations.
This helps us to reduce our cost base.
We have been focusing on EiD, which We are focusing on further improving A new Business Development and The acquisition of Thrane & Thrane has reached the end of its second full this core competency, with a Group Technology position has been is a significant step towards bringing year and made considerable progress.
level position established to provide established to reinforce the Groups more balance between defence Alongside financial benefits, the momentum and visibility to understanding of its markets and security and commercial end markets, programme is bringing a number programme execution.
strengthen the link between the with the June 2012 acquisition doubling of operational and customer benefits, needs of customers and technology our predominantly commercial including improved productivity, In addition, there will be increased investment.
A further Group level SATCOM revenue.
shortened manufacturing lead times investment in project management position has been created to provide and improved levels of quality.
Four training and development, resulting momentum and visibility on the Acquiring and successfully integrating manufacturing facility integrations in enhanced levels of project delivery.
development of project and programme value enhancing companies will were undertaken in the year.
management capabilities, which are key continue to be important going to organic growth.
To underpin this, the We are making further significant site acquisition process is being refined and headcount rationalisations due We will continue to ensure we have the to ensure clear alignment with the to expected volume declines in the right capabilities in place to deliver our strategic priorities supported by US defence security market, with objectives in a changing market.
This will superior processes so that acquisitions rationalisation announced at five be underpinned by increased investment continue to consistently deliver sites to date in 2013.
The majority in learning and development in line with shareholder value.
of the savings are to be reinvested strategic workforce plans designed in the business for incremental to drive functional excellence.
Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 11
