Directors report The Directors present their report and the audited Group and parent Corporate governance company financial statements of Cobham plc for the year ended The Companys statement on corporate governance is set out on pages 36 31 December 2012.
The Company is registered in England and Wales to 43. under company number 30470.
Share capital Business review Details of the share capital of the Company are given in note 25 to the The Chairmans statement on page 6 of the Annual Report and Accounts Group financial statements and note 12 to the parent company financial together with the Chief Executive Officers review on pages 7 and 8, the statements respectively.
Principal risks section on pages 14 and 15, the Business overview on pages 16 to 23, the Financial review on pages 24 to 29, the Corporate responsibility The Directors have been authorised to allot and issue Ordinary Shares.
and sustainability section on pages 30 to 33 and the Corporate governance These powers are exercised under authority of resolutions passed at the section on pages 36 to 43 contain information that fulfils the requirements Companys AGM.
of the statutory business review and are incorporated in this Directors report by reference.
The statutory business review is addressed only to shareholders At the AGM held on 26 April 2012, the Company was authorised to purchase and its purpose is to provide a review of the business and to explain the up to 115,452,762 Ordinary Shares.
This authority will expire at the conclusion principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
A special resolution will be put to shareholders at the AGM to renew the authority to make market purchases of the Companys shares up Principal activities to a maximum of 10% of the share capital of the Company.
Cobham plc, a public limited company listed on the London Stock Exchange, offers an innovative range of technologies and services to solve challenging The rights and obligations attaching to the Ordinary Shares and 6% second problems across commercial, defence and security markets, from deep cumulative Preference Shares of 1 each in the capital of the Company are space to the depths of the ocean.
It is the parent company of a Group set out in the Articles and note 25. whose principal activities in the year related to the protection of lives and livelihoods with its differentiated technology and know-how, operating with Subject to applicable statutes, and to the rights conferred on the holders a deep insight to customer needs and agility.
The Group has market leading of any other shares, shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions positions in air-to-air refuelling: aviation services: audio, video and data as the Company may by ordinary resolution decide or if there is no such communications, including satellite communication: defence electronics: resolution or so far as the resolution does not make specific provision as life support, and mission equipment.
Holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint one or more For further details on the Groups principal activities, refer to pages 16 to 23. proxies and, if they are corporations, corporate representatives and to exercise voting rights.
Holders of Ordinary Shares may receive a dividend Dividends and, on a liquidation, may share in the assets of the Company.
Holders of An interim dividend of 2.40 pence per Ordinary Share of 2.50 pence each Ordinary Shares are entitled to receive the Companys Annual Report and in the capital of the Company Ordinary Shares 2011: 1.80 pence was paid Accounts.
Subject to meeting certain thresholds, holders of Ordinary in November 2012.
The Directors are recommending a final dividend of Shares may requisition a general meeting of the Company or the proposal 6.40 pence per Ordinary Share 2011: 6.20 pence payable on 31 May 2013 of a resolution at an AGM.
to ordinary shareholders on the register as at 3 May 2013, making a total ordinary dividend for the year of 8.80 pence 2011: 8.00 pence.
Voting rights and restrictions on transfer of shares On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every holder of Details of the total dividend paid is covered in note 6. shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote and on a poll every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote Directors indemnity arrangements has one vote for every 1 in nominal value of the shares of which he is the The Directors have the benefit of a Directors and officers liability insurance holder.
None of the Ordinary Shares carry any special rights with regard to policy and the Company has entered into qualifying third party indemnity control of the Company.
arrangements with them, as permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
The policy was in force at the year end and continues in force at the date of this There are no restrictions on transfers of shares other than: report.
The Directors are permitted to take independent legal advice at the Certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by laws Companys expense within set limits in furtherance of their duties.
Pursuant to the Companys code for securities transactions including the Directors interests requirement on the Directors and designated employees to obtain approval None of the Directors is or was materially interested in any significant to deal in the Companys shares.
contract during or at the end of the financial year, particulars of which are Where a person with an interest in the Companys shares has been served required to be disclosed by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company with Details of Directors share interests and of their rights to subscribe for shares information concerning interests in those shares.
are shown in the Directors remuneration report on pages 44 to 55.
The Company is not aware of any arrangements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
56 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Significant arrangements change of control Employee share schemes rights of control Individual operating companies in the Group have contractual arrangements If required to do so by the Company, the trustee of the Cobham Share with third parties in support of the Groups business activities which may Incentive Plan the Plan will, on receipt of notice from the Company of any take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company offer, compromise arrangement or scheme which affects shares held in the following a takeover bid.
Such contractual arrangements include supply of Plan, invite participants to direct the trustee on the exercise of any voting equipment, goods and services to third parties, including research, design rights attaching to the shares held by the trustee on their behalf and or and production.
Such contracts and arrangements may be deemed to be direct how the trustee shall act in relation to those shares.
essential to one or more of the operating companies but there are no contracts or arrangements considered to be essential to the operation The trustee will not vote in respect of any shares held in the Plan in respect of the business of the Group as a whole, apart from the following: of which it has received no directions nor will the trustee vote in respect of The Company has entered into a number of credit agreements with banks, any shares which are unallocated under the Plan.
and has issued senior notes under private placements.
The total amount owing under such agreements at the year end date is shown in note 18 to The trustees of the Employee Benefit Trust which as at 31 December 2012, the Group financial statements.
All agreements contain clauses such that, hold 11,747,681 2.50 pence Ordinary Shares to be used for settlement of in the event of a change of control, the Company can offer to or must option and share awards under the Companys long-term incentive schemes repay all such borrowings together with accrued interest, fees and other and all employee share option schemes waive all rights to vote in respect sums owing as required by the individual agreements.
of any shares they hold within the Trust.
Under the FB Heliservices FBH shareholders agreement entered into in November 2004, change of control of either the Company or its subsidiary Financial instruments holding shares in FBH, without the prior written consent of that other FBH Notes 14, 22 and 24 to the Group financial statements and note 11 shareholder, entitles the other FBH shareholder to purchase all of the to the parent company financial statements contain disclosures relating Cobham Groups shareholding in FBH.
to the use of financial instruments.
The Group uses derivative financial Under the Sentinel contract, entered into in March 2006, the Company instruments in its management of financial risks and does not trade in must seek approval for any material change in the shareholding of the financial instruments or use complex financial instruments.
There is an ancillary lease agreement under which a change of control may result in the termination of the lease if such event is likely to have a material adverse effect on the Companys ability to perform its obligations under the lease.
Under the FSTA shareholders agreement entered into in June 2008, a change of control of the Company may result in a required sale of the Companys shares in FSTA to the other shareholders.
Further information relating to change of control appears in the Directors remuneration report on pages 47 and 48 under the headings Bonus Co-investment Plan, Performance Share Plan and Executive Share Option Scheme.
Major interests in shares As at 31 December 2012, the Company had been notified of the following interests in the Ordinary Shares: Number of shares Percentage at the date of notification at date of notification Massachusetts Financial Services Company 53,890,036 5.02 Sprucegrove Investment Management 54,196,231 5.02 Legal & General Group plc 43,127,190 3.99 Since the year end and up to 6 March 2013, being a date not more than a month prior to the date of the AGM Notice, the Company had been notified of the following interests in the Ordinary Shares in accordance with DTR 5: Number of shares Percentage at the date of notification at date of notification Date of notification Prudential plc 54,277,614 5.03% 28 February 2013 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 57 Directors report People Further information on talent programmes is contained in the Corporate Cobham takes a strategic approach to talent.
responsibility and sustainability section set out on pages 30 to 33.
The talent pool within the Group comprises all full and part time employees The Group is committed to equal opportunities for all its employees.
located across five continents, with major population centres in Europe, The Group aims to ensure the workplace is free from discrimination.
Recruitment, selection and career development are based on competence and job requirements, irrespective of race, sex, sexual preference, religion Developing this pool, making sure the Group has the skills, functional or disability.
The Group continues to monitor and improve its policies and capabilities and future leaders required to excel in our chosen markets is practices to reflect the requirements of age discrimination legislation.
a declared strategy that is being actively pursued throughout the Group.
With regard to employees who become disabled, the policy is to take Strategic Workforce Planning, the identification of the Groups current all reasonable steps, including retraining, to ensure that they can remain and future talent requirements, is a clear part of the strategy development in employment wherever practicable.
process and plans are in place for both attracting the very best talent to the Group and retaining and developing our own team.
Benchmarked against On the topical issue of gender diversity, the Group gathers figures as part others in our sector it is clear our offer is competitive and our bespoke of the year end process.
internal talent development programmes show individuals there is real Total Total Total Total % % Female potential for excellent career development.
Employees Managers Female Male Female Managers 9,898 1,264 2,670 7,228 27% 15% Each of the seven talent development programmes, described below, Including full and part time employees but excluding temporary staff and contractors.
is tailored to our particular needs and every business within the Group is Defined as senior management and managers.
required to encourage employees to step forward and participate via our performance and development review process, at the heart of which is the Performance and Development Review Process ePDR, an electronic review Work is required for the Company to attain a gender balance competitive that is owned by the individual employee.
with general commercial practice: however, the balance is broadly comparable to the aerospace and defence sector.
The Cobham Graduate Development Programme GDP and Apprenticeship Programme AP are well regarded, with the former having Royal Aeronautical The Group encourages employee participation and consultation at all levels Society Accreditation in the UK.
In 2012, 20 graduates joined the GDP while and shares relevant business information.
This approach facilitates the the 2010 intake are now moving into their permanent roles.
Engineering evolution of new ideas and practices that add value to the business, continues as the largest discipline with 37% of graduates.
In the UK promotes team member commitment and helps focus Company and 13 apprentices were recruited in 2012 against a backdrop of increased employee expectations.
The tools used include in-house newsletters, Government interest and resurgence in the popularity of apprenticeships.
intranet, extranet and regular employee opinion surveys.
Company Cobhams Development Programmes Executive Development Programme EDP Programme designed to focus on the continuing development of the Executive tier individually and as a collective team.
Senior Development Programme Plus SDP For SDP graduates who have demonstrated the potential to progress within the business, SDP verifies the potential of these individuals for Executive succession.
For high performing individuals who have demonstrated the potential for further Senior Development Programme SDP progression, the SDP builds on their leadership competence to optimise their current and future performance.
Cobham High Potential Programme CHP Ensures the leadership and functional pipeline in Cobham is full by providing a consistent means of assessing and developing talent through a number of interventions including partnership with respected business schools.
Graduate Development Programme GDP A two to three year rotational programme that develops Cobhams next generation of innovators, pioneers and entrepreneurs.
Apprenticeship Programme AP Primarily engineering, covering UK locations, the award winning programme ensures we have the technical skills we need.
Mission Critical Workforce MCW Designed to understand and grow the Groups functional capability, it comprises competency frameworks built on the Groups strategic direction.
Development of this programme and the approach continues.
58 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information announcements, team meetings and suggestion schemes all play a part Political and charitable gifts in this process.
UK employees are given the opportunity to become Donations by Group companies during the year for charitable purposes were shareholders in the Company through the Cobham Savings Related Share as follows: Option Scheme and the Cobham Share Incentive Plan.
Under the former, 2012 2011 employees can acquire shares through the exercise of options granted at UK charities a 20% discount to market value with savings made over three or five years.
Armed services 23,000 30,000 Under the latter, shares may be purchased out of pre-tax income.
Disaster relief 12,000 1,000 The Group sets high standards of performance for employees, and in return, Business enterprise 3,000 8,000 employees expect to be appropriately recognised and rewarded for their Local interest 4,000 3,000 contribution.
This mutual gain makes the Excellence in Performance Other 5,000 5,000 programme a process that is fundamental to our continued growth and Total UK charities 47,000 47,000 success.
A major component of this system is the ePDR, described above, Non UK charities 108,000 126,000 and Cobhams Centre for Learning & Development.
An outcome of this Total 155,000 173,000 integrated process is to create an atmosphere where employees understand that there is a direct link between learning, performance and compensation.
No contributions were made to political organisations.
Corporate responsibility and sustainability Land and buildings Information in relation to the Groups commitment to Corporate Details of the carrying amount and market values of the Groups investment responsibility and sustainability including additional information in properties are as disclosed in note 11 to the Group financial statements.
relation to employment matters is set out on pages 30 to 33.
Independent auditors Research and development The independent auditors,  LLP, have indicated their The Group continues to invest in the important area of research and willingness to continue in office and a resolution to re-appoint them will be development.
During the year the Group expended 75.4m 2011: 75.3m proposed at the AGM.
on non-customer funded research and development.
The management of each Group business is responsible for identifying and carrying out suitable Annual General Meeting research and development programmes having regard to particular market The Companys AGM will be held at 12 noon on Thursday, 25 April 2013 at and product needs.
the offices of UBS Investment Bank, 1 Finsbury Avenue, London EC2M 2PP.
Further information on research and development appears on pages 4, 7 The Company arranges for the Notice of AGM and related papers to be sent and 25. to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Creditors payment policy It is the policy of the Company that all invoices are paid within 30 days following the end of the month in which the invoices are approved.
The By order of the Board total amount of the Companys trade creditors falling due within one year at L Colloff 31 December 2012 represents 29 days 2011: 16 days worth as a proportion Company Secretary of the total amount invoiced by suppliers during the year ended on that date.
6 March 2013 Events after the balance sheet date There are no significant post balance sheet events to report.
Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 59
