Key performance indicators Key performance indicators are used to monitor progress in implementing the Groups strategic objectives The Board monitors progress made against the drivers of shareholder value creation.
This ensures that Groups strategic objectives with the aid of a include company funded investment in PV, with performance is aligned with the achievement scorecard of financial and non-financial metrics, the development and bringing to market of of the Groups strategic objectives and with and this scorecard is regularly updated and technically differentiated products and innovative shareholder expectations.
Cobham considers the most important services being Cobhams key differentiator.
remuneration report on pages 44 to 55 sets out of these scorecard metrics to be its Key Cobhams remuneration policy and its application performance indicators KPIs.
Finally, the KPIs recognise the importance in more detail.
to Cobham of not only delivering financial The Groups KPIs have been set out below performance but also achieving operational Additional detail on each KPI is provided below.
and each one has been cross-referenced to the excellence through focused and motivated Definitions of the term underlying and other relevant strategic objectives on pages 10 and 11 employees, who are working in a safe environment.
measures are set out on page 129 of this Annual and to a further specified page where performance Report and Accounts together with definitions in the year is described in more detail.
The Remuneration Committee has linked total of the way in which the Group calculates each compensation with the achievement of specific of the KPIs.
The chosen KPIs are partly financial, recognising and measurable progress against KPIs, both as revenue, profit growth and cash generation as key individually specified financial targets and within 2012 2011 For more Key performance indicators actual actual Strategic objectives information Core businesses organic revenue growth 0.8 % 0.3% Faster than 1234567 See pages 24 and 25 our markets Underlying EPS growth at constant translation 3.2% 12.6% High single 1234567 See page 25 exchange rates digit Operating cash conversion 104.2% 94.8% 80% 45 See page 27 Core businesses PV investment 5.1% 5.2% 6%15 See page 25 Staff safety major accident incident rate 666 465 zero 46 See page 32 Voluntary staff turnover 8.7% 8.4% 10% 6 See page 32 Per 100,000 employees Core businesses organic revenue growth Underlying EPS growth at constant Staff safety major accident incident rate Organic revenue was broadly flat, with growth translation exchange rates Cobhams goal to achieve zero harm requires in the Aviation Services business being offset Underlying EPS increased 2.6% to 22.6p 2011: changes to policies, procedures and practices, by Aerospace and Security and Defence Systems.
The increase in underlying EPS includes particularly as a number of the companies the lower underlying tax rate and the full year acquired by Cobham over the past decade By end market, organic revenue in Cobhams effect of the 2011 share buy-back.
At constant have been smaller, entrepreneurial businesses.
commercial markets increased 2%, with a strong translation exchange rates, underlying EPS Improvements are showing in terms of enhanced performance in Australia and increasing shipments increased 3.2%.
levels of reporting, but not yet in the accident of products, including radios and antennas, to rate.
The increase in major accidents is also in part large transport aircraft manufacturers.
Non US Operating cash conversion due to increased activity levels on sites being defence security revenue was up 4%, with a strong Operating cash conversion was strong at 104.2% integrated.
A strategic review of health and safety performance in a number of areas, including 2011: 95% of trading profit, before the Groups was conducted in 2012 and the findings are aerial refuelling, antennas and aerospace share of post-tax results of joint ventures, driven currently being acted on.
communications products, partially offset by by an improvement in working capital.
US defence security revenue Voluntary staff turnover was down 4%, mostly due to reduced revenue in Core businesses PV investment The measure of voluntary staff turnover provides land markets.
During the year, PV investment in core businesses insight to retention, with a target that reflects was 71.4m 2011: 69.8m representing 5.1% 2011: the normal upper range of turnover experienced 5.2% of core revenue.
The Group plans to increase across the many geographic locations that its PV investment in 2013 to generate incremental Cobham operates in, with an appropriate level organic revenue and gain market share.
of churn to refresh the talent base.
12 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
