Board of Directors 4 5 8 7 6 9 3 1 10 2 Central London Business Improvement 1 Alison Carnwath 59, District and Chairman of the Chairman of the Board Westminster Property Association.
Robert brings over 20 years experience Member of the Remuneration in a number of sectors within the Committee and Chairman of the property market to his new role and Nominations Committee has an outstanding track record in the Alison was appointed to the London property market.
Board in September 2004 and became Chairman in November 2008.
She 3 Martin Greenslade 47, is Chairman of the Nominations Committee and is also a member of Chief Financial Officer the Remuneration Committee.
Alison Martin joined the Group as Chief worked in investment banking and Financial officer in September 2005. corporate finance for 20 years, before A chartered accountant, having trained pursuing a portfolio career.
During her with Coopers & Lybrand, Martin was career, Alison became the first female previously Group Finance Director Director of J. Henry Schroder Wagg & of Alvis plc.
He has also worked in Co, where she worked for 10 years.
corporate finance having served as a Alison also held the positions of a member of the executive committee Senior Partner of Phoenix Securities of Nordeas investment banking and Managing Director, New York at division and Managing Director of its Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.
Martin is a director of served as a Non-executive Director International Justice Mission UK.
of Friends Provident plc, Gallaher Martin brings financial and accounting Group plc and Glas Cymru Cyfyngedig expertise from the property, engineering Welsh Water.
and financial sectors in the UK She has some 30 years and overseas.
experience in international finance and investment banking and has wide 5 Kevin OByrne 47, 6 Sir Stuart Rose 63, Board level experience.
Alison is 4 Richard Akers 50, Senior Independent Director Non-executive Director currently a Non-executive Director Executive Director Chairman of the Audit Committee and Member of the Remuneration at Man Group plc, Barclays plc, Zurich Richard joined the Board in May 2005, member of the Nominations Committee Committee Insurance Group Ltd and Paccar Inc, following his appointment as Managing a Fortune 500 company.
Kevin was appointed to the Board as a Sir Stuart joined the Board as a Director, Retail Portfolio in July 2004.
Non-executive Director in May 2003 A chartered surveyor, Richard joined Kevin is a chartered accountant who and is a member of the Remuneration the Group in 1995 and previously held 2 Robert Noel 48, trained with Arthur Andersen and has Committee.
His extensive retail the position of Head of Retail Portfolio Chief Executive been the Group Finance Director experience includes the positions of Management.
Prior to joining the of Kingsher plc since 2008.
He has Chief Executive and then Chairman of Robert was appointed to the Board Group, Richard worked in retail recently been appointed Kingsher Marks & Spencer Group plc from 2004 in January 2010 as Managing Director, development for AMEC Developments Divisional CEO, B&Q, responsible for until 2010, Chief Executive of Arcadia London Portfolio and became Chief and prior to that, ARC Properties.
Group businesses in the UK, China, Group from 2000 until December 2002 Executive on 1 April 2012.
A chartered Richard brings more than 25 years Turkey and Germany.
and Chief Executive of Booker PLC from surveyor and graduate of the University experience of the retail property industry His previous roles included Group 1998 until 2000.
He is a Non-executive of Reading, Robert was previously to his role and is a regular author and Finance Director of Dixons Retail Plc, Director of Woolworths Holdings South Property Director at Great Portland panellist on industry matters.
He is a and European Finance Director for The Africa, is on the advisory board of Estates plc between August 2002 and former President of the British Council Quaker Oats Company.
Kevin brings Bridgepoint Capital and was Chairman September 2009.
Prior to that, he was of Shopping Centres BCSC, the main a director at property services group experience of international retail and of Business in the Community from industry body for retail property finance matters to Board discussions.
Sir Stuart commenced Nelson Bakewell.
owners, and has recently become a his career in the retail industry in 1972 Robert is a trustee of the property Non-executive Director of Barratt and has a wealth of international industry charity, Landaid and former Developments PLC.
management experience in the sector, positions include being a director of the New West End Company, the being knighted in 2007 for services to the retail industry and corporate social responsibility.
60 Land Securities Annual Report 2012 DIRECTORS REPORT Board of Directors Legal & General Group Plc until of the Crown Estate and a Wilkins American Retail and Apparel Practice 7 Simon Palley 54, December 2001, and during that time Fellow of Downing College, Cambridge.
and acted as the Global Retail Practice Non-executive Director also served as the Chairman of the He has previously served as convener.
She retired from McKinsey & Association of British Insurers Managing Director of Haslemere NV, Company in September 2010.
Member of the Remuneration Investment Committee.
Chairman of Jones Lang Wootton Her career with McKinsey saw her Committee David is the Senior Independent Fund management, President of the consult to a wide range of retailers, Simon was appointed to the Board Director and Deputy Chairman of British Property Federation and apparel wholesalers and consumer as a Non-executive Director Xstrata Group PLC and a Non-executive Chairman of the Bank of England goods manufacturers.
She is currently in August 2010 and will become Director of the London Metal Exchange.
Chris has many years a Non-executive Director of Ann Inc, Chairman of the Remuneration He is a Non-executive Director of experience in commercial property in a listed American womens speciality Committee on 1 October 2012.
Brown, Shipley & Co. Ltd, the private the UK and abroad, and in particular apparel retailer and the Tops Holding A senior gure within the private bank.
He has many years experience in the property investment Corporation, the parent company equity industry, Simon is Chairman as a Non-executive Director in the management industry.
of Tops Markets LLC, a US grocery of the private equity rm Centerbridge investment, property, finance and retailer and was recently appointed as Partners Europe and a trustee of mining industries.
a Non-executive Director of the Fiesta 10 Stacey Rauch 54, the University of Pennsylvania and Restaurant Group which is listed on The Tate Foundation.
She brings extensive 9 Chris Bartram 63, international experience of retailing Member of the Audit Committee 8 David Rough 61, Non-executive Director and wider business experience to Stacey is a Director Emeritus of Non-executive Director the Board.
Member of the Audit and McKinsey & Company where she Chairman of the Remuneration Nominations Committee served clients in the US and Committee and member of the Chris was appointed to the Board as a internationally for 24 years.
Whilst Audit Committee Non-executive Director in August there she co-founded the New Jersey David joined the Board as a Non- 2009.
Chris is Chairman of Orchard ofce and was the first woman to be executive Director in April 2002 and Street Investment Management LLP, appointed as an industry practice was Senior Independent Director from a specialist UK commercial property leader.
She was a leader in the rms November 2003 to March 2012.
He is a chartered Retail and Consumer Goods Practices, was Group Director Investments of surveyor and a Non-executive Director served as the head of the North Land Securities Annual Report 2012 61
