16 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 I Acting Responsibly The Compass business strategy drives our Corporate Responsibility CR approach and progressively we are integrating sustainability into the business operating model.
Our key business drivers of strong customer relationships, team performance and food and service quality depend upon having engaged and productive employees.
Focus on responsibilities Adopting responsible practices in the areas of Our People, Wellness, We believe that by taking small steps, together we can make Sustainability and Community places corporate responsibility at the a big difference.
Learn more about our Small Steps, Big Difference heart of our business practices and customer propositions.
In practice, framework in our full CR Report at www.
this means we are working hard to continuously improve the positive We already take many small and some big steps to improve contribution we make through the delivery of our customer service the sustainability of the business.
In doing so, we provide more by the responsible use of resources, the health and wellness of our innovative solutions to our clients, enabling them to meet their own customers and the employment opportunities that we create in local sustainability challenges.
This helps us to meet the needs of both our business and stakeholders in a cost effective, responsible and reputable manner.
However, we cant do this alone.
All of our businesses, our 509,000 colleagues, our suppliers and our stakeholders have an important We operate in around 50 geographically diverse markets, each role to play to help us to deliver our commitments and safeguard with different sustainability challenges.
To promote positive change a sustainable future.
in our CR performance across these markets, we need to embed sustainability throughout our business.
The Small Steps, Big Difference The Board believes that the progressive integration of CR across the framework is a development of our global strategy which more clearly Group and the inclusion of broader social and environmental issues into defines the steps we wish our businesses to implement, and supports our decision making process are helping us to achieve our business the CR journey.
A number of proven best practice initiatives from goals, acting as a building block for growth in shareholder value and around the Group underpin this framework and provide countries benefitting the communities in which we operate.
with the strategic direction, practical steps and tools necessary to improve performance.
Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 17 I 2011-2012 CR performance and targets Our values Over the past year, we have continued to drive further improvements across the business, particularly in the areas of supply chain standards Openness, trust and integrity to improve responsible sourcing and, in the scope of our environmental Passion for quality performance reporting, to meet the requirements of the changing UK Win through teamwork Government legislation on the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions.
Can do safely Our Key Performance Indicators KPIs relate to the business strategy Responsibility and drive the sustainable development of our business.
Since we started our CR journey in 2007, we have seen continued improvement in our sustainability performance against baseline data.
Our latest CR performance against published targets is set out on pages 18 and 19.
Find out more... We include detailed performance statistics and targets on our CR site at www.
