34 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 I Regional review Economic conditions in Europe have worsened throughout the year.
However, our core business remains solid and we are taking decisive action to ensure we are best placed to capitalise on the medium-term growth opportunities.
6,243m 0.7 % 397m 6.4% Revenue Organic revenue growth Operating profit Operating margin 2011: 6,217m 2011: 0.4 % 2011: 400m 2011: 6.4% Europe & Japan Group revenue Revenue by sector 5 37% 1 56% Business & Industry 4 2011: 39% 2 12% Education 3 15% Healthcare & Seniors 4 11% Sports & Leisure 5 6% Defence, Offshore & Remote 3 1 2 Centres for Excellence Were continuing to roll out our Centres for Excellence CFE programme across the Group, with a number of countries in Europe and Japan opening their first CFE during the year.
The CFE initiative is designed to demonstrate what food service providers should strive for, ensuring that consumers wont want to eat elsewhere.
It focuses on improving food quality and presentation, controlling food costs, using concepts and promotions and driving purchasing compliance, with very positive feedback from clients and consumers.
Started in Business & Industry, we are now establishing them in Education, Healthcare & Seniors and Defence, Offshore & Remote across a range of different sized units.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 35 I Innovative cleaning concepts We continue to show our strong commitment to reducing our negative impact on the environment by continuously developing our service delivery.
One example of our successful environmental initiatives is our low impact cleaning method, developed by our business in Denmark.
This method ensures minimal dosage of cleaning products, thereby reducing our water consumption.
Since 2009, we have achieved an average reduction on cleaning product usage of 7% on total volume, whilst saving an average of 21% on water consumption.
All of this cannot be done without the passion and commitment of our people.
Overall, revenue in Europe & Japan totalled 6.2 billion 2011: 6.2 billion.
Trading conditions in Japan have substantially recovered following Economic conditions in many parts of Europe, particularly in Southern the earthquake and tsunami of 2011, although the ongoing power Europe, have worsened throughout the year.
Whilst we have seen good shortages continue to affect the supply chain.
levels of new business, we have experienced a slight decline in organic We announced on 27 September 2012 that, given the challenging revenue of 0.7%, as expected.
This was due to increasingly negative economic environment, we had to act quickly to manage the like for like volume trends in Europe, with the fourth quarter showing negative like for like volume impact in the short term and, more minus 2-3%.
The challenging conditions have also put some modest importantly, improve our operational efficiency and competitiveness pressure on retention and there has been a small increase in business over the medium term.
We are doing this in three ways.
The impact of negative like for like volume has been broadly taken immediate action to mitigate the very difficult conditions offset by a relentless focus on efficiencies across all areas of MAP in Southern Europe, we are reducing our cost base, and we are and the recovery in Japan.
This, together with the contribution from working to change the fundamental cost structure in the organisation.
acquisitions, has enabled operating profit to increase by 2.1% on a As a result, we will operate with a lower and more flexible cost constant currency basis to 397 million 2011: 389 million and the base, which will enable us to capitalise on the many opportunities operating profit margin to remain flat at 6.4%.
we see for further revenue and margin growth.
Encouragingly, we have seen further good levels of new business As set out in the September announcement, we have incurred as organisations recognise the benefits of outsourcing.
In the Nordics, a 295 million exceptional charge to the income statement in 2012. we have won a food service contract with Scania: in the Netherlands, 100 million of that relates to the measures to improve the efficiency we have won a multi service contract across 57 locations with UWV of our operations, with a further 50 million to come in 2013. and in France, we have won a contract with Cash Nanterre, a large Combined, we expect these investments to generate 50 million hospital in the north of Paris.
In Spain, we have won a food service of annual savings in 2013, increasing to a full run rate of 75 million contract with Sanitas Group, the leading private healthcare insurance by 2014, implying a cash payback of around two years.
The company, and we have extended our multi service contract with Pfizer.
remaining 195 million relates to further actions were taking to Within like for like volume, we have seen differing trends develop across address the challenging environment mainly in Southern Europe, three sub-regions within Europe.
Like for like volume was broadly flat which will result in a 20 million improvement in profit in 2013 in the Nordics and Germany, negative in the UK and has become more compared to 2012. difficult in France.
In the Southern European countries of Italy, Spain and Portugal, we have seen like for like volume declines of around 5%.
