24 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 I Focus on risk The Board continues to take a proactive approach to recognising and The table sets out the principal risks and uncertainties facing the mitigating risk with the aim of protecting its employees and customers business at the date of this Report.
These do not comprise all of the and safeguarding the interests of the Company and its Shareholders.
risks that the Group may face and are not listed in any order of priority.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to management As set out in the Corporate Governance section on pages 46 to 52, or deemed to be less material at the date of this Report may also have the Group has policies and procedures in place to ensure that risks an adverse effect on theGroup.
are properly identified, evaluated and managed at the appropriate level within the business.
The Group faces a number of operational risks on an ongoing basis including supply chain: information technology and infrastructure: The identification of risks and opportunities, the development of litigation: financial and tax risk, each of which was disclosed in action plans to manage the risks and exploit the opportunities, and the previous years Annual Reports which can be found on our website continual monitoring of progress against agreed Key Performance at www.
We recognise that these risks remain Indicators are integral parts of the business process, and core important to the business and they are kept under review.
However, activities throughout the Group.
we have focused our disclosures on those risks that are considered Our process for identifying and managing risks is set out in detail to be currently more significant to the Group.
on page 50 of the Corporate Governance section.
Health, safety and environment Risk: Health and safety Risk: Food safety Risk: Environment Mitigation: There is potential for accidents in Mitigation: Compass feeds millions of Mitigation: Every day, everywhere, we look to the workplace.
Health and safety is our number consumers around the world every day, therefore make a positive contribution to the health and one operational priority.
All management setting the highest standards for food hygiene wellbeing of our consumers, the communities we meetings throughout the Group feature a health and food safety is paramount.
The Group has work in and the world we live in.
Our Corporate and safety update as their first agenda item.
appropriate policies, processes and training Responsibility statement on pages 16 to 19 procedures in place to ensure full compliance describes our approach in more detail.
with legal obligations and industry standards.
Clients and consumers Risk: Client retention Risk: Service delivery and compliance Risk: Changes in client demand and consumer preferences Mitigation: We have strategies which with contract terms and conditions strengthen our long-term relationships with Mitigation: We strive to meet client and Mitigation: The Groups operating companies our clients based on quality and value.
Our contract with a large number of clients.
Processes consumer demand for quality, choice and value business model is structured so that we are by developing innovative and nutritious food are in place to ensure that the services delivered not reliant on one particular sector, geography to clients are of an appropriate standard and offers which suit the lifestyle, tastes and or group of clients.
spending power of our customers in todays comply with the appropriate contract terms and conditions.
Risk: Consolidation of food Risk: Bidding risk Risk: Credit risk and support services Mitigation: Each year, the Groups operating Mitigation: Given the diverse and unrelated Mitigation: We have developed a range of companies bid selectively for large numbers nature of the Groups client base, there is limited support services to complement our existing of contracts and a more limited number of concentration of credit risk with regard to trade food offer.
These services are underpinned by concession opportunities.
The Company continues to monitor the Compass Service Framework, our standard process is in place which includes a critical its creditor base and the ability of clients to operating platform for support services, which assessment of contracts to identify potential risks comply with payment terms in light of the impact gives us the ability to deliver to a consistent including social and ethical risks and rewards, of austerity measures arising from the global world-class standard globally and differentiates prior to approval at an appropriate level in the economic slowdown.
People Risk: Recruitment Risk: People retention and motivation Risk: Succession planning Mitigation: Failure to attract and recruit people Mitigation: Retaining and motivating the best Mitigation: Succession planning is one of the with the right skills at all levels could limit the people with the right skills is key to the long-term key roles of the Board, to identify and develop success of the Group.
The Group faces success of the Group.
The Group has established employees potential and to ensure that immediate resourcing challenges in some of its businesses training, development, performance management and future resource is available for the Group to due to a lack of industry experience, appropriately and reward programmes to develop, retain and achieve its strategic and operational objectives.
qualified people and the seasonal nature of some motivate our best people.
However, the Group aims to The Nomination Committee is responsible for mitigate this risk by efficient, time-critical resource The Group has a well-established employee making recommendations to the Board as a management, mobilisation of existing, experienced engagement initiative, Your Voice, which helps whole in respect of Board succession.
Details employees within the organisation and through us to monitor, understand and respond to our can be found on page 47. its training and development programmes, to employees needs.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 25 I Economic environment Risk: Labour cost inflation Risk: Economy Risk: Food cost inflation Mitigation: Our objective is always to deliver Mitigation: Almost half of our business, the Mitigation: As part of our MAP framework, Healthcare & Seniors, Education and Defence, we seek to manage food price inflation through: the right level of service in the most efficient way.
As part of our MAP framework, we have been Offshore & Remote sectors, is less susceptible to cost indexation in our contracts, giving us the economic downturns.
Revenues in the remaining contractual right to review pricing with our clients: deploying tools and processes to optimise labour menu management to substitute ingredients in productivity and exercise better control over 50%, the Business & Industry and Sports & Leisure sectors, are more susceptible to economic response to any forecast shortages and cost other labour costs such as absenteeism, increases: and continuing to drive greater overtime and third party agency spend: and to conditions and employment levels.
However, with the variable and flexible nature of our cost purchasing efficiencies through supplier improve our management of salary and benefit rationalisation and compliance as well as costs and control labour cost inflation.
base, it is generally possible to contain the impact of like for like volume declines.
understanding and reviewing market and global trends.
Eurozone Risk: Operating performance Risk: Liquidity risk Mitigation: Recent conditions in the eurozone Mitigation: The Groups liquidity risk the ability indicate that growth rates and consumer to service short-term liabilities is considered demand will remain under pressure for some low in all scenarios other than a fundamental time.
Approximately 16% of our revenues are collapse of the financial markets and the Groups generated by clients located in the eurozone.
exposure to the Euro is considered to be Although the majority of the Groups revenues minimal.
Our policies with regard to managing are generated outside of this region, a prolonged liquidity risk and foreign currency risk are recessionary environment in the eurozone may included on page 99 of the consolidated financial adversely impact Group revenues and operating statements.
The Company will continue to profit.
The Company will continue to evaluate its monitor its exposure in line with its policies to operations within the eurozone to ensure that it is ensure that it minimises any risk.
prepared to meet the ongoing challenges presented by the current environment.
Regulatory, political and competitive environment Risk: Regulation Risk: Political stability Risk: Competition Mitigation: Changes to laws or regulations Mitigation: We are a global business operating Mitigation: We operate in a competitive could adversely affect our performance.
in countries and regions with diverse economic marketplace.
The level of concentration and We engage with governments and nonand political conditions.
Our operations and outsource penetration varies by country.
Some governmental organisations directly or through earnings may be adversely affected by political markets are relatively concentrated with two or trade associations to ensure that our views or economic instability.
The Group remains three key players, others are highly fragmented are represented.
vigilant to future changes presented by emerging and offer significant opportunities for consolidation markets or fledgling administrations.
We engage and penetration into the self-operated market.
with governments and non-governmental Aggressive pricing from our competitors could organisations to ensure the views of our cause a reduction in our revenues and margins.
stakeholders are represented and we try to We aim to minimise this by continuing to promote anticipate and contribute to important changes our differentiated propositions by focusing on our in public policy.
points of strength such as flexibility in our cost base, quality and value of service.
Acquisitions and investments Risk: Acquisition and investment risk Risk: Joint ventures Mitigation: Capital investments and potential Mitigation: In some countries we operate acquisitions are subject to appropriate levels of through joint ventures which, if not managed due diligence and approval.
Post acquisition effectively, could cause damage to the Groups integration and performance is closely managed reputation.
Procedures are in place to ensure that and subject to regular review.
joint venture partners bring skills, experience and resources that complement and add to those provided from within the Group.
Fraud and compliance risk Reputation risk Pensions risk Mitigation: Ineffective compliance management Mitigation: Our brands are amongst the most Mitigation: There are inherent funding risks could have an adverse effect on the Groups successful and best established in our industry.
associated with the provision of final salary reputation and could result in significant financial They represent a key element of the Groups pensions.
However, the Groups UK defined penalties being levied or a criminal action being overall marketing and positioning.
In the event benefit pension scheme is closed to future brought against the Company or its Directors.
that our brands or reputation are damaged this accrual and to new entrants other than for The Groups zero tolerance based Codes of could adversely impact the Groups performance.
transfers under public sector contracts in the Business Conduct and Ethics govern all aspects The Groups zero tolerance based Codes of UK where the Company is obliged to provide of our relationship with our stakeholders.
All Business Conduct and Ethics are designed final salary benefits to transferring employees.
alleged breaches of the Codes are investigated.
to safeguard the Companys assets, brands Further information is set out in note 24 of The Groups procedures include regular and reputation.
the consolidated financial statements on operating reviews, underpinned by a continual pages 106 to 110. focus on ensuring the effectiveness of internalcontrols.
