32 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 I Regional review Our North America business remains the principal growth engine for the Group.
We have a market leading business there, which has delivered excellent levels of growth and steady margin expansion.
7,517m 8.3% 598m 8.0% Revenue Organic revenue growth Operating profit Operating margin 2011: 6,849m 2011: 7.4% 2011: 538m 2011: 7.9% North America Group revenue Revenue by sector 5 44% 1 31% Business & Industry 4 2011: 43% 2 24% Education 1 3 27% Healthcare & Seniors 4 13% Sports & Leisure 5 5% Defence, Offshore & Remote 3 2 Multi service contract with Texas A&M University System This year, we were honoured to win a 10 year contract to provide a range of food and support services to The Texas A&M University System.
It is the sixth largest educational institution in the US, with more than 50,000 students.
We will provide the food service, as well as some building maintenance, landscaping and cleaning services as part of the largest outsourcing contract ever awarded in the US higher education sector.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 33 I Proud to be green Continuous commitment to environmental awareness earned Compass Group Canada a spot on Canadas 50 Greenest Employers list for the third consecutive year.
From sourcing food locally to using environmentally friendly cleaning products, Canada has been committed to sustainable operations since 2007.
Programmes such as Our 360 Sustainability Commitments, Broader Public Sector Greenbelt Fund initiatives, water conservation, cage-free egg operations, sustainable seafood practices, pollution prevention practices, local food and Fair Trade practices were key contributors to oursuccess.
Our North America business has again delivered an excellent Excellent retention rates, new business wins and increased participation performance, with organic revenue growth of 8.3% and overall revenue have driven good organic revenue growth in the Education sector.
This has been driven by strong new As well as the multi service contract we won with Texas A&M University, business wins, including the Ascension Health contract, continued we have also won the food service contract for the University of Illinois high retention rates and positive like for like revenue growth.
at Chicago, where the enrolment is over 27,000 students, and we have retained the food service contract with Simon Fraser University The strong revenue growth has converted through to over 10% in Canada.
Given the size and longevity of the Texas A&M contract, operating profit growth and a 10 basis point margin improvement, we will invest some capital expenditure in 2013 to upgrade the existing delivering an 8% operating profit margin for the first time.
after absorbing the majority of the mobilisation costs for the Ascension Health contract, with the remainder coming through in 2013.
Overall, Levy, our Sports & Leisure business, delivered good organic revenue operating profit increased by 53 million on a constant currency basis growth through high attendance levels during the baseball season.
Exciting new contract wins include the recently opened Barclays Center, home of the NBA Brooklyn Nets, and the BBVA Compass Stadium, In Business & Industry, good net new business and slightly positive a soccer-specific stadium in Texas and home of Houston Dynamo.
like for like revenue growth, together with tight control of discretionary spend, have delivered further growth in operating profit.
New contract The ESS business, which provides food and support services in Alaska, wins include food service contracts with Adobe Systems, where we will Canada and the Gulf of Mexico, continued to deliver solid organic serve 4,000 people daily, and IDC Research.
We have also retained a revenue and profit growth.
food service contract with Wal-Mart and, through our partnership with Jones Lang LaSalle, a contract with Procter & Gamble to provide food services in 15 countries.
The Healthcare & Seniors sector has again delivered strong growth in both revenue and operating profit as we have continued to win contracts through new outsourcing.
In addition to Ascension Health, this includes food service contracts for the Cathedral Village Retirement Community in Philadelphia, where over a quarter of a million meals are served annually, and Victoria General and Royal Jubilee hospitals in Canada.
We have also won a new support services contract with the University of Kentucky Hospital.
