26 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 I Our Board Sir Roy Gardner Richard Cousins Dominic Blakemore Chairman Age 67 Group Chief Executive Age 53 Group Finance Director Age 43 Appointment Joined as Non-Executive Director in Appointment Appointed Group Chief Executive Appointment Joined the Board in February 2012 October 2005.
Appointed Chairman in July 2006. in 2006. and was appointed as Group Finance Director in April 2012.
Committee membership Nomination Chairman, Committee membership Corporate Corporate Responsibility.
Responsibility, Executive, General Business Committee membership Corporate and Nomination.
Responsibility, Disclosure, Executive and Skills and previous experience Sir Roy was General Business.
formerly Chief Executive of Centrica plc, Chairman Skills and previous experience Richard spent six of Plymouth Argyle Football Club, Manchester United years as Chief Executive Officer of BPB plc, having Skills and previous experience Former Chief plc and Connaught plc and a Director of British Gas previously held a number of positions with that Financial Officer of Iglo Foods Group Limited, which plc, GEC-Marconi Ltd, GEC plc and Laporte plc.
His earlier career was with Cadbury Dominic joined from Cadbury Plc, where he was was also Chairman of the British Olympics Appeal Schweppes plc and BTR plc.
He is also a former European Finance & Strategy Director, having Committee for the Beijing Games 2008.
Non-Executive Director of P & O plc and HBOS plc.
previously held senior finance roles as Corporate Finance Director and Group Financial Controller.
Current external appointments Senior advisor Current external appointments Non-Executive Prior to joining Cadbury Plc, Dominic was a Director to Credit Suisse, Non-Executive Director of Willis Director of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc and member of .
Group Holdings plc, Chairman of Mainstream of the Advisory Board of Lancaster University Renewable Power Limited, Chairman of the Advisory Business School.
Board of the Energy Futures Lab of Imperial College London, President of Carers UK, Chairman of the Apprenticeship Ambassadors Network and Chairman of EnServe Group Limited.
Fellow of the Royal Aeronautical Society and Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts.
Gary Green Andrew Martin Group Chief Operating Officer, Group Chief Operating Officer, North America Age 55 Europe & Japan Age 52 Appointment Appointed to the Board in 2007.
Appointment Appointed as Group Finance Director Gary became Group Chief Operating Officer, North in 2004 and became Group Chief Operating Officer, America in April 2012.
Committee membership Executive and Committee membership Executive and General Business.
Skills and previous experience Gary is a Skills and previous experience Associate of the Chartered Accountant and in 2001 received an Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and honorary doctorate from Johnson & Wales University Wales and an Associate of the Chartered Institute of in the USA.
Gary joined the Group in 1986 in a Taxation.
Andrew was formerly Finance Director of senior finance role in the UK and became a UK First Choice Holidays PLC.
He also previously held Director in 1992.
He relocated to the USA in 1994 senior financial positions with Forte Plc and Granada as Chief Finance Officer of the Groups North Group PLC and was a partner with Arthur Andersen.
American business and in 1999 became Chief Current external appointments Non-Executive Executive Officer.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 27 I Sir James Crosby John Bason Susan Murray Senior Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Age 55 Non-Executive Director Age 55 Director Age 56 Appointment Appointed to the Board in Appointment Appointed to the Board in Appointment Appointed to the Board in February 2007.
Committee membership Remuneration Committee membership Audit Chairman, Committee membership Corporate Responsibility Chairman, Audit, Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility, Nomination and Chairman, Audit, Nomination and Remuneration.
Skills and previous experience Susan is a Skills and previous experience Sir James was Skills and previous experience Member former Non-Executive Director of Aberdeen Asset formerly Fellow of the Faculty of Actuaries, Chairman of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Management PLC, SSL International PLC and of Misys plc, Chief Executive of HBOS plc, Deputy John was previously Finance Director of Bunzl plc.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC, and former Chief Chairman of the Financial Services Authority and Executive of Littlewoods Stores Limited.
She is also Current external appointments Finance Director a Non-Executive Director of ITVplc.
former Worldwide President and Chief Executive of of Associated British Foods plc, Trustee of Voluntary The Pierre Smirnoff Company, part of Diageo plc, Current external appointments Chairman of Service Overseas and Deputy Chairman of the and a former Council Member of the Advertising Duncton plc and Trustee of Cancer Research UK.
Current external appointments Non-Executive Chairman of Farrow & Ball and a Non-Executive Director of Pernod Ricard S. A.
Enterprise Inns Plc and Imperial Tobacco PLC.
Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts.
Don Robert Sir Ian Robinson Mark White Non-Executive Director Age 53 Non-Executive Director Age 70 General Counsel and Company Secretary Age 52 Appointment Appointed to the Board in May 2009.
Appointment Appointed to the Board in Appointment Joined the Group as General December 2006.
Counsel and Company Secretary in June 2007.
Committee membership Audit, Corporate Responsibility, Nomination and Remuneration.
Committee membership Audit, Corporate Committee membership Corporate Responsibility, Nomination and Remuneration.
Secretary to Audit, Executive, Skills and previous experience Don was General Business, Nomination and Remuneration.
formerly Chairman of the Consumer Data Industry Skills and previous experience Sir Ian is a former Mark is also a Trustee of the Compass Pension Plan Association and previously held positions with First Chairman of Ladbrokes plc, Hilton Group plc and and the Compass Retirement Income Savings Plan.
American Corporation, Credco, Inc. and US Bancorp.
Amey plc, and a former Chief Executive of Scottish Power plc.
He is a former Non-Executive Director of Skills and previous experience Mark is a Solicitor.
Current external appointments Chief Executive ASDA plc, RMC plc, Scottish & Newcastle plc and He was previously Group Company Secretary and Officer of Experian plc.
He is also a Trustee of the Siemens Holdings plc.
General Counsel of Wolseley plc and Company Education and Employers Taskforce.
Secretary of Enterprise Oil plc and Rotork plc.
Current external appointments Advisory Board Member at Siemens Holdings plc and a Member Current external appointments None.
Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineers.
