18 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 I Our CR commitments and progress Target achieved Target remains work in progress 2011-2012 2011-2012 2011-2012 2012-2017 Innovate Key Performance Indicator Target Performance Review KPI Targets Wellness and nutrition Improvement in the total number of operating sites 25% improvement by 2012 We are making good progress with the provision of healthy eating programmes to our Report % improvement in the number of sites providing Balanced Choices or equivalent healthy eating customers.
We display calorie and nutritional labelling which help our customers make providing healthy eating programmes to their informed choices towards maintaining a healthy, balanced diet.
We are the only food customers programme to their customers service company to have signed up to all four pledges of the UK Governments Responsibility Deal.
Source Supply chain assurance Improvement in the number of countries implementing 100% implementation across We have made good progress with 15 of our Top 20 countries having implemented 100% implementation by September 2013 and ethical sourcing the Compass Supplier Assurance Standard including Top 20 countries the Standard.
We will continue the roll-out plan during 2012-2013.
CR elements Prepare Energy efficiency Reduction in energy consumption by our corporate offices 10% The trend across our operations is positive with significant improvements being 20% reduction by 2017 against 2008 baseline achieved from the 2008 baseline.
Natural Gas In addition, we have this year successfully extended our scope of reporting to include Report % improvement in total direct Greenhouse Purchased Electricity our Top 20 countries.
Gas emissions metric tonnes Vehicle efficiency Reduction in company vehicle fuel consumption 10% We continue to invest in low emission and electric vehicles to reduce fuel emissions, 20% reduction by 2017 against 2008 baseline as well as to promote responsible driving behaviours.
direct fuel purchased Water consumption Reduction in water consumption by our 10% We are making good progress in reducing our water consumption and continue 20% reduction by 2017 against 2008 baseline corporate offices to invest in water efficiency equipment and practices.
In addition, we are using web-based training programmes to improve the environmental awareness of our colleagues around the world.
General waste reporting Compliance in waste performance reporting 100% data capture We have further improved the accuracy of our data including the composition of our 25% improvement in recycling of waste from waste by collaborating with our contractors and clients.
Compass offices by 2017 against 2011 baseline We have made good progress by extending the scope of reporting to include our Top 20 countries.
Food waste Implement Trim Trax or equivalent food waste 100% data capture This year, we have successfully extended the implementation of our food waste 100% implementation by September 2013 reduction programmes, with 19 of our Top 20 countries now reporting.
reduction programmes Provide Food safety Improve our global Food Safety Incident Rate % improvement Compared to the 2008 baseline, we have improved our food safety performance on a Report % improvement against 2008 baseline global basis by 32% through strong site compliance with our global Food Safety standards.
Occupational health Improve our global Lost Time Injury Rate % improvement This year, we achieved further improvement in our global health and safety Report % improvement against 2008 baseline and safety performance by 26%, compared to the 2008 baseline.
Our ongoing commitment to implement programmes to improve safety leadership and culture underpins this success.
We had no work-related fatalities during the year.
Employee retention Measure employee retention rate for all employees % total employee retention This year, we have improved the accuracy and scope of reporting to include data Report % improvement against 2012 baseline relating to management and site management.
of employee retention: Data collection relating to: Total employees % management retention Management Site management % site management retention Diversity Measure % of women holding global leadership % increase 22% of our global leadership team positions are held by women 20.8% in 2010-2011.
Report % increase in women holding global leadership team positions team positions Business ethics Measure total number of concerns reported by employees Measure and report concerns All our countries have access to the independently operated Speak Up whistle-blowing Measure and report concerns globally via Speak Up programme, which enables employees to report material concerns for review and follow-up.
There is a clear escalation process in place to consider each concern raised.
Where appropriate, a full investigation and remedial actions are taken.
Employee survey Your Voice survey N A N A We conduct our global Your Voice employee survey every two years.
2013 Your Voice Survey: The next Your Voice survey will be conducted in 2013 Report participation rate Report engagement score Find out more... We include detailed performance statistics and targets on our CR site at www.
com cr12 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 19 I Basis for consolidation: Top 20 countries represent 93% of total Group revenue All KPIs relate to our performance across our Top 20 countries unless highlighted with, which relate to our global performance 2011-2012 2011-2012 2011-2012 2012-2017 Innovate Key Performance Indicator Target Performance Review KPI Targets Wellness and nutrition Improvement in the total number of operating sites 25% improvement by 2012 We are making good progress with the provision of healthy eating programmes to our Report % improvement in the number of sites providing Balanced Choices or equivalent healthy eating customers.
2013 Your Voice Survey: The next Your Voice survey will be conducted in 2013 Report participation rate Report engagement score 20 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 I 3 Business model We are passionate about preparing great food without compromising on our commitment to the highest standards of health and safety.
Pr Preparation is key to providing our clients and consumers with great food and services.
It is therefore important that we give our people the necessary tools and training for them to deliver the best possible service.
Safeguarding the health and safety of our people and customers is essential to the success of the business.
We set out to establish a safety culture where our people instinctively take individual and collective responsibility for their own safety and that of those around them, and act accordingly.
Equally important is minimising the environmental impact of our operations on the local communities in which we work and the global one we are part of.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 21 I Zero Waste Day The more food we waste, the greater impact we all have on the available food stocks across 50% the globe.
Our business in India has introduced a weekly Zero Waste Day to encourage Reduction in plate waste consumers and employees to think about their in India portion sizes and the amount of food they waste.
So far, plate wastage has reduced significantly, thereby reducing cost, waste and our impact on the environment.
ar Food safety for local communities A food safety education programme developed The ultimate goal of the programme is to by our Argentinian business is helping to provide food preparation training from an early raise awareness in local communities of the age, supporting national guidelines for a more importance of working safely with food.
at schools and young people, the programme We are proud to be able to contribute to the helps them to understand the importance of wellbeing and development of young people preparing food safely.
So far, 400 young people in the communities in which we operate.
have been trained in how to use kitchen equipment and utensils in a safe way.
22 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 I Chairmans statement The Group has had another good year and the strength of our cash flow has enabled us to invest in organic growth and infill acquisitions, as well as rewarding shareholders.
1 year 19.2% 2 years 25.4% 3 years 66.9% 32 Compass share price performance Position in FTSE 100 Index as vs FTSE 100 Index over the last 3 years at 30 September 2012 2011: 35 Focus on growth I am delighted to report another good year for Compass, with constant currency revenue growth of just under 8% and organic revenue growth of over 5%.
Weve delivered a similarly strong performance in operating profit as well, up nearly 9%, resulting in a slight increase in the margin on last year.
Across the Group, our businesses in North America and Fast Growing & Emerging are generating excellent growth and we continue to see high levels of new business wins and retention.
The ongoing efficiencies weve generated have been reinvested to drive growth and we have delivered further improvement in the operating margin in North America.
The outlook for both regions is exciting.
The fundamentals of our business in Europe are solid: however, economic conditions have become increasingly challenging through the year and we expect them to remain so.
In September, we therefore announced a series of measures to improve operational efficiency and make our operations more competitive for the future.
We have delivered another year of strong cash flow, which is enabling us to invest in the business and reward Shareholders.
During the year, we have also made a number of value creating acquisitions, which are making a healthy contribution to the Group.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 23 I Share price Compass Group share price performance vs the FTSE 100 Index 2011 2012 750 700 650 600 550 500 S O N D J F M A M J J A S Compass FTSE 100 FTSE 100 has been rebased to the Compass Group share price on 30 September 2011 521.00p Commitment to corporate responsibility Our people Corporate responsibility underpins the responsible and sustainable Our results are a reflection of the quality of our people across the delivery of our key business drivers and, as such, is an integral part world from the senior management to our teams in the units.
On behalf of achieving our overall strategy.
The Board believes that the integration of the Board, I would like to thank all of my Compass colleagues for of Corporate Responsibility across the Group and the inclusion of their continued contribution and commitment to our clients, our broader social and environmental issues into our decision making consumers and our values.
process will help Compass to achieve our business goals, act as Outlook a building block for growth in shareholder value and benefit the communities in which we operate.
As such, the Board remains fully Compass has had a good year.
North America and Fast Growing committed to this important aspect of how we operate.
& Emerging, which account for two thirds of Group revenue, have delivered strong organic revenue growth and our operating profit We are now into our fifth year of measuring our progress and our drive margin in North America has reached 8%.
Looking ahead to next year, for continuous improvement is set out in the Focus on responsibilities the pipeline of new contracts is encouraging and we expect to see section of this Report on pages 16 to 19. further good performances in these regions.
Shareholder returns We anticipate that economic conditions in Europe will remain Our commitment to creating shareholder value remains strong.
We are challenging, with like for like volume under ongoing pressure.
committed to a progressive dividend policy and, this year, the Board is However, our core business remains solid and we are taking action proposing a final dividend of 14.1 pence for payment on 25 February to re-base our business in Southern Europe and ensure we are best 2013.
This brings our total dividend for 2012 to 21.3 pence, a year on placed to capitalise on the many opportunities to drive future revenue year increase of 10.4%.
With the confidence we have in our future performance and our current The combination of strong trading in North America and Fast Growing investment requirements, we have also taken the decision to drive & Emerging, together with the European action plans, underpins our greater efficiency into the balance sheet through a further 400 million confidence in delivering against 2013 market expectations.
share buyback, which we expect to complete in the 2013 calendar year.
In the longer term, we remain very positive about the opportunities This is in addition to the current 500 million share buyback programme to grow the business and we are well positioned to capitalise on that we remain on track to complete before the 2012 calendar year end.
the significant structural growth potential in both food and support services globally.
We also expect to generate more cost efficiencies, Leadership supporting our belief that we will make further progress in the operating As we announced at the 2011 full year results, in April 2012 we profit margin.
changed our management structure, dividing the Group into three regions North America, Europe & Japan and Fast Growing & Emerging to reflect the different opportunities and challenges around the world.
This has brought a more focused and incisive approach to running the business.
Turning to the Board, we have seen a year of stability.
We have an experienced and diverse Board, supported by strong leadership Sir Roy Gardner teams across the Group.
We have worked hard to put in place effective Chairman succession and development programmes and the excellent results 21 November 2012 we continue to achieve are a testament to this effort and to the emphasis we have put on what will continue to be an important area of focus for me.
