10 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 I Market perspective The structural growth potential in the outsourced food and support services markets is a key growth driver.
The outsourcing proposition remains compelling: we can offer organisations better quality and service at a lower cost.
Market focus Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 11 I 400bn 50% 242% Combined size of food and Proportion of food service Growth in Compass support and multi support services markets market currently outsourced services business over the last 6 years Numbers relating to market size and penetration rates are based on management estimates and a range of external data.
More and more organisations are choosing to outsource their food The majority of our new business is derived from first time outsourcing and support services to us.
They know that by doing so, they can and small, regional players, with only a small proportion coming from fully focus on running their operations and, by working with us, other large competitors.
This is an attractive feature of our business.
benefit from: Organisations also rely on us to provide a range of soft support services Improving quality and potentially reducing costs such as cleaning, reception services and light building maintenance Meeting the highest health, safety and environmental standards in addition to our core food service.
The addressable soft support Taking advantage of our market leading innovation and best services market is much larger than the food service market and is also practices from around the world underpenetrated.
Our approach is low risk and incremental, driven by Access to the latest food concepts and leading brands client demand on a country by country basis.
Despite the good levels of growth we have achieved over the last In order to capture this growth potential, we have a clear strategy few years, we still believe there are further opportunities to capitalise which is set out on pages 12 and 13.
We remain focused on being a on in both the food and soft support services markets.
world-class provider of contract food and support services, renowned for our great people, our great service and our great results.
We will Estimated at around 200 billion, the food service market is currently look to continue to invest in organic growth and in appropriate infill less than 50% outsourced.
We believe that, as economic conditions acquisitions without losing sight of our relentless focus onefficiency.
put pressure on the public and private sectors, the benefits of outsourcing will become ever more apparent, and we are well placed to deliver services to more organisations.
We see significant opportunities across our sectors.
Business & Industry, our largest sector, continues to grow and there is excellent potential globally.
There are also good opportunities in Healthcare & Seniors and Education, which have a combined value of about 95 billion and are significantly underpenetrated.
Outsourcing penetration rates for addressable food and support services markets.
Food service Support services 1 Outsourced 1 Outsourced 2 Self operated 2 Self operated 1 2 1 2
