42 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 I Finance Directors statement Financial management Shareholder return The Group continues to manage its interest rate and foreign currency The market price of the Groups ordinary shares at the close of exposure in accordance with the policies set out below.
The Groups the financial year was 683.5 pence per share 2011: 521.0 pence financial instruments comprise cash, borrowings, receivables and per share.
payables that are used to finance the Groups operations.
The Group also uses derivatives, principally interest rate swaps, forward currency Going concern contracts and cross currency swaps, to manage interest rate and The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to currency risks arising from the Groups operations.
The Group does affect its future development, performance and position are set out not trade in financial instruments.
The Groups treasury policies are in the business review on pages 4 to 42, as is the financial position designed to mitigate the impact of fluctuations in interest rates and of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position, and borrowing facilities.
exchange rates and to manage the Groups financial risks.
The Board In addition, note 21 to the consolidated financial statements on pages approves any changes to the policies.
99 to 104 includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details Foreign currency risk of its financial instruments and hedging activities and its exposures The Groups policy is to match, as far as possible, its principal projected to credit risk and liquidity risk.
cash flows by currency to actual or effective borrowings in the same The Group has considerable financial resources together with longercurrency.
As currency cash flows are generated, they are used to term contracts with a number of customers and suppliers across service and repay debt in the same currency.
Where necessary, to different geographic areas and industries.
As a consequence, the implement this policy, forward currency contracts and cross currency Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business swaps are taken out which, when applied to the actual currency risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
liabilities, convert these to the required currency.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation The borrowings in each currency can give rise to foreign exchange that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational differences on translation into Sterling.
Where the borrowings are either existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to less than, or equate to, the net investment in overseas operations, these adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
exchange rate movements are treated as movements on reserves and recorded in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income rather than in the income statement.
Non-Sterling earnings streams are translated at the average rate of exchange for the year.
Fluctuations in exchange rates have given and will continue to give rise to translation differences.
The Group is only partially protected from the impact of such differences through the matching of cash flows to currency borrowings.
Dominic Blakemore Group Finance Director Interest rate risk 21 November 2012 As set out above, the Group has effective borrowings in a number of currencies and its policy is to ensure that, in the short term, it is not materially exposed to fluctuations in interest rates in its principal currencies.
The Group implements this policy either by borrowing fixed rate debt or by using interest rate swaps so that the interest rates on at least 80% of the Groups projected debt are fixed for one year, reducing to 60% fixed for the second year and 40% fixed for the third year.
Other risks and uncertainties The Board takes a proactive approach to risk management with the aim of protecting its employees and customers and safeguarding the interests of the Company and its Shareholders.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the business and the activities the Group undertakes to mitigate these are set out in the section headed Focus on risk on pages 24 and25.
