06 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 I Our sectors Continuing to build on our sector expertise, and recognising that each of them has specific requirements, are key drivers of differentiation for our clients and fully underpin our drive for innovation and operating efficiency.
Business & Industry Education Group breakdown We provide a choice of quality, nutritious and From kindergarten to college, we provide fun, 5 well-balanced food for employees during their nutritious dining solutions that help support working day.
In addition, where clients seek academic achievement at the highest levels.
4 broader service offerings, the Compass Service Our simple set of commitments Eat, Learn, Framework enables us to deliver a range Live helps us to educate young people about 1 of support services to the highest standard, how to have a happy, safe and healthy lifestyle at the best value, on an international scale.
while contributing to a sustainable world.
3 2 Major sector brands Major sector brands Revenue by sector 1 42% Business & Industry 2 16% Education 3 19% Healthcare & Seniors 4 10% Sports & Leisure 5 13% Defence, Offshore & Remote 42% 16% Group revenue Group revenue 2011: 42% 2011: 16% Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 07 I For consumers, this means speedier access to sector-focused best practices and market-leading innovations that are delivered by our people, from award winning chefs to service practice experts.
Healthcare Sports Defence, Offshore & Seniors & Leisure & Remote We are specialists in helping hospitals in the Operating at some of the worlds most Through our relentless health and safety public and private sectors on their journey of prestigious sporting and leisure venues, culture, we are a market leader in providing managing efficiency and enhancing quality exhibition centres, visitor attractions and food and support services to major companies across a range of services.
With a significant major events, we have an enviable in the oil and gas and mining and construction presence in the growing senior living market, reputation for providing outstanding industries, operating in some of the most we also provide care services to residential hospitality and true service excellence.
demanding environments in the world.
For our homes and home meal delivery services.
defence sector clients, we are a partner who meets the challenges of running efficient operations outside of areas of conflict.
Major sector brands Major sector brands Major sector brands 19% 10% 13% Group revenue Group revenue Group revenue 2011: 18% 2011: 11% 2011: 13% 08 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 I 1 Business model Trends dont emerge one day and disappear the next: they continue to evolve and change.
We respond as a global company with individual creativity and flair.
nn Wherever we serve people, their demand for quality, choice and value is as discerning as you would find on any high street.
Our consumer focus drives the development and innovation in our offers, brands and service to attract people to our restaurants and food outlets day in, day out.
Compass is committed to providing our clients with innovations and concepts that will increase consumer participation, drive loyalty and improve satisfaction.
Our goal is to provide quality food and service offers that align with the priorities of clients and consumers.
In order to achieve this, we carry out extensive on-site research to ensure we understand our customer base and respond to overarching trends such as wellness and individualism.
We ensure our people receive the training they need to deliver service excellence and increase customer satisfaction and we measure our success to make sure we get it right.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 09 I 7m 38% Steamplicity meals provided Increase in patient food consumption globally this year when eating Steamplicity meals ate Steamplicity an innovative cooking solution more importantly, with the help of the A healthy diet depends on the provision patients who eat the food.
Nutritionally of fresh, nutritious food.
Thats why weve balanced menu choices for both hot and developed Steamplicity, a unique technology cold meals have been created.
The meals that steams food and provides tasty, are cooked from fresh ingredients, which wholesome meals within minutes, means they offer excellent taste, texture and for hospital patients around the world.
Steamplicity is now also available in Our menus have been developed in schools and offices, and allows our clients consultation with medical professionals, to offer their customers delicious, healthy our in-house chefs and dieticians and, meals, varied choice and flexibility of service.
