36 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 I Regional review We have an established presence in many of the worlds fast growing markets and we continue to benefit from high rates of organic growth.
With the potential these countries offer, we are investing in their growth.
3,145m 11.8% 235m 7.5% Revenue Organic revenue growth Operating profit Operating margin 2011: 2,767m 2011: 14.5% 2011: 207m 2011: 7.5% Fast Growing & Emerging Group revenue Revenue by sector 19% 1 40% Business & Industry 2011: 18% 2 5% Education 3 8% Healthcare & Seniors 4 3% Sports & Leisure 1 5 44% Defence, Offshore & Remote 5 2 4 3 Supporting rehabilitation programmes At Compass, we recognise the importance of charitable activities and supporting our local communities.
In partnership with a prison in Chile, our employees are working with teams of social workers, nurses, teachers, psychologists and technicians to deliver training programmes designed to enable inmates to learn new skills and trades.
By developing their abilities and behaviours, we help them to resume their place in society whilst encouraging personal rehabilitation.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 37 I Compass in Australia Australia is one of our top five countries by revenue, and we have solid positions in Business & Industry, Healthcare & Seniors and Education.
However, our largest operations are in the Defence, Offshore & Remote sector.
Our core proposition is to operate the camps or villages that provide transient accommodation for the workforces of our clients who extract oil, gas and other commodities across and just offshore the country.
We provide food and living services to their people and maintain the facilities they live in.
This year, we have delivered double digit organic revenue growth in Australia and we see plenty of further opportunities.
Excellent organic revenue growth in Fast Growing & Emerging of 11.8% Turkey continues to be one of our most exciting markets and has enjoyed has been delivered through strong new business wins and like for like another good year, benefitting from our strengthened capabilities revenue growth across most countries.
The revenue of 3.1 billion following the acquisition of the remaining 50% of our joint venture 2011: 2.8 billion now represents close to 20% of Group revenue, Sofra last year and the subsequent acquisition of Obasan.
Strong and this percentage continues to grow.
Operating profit increased organic revenue growth was driven by high levels of new business and by 32 million, or 15.8% on a constant currency basis, to 235 million like for like revenue growth.
New contract wins include the Universal 2011: 203 million.
This includes good contributions from infill Hospitals Group, one of the largest private hospital groups in Turkey, acquisitions, in particular Sofra and Obasan in Turkey and Supercare where we will be providing food service to 13 hospitals, and support in South Africa.
We have continued to invest in the many growth services contracts with Goodyear and British American Tobacco.
opportunities in the region, including around 10 million in strengthening Excellent margin progression has been generated from synergies our teams and processes, and we have maintained the margin at 7.5%.
and a focus on all cost lines.
In Brazil, we have again delivered double digit organic revenue growth In South Africa, the acquisition of Supercare has expanded our capabilities as we have continued to benefit from the structural growth opportunity.
in the support services market, enabling us to offer market leading cleaning New business wins include a food service contract at the Mendes Junior services, and it continues to perform well.
Holcim Project in Minas Gerais and we have also retained our food In Australia, where the majority of our clients are in the Defence, service contract with ThyssenKrupp.
Like for like volume in the industrial Offshore & Remote sector, we have delivered strong double digit sector has seen a moderate slowdown in the latter part of the year, organic revenue growth.
Significant new business wins include multi however, there is an exciting pipeline and retention levels remain good.
service contracts with Xstrata Copper, BHP Billiton and Goldfields Coupled with a drive for further efficiencies, this is providing an excellent Australia.
We are currently seeing some excellent opportunities in this platform for future growth in both revenue and operating profit.
area and, where it makes sense, we are continuing to invest to support The rest of our business in Latin America has also continued to this growth.
Where we do this, we generate high returns.
deliver excellent organic revenue growth and good margin progression, In China, we have won the food service contract with Caterpillar reaping the benefits from efficiency programmes in the cost of food, Suzhou and, in Hong Kong, we have extended our contract with labour and above unit overheads.
In Mexico, we have recently extended MTR Corporation and now serve in excess of 4,500 meals a day.
our contract with Sanofi Aventis to a second site, as well as operating In India, we have delivered excellent organic growth, building on the the 16th Pan American Games in Guadalajara, which involved over five infill acquisitions we have made over recent years.
Significant new 6,000 athletes from 42 nations.
In Argentina, we have been awarded business wins include the patient, staff and visitor food service contract a new food service contract with Peugeot and a multi service contract at Medanta The Medicity, one of Indias largest private hospitals with with Petrolera L. F. Company S. R. L. In Colombia, the oil and gas over 900 beds, and the food service contract for Daimler India sector has experienced rapid growth in recent years and we have been Commercial Vehicles.
awarded a multi service contract with AngloGold Ashanti Colombia S. A. s La Colosa Project.
