Governance Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 55 I Andrew Martin in respect of his new role, percentage increases to Remuneration strategy and policy basic salary awards for Executive Directors and other members of Remuneration policy and components the Executive Committee during the year ended 30 September 2012 The Committee reviews the Companys remuneration philosophy were in line with those awarded to other employees in the Group and structure each year to ensure that the remuneration framework working in the same country in that period.
remains effective in supporting the Companys business objectives, is in line with best practice, and fairly rewards individuals for the The total remuneration package links corporate and individual contribution that they make to the business, having regard to the size performance with an appropriate balance between short and longand complexity of the Groups operations and the need to motivate term elements, and fixed and variable components.
The policy is and attract employees of the highest calibre.
designed to incentivise Executives to meet the Companys key objectives, such that a significant portion of total remuneration is The Committee intends that base salary and total remuneration of performance related, based on a mixture of internal targets linked Executive Directors should be in line with the market.
Remuneration to the Companys key business drivers which can be measured, is benchmarked against rewards available for equivalent roles in a understood and accepted by both Executives and Shareholders suitable comparator group with the aim of paying neither significantly and appropriate external comparator groups.
above nor below the median for each element of remuneration at par performance levels.
The Committee also considers general pay and The Committee considers that the targets set for the different employment conditions of all employees within the Group and is elements of performance related remuneration are both appropriate sensitive to these, to prevailing market and economic conditions, and demanding in the context of the business environment and the and to governance trends when assessing the level of salaries and challenges with which the Group is faced as well as complying with remuneration packages of Executive Directors and other members of the provisions of the Code.
Save for a promotional increase awarded to Elements of package The key elements of Executive Directors remuneration for the year ended 30 September 2012 and the year ending 30 September 2013 are summarised below: Element Reason Mechanics Base Salary The provision of a Base salaries are reviewed annually, appropriately benchmarked and reflect the role, job size and competitive core responsibility as well as performance and effectiveness of the individual.
package of base The Group Chief Executives base salary is reviewed annually by the Committee with any increase salary and other taking effect on 1 July of each year.
Other Executive Directors base salaries are subject to an benefits enables the annual review with any increases taking effect on 1 January of each year.
Company to attract Pay awards for Senior Executives take account of prevailing market and economic conditions, and retain skilled, governance trends and the approach to employee pay throughout the organisation.
For example, high calibre in the year ended 30 September 2012, the UK-based Executive Directors received percentage Executives to deliver increases in line with the average UK-wide pay review, outside of those set by collective bargaining its strategy.
The annual base salaries of the Executive Directors for the year ended 30 September 2012 were: Director Base Salary Effective Date Increase Dominic Blakemore 480,000 27 February 2012 N A Richard Cousins 965,500 1 July 2012 2.99% Gary Green US$1,170,080 1 January 2012 3.00% Andrew Martin 650,000 2 April 2012 Andrew Martin received a 2.00% increase effective 1 January 2012.
On 2 April 2012 he was appointed as Group Chief Operating Officer Europe & Japan, for which he received an additional increase equal to 12.28% to reflect the change in his role and responsibilities.
