48 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 I Corporate governance In identifying suitable candidates, theCommittee: Executive Committee The Executive Committee is the key management committee and uses open advertising or the services of external advisors to comprises the Executive Directors of the Company, General Counsel facilitate the search and Company Secretary, Group Human Resources Director and considers candidates from different genders and a wide range Group Managing Directors.
The Committee meets regularly and of backgrounds is responsible for developing the Groups strategy and capital considers candidates on merit and against objective criteria expenditure and investment budgets and reporting on these areas ensuring that appointees have sufficient time to devote to the to the Board for approval, implementing Group policy, monitoring position, in light of other significant commitments financial, operational and customer quality of service performance, health and safety, purchasing and supply chain issues, succession The Nomination Committee retained independent external search planning and day-to-day management of the Group.
consultants in respect of the most recent appointments to the Board, being those of John Bason and Dominic Blakemore, and Audit Committee will do so in the future, as appropriate.
The Nomination Committee reviews the senior leadership needs of the Group to enable it to The Audit Committee comprises all of the Non-Executive Directors compete effectively in the marketplace.
The Nomination Committee in office at the date of this Report.
Members of the Audit Committee also advises the Board on succession planning for Executive the Committee are appointed by the Board following recommendations Director appointments although the Board itself is responsible by the Nomination Committee and the Committees membership is for succession generally.
reviewed by the Nomination Committee and as part of the annual Board performance evaluation.
Remuneration Committee Each member of the Committee brings relevant senior level financial The Remuneration Committee comprises Sir James Crosby experience.
The expertise and experience of the members of the Chairman and all of the other Non-Executive Directors in office Committee are summarised on pages 26 and 27.
The Board considers at the date of this Report.
The Committee met four times during the that each member of the Committee is independent within the definition year and Directors attendance can be found in the table on page 47. set out in the Code.
The Committees Chairman, John Bason, is considered by the Board to have significant, recent and relevant The Remuneration Committee is responsible for making financial experience as Finance Director of Associated British Foodsplc.
recommendations on remuneration to the Board.
The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 53 to 65.
The Chairman All members of the Committee receive an appropriate induction, of the Remuneration Committee attends the AGM to respond to any which includes an overview of the business, its financial dynamics shareholder questions that might be raised on the Remuneration and risks.
Audit Committee members are expected to have an Committees activities.
understanding of the principles of, and recent developments in, financial reporting, including the applicable accounting standards and General Business Committee statements of recommended practice, key aspects of the Companys policies, financing, internal control mechanisms, and matters that The General Business Committee comprises all of the Executive require the use of judgment in the presentation of accounts and key Directors and meets as required to conduct the Companys business figures as well as the role of internal and external auditors.
Members within clearly defined limits delegated by the Board and subject to of the Committee undertake ongoing training as required.
those matters reserved to the Board.
The Committee meets regularly throughout the year and its agenda Corporate Responsibility Committee is linked to events in the Companys financial calendar.
Each member The Corporate Responsibility Committee comprises Susan Murray of the Committee may require reports on matters of interest in addition Chairman, Sir Roy Gardner, Dominic Blakemore, Richard Cousins, to the regular items.
The Committee met four times during the year Mark White General Counsel and Company Secretary, Jane Kingston and Members attendance at the meetings is set out in the table Group Human Resources Director and all of the Non-Executive on page 47.
Directors in office at the date of this Report.
Andrew Martin ceased to be a Member of this Committee on 2 April 2012 and Dominic The Committee invites the Group Chairman, the Group Chief Blakemore became a Member on 27 February 2012, when he was Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Head of Financial appointed to the Board.
Reporting and Control and the Director of Group Internal Audit, together with senior representatives of the external Auditor, to attend The Corporate Responsibility Committees primary responsibilities each meeting although, from time to time, it reserves time for include: health, safety and environmental practices, ethical business discussions without invitees being present.
Other senior management conduct, the promotion of employee engagement and diversity and are invited to present such reports as are required for the Committee community investment.
The Committee met twice during the year and Members attendance The Chairman of the Audit Committee attends the AGM to respond is shown in the table on page 47. to any Shareholder questions that might be raised on its activities.
The remuneration of the members of the Committee and the policy with regard to the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors are Disclosure Committee set out on page 64.
At the date of this Report the Disclosure Committee comprises Dominic Blakemore, Mark White, the Head of Financial Reporting The Committee assists the Board to fulfil its responsibilities related and Control and the Director of Corporate Strategy, Media and to external financial reporting and associated announcements.
Investor Relations, and meets as required to deal with all matters relating to public announcements of the Company and the Companys obligations under the Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
