12 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 I Our strategy Food is our core business.
Allied to this, we continue to build our support and multi service capabilities.
Organic growth remains the first priority, supplemented by infill acquisitions, and we see significant opportunities for further efficiency.
Food remains our core business.
Culinary expertise sits at the Focus on food heart of who we are, shaping our wider business development, people skills, and buying and marketing activities.
We provide a choice of high quality, nutritious and well balanced food to meet peoples needs during the day and throughout life.
Support and multi services are a growing part of the business Growing support and accounted for 24% of revenue in 2012.
We are increasing our capabilities in an incremental and low risk way, responding and multi services to client demand on a country by country basis.
Operating in around 50 countries, we have an excellent Geographic spread geographic mix, which continues to diversify our revenue sources.
We have the global reach and capability to deliver and emerging markets high quality food and support services in the most efficient way, consistently, daily and, above all, safely around the world.
We have maintained our focus on quality sustainable growth Organic growth, through MAP 1 and 2, whilst still retaining our relentless focus on efficiency.
Our strong growth in new business has been supplemented by underpinned by increased outsourcing in some parts of the world, improved processes and an attractive geographic mix.
Weve maintained a high level of client retention, underpinned by the infill acquisitions implementation around the business of the Strategic Alliance Group, the best practice retention framework originally created by our US business.
In addition to winning new contracts, Over the last six years, we have increased the Group margin Ongoing drive by 250 basis points through the application of the MAP framework.
We have worked hard to manage our cost of food for efficiencies MAP 3 in the face of high food cost inflation through menu management, supplier and product rationalisation, logistics and waste reduction.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 13 I Management and Performance MAP framework: 1 Client sales and marketing 2 Consumer sales and marketing 3 Cost of food 4 In unit costs 5 Above unit costs KPIs Our wide range of food service solutions is designed to cater for any format and size of location.
We provide everything from free flow restaurants to formal dining, Revenue grab and go deli and caf outlets to hospitality services and vending.
12 16,905m 11 15,833m 10 14,468m Underlying operating profit We deliver excellence in each service, both individually and as part of a multi service offer.
Where we provide 12 1,178m multi services, we seek to optimise workflow efficiencies 11 1,091m to drive greater efficiency.
Our delivery model is based on self performance, ensuring quality and reducing complexity 10 1,003m for clients.
Underlying basic earnings per share 12 42.6p 11 39.0p We are becoming increasingly excited about the Fast 10 35.7p Growing & Emerging region, which now accounts for 19% of the Groups revenue.
We expect these markets to become a larger part of the Group over time, driven by both economic growth and an accelerating trend to outsourcing.
Dividend per share 12 21.3p 11 19.3p 10 17.5p we have had success in cross-selling additional services to existing clients.
This organic growth has been supplemented by selective, infill acquisitions across our existing Underlying free cash flow geographies, services andsectors.
12 760m 11 693m 10 744m We have made some progress in optimising our cost of labour MAP 4 through better scheduling and productivity and we have successfully controlled our above unit costs MAP 5.
Looking forward, we continue to see significant potential to optimise our costs and progress the See this Report and our full Corporate marginfurther.
Responsibility Report online at www.
com ar12 14 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 I 2 Business model Having a responsible supply chain is important for us to deliver the quality of service that is a key business driver for the Group.
S u c Compass purchases goods and services from a wide variety of suppliers all over the world, from large international organisations to specialist local suppliers.
We buy direct from growers, manufacturers and producers as well as wholesalers to maintain a robust supply chain, ensuring high levels of traceability.
As a result of our responsible approach to sourcing, we are able to build the confidence of our clients and consumers, reduce potential risks and develop sustainable relationships.
We seek to establish mutually beneficial relationships with all our suppliers, and encourage them to match our high standards in respect of quality, food safety, working conditions, trading practices, health and safety and environmental protection.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 15 I 2, 400 1st Tonnes reduction of CO by our MSC Chain of Custody certified 2 UK business this year restaurant operated in Australia S u c Reducing CO emissions Sustainable sourcing 2 We are working hard across all of our Global fish stocks are reducing as demand businesses to improve the efficiency of our increases.
In response to this challenge, we logistics and reduce our carbon footprint.
continue to extend our Marine Stewardship In the UK alone, by centrally consolidating Council MSC certification coverage around our logistics activities, we have already the world by offering responsibly sourced reduced CO emissions by 2,400 tonnes fish and seafood.
A great example of our 2 this year, meaning more than 160,000 fewer commitment in action is in Australia where deliveries to our units.
Another great example we operate the first restaurant in the country is the CO Neutral Delivery programme, to receive the rigorous MSC Chain of Custody 2 introduced by our business in Sweden, certification.
This certification ensures the which offsets CO emissions by investing traceability of all fish products, and customers 2 in valuable environmental projects.
can be confident that the seafood they consume comes from sustainable, certified fisheries.
