Tony Conophy Title: Non-Executive Chairman and Title: Finance Director Chairman of the Nomination Tony has been a member of the Institute of Chartered Committee Management Accountants since 1982.
He qualified with Committee membership: N, R Semperit Ireland Ltd and then worked for five years at CapeIndustries plc.
He joined Computacenter in 1987 Greg is the Chairman of Kofax plc and a Non-Executive asFinancial Controller, rising in 1991 to General Manager of Director of United Business Media.
He has more than 38 years Finance.
In 1996 he was appointed Finance and Commercial experience in the software and computer services industry, Director of Computacenter UK Limited with responsibility for including four years as Chairman of SurfControl plc and from all financial, purchasing and vendor relations activities.
In March 1998 to 2000, as General Manager of IBMs Global Industrial 1998 he was appointed Group Finance Director.
Greg also served as a member of IBMs Worldwide Management Council and as a governor of the IBM Academy of Technology.
Peter Ogden Title: Non-Executive Director 2.
Mike Norris Peter founded Computacenter with Philip Hulme in 1981 and Title: Chief Executive was Chairman of the Company until 1998, when he became a Non-Executive Director.
He is Chairman of Dealogic Holdings Mike Norris graduated with a degree in Computer Science plc and prior to founding Computacenter, he was a Managing and Mathematics from East Anglia University in 1983.
He Director of Morgan Stanley and Co. Age 65. joinedComputacenter in 1984 as a salesman in the City office.
In1986 he was Computacenters top account manager.
Following appointments as Regional Manager for London Operations in 1988 and General Manager of the Systems Division in 1992 with full sales and marketing responsibilities, hebecame Chief Executive in December 1994 with responsibility for all day-to-day activities and reporting channels across Computacenter.
Mike also led the Company through flotation onthe London Stock Exchange in 1998.
Mike was awarded anHonorary Doctorate of Science from the University of Hertfordshire in2010.
30 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 5678 5.
Brian McBride Title: Non-Executive Director Title: Non-Executive Director, Senior Independent Director and Philip founded Computacenter with Peter Ogden in 1981 and Chairman of the Remuneration worked for the Company on a full-time basis until stepping Committee down as Executive Chairman in 2001.
He is a Director of Dealogic Holdings plc and was previously a Vice President Committee membership: A, N, R and Director of the Boston Consulting Group.
Brian is the Chairman of ASOS plc and Non-Executive Director on the Board of the BBC.
He is a member of the Advisory Board of Huawei UK, as well as a member of the 6.
John Ormerod UK Governments Digital Advisory Board, established in Title: Non-Executive Director and April 2012 to help steer the digital delivery of Government Chairman of the Audit services to citizens in the UK.
Brian is also a member of the Committee Court Governing Body of the University of Glasgow and Committee membership: A, N, R Senior Adviser at Scottish Equity Partners.
John is a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Brian is the former Managing Director of Amazon.
Committee of Gemalto NV, a Non-Executive Director and He began his career with Xerox and subsequently worked in Chairman of the Audit Committee of ITV plc and Chairman senior roles at IBM, Crosfield Electronics Ltd, Madge Networks, of Tribal Group plc.
John is a chartered accountant and has Dell Computers and as Managing Director of T-Mobile UK.
held senior positions with Arthur Andersen and with Deloitte.
His former non-executive board appointments include Transport for London and Misys plc.
Ian Lewis Board member attendance Title: Non-Executive Director Committee membership: A, N, R 1.
Greg Lock 12 12 Ian is Director of the University Computing Service at the 2.
Mike Norris 12 12 University of Cambridge.
During his career he has held a 3.
Tony Conophy 12 12 number of senior positions, including First Vice President and 4.
Peter Ogden 9 12 Global Chief Technology Officer of Merrill Lynchs Investment 5.
Philip Hulme 10 12 Banking and Sales division and Global CTO at Dresdner 6.
John Ormerod 12 12 Kleinwort Wasserstein Investment Banking.
Brian McBride 11 12 Key: A Audit Committee N Nomination Committee R Remuneration Committee Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 31 Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
