Directors report The Directors present their report and the audited financial Directors and Directors authority statements of Computacenter plc and its subsidiary companies The Directors who served throughout the year ended the Group for the year ended 31 December 2012.
31December 2012 were Tony Conophy, Philip Hulme, IanLewis, Greg Lock, Brian McBride, Mike Norris, Principal activities JohnOrmerod and Peter Ogden.
Biographical details of The Company is a holding company.
The principal activities eachDirector, as at the date of this report, are given on ofthe Group, of which it is the parent, are the supply, pages30 and 31.
The Companys Articles of Association implementation, support and management of information require at each AGM that those Directors who were appointed technology infrastructure.
since the last AGM retire, as well as one-third of the Directors Business review who have been the longest serving.
The Board has decided, The Companies Act 2006 requires the Group to prepare a inaccordance with the recently revised UK Corporate business review, which commences at the start of the Report Governance Code, that all Directors will retire at each and Accounts up to page 29.
The review includes information forthcoming AGM and offer themselves for re-election.
about the Groups operations and the business model, financial The Nomination Committee has considered the re-election performance throughout the year and likely developments, of each Director and recommends their re-election.
Further keyperformance indicators, principal risks and information details on the Committees recommendations for the reregarding the Groups sustainable development plan.
electionof the Directors are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Corporate governance Under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.2, the Company is The Companys Articles of Association provide for a Board required to include a Corporate governance statement within of Directors consisting of not fewer than three, but not more the Directors report.
Information on corporate governance than 20 Directors, who manage the business and affairs of the practices can be found in the Corporate governance statement Company.
The Directors may appoint additional or replacement on pages 32 to 36 and the reports of the Audit, Remuneration Directors, who shall serve until the following AGM of the and Nomination Committees on pages 37 to 49, which are Company, at which point they will be required to stand for incorporated into the Directors report by reference.
A Director may be removed from office at a general meeting of the Company, by the passing Management report of an Ordinary Resolution provided special notice has been This Directors report together with the other reports form given in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006. the Management report for the purposes of Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1.
Members have previously approved a Resolution to give theDirectors authority to allot shares and a renewal of this Results and dividends authority is proposed at the 2013 AGM.
This authority allows The Groups activities resulted in a profit before tax of the Directors to allot shares up to the maximum amount 64.8 million 2011: 72.1 million.
The Group profit for the statedin the Notice of Annual General Meeting approximately year, attributable to shareholders, amounted to 49.1 million one-third of the issued share capital and this authority would 2011: 61.0 million.
The Directors recommend a final generally expire at the following AGM.
In addition, the Company dividendof 10.5 pence per share totalling 15.6 million may not allot shares for cash unless pursuant to an employee 2011:16.2 million.
Dividends are recognised in the accounts share scheme without first making an offer to existing in the year in which they are paid, or in the case of a final shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
This is dividend, when approved by the shareholders.
As such, the known as rights of pre-emption.
A Resolution to allow a limited amount recognised in the 2012 accounts, as described in waiver of these rights was passed by the members at last years note11, is made up of last years final dividend 10.5 pence AGM.
It is proposed at the forthcoming AGM that a similar pershare and the interim dividend 5 pence per share.
waiver should be granted, which will represent approximately The final ordinary dividend for 2012, if approved at the 5per cent of the issued share capital.
Full details of the forthcoming AGM, will be paid on 14 June 2013.
The dividend proposed waiver are in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
record date is set on 17 May 2013, and the dividend will be The current waiver expires at the conclusion of the2013 AGM.
The Company paid an Directors indemnities interim dividend of 7.5 million in October 2012.
During the year, the Company executed deeds of indemnity Articles of Association with each of the Directors.
These deeds contain qualifying third The Companys Articles of Association set out the party indemnity provisions and indemnify the Directors to the procedures for governing the Company.
A copy of the extent permitted by law and remain in force at the date of this Articles of Association, which have not been amended report.
The indemnities are uncapped and cover all costs, during the course of the year 2012, is available on the charges, losses and liabilities the Directors may incur to third Companys website, www.
parties, in the course of acting as Directors of the Company or its subsidiaries.
50 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors conflicts of interests The Board has put in place a process whereby the Directors are required to notify the Company Secretary of any situations appointments, holdings or otherwise, or any changes to such, which may give rise to an actual or potential conflict of interest with the Company.
These notifications are then reviewed by the Board and recorded in a register maintained by the Company Secretary and, if appropriate, are considered further by the Directors who are not conflicted in the matter, to if deemed appropriate authorise the situation.
The register of notifications and authorisations is reviewed by the Board twice a year.
Wherethe Board has approved an actual or potential conflict, it has imposed the condition that the conflicted Director abstainsfrom participating in any discussion or decision affected by the conflicted matter.
Directors interests in shares The interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company at the beginning and end of the year are set out below: As at 1 January 2012 or As at 31 December 2012 date of appointment Number of Number of Number of Number of ordinary shares ordinary shares ordinary shares ordinary shares Beneficial Non-Beneficial Beneficial Non-Beneficial Executive Directors Mike Norris 1,385,658 1,385,658 Tony Conophy 2,185,221 2,175,905 Non-Executive Directors Greg Lock 430,000 50,984 410,983 Philip Hulme 17,051,770 9,073,921 18,051,770 8,073,921 Ian Lewis 45,000 45,000 Brian McBride Peter Ogden 35,335,636 979,166 35,335,636 979,166 John Ormerod 25,000 25,000 Between 31 December 2012 and 12 March 2013 there have been no changes to the interests detailed above.
Major interests in shares The Company did not receive any notification of substantial interests in the Companys issued ordinary share capital between 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2012, or in the period from 1 January 2013 to 28 February 2013.
Capital structure As at 12 March 2013, there were 153,915,322 fully paid ordinary shares in issue, all of which have full voting rights and there were no restrictions on the transfer of shares.
Pursuant to the Companys share schemes, there are two employee trusts which, as at the year-end, held a total of 4,239,751 ordinary shares of 6 pence each, representing approximately 2.8 per cent of the issued share capital.
During the year the Trusts purchased a total of 1,783,680 shares in order to ensure that the maturities occurring pursuant to these share option schemes could be satisfied.
In the event that shares are held by these trusts before being transferred to employee participants pursuant to the Schemes then, in line with good practice, the Trustees do not exercise the voting rights attached to such shares.
In the event that another entity or individual takes control of the Company, the employee share schemes operated bythe Company have change of control provisions contained within them that would be triggered.
Participants may, in certain circumstances, be allowed to exchange their options for options of an equivalent value over shares inthe acquiring company.
Alternatively, the options may vest early, in which case, early vesting under the executive schemes will be on a time-apportioned basis and under the Sharesave scheme, employees will only be able to exercise their options to the extent that their accumulated savings allow at that time.
The Company was granted authority at the 2012 AGM, tomake market purchases of up to 15,388,782 ordinary shares of 6 pence each.
This authority will expire at the 2013 AGM, where approval fromshareholders will be sought to renew the authority.
During the period no shares were purchased for cancellation.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 51 Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Directors report continued Significant agreements and relationships Corporate sustainable development Details regarding the status of the various borrowing facilities The Board recognises that acting in a socially responsible used by the Group are provided in the Finance Directors way benefits the community, our customers, shareholders, Review on pages 18 to 23.
These agreements each include the environment and employees alike.
Further information can a change of control provision, which may result in the facility be found in the Corporate Sustainable Development report being withdrawn or amended upon a change of control of the on pages 26 to 29 and covers matters regarding Health Group.
It is also not extraordinary within our business sector for and Safety, the environment, equal opportunities, employee our longer-term Services contracts to contain change of control involvement, employment of disabled people, employee clauses that allow a counterparty to terminate the relevant development and charitable donations.
During the year, the contract in the event of a change of control of the Company.
Group did not make any political donations to any political party In addition to financing arrangements and our larger contracts or organisation and it did not incur any political expenditure with our customers, the Board considers that there are a within the meaning of Sections 362 to 379 of the Companies number of major product suppliers who are material to Act 2006. the business, including HP, IBM, Cisco, Microsoft, Oracle Equal opportunities and Lenovo.
The Group acknowledges the importance of equality and Creditors payment policy diversity and is committed to equal opportunities throughout the The Company does not hold any trade creditor balances.
The Groups policies for recruitment, training, career However, it is the policy of the Group that each of the development and promotion of employees are based purely businesses should agree appropriate terms and conditions on the suitability of the employee and give those who may be with suppliers ranging from standard written terms to disabled, equal treatment to their able bodied colleagues.
Where individually negotiated contracts and that payment an employee becomes disabled, subsequent to joining the should be in accordance with those terms and conditions, Group, all efforts are made to enable that employee to continue provided that the supplier has also complied with them.
However, if due to the specific circumstances, As at 31 December 2012, Group creditor days amounted it is not possible for an employee to continue in their current job, to 69 2011: 50. they will be given suitable training for alternative employment within the Group or elsewhere.
Financial instruments The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies The Group monitors and regularly reviews its policies are discussed in the Finance Directors review on pages and practices to ensure that it meets current legislative 18 to 23. requirements, as well as its own internal standards.
The Group is committed to making full use of the talents and resources Employee share schemes of all its employees and to provide a healthy environment The Company operates executive share option schemes that encourages productive and mutually respectful working and a performance-related option scheme for the benefit relationships within the organisation.
Policies dealing with equal of employees.
During the year, no options were granted opportunities are in place in all parts of the Group, which take under the executive share option schemes.
account of the Groups overall commitment and also address At the year-end, the options remaining outstanding under local regulatory requirements.
the Executive option schemes were in respect of a total of 1,033,000 ordinary shares of 6 pence each 2011: 1,964,756 shares.
During the year options over 416,756 shares were exercised and options over 515,000 shares lapsed.
The Company also operates a Performance Share Plan PSP toincentivise employees.
During the year, 1,179,689 ordinary shares of 6 pence each were conditionally awarded 2011: 1,086,024 shares.
At the year-end, awards over 3,207,545 shares remained outstanding under this scheme 2011: 4,599,072 shares.
During the year, awards over 1,285,860 shares were transferred to participants and awards over 1,285,356 shares lapsed.
In addition, the Company operates aSharesave scheme for the benefit of employees.
At the year-end 2,971,058 options granted under the Sharesave scheme remained outstanding 2011: 2,905,644.
52 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Employee involvement and development Business ethics The Group is committed to involving all employees in significant An ethics policy is operated by the Group, which commits business issues, especially matters which affect their work Computacenter employees to the highest standards of ethical and working environment.
A variety of methods are used to behaviour in respect of customers, suppliers, colleagues and engage with employees, including team briefings, intranet, other stakeholders in the business.
The policy includes a email and in-house publications.
The Group will use one or requirement for all employees to report abuses or nonmore of these channels to brief the employees on the Groups conformance with the policy Whistleblowing and sets performance and the financial and economic factors affecting out the procedures to be followed.
The Group has the Groups performance.
"In particular, the Group operates a additionally adopted a Code of Ethics specifically 4BWF ""T :PV &BSO TIBSF TDIFNF XIJDI JT PQFO UP FMJHJCMF aimed at the prevention of bribery."
employees, where employees are encouraged to save Going concern a fixed monthly sum for a period of either three or five years.
Computacenters business activities, the business model Upon maturity of the scheme at the end of the relevant saving and strategic goals are set out in the Overview section, and period, participants can purchase shares in the Company at its performance is set out within the Operating review on a price set at the commencement of the saving period.
The financial position of the Company, its primary method used to engage and consult with employees cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are set is through team briefings, where managers are tasked with outwithin the Finance Directors review on pages 18 to 23.
In ensuring that information sharing, discussion and feedback addition, notes 25 and 26 to the financial statements include happen on a regular basis.
Computacenters objectives, policies and processes for The development of employee skills and careers, as well as the managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, communication of Company goals with employees, are driven details of its financial instruments and its exposures to credit by our e-FACE tools.
Annual assessments via our e-FACE tool and liquidity risk.
Computacenters balance sheet strength, its are a formal requirement of all managers.
long-term contracts with customers and suppliers, as well as the different geographies within which it operates, provide the Employee consultative forums exist in each country to consult Directors with confidence that Computacenter is well-placed staff on major issues affecting employment and matters of policy to manage its business risks even during a prolonged period and to enable management to seek the views and opinions of of economic uncertainty.
employees on a wide range of business matters.
Should there be cross-jurisdictional issues to discuss, a facility exists to The Directors have, after due consideration and investigation engage a European forum made up of representatives from and having taken account of the intended cash return, country forums.
The Group regularly reviews the performance areasonable expectation that the Group has sufficient cash of its employees through a formal review process, in order to resources and available facilities to meet its financial obligations identify areas for development.
Managers are responsible for for the foreseeable future.
Thus, they continue to adopt the setting and reviewing personal objectives, aligned to corporate going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual and functional goals.
The Board closely oversees and monitors financial statements.
management skills and the development of talent to meet the Auditor current and future needs of the Group.
The Board directly &SOTU :PVOH --1 IBT FYQSFTTFE JUT XJMMJOHOFTT UP DPOUJOVF JO monitors and reviews closely, succession and plans for office as auditor and a Resolution approving the reappointment developing the identified key senior managers.
PG &SOTU :PVOH --1 BT UIF $PNQBOZ T BVEJUPS XJMM CF Key performance indicators KPIs proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Performance and operational KPIs can be found within the Operating review on pages 2 and 3 at the front of the Report and Accounts.
The Board considers employee-driven attrition rates as a KPI in relation to employee issues.
For the year ended 31 December 2012, this figure was 11.82 per cent 2011: 9.56 per cent.
Utilisation levels across the Group of the e-FACE career development tool is a specific KPI which the Board is informed of, and which has improved from 74 per cent at 31 December 2011 to 85 per cent at 31 December 2012.
Further KPIs on employee and environmental matters can be found within the Corporate Sustainable Development report on pages 26 to 29.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 53 Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Directors report continued Directors responsibilities Disclosure of information to auditor Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval to the financial statements of this report confirms that: The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report t UP UIF CFTU PG FBDI %JSFDUPS T LOPXMFEHF BOE CFMJFG and the financial statements in accordance with applicable there is no information relevant to the preparation of their company law and those International Financial Reporting report of which the Groups auditors are unaware: and Standards as adopted by the European Union.
Under t FBDI %JSFDUPS IBT UBLFO BMM TUFQT B %JSFDUPS NJHIU Company Law, the Directors must not approve the Group reasonably be expected to have taken, to be aware of financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give relevant audit information and to establish that the a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and of Groups auditors are aware of that information.
the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
The Directors Directors responsibility statement are required to prepare financial statements for each financial t 5IF OBODJBM TUBUFNFOUT QSFQBSFE JO BDDPSEBODF XJUI year which present fairly the financial position of the Company International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted and of the Group and the results and cash flows of the Group by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the for that period.
In preparing the financial statements, the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit for the Directors are required to: Company and undertakings included in the consolidation t TFMFDU TVJUBCMF BDDPVOUJOH QPMJDJFT BOE UIFO BQQMZ taken as a whole: and them consistently: t 1VSTVBOU UP UIF %JTDMPTVSF BOE 5SBOTQBSFODZ 3VMFT UIF t NBLF KVEHFNFOUT BOE FTUJNBUFT UIBU BSF SFBTPOBCMF Companys Annual Report and Accounts include a fair t TUBUF XIFUIFS BQQMJDBCMF BDDPVOUJOH TUBOEBSET IBWF CFFO review of the development and performance of the followed, subject to any material departures being disclosed business and the position of the Company and the and explained in the accounts: undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a t QSFQBSF UIF BDDPVOUT PO B HPJOH DPODFSO CBTJT VOMFTT JU whole, together with a description of the principal risks is inappropriate to presume that the Group or Company and uncertainties that they face.
will continue in its business: and t QSFTFOU JOGPSNBUJPO JODMVEJOH BDDPVOUJOH QPMJDJFT JO B manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time Mike Norris Tony Conophy the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Chief Executive Finance Director Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for 11 March 2013 11 March 2013 safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence, taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
54 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
