Our Supply Chain business grew by 2.0 per cent in France local currency.
This was in spite of the particularly strong comparative performance in 2011.
Revenue m Adjusted We are pleased with this performance, given that we are operating profit experiencing a general lack of economic confidence linked to 5.3m the overall Eurozone uncertainty.
Our Supply Chain business suffered from this slow-down, particularly during the second quarter of the year, but regained strength during the second Contract base half, to the extent where our Supply Chain revenue increased 09 10 11 12 by 6.6 per cent in the second half, over the first half of the year.
64.3m The market in general has been fairly stable, but is not Revenue by business type showing comparable growth rates to those experienced in 2011.
Demand for Windows 7 and any desktop of the 6.
Workplace 47% future offerings remains high, as it does for all Services and 5.
Datacenter & infrastructure needs to access Cloud services and technology.
Networking 20% In this area, we are pleased with an accolade from the Experton 1.
Software 16% Group, which ranked us as Cloud Leader in the Cloud 3.
Third Party Services 2% Consulting and Cloud Integration arena.
In France, our overall revenue growth was 7.3 per cent, We were pleased with the compared to 2011, which included nine months of Top Info, significant recognition we to591.5 million 2011: 551.3 million.
Supply Chain revenue received for our Professional grew by 5.4 per cent, to 500.3 million 2011: 474.5 million, although this was flat on a like-for-like basis.
Services offerings, both in the areas of consultancy Including the results for Top Info for the full year of 2012, we delivered an adjusted operating profit of 5.3 million 2011: and implementation.
Although a weaker performance than last year, weare encouraged by the acceleration in performance during the second half of 2012 since, at the half way mark of 2012, profitability of the business was already trailing 1.1 million Pierre Audoin Consultants behind the same period in 2011. ranked us as Best in We believe there remains a significant opportunity to deploy Class in the PAC Radar Computacenters Services offerings to Top Info clients, but Workplace Management to date, other operational and market challenges have been & Transformation category our primary focus.
We are encouraged that our Services business revenue grew by 18.7 per cent to 91.2 million 2011: 76.8 million, which provides a positive outlook for our Services business during 2013 and beyond.
As our focus can now turn to fully exploring our opportunity with Top Info customers, we have the prospect of enhancing our Services revenue mix even further.
Overall, weview Top Infoas a successful acquisition for our business in France.
TopInfo is now fully integrated, without the loss of any significant customers or important members of staff and without the need for material exceptional charges.
Adjusted profit before tax and EPS is stated prior to amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional items.
Adjusted operating profit is also stated after charging finance costs on CSF.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 11 358.7 419.4 551.3 591.5 Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Delivering to a mission critical customer 12 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Cisco Computacenter manages, moves andchangesat around 140 sites across 40 countries, including two data centres in Amsterdam that host the companys website, and fulfils all cabling moves and changes.
By working with Computacenter, we can be confident that the businesshas a robust and reliablecabling environment.
Ian Foddering, Chief Technology Officer and Technical Director, Sales Channels, Cisco Ciscos brief to Computacenter Risk Avoidance Computacenter works with customers to help them manage and mitigate risk through the use of proven and ITIL compliant processes.
Cost Reduction Computacenter seeks to workwith customers to reduce cost through managing costs more for less, making capital funds available and providing flexible commercial models.
Access to Skilled Resources Computacenter provides customers with access toskilled resources to complement their own staffand deal with peaks inresource demand.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Our growth and earnings were challenged in the first half The strong Services revenue growth was driven, as anticipated, of 2012 by resource demand from the high number of by the healthy Contractual Services base growth in 2011 of Contractual Services take-ons from wins during late 2011 23.9 per cent.
We predicted that 2012 would not bring material andadegree of under-utilisation following the natural end expansion to our Contractual Services base, for the reasons ofvery profitable warranty maintenance agreements.
already set out, but also due to the renewal demands we knew the year would present.
We are delighted that our long standing The second half of 2012 saw us complete a relocation of customer, a world leader in gases for industry, health and our Head Office in the north of Paris, with a consolidation of theenvironment, present in 80 countries and with 46,200 some other office locations into a single building.
This was employees, has recently awarded us a renewed three-year followed by the fit-out of a newly designed logistics facility, contract, with the option to renew for a further two years.
intowhich a variety of other storage facilities were merged.
Thiscontract will not only utilise both our Managed Services Thelogistics consolidation and redesign will significantly and Supply Chain offerings, but together with the customer, improve the efficiency of our logistic functionality.
There were we aim to further develop and expand our current Service nocustomers lost during this significant change period and Desk capability, ultimately benefiting the Group as a whole.
even at this early stage, following the warehouse relocation, some of our larger customers have commented positively on 2013 will also bring challenges, the most significant of which the service improvement delivered byour configuration and isour migration to the Group ERP system, anticipated to delivery functions.
becompleted by the end of the first half of 2013.
We expect that the change programme arising from the migration will be These material changes to our offices and logistic facilities, demanding, aswill some large contract renewals due this year.
together with a full 12 months of Top Info costs, were the However, with the major steps we have taken in strengthening primary contributors to the 3.2 per cent increase in SG&A our facilities and our increased credibility in the market, we in our business, costs which we view as investment into areconfidently planning Contractual Services growth in the the overall efficiency and productivity of the business.
second half of the year, which should deliver benefit from 2014and beyond.
A world leader in gases for industry, health and the environment, has recently awarded us a renewed three-year contract, with the option to renew for afurther two years.
14 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Despite the growth in the year in our Supply Chain business, Belgium this growth trend weakened over the last quarter, largely due Revenue m to a challenging comparison from an exceptional performance Adjusted in the fourth quarter of 2011.
In part, however, and as previously operating profit mentioned, the rate of growth we have experienced over the last year is not likely to be sustained and our current efforts are 2.3m directed at stabilising our revenue base.
Whilst our improved quality of revenue will assist us in Contract base slowing market conditions, we are very encouraged by our 09 10 11 12 15.4m recent acquisition of NEWIS SA and its subsidiary Informatic Services IS SA, both based in Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium.
Revenue by business type This acquisition istoo recent to have made any contribution to our 2012 performance, but it bodes well for the future, 1.
Workplace 36% with a strong synergy between their customers and those of 6.
Computacenter, as well as bringing fresh Managed Services 2.
Networking 27% offerings to align to our current portfolio.
Mike Norris Chief Executive Officer Our Belgium operation has again delivered a very strong 11 March 2013 performance, building further on its outstanding year in 2011, with adjusted operating profit increased by 29.8 per cent to 2.3 million 2011: 1.8 million.
Overall revenue in the year increased by 13.4 per cent to 56.1 million 2011: 49.5 million, with our Supply Chain business growing by 9.6 per cent to 42.6 million 2011: 38.9 million and the Services business growing by a very pleasing 27.2 per cent to 13.5 million 2011: 10.6 million.
Although we experienced growth in both our Professional and Contractual Services businesses, the growth in the latter business was particularly healthy at 22.8 per cent.
This improves the quality of our revenue significantly, providing us with longer-term performance visibility.
As an example, Baloise Insurance, part of the Swiss based Baloise Group, awarded Computacenter Belgium a three-year desktop Managed Services contract.
We also continue to experience an increasing degree of trust in our capability to deliver innovation across more diverse geographies.
A global leader in the cosmetics industry has awarded us a contract to supply, build and support interactive, in-store, skin health diagnostic kiosks across a large number of their European retail sites, using Apple equipment.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 15 26.0 49.6 49.5 56.1 Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Protecting data SWIFTs brief to Computacenter Continuous Improvement Cost Reduction Growth Business Change Innovation Computacenter seeks to work Computacenter seeks to support Computacenter works with with customers to reduce customers with growth and business change challenges by customers to transform their IT, costthrough managing costs delivering competitive advantage, more for less making capital providing skills and technology to assist withchange programmes.
revenue growthand excellent funds available and providing customer service.
16 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 SWIFT Our service level agreements with Computacenter allow us to provide the same level of service globally to allof our internal customers.
Using ITIL best practice, Computacenter has both standardised and improved the level of service, while a contractual cost reduction plan is helping SWIFT to reduce service costs year-on-year.
Werner Hellinckx, Head of Enterprise Applications Operation, SWIFT Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 17 Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
