KEY TOTAL PROPERTY RETURN TPR EPRA NAV PER SHARE PERFORMANCE 0.1 % 294 PENCE INDICATORS OVERVIEW Our KPIs are aligned with our What it is: TPR is a measure of the ungeared strategic goal to be the best owner, What it is: The value of our assets less the book combined income and capital return from the value of our liabilities, calculated in accordance asset manager and developer Groups portfolio, excluding land, and is calculated with EPRA guidelines, that are attributable to our in accordance with IPD.
It shows the overall return of industrial property and a shareholders.
We aim for sustainable long-term we have achieved on our property assets over the asset value growth whilst carefully managing our leading income-focused REIT period and is therefore an important measure of liabilities to maintain balance sheet strength.
our ability to maximise returns from our asset base.
which delivers a high-quality Our performance: EPRA NAV reduced by 46 TPR is a key metric used in setting our Executive and progressive dividend with pence per share over the year to 31 December Directors and senior management teams 2012, mainly due to a reduction in the overall long-term incentive plan targets and is also a key resilient capital growth.
Our eight value of the Groups property portfolio more element in the annual bonus targets applied to KPIs are fundamental metrics than offsetting a positive contribution from our all employees.
The valuation reduction for how we measure progress Our performance: The TPR of the Group was was largely attributable to our suburban ofces in within the business and they 0.1 per cent compared with the IPD Industrial the South East of the UK and our more secondary Index benchmark based on a universe of and bespoke non-core assets.
The value of our play a key role in determining 18.4 billion of similar assets in the UK TPR core industrial, logistics and data centre asset remuneration throughout the of 2.9 per cent.
The relative underperformance values remained resilient.
of our portfolio was predominantly attributable organisation.
Further details on to the movement in the valuation of our non-core our remuneration policies and the and South East UK suburban ofces.
Our core portfolio outperformed the benchmark, producing key metrics used to determine our a TPR of 3.3 per cent.
awards and bonuses are set out in the Remuneration Committee TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN EPRA ADJUSTED EPS Report on pages 5765.
26.1% 19.3 PENCE RISK MANAGEMENT We recognise that the management of risk has a role to play in the achievement of our eight KPIs since risks can hinder or help us meet our desired level of performance.
The relationship between our principal risks and our KPIs is identied in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section What it is: TSR measures the change in our on pages 40-43.
What it is: The after tax earnings we generate, share price over the year plus dividends paid.
calculated in accordance with EPRA guidelines, This KPI reects our commitment to delivering that are attributable to our shareholders.
This enhanced returns for our shareholders through measures how profitable our operations have been the execution of our strategy over the mediumduring the year.
Earnings are a key element in the term.
TSR is a key metric used in setting our annual bonus targets applied to all employees.
Executive Directors and senior management Our performance: EPRA EPS grew by 4.9 per teams long-term incentive plan targets.
cent year on year, despite the dilutive impact of Our performance: The TSR of the Group was disposals on gross rental income.
This increase 26.1 per cent, compared with 31.1 per cent for the is attributable to our proactive approach to FTSE 350 Real Estate sector.
This performance asset management, progress in reducing costs reects a combination of an attractive dividend across the business and lower interest expense, yield relative to the sector and an increase in the in addition to the contribution from high-quality share price from 203.5 pence at the start of the assets recently acquired or developed.
year to 248.5 pence at the year end.
018 SEGRO ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2012 6.8 376 340 294 0.8 10 11 12 0.1 10 11 12 26.1 19.3 18.4 10 11 12 17.1 12.6 20.2 10 11 12 OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS LOAN TO VALUE RATIO INCLUDING EPRA VACANCY RATE CUSTOMER SATISFACTION JOINT VENTURES AT SHARE 8.2% 72% 51% What it is: The percentage of our customers What it is: The proportion of our property assets What it is: The vacancy rate measures our ability including investment, owner-occupier and to nd customers to occupy the property assets who rate their experience as occupiers of our buildings as good or excellent as opposed to trading properties at carrying value and including within our portfolio.
An improving vacancy our share of properties in joint ventures that are rate generally implies additional rental income poor or average.
Our customers are at the heart of our business and we strive to ensure that we funded by borrowings.
We remain committed and lower vacant property costs.
Some level of to reducing the LTV ratio over the longer term vacancy will always exist within our portfolio in are providing the best level of service possible to maximise customer retention.
because we believe that REITs with lower leverage order to support our asset management activities offer a lower-risk, and less volatile investment and allow our customers the opportunity to move Our performance: Overall satisfaction derived proposition for shareholders.
Over time, we are targeting a longerfrom a sample of 201 customers surveyed across term rate of vacancy for our core portfolio of five countries as an occupier of our buildings was Our performance: The Groups LTV ratio 68 per cent.
including our share of joint venture assets and rated as good or excellent by 72 per cent of our customers, or 77 per cent of our core portfolio liabilities rose from 49 per cent to 51 per cent Our performance: We have continued to year on year, principally as a result of the total improve the level of vacancy in the portfolio customers, during 2012.
This reects our focus on communication, being responsive and portfolio valuation reduction offsetting the year on year, to the lowest rate reported in the reduction in net borrowings achieved through last 10 years.
This reects the high quality of understanding the needs of our customers.
In the prior year, we achieved our highest score yet, of the disposal of non-core assets during the year.
our buildings and the proactive approach of Taking into account two significant disposals our property teams towards securing new, and 78 per cent.
Whilst this was an exceptionally high score, we will continue to strive towards reaching announced shortly after the year end, the pro extending existing, leases with our customers.
forma LTV ratio including joint ventures The 8.2 per cent vacancy rate excludes any similar levels in the future.
at share would have been 50 per cent.
impact from Neckermann, which fully vacated its premises in January 2013, or from disposals announced shortly after year end.
Assuming these events had occurred at year end, the pro forma vacancy rate would have been 9.6 per cent, TOTAL COST RATIO although the core portfolio vacancy rate of 7.6 per cent would have remained unchanged.
22.9% ADDITIONAL EPRA MEASURES 2010 2011 2012 1 EPRA earnings m 126.0 136.6 143.0 2 NNNAV pence per share 360 322 262 3 Net Initial Yield % 6.0 6.4 6.8 3 Topped up Net Initial Yield 6.9 7.1 7.7 1 Stated after tax and non-controlling interests.
2 Excludes tax effect of adjustment in respect of fair value of debt as discussed further in note 14.
3 Please see the 2012 Property Analysis Booklet for further details of our yields, available at www.
com What it is: The ratio of our total administration EPRA earnings, EPRA NAV and EPRA EPS are alternate metrics to their IFRS equivalents that are calculated in accordance with the Best Practices Recommendations of the European Public Real Estate Association EPRA.
SEGRO uses these alternative metrics as they provide and property operating costs expressed as a a transparent, and consistent basis to enable a comparison between European property companies.
percentage of gross rental income.
This is an The 2012 TPR has been calculated independently by IPD in order to provide a consistent comparison with an appropriate IPD benchmark indicator of how cost effectively we manage both using the methodology to be applied under the rules of the LTIP scheme.
It is calculated as the change in capital value, less any capital our property assets and our administrative costs in expenditure incurred, plus net income, expressed as a percentage of capital employed over the period concerned and excluding land.
Over the mediumIn the previous two years, the TPR was an internal calculation.
term we are targeting to reduce our total cost ratio The 31 December 2012 LTV ratio includes our share of joint venture borrowings and property assets.
This will be our principal measure of to the low 20 per cent range.
LTV going forward and prior year comparatives have been adjusted for on this basis.
Our performance: Despite the negative impact of net disposals on gross rental income, the total cost ratio improved from 24.5 per cent to 22.9 per cent year on year.
This was largely driven by our focus on minimising administrative costs and a reduction in costs associated with empty buildings, attributable to an improvement in the Group vacancy rate.
