OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In aggregate, the 700 million of disposals were completed at a 3.6 per cent discount to December 2011 book values and PROGRESS 700m at an average exit yield of 7.2 per cent.
The disposal proceeds helped us to reduce net borrowings and provide funds for of non-core asset AGAINST OUR disposals, including reinvestment in acquisition and development opportunities, three of the six large as explained on the following page.
non-strategic assets STRATEGIC Based on the portfolio valuation at 31 December 2012, and including the above disposals, we now have 583 million of the original non-core assets remaining.
This includes 177 million PRIORITIES relating to the three remaining large non-strategic assets, 583m 353 million relating to other mainly smaller industrial assets of non-core assets remaining and 53 million relating to land holdings.
The three large non-strategic assets are all located in Continental Europe: Pegasus Park, an established ofce park RESHAPING THE near to Brussels Airport: our part-developed ofce site, Energy Park at Vimercate in Italy: and the former Neckermann site EXISTING PORTFOLIO in Frankfurt.
In the present environment, investment market appetite for such large, relatively bespoke assets is limited and this has adversely affected their valuation performance The first of our strategic priorities is to reshape the portfolio and during 2012.
Whilst we will continue to evaluate options for focus on high-quality modern warehousing, light industrial and divestment, we anticipate that it may take some years to reach data centre assets in the strongest sub-markets.
the optimum point at which the Group will fully exit from these properties: in the meantime, our operational team will continue We identied non-core assets for disposal with a value of to actively manage the assets, seeking to maximise the income 1.4 billion at 31 December 2011, including six large nonand returns.
strategic assets with a combined value of 515 million.
These are a combination of mainly older, more secondary and higherIn contrast, the remaining 406 million of non-core assets vacancy estates, as well as investments in sub-scale or weaker and land comprising 169 million in the UK and 237 million markets, which we do not believe have the right characteristics in Continental Europe, whilst secondary in nature, generally to contribute to our objective of delivering better future returns represent more liquid lot sizes.
We expect the majority of these for our shareholders.
assets to be sold over the next two years, in line with the time frames we set out for our strategy in November 2011, subject Since that time, we are pleased to have made significant to the completion of various asset management initiatives and progress with our portfolio reshaping programme, exceeding market demand.
our target of completing 300 million to 500 million of disposals in 2012.
Since January 2012, we have completed the During 2013, we aim to dispose of between 300 million and sale of 700 million of non-core assets of which 152 million 500 million of assets, including the 152 million of disposals occurred after the year end, including 228 million from the completed after year end.
Our disposals in 2013 are likely to sale of three of the six large non-strategic assets we previously comprise both sales of previously identied non-core assets identied IQ Farnborough and the Thales campus in the as well as other assets which are now deemed suitable for UK and the MPM site in Germany, our first major disposal in recycling as part of our ongoing approach to actively manage Continental Europe.
DISPOSALS DISPOSAL NET PROCEEDS INITIAL MONTH PORTFOLIO ASSET ACQUIRER m YIELD % 2012 1 February Four regional UK estates Ignis 71.2 6.3 7.0 1 April IQ Farnborough Harbert XLB 92.1 6.4 6.8 1 June Four regional UK estates Harbert 204.5 6.7 7.4 1 July 10 regional UK estates UK Institution 111.0 8.4 8.9 1 Various Other UK non-core assets Various 43.6 10.9 11.5 1 Various Other CE non-core assets Various 25.7 7.7 7.7 SUB TOTAL 548.1 2013 January Thales in Crawley, UK L&G Property 80.0 5.9 5.9 February MPM in Munich, Germany Private investor 56.0 7.9 7.9 Various Other non-core assets Various 16.3 7.7 7.7 1 TOTAL 700.4 7.2 7.7 1 Including the benefit of lease incentive top-ups www.
com 011 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED 9.3% SEEKING PROFITABLE REDUCING NET Reduction in net debt to 2,090.3 million GROWTH THROUGH DEBT AND FINANCIAL DEVELOPMENT AND LEVERAGE OVER TIME 425m ACQUISITION being reinvested into modern warehousing, Against our third objective, and as a result of net divestments light industrial and data during the year, we reduced net borrowings at the year end to centre assets Our second strategic priority is to seek profitable growth 2,090.3 million, compared with 2,303.4 million at the start by reinvesting in core markets and asset types by taking of the year.
This was further reduced by the 152 million of advantage of attractive development and acquisition gross sale proceeds, predominantly from the Thales campus opportunities which are expected to meet, or exceed, our and the MPM site in Munich, which were received in January 4.9% targeted rates of return and which will contribute to the February 2013.
Increase in EPRA EPS desired shape of our overall portfolio.
Despite this reduction in net debt, our loan to value LTV ratio to 19.3 pence We have invested, or committed, 218 million of capital including our share of joint venture assets and liabilities rose expenditure into 21 projects completed during the year, from 49 per cent to 51 per cent over the same period or 50 per including major developments for leading companies such as cent on a pro forma basis, taking into account the 152 million DB Schenker, Rolls-Royce and Decathlon, and into our current of post year end disposals, with the benefit of disposal proceeds development pipeline, which comprises 14 projects approved, being offset largely by the impact of the overall portfolio contracted or under construction.
Such projects are expected valuation decline and investments.
We remain committed to provide a valuable source of new rental income and are a to reducing the LTV ratio over the longer term because we profitable way to add high-quality, modern properties to the continue to believe that REITs with lower leverage offer a lower portfolio and build critical mass.
risk and less volatile investment proposition for shareholders.
Over time we expect the Groups leverage to reduce through We have also completed two significant portfolio acquisitions selling assets, development, asset management, rental growthwhich will strengthen our logistics platform in our target drive gains and from cyclical valuation uplifts.
In the near term, markets in the UK and France and which partly offset income however, whilst continuing to prioritise disposals in line with lost through disposals.
our portfolio strategy, we continue to believe it appropriate to balance further reductions in net debt against opportunities for In January 2012, we completed the acquisition of a 50 per further, profitable capital deployment.
cent stake in the UK Logistics Fund subsequently renamed the Logistics Property Partnership LPP in partnership The LPP acquisition was a good example of how we can with Mooreld, for which SEGRO contributed equity of partner with third party capital to build critical mass in our core 65.7 million.
The portfolio comprises 14 modern logistics markets and we will continue to assess other such opportunities warehouses, predominantly located in the Midlands and in the future.
Additionally, in September 2012, we completed the acquisition of a portfolio of 13 fully let modern logistics buildings in the Ile fide France and Lyon for 160.8 million 129.7 million from DRIVING OUR Foncire Europe Logistique FEL.
This transaction provided SEGRO with a rare opportunity to build critical mass in the two OPERATIONAL strongest markets in France and to drive operating efficiencies through greater scale.
The five estates in the Ile fide France are PERFORMANCE located in close proximity to our existing logistics assets, with the remaining three estates well positioned to take advantage of the growing logistics market in Lyon.
We have made strong progress against our fourth objective through our customer and market focus, improved operational Both the LPP and FEL portfolios have been successfully efficiency and cost control.
A number of key measures reect integrated into our operating platform and they have been our operational achievements this year, including like for like performing in line with our expectations.
rental income growth of 1.9 per cent 2011: 0.8 per cent In the past year we have grown our logistics platform from and a reduction in our Group vacancy rate to 8.2 per cent 0.8 billion to 1.1 billion including our share of joint venture 31 December 2011: 9.1 per cent.
We also completed 21 new assets and we are delivering on our commitment to grow our developments during the year the largest number since 2009 logistics portfolio through development and acquisitions, using and reduced our total cost ratio to 22.9 per cent 2011: 24.5 third party capital where we see attractive opportunities.
As a result of these factors and a reduction in net finance costs, our EPRA EPS increased by 4.9 per cent to 19.3 pence, despite the dilutive impact of our disposal programme.
012 SEGRO ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2012 OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Thames Valley and National Logistics OCCUPIER MARKETS Despite the ongoing weak economic backdrop, SEGROs The main driver of new rental income in the Thames 262 portfolio is focused on the strongest sub-markets within the Valley region last year was the completion of five pre-let new lettings secured UK, France, Germany and Poland, where economic and developments and two speculative schemes on the Slough property market fundamentals have been relatively resilient.
Trading Estate totalling 33,700 sq m. Another key theme Demand in these markets has come from a range of occupiers: at the Estate was working with existing customers, such as retailers, light industrial businesses and third party logistics Kosei Pharma, to meet their changing space requirements.
In 35.3m operators continue to account for the majority of requirements September, Kosei Pharma upgraded to a 1,000 sq m facility in the market but the structural shift in internet consumption close to their original unit, allowing space to grow the business.
of new annualised rental income and local shopping is noticeably stimulating demand for large Smaller deals away from the Estate included the letting of warehouses and smaller, edge-of-town or urban logistics 10 units representing 11,700 sq m to a range of customers warehouses with parcel carriers particularly active.
The ongoing at IQ Winnersh, Albany Park in Frimley and Kingsland growth in requirements for electronic data storage solutions Business Park in Basingstoke.
Overall, in the Thames Valley 2.9% has also continued to fuel demand for data centres in and we completed 82 new lettings totalling 81,300 sq m. around major financial centres.
These trends are discussed headline rental levels achieved above the further on pages 89.
Germany and Northern Europe valuers December In Germany and Northern Europe we completed 61 new lettings With the overall economic and financial climate continuing 2011 ERVs totalling 140,200 sq m, including 20,000 sq m in Grevenbroich to constrain speculative development, the availability of good Kapellen, near Dsseldorf, to Rhenus Home Delivery on a 10 quality, modern buildings has also continued to shrink.
We also let 10,700 sq m to an energy consulting rm, this has not yet translated into widespread rental growth, we AEP, representing all of the remaining space at our speculative have seen headline rents start to move ahead in the strongest development in Alzenau, Frankfurt.
In the first half of the year, micro-locations and a general tightening of lease incentives we signed four ofce lettings at Pegasus Park in Brussels totalling in several markets.
Away from the prime end of the market 6,500 sq m, which has enabled us to reduce our vacancy rate where demand is strongest and supply most limited, the there below the persistently high level of more than 20 per cent general economic backdrop has meant that many traditional seen in the local Brussels periphery ofce market.
occupiers remain extremely cautious, slow in decision-making and generally reluctant to increase their cost base ahead of any France and Southern Europe real evidence of economic recovery: in these areas downward Our largest letting in France was in Lyon, to Transport Fatton, for pressure on rents has remained evident.
12,600 sq m of logistics space in June.
We also let 5,700 sq m to Transalliance Distribution in the north of the Ile fide France region LEASING ACTIVITY and a further 2,900 sq m of speculative space at La Courneuve During 2012, we secured 262 new lettings across the Group to a major global courier company which chose this site for its totalling 486,500 sq m, which generated 35.3 million of new proximity to Charles fide Gaulle airport and its existing European annualised rental income 2011: 33.5 million.
In total, we signed 16 lettings in France and 14.6 million from developments completed during the year.
Southern Europe, representing 57,600 sq m. Our level of takebacks the amount of rental income lost due to lease expiry or exercise of break options, surrender or Poland and Central Europe insolvency remained broadly consistent year on year at Our lettings activity in Poland and Central Europe, which is a 21.5 million 2011: 21.0 million.
younger market for logistics, continues to be predominantly driven by pre-let developments.
During the year we completed We have seen a positive trend in headline rental levels on new six new projects, including major new facilities for retailers leases and lease renewals, which were achieved at 2.9 per cent Decathlon and Zabka.
The pre-let for Decathlon replaced an above the valuers December 2011 estimated rental values existing 20,000 sq m facility with us and, with Decathlon only ERVs, on average.
The level of lease incentives given on having vacated the space in October, we were very pleased to new lettings during the year has improved, to 8.2 per cent on BELOW re-let more than 50 per cent by year end.
Overall, we signed average, compared with 11.0 per cent in 2011.
SEGRO Logistics Park, 18 deals in Poland and Central Europe, totalling 111,900 sq m Krefeld Sd, Dsseldorf Greater London In Greater London, we completed 85 new lettings totalling 95,400 sq m, including several significant deals at Heathrow.
Our largest UK letting was in September for 11,400 sq m at Polar Park to Circle Express, a freight distributor, on a 15 year lease.
We acquired this park via the Brixton acquisition in 2009 and it had been our largest void in the portfolio since that time.
Also at Heathrow in October, we let 8,800 sq m at the North Feltham Trading Estate to Wincanton, a third party logistics provider, to service a major contract for the supermarket chain, Morrisons.
Wincanton chose this site for its close proximity to convenience stores in West London and good motorway access.
At the Heathrow Cargo Centre, DHL signed a seven year lease for 7,500 sq m in November for its airside cargo distribution business and during the year we also let three of the remaining four units on the top oor of X2, a two-storey building acquired with Brixton in 2009. www.
com 013 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED SIGNIFICANT IMPROVEMENT IN GROUP VACANCY MANAGING RENT AT RISK FROM INSOLVENCIES TO 8.2 PER CENT SEGRO has a broad range of over 1,300 customers across 8.2% We have improved the Group vacancy rate to 8.2 per cent at multiple sectors and actively monitors their creditworthiness Group vacancy rate 31 December 2012 compared with 9.1 per cent a year ago and any rent at risk from insolvency.
benefitting 1.6 per cent and 1.9 per cent, respectively, from At 31 December 2012, we had 13.9 million of annualised short-term lettings.
This comprises 7.6 per cent vacancy for rental income relating to customers in administration the core portfolio 31 December 2011: 8.2 per cent, compared 31 December 2011: 2.7 million.
This included approximately 7.6% with 11.1 per cent vacancy for the non-core portfolio 12 million of income relating to the Frankfurt-based mail order 31 December 2011: 11.2 per cent.
Core portfolio retailer, Neckermann, which led for insolvency in July 2012. vacancy rate Key reasons for this improvement include our capital recycling Neckermann occupied a 309,000 sq m bespoke ofce and activity, which benefitted the vacancy rate by 0.9 per cent, the distribution facility, owned by SEGRO, which it fully vacated letting of existing space and new speculative developments, at the end of January 2013.
After taking into account rental and the proactive management of lease events.
For example, guarantees held, the loss of income will impact us from the start 65% at Heathrow we signed a number of significant deals during of 2013.
We have been working hard to identify alternative Group retention rate the year which led to an improvement in our Greater London customers to help mitigate any empty costs associated with the vacancy rate, to 8.0 per cent compared with 11.3 per cent at site over the short term whilst we review longer term options the start of the year.
We achieved an overall retention rate of for the asset.
To date, we are pleased to have already re-leased 65 per cent below the unusually high 74 per cent achieved in approximately 15 per cent of the existing space, including 2011, and our occupancy levels at year end reect our success 42,000 sq m to BLG Logistics Group.
in re-leasing space returned to us during the year.
Despite the challenging macro-economic environment, The 8.2 per cent year end vacancy rate excludes any impact our general level of insolvencies across our customer base of Neckermann, which fully vacated its premises at the end has remained very low.
Neckermann is the second material of January 2013.
On a pro forma basis, taking Neckermann insolvency in recent years, following the administration of into account as if it had vacated at 31 December 2012, and Karstadt Quelle, also in Germany, in 2010 4.6 million of including the re-letting of space at the site, the Group vacancy annualised rental income.
These two situations arose from rate would have been 9.3 per cent or 9.6 per cent, also the acquisition of higher-yielding property through sale and allowing for the sale of the fully let MPM and Thales assets sold leaseback transactions soon after the sale of the Groups US after year end.
The core vacancy rate would have remained business in 2007.
Such properties and concentrations of unchanged at 7.6 per cent.
risk in such tenants would not be in line with the Groups strategy today.
In addition to managing lease events falling due in 2012, our property teams have continued to adopt a proactive approach Excluding these two cases, the amount of rental income lost to negotiating lease extensions in advance of break options through customer insolvencies has averaged approximately and lease expiries falling due in later years.
This, along with the 1 per cent of passing rent each year since 2007 due to the benets of recycling, has enabled us to materially reduce gross diversication of risk across a wide range of customers and passing rent at risk from breaks and expiries in 2013 by 21 per assets, combined with our commitment to monitoring, and cent to 41.0 million at 31 December 2012, compared with the working closely with, our customers.
51.8 million at risk for 2013 a year earlier.
LEFT Booker distribution facility, Hateld 014 SEGRO ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2012 OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ABOVE In the UK, our developments include a 2,300 sq m unit on A STRONG AND HIGHLY PROFITABLE LEVEL Karl Storz Endoscopy, OF DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY the Slough Trading Estate for Karl Storz Endoscopy on a Slough Trading Estate 10 year lease.
The development will form part of a larger Our active development programme remains an attractive way to generate income and capital growth from our land bank as 4,100 sq m scheme, including 1,800 sq m of speculative space which is due to complete in Q1 2013.
We have also approved well as enabling us to build critical mass in core markets where the supply of well-located and modern industrial and logistics a separate 3,300 sq m speculative development on the Estate, which commenced in Q1 2013 and is due to complete in space is limited.
The vast majority of our developments have remained preleased projects, where we have been able to secure demand At Park Royal we are building 900 sq m of warehouse and ofce space for Warmup on a 15 year lease to complement from a range of customers such as parcel delivery companies, retailers, third party logistics companies, manufacturers and their existing 1,000 sq m facility with us on the Estate.
This facility will form part of a larger 3,200 sq m scheme, which is light industrial users as well as data centre operators.
New speculative development remains limited to our core markets due to complete in Q1 2013.
In North Feltham, we signed a 6,500 sq m pre-let logistics facility for a freight forwarder, with and to micro-locations where we believe there to be good demand, unsatisfied by existing and anticipated supply.
Each a further 1,500 sq m of speculative space adjacent to the site, which is due to complete in Q4 2013.
We have also approved project is assessed on its individual merits and only embarked on when we are confident that it will contribute to our portfolio a 7,800 sq m speculative development in Edmonton, which is due to commence in the second half of the year.
Our plans to by delivering attractive total property returns on a risk-adjusted basis.
Whilst all of our speculative developments undertaken commence the speculative development of a three building, 15,000 sq m scheme at the Origin site in Park Royal, are during the year have generated a good level of enquiries and lettings success, our development programme going forward currently under review following the site having been identied as a potential High Speed 2 construction site.
will remain primarily focused on pre-let projects.
In Poland we have six pre-let logistics developments in Completed development projects progress totalling 69,700 sq m. This includes a 23,800 sq m We completed 21 new developments during the year, facility in Warsaw for Polands largest convenience store chain, our largest number since 2009, totalling 190,000 sq m. Zabka, which is expected to complete in Q3 2013.
Other These projects represent 16.4 million of annualised large projects in Poland include 18,400 sq m for a car parts new rental income when fully let and we have already manufacturer in Tychy and 10,600 sq m for Valeo and CAT achieved 89 per cent occupancy.
Highlights from the broad range of development projects we In Germany, we started the development of a 17,300 sq m completed for our customers during the year are detailed by speculative logistics scheme in Alzenau, near Frankfurt, and we our Chief Operating officer, Andy Gulliford, on pages 2021. are also developing 11,900 sq m of speculative logistics space in Krefeld, near Dsseldorf, which is the second phase of this Active development projects scheme.
Across the Group, we currently have 14 developments totalling 155,200 sq m approved, contracted or under construction, Our 34,000 sq m pre-let ofce development for Alcatel-Lucent which will contribute 10.8 million of annualised new rental in Vimercate, Milan, remains on track to complete in Q1 2014. income when fully let these developments are currently 70 per cent pre-let.
Our future capital expenditure required to complete these projects is 71.4 million.
com 015 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED In the UK, the value of our completed portfolio of core Potential projects warehousing, light industrial and data centre properties We have a 573 hectare land bank, including 296 hectares 296ha reduced by 1.4 per cent, or 4.0 per cent overall, including nonof predominantly well located sites earmarked for future land bank for core and suburban ofce assets.
The best-performing assets development projects with the potential to generate potential projects.
were those acquired in the LPP joint venture, where valuations 84 million of new annualised rental income.
These sites were broadly at.
Asset values at Heathrow were broadly at include land at the Slough Trading Estate and Heathrow, to slightly positive in the second half of the year as a result of in the UK: land around Dsseldorf in Germany and in key lettings activity, leading to an overall reduction of 1.7 per cent markets in Poland.
In the Thames Valley, valuations were mainly Our pipeline of demand for further pre-let and speculative of new annualised impacted by suburban ofces with shorter leases on the Slough schemes is encouraging, with several projects under rental income from Trading Estate and at IQ Winnersh.
This was reected in a potential projects negotiation, agreed subject to planning approval or being 4.8 per cent decline in the Slough Trading Estates valuation.
We remain confident that further Excluding suburban ofces, the Estates valuation declined by progress will be made with the development programme in 1.9 per cent.
the current year and beyond.
Our Polish assets were the best performing of those on Further detail on our completed and active development the Continent, recording a 2.6 per cent valuation increase, projects is presented in our 2012 Property Analysis Booklet, reecting development gains and lease extensions.
In France, which is available to download at www.
the valuation of our core assets in the Ile fide France region and Lyon remained resilient, recording a 0.5 per cent reduction, PORTFOLIO VALUATION compared with a 2.4 per cent decline for the overall French European property markets faced a challenging economic portfolio.
Asset values in Germany fell by 15.5 per cent, environment in 2012, with investors adopting risk-averse largely reecting the write down of the Neckermann site in strategies to reect the very uncertain external macro the first half of the year.
In Belgium and the Netherlands, asset conditions.
As a consequence, capital was primarily targeted values fell by 26.5 per cent over the year, largely reecting the at prime assets in core markets, with the most liquid and valuation reduction on Pegasus Park ofce campus.
transparent markets of London, Paris and the major German cities particularly benefiting from this polarisation towards OUTLOOK safe havens and a focus on only the best property.
Investments Economic conditions remain uncertain, although there are that met these criteria attracted good investor interest, and some signs of stabilisation in the Eurozone and of a recovery valuations for high-quality warehousing and light industrial in the UK.
Property finance continues to be restricted for many assets remained well supported as a result.
and this, combined with the risk-averse attitude of investors, means that the pricing of secondary assets is likely to remain The very limited investor appetite for the more secondary, under pressure.
older and bespoke assets, particularly those located in the more volatile regions of the Eurozone, has continued to negatively By contrast, prime assets in the most liquid and transparent impact valuations.
Shorter lease length suburban ofce markets, such as London, the Ile fide France and the major properties have also experienced valuation declines, reecting German cities, are likely to continue benefitting from the the greater risk premium being applied by investors to these polarisation towards safe havens.
As a result, valuations of types of assets, and following an increase in transactional modern warehousing, light industrial and data centre assets evidence, particularly in the second half of 2012. are expected to remain well-supported.
These trends are consistent with the valuation movements in Operationally, we have made good progress over the past year, our portfolio over the past year.
Whilst the valuation of our and believe that we are well-positioned for the year ahead.
high-quality warehousing, light industrial and data centre We have a strong development pipeline and an excellent land properties in core markets has been relatively resilient, we bank for future projects.
We are continuing to see a good level have seen weakness in the valuation of our non-core assets, of occupier demand in our core markets, both for our existing in particular large bespoke business parks such as Pegasus assets and for our developments, from a range of customers, Park and Vimercate, and also South East UK suburban ofces.
with the continuing growth of e-retailing, local delivery and Similarly, the Neckermann site weakened in value due to the data storage requirements being particular areas of interest.
market environment, a situation which was exacerbated and There is a limited supply of good-quality products in our accelerated by the insolvency of that occupier during the year.
markets and few developers have the expertise and land to meet demand for modern space in the right locations.
We are Over the year to 31 December 2012, the total value of the well-placed to satisfy that demand.
Groups property portfolio, comprising completed properties including our share of joint venture assets, land and development, decreased by 309 million on a like for like basis, DAVID SLEATH including a 267 million reduction for the Groups non-core CHIEF EXECUTIVE and large non-strategic assets and its South East UK suburban ofces, the latter of which were predominantly impacted in the second half of the year.
On a like for like basis, completed property values for our higher quality core industrial, logistics and data centre portfolio reduced by 1.2 per cent and signicantly outperformed the IPD UK Industrial Quarterly Index, which fell by 3.8 per cent in 2012.
Overall, including the impact of the reduction in the valuation of our South East UK suburban ofces, large non-strategic assets and the remaining smaller non-core assets, the portfolio recorded a like for like valuation reduction of 5.9 per cent.
016 SEGRO ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2012 OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The three business performance measures Total Property Return, Total Cost Ratio and Loan to Value Ratio are directly driven by the twin pillars of our strategy: Disciplined Capital LINKING OUR Allocation and Operational Excellence, underpinned by an efficient capital and corporate structure.
Improving each of STRATEGY TO OUR KPIs these metrics should, in turn, enhance our earnings and the valuations of our assets and this should enable us to deliver attractive Total Shareholder Returns.
It is no coincidence, therefore, that each of these metrics is a KPI, along with Group Our objective is to deliver attractive Vacancy and Customer Satisfaction, which directly feed into returns to our shareholders through our Total Property Return.
Our performance against each of these is set out over the page.
the execution of our strategy.
We have aligned the key performance indicators KPIs that we report on each year to our strategy so that our stakeholders can track the progress that we are making.
We also use these metrics as the basis for determining how our senior management team and employees are remunerated.
BUSINESS ACCOUNTING SHAREHOLDER PERFORMANCE MEASURES MEASURES MEASURES TPR VERSUS IPD INDEX EPRA EPS TOTAL COST TOTAL RATIO SHAREHOLDER & TAX RATE RETURNS NAV LOAN TO VALUE RATIO AND OTHER 1 Other nancing metrics include FINANCING average cost of debt, interest cover 1 METRICS ratio, debt maturity prole, use of third party capital, covenant headroom, etc.
RED items are directly captured in SEGROs incentive schemes www.
