A STRONG SLOUGH, UK YEAR FOR NEW TRANSFORMING THE SLOUGH DEVELOPMENT TRADING ESTATE Our programme of work to modernise the PROJECTS Slough Trading Estate continued throughout the year.
The Estate is the largest business centre of its kind in Europe under single ownership and is home to over 400 companies employing 17,000 people.
In May 2012, we completed a new 3,300 sq m production renery for Ragus Sugars, which will enable the business to double its output from 25,000 to 50,000 tonnes per year.
Ragus Sugars is a long-standing customer, located on the Estate since 1928.
Selig has also been located on the Estate for a similar amount of time.
At the end of 2011, we completed a new 7,000 sq m manufacturing and warehouse facility for the worlds largest manufacturer of sealing products.
Selig was attracted to staying with us because of the Estates Simplied Planning Zone status, which means that planning permission is fast-tracked.
INTRODUCTION We also completed three new data centre facilities In 2011, Lonza, committed to invest 16 million on the Estate during the year, totalling 20,300 to enhance the exibility and capability of sq m, for major data centre operators, including its Slough-based UK biopharmaceutical Gyron and Innity.
These units have been let on Our development programme manufacturing facility.
An integral part of leases in excess of 15 years, which is typical for the investment plan was the construction by is an integral part of the Groups data centres due to the investment required by SEGRO of a new 5,800 sq m three-storey occupiers to t out the facility.
SEGRO now has strategy to build critical mass building to provide research and development, 17 data centres on the Slough Trading Estate, manufacturing and ofce accommodation, in in core markets by reinvesting making it one of the largest data centre hubs addition to approximately 7,000 sq m of existing in Europe.
in high-quality modern space on the Estate.
The new development was completed in June 2012. warehousing, light industrial and data centre assets.
The projects that we undertake, predominantly on a pre-let basis, provide a valuable source HEATHROW, UK of additional rental income each year and generate DEVELOPING PRIME SITES FOR BLUE-CHIP NAMES AT HEATHROW attractive investment returns.
Of major importance to us were the two new During 2012, we maintained a very active developments we completed, through the Airport Property Partnership, our joint venture with Aviva development pipeline across the portfolio.
We completed 21 new developments, our largest Investors, at the Portal site at Heathrow Airport.
This is one of the best-located sites at the airport, number since 2009, for a range of blue-chip customers including DB Schenker, Decathlon and situated adjacent to the main cargo terminal.
These developments will contribute In August 2012, we completed a 10,000 sq m 16.4 million of additional rental income each facility for DB Schenker Logistics which will act as year, of which we have already successfully let their main airfreight hub and ofce headquarters 89 per cent.
The building has been designed to high sustainability standards and has achieved We will continue to deliver growth from our ongoing development pipeline, which currently a BREEAM excellent rating.
95 per cent of the concrete was recycled from the original site and consists of 14 projects representing 10.8 million the building is designed to achieve 25 per cent of new rental income, when fully let.
lower CO emissions than is standard, and 2 We also have a 296 hectare land bank for also features low and zero carbon air source potential projects, including sites with excellent heat pumps.
potential on the Slough Trading Estate and at Subsequently, in December 2012, we completed Heathrow in the UK, in Germany and around key cities in Poland.
an 8,900 sq m Heathrow Service Centre for Rolls-Royce.
From this new centre, which will employ up to 80 people, Rolls-Royce will provide specialist maintenance and support services for ANDY GULLIFORD CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER commercial aero engines.
020 SEGRO ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2012 OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FRANCE GERMANY A SHORTAGE OF PRIME ASSETS IN THE A GOOD LEVEL OF TAKE-UP IN KEY ILE fide FRANCE GERMAN MARKETS At La Courneuve in the Ile fide France, In Germany, we combined pre-let schemes with we undertook 8,500 sq m of speculative a limited amount of speculative development.
At development, capitalising on the lack of available SEGRO Logistics Park in Krefeld Sd, Dsseldorf, prime warehouse and industrial space in the area.
we pre-let 9,000 sq m to Wir Packens, which is This was our second phase of development at responsible for distributing Nespresso capsules the estate, which is well positioned in close across Germany, and, at the same time, we proximity to the centre of Paris and has excellent developed 2,300 sq m on a speculative basis.
Similarly, in Frankfurt we developed 4,300 sq m for Prior to completion, in September 2012, we Pro Tex and a further 10,000 sq m of speculative secured our first significant letting to Chateau warehouse space which we fully let shortly dEau, a water cooler supplier, and in December after completion to AEP Lexington.
We also we secured our second letting to a major global completed two fully speculative light industrial distribution company.
and warehouse schemes in Berlin and Dsseldorf.
Overall these four new developments are now As a result, we have now leased 80 per cent of 75 per cent occupied.
this phase, consistent with our record of having let 90 per cent of the first phase of the development within three months of its completion in 2008.
POLAND AN ACTIVE YEAR FOR POLISH PRE-LETS Poland is one of our most active markets for development and during the year we completed six pre-let logistics facilities totalling 77,100 sq m. In Silesia we constructed a 32,100 sq m warehouse and distribution facility for the French sports retailer, Decathlon.
This new warehouse will support the companys expansion plans in Central Europe and replaces their existing 20,000 sq m facility with us, of which we have already re-let over 50 per cent.
In Tychy, we completed an 18,900sq m warehouse for Zabka, Polands second largest convenience store chain having also built a 25,000 sq m facility for the retailer in Poznan in 2008.
Other projects completed during 2012 include 12,200 sq m for Flexlink in Poznan, and 7,700 sq m for OPEK, in Lodz, which has since been acquired by FedEx.
com 021 7.0% 6.0% 5.0% 4.0% In terms of demand and supply, there are favourable market dynamics in the main logistics locations across Europe which BUILDING CRITICAL 1.1bn should underpin further good performance from the sector.
of prime logistics assets in key markets including our MASS IN THE On the supply side, the very limited amount of speculative share of joint venture assets development under construction, combined with a gradual erosion of grade A space availability as a result of robust levels LOGISTICS MARKET of take-up, has led to prime stock levels reaching cyclical lows.
Demand is primarily being driven by retailers looking to grow 315m their product range and geographic presence, manufacturers portfolio of prime UK logistics seeking cost efficiencies and third party logistics providers assets portfolio acquired in benefiting from the increase in client outsourcing of distribution partnership with Mooreld activities.
These trends have led to a reconguration of existing supply chains in mature markets and to the creation of firstgeneration networks in emerging markets.
129.7m In Western markets, e-retailing is also having a significant impact portfolio of prime logistics assets on the logistics market, with pure-play and multi-channel acquired in France retailers increasingly seeing their supply chain as a means of providing competitive advantage in terms of their speed of order fullment.
SEGRO has been responsive to these trends.
During 2012, we grew our portfolio of prime logistics assets in key markets from 0.8 billion to 1.1 billion including our share of joint venture assets through the acquisition of two high-quality portfolios in the UK and in France and through development activity.
Our focus is on strategically important locations near ports, airports and motorway intersections in our core Western INTRODUCTION European markets and in Poland, where we have grown our portfolio of modern logistics warehouses through pre-let development to over 300 million, or 600,000 sq m, since we entered the market in 2006.
The logistics sector in Europe is attracting Our ambition is to continue to build our logistics platform and growing interest from a wide range signicantly strengthen our position in a sector which we believe of investors as the unique investment has very attractive fundamentals and future growth potential.
characteristics of the asset class, together with the favourable demand and supply PHIL REDDING trends that have come into focus in recent CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICER years, are increasingly being recognised.
Over the last 10 years, the logistics sector has consistently STRENGTHENING OUR LOGISTICS delivered the highest income returns compared with all other real PLATFORM IN THE UK estate sectors, and it is one of the top performing asset classes in In January 2012, we completed the 315 million acquisition terms of total returns.
Whilst building specications have evolved of a 50 per cent stake in the Logistics Property Partnership, in to meet occupiers changing requirements, the assets remain a joint venture with Mooreld Real Estate, for which SEGRO broadly generic, are attractive to a diverse range of customers and contributed 65.7 million of equity.
The portfolio comprises can be constructed rapidly to meet occupier demand.
14 prime logistics warehouses located predominantly in the Midlands and the South of England and provides us with an excellent customer base, including Tesco, Sainsburys, GKN SUPERIOR INCOME RETURNS RELATIVE Aerospace and Royal Mail.
TO OTHER PROPERTY SECTORS BELOW IPD UK average annual income return last 10 years Royal Mail, Birmingham STANDARD INDUSTRIALS RETAIL DISTRIBUTION WAREHOUSES ALL PROPERTY OFFICES Source: IPD UK quarterly index 022 SEGRO ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2012 OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A1 N2 01 02 STRENGTHENING OUR LOGISTICS PLATFORM N104 CHARLES IN FRANCE fide GAULE A15 In September 2012, we completed the 129.7 million LE BOURGET 03 acquisition of 13 prime logistics assets from Foncire Europe Logistique, situated in the Ile fide France region of Paris and in Lyon, the two strongest markets in France.
In both regions, the estates that we acquired are located within close proximity of our existing assets.
The portfolio provides us with a strong A86 customer roster, including UPS, Geodis and Saint-Gobain.
E15 PARIS 01 ORLY N118 N104 A6 SEGRO EXISTING ASSETS 04 05 NEWLY ACQUIRED ASSETS OUR NEWLY ACQUIRED ASSETS 05 01 St Ouen 02 St Witz 03 Compans 04 Ris Orangis 05 Fleury Merogis 02 APPLYING RISK MANAGEMENT TO OUR STRATEGIC DECISION MAKING The French portfolio acquisition was an important step forward in our strategic portfolio reshaping.
Throughout the acquisition 03 process we carefully considered, and actively managed, the risks associated with the transaction, particularly the impact on the following two principal risks of the Group which are set out in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section on pages 40 to 43, as summarised below: 01 Impact of the Eurozone economic environment Potential risk factors: The French acquisition represented a substantial investment in the Eurozone during a period of economic volatility within the region, driven principally by concerns around the sovereign creditworthiness of some Eurozone countries.
Mitigation and active risk management: We cherry picked the French portfolio to include only those properties in the most liquid markets with the greatest pricing transparency.
We also reected possible shortterm market weakness in our asset management 04 assumptions and, ultimately, pricing.
02 Solvency and covenant breach risk Potential risk factors: The French acquisition represented a significant debt funded investment which would, in isolation, reduce both available liquidity funding headroom and the financial covenant headroom of the Group.
Mitigation and active risk management: The timing of the acquisition was actively managed to defer completion until September 2012, by which time around 500 million of disposal proceeds had been generated by the Group, more than offsetting the adverse impact of the French acquisition on the liquidity and financial covenant headroom of the Group.
