OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR PRODUCTS Our 4.7 billion portfolio is concentrated in modern and well-located properties covering more than 5 million sq m across three product categories: LARGER LOGISTICS WAREHOUSES 24 per cent of our portfolio by value is invested in larger distribution warehouses, typically over 10,000 sq m, serving the logistics industry.
These types of assets attract a range of occupiers including large retailers, manufacturers and logistics service providers.
Often with relatively long leases, strong occupier covenants, and limited ongoing capital expenditure requirements, these properties offer secure and attractive income returns.
SMALLER WAREHOUSES AND LIGHT INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS 48 per cent of our portfolio by value is invested in multioccupier light industrial estates, typically comprising units of 10,000 sq m or less, which are built to suit a wide variety of customer requirements.
These estates are located in and around major conurbations offering good road access, making them ideal centres for the distribution of goods direct to the customer, to retail units or for business-to-business distribution.
HIGHER VALUE USES We seek to generate additional rents and returns by exploiting opportunities to redevelop industrial land into higher value uses such as data centres, suburban ofces, trade counters, car showrooms, research and development facilities, or selfstorage centres.
These sub-sectors represent 21 per cent of our portfolio by value, including 25 data centres.
TOP Tulipan Park, Warsaw BOTTOM LEFT MIDDLE LEFT Data Centre, Slough La Courneuve, Ile fide Trading Estate France BOTTOM RIGHT MIDDLE RIGHT Audi Garage, Slough Spacewaye, Heathrow Trading Estate OUR MARKETS As part of our strategic portfolio reshaping, our assets will be concentrated in the strongest sub-markets which have attractive property HAMBURG market characteristics, including good growth MIDLANDS WARSAW prospects and a limited supply availability, POZNAN AMSTERDAM LODZ where we have, or can achieve, critical mass.
ROTTERDAM LONDON WESTERN DSSELDORF The portfolio is well balanced, with 92 per CORRIDOR BRUSSELS cent of assets in key Western European SILESIA FRANKFURT geographies of which 66 per cent is in the PRAGUE UK, and the remaining 8 per cent invested in PARIS emerging Central European locations.
LARGER LOGISTICS WAREHOUSES LARGER LOGISTICS WAREHOUSES, SMALLER LYON WAREHOUSES LIGHT INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS AND DATA CENTRES MILAN SUBURBAN OFFICES www.
com 007 estate to a major global parcel company, which chose the location for its proximity to Paris city STRONG centre and Charles fide Gaulle Airport.
As a URBAN LOGISTICS result of these two lettings, our new 8,500 sq m DEMAND speculative development is now 80 per cent let.
Casino, the supermarket chain, also delivers to One of the key trends we are seeing is DRIVERS FOR 800 stores in Paris daily from our 28,000 sq m rising demand for urban logistics space from cold storage facility in Gonesse, just north of Paris.
businesses, particularly retailers, to service major MODERN The last mile solution is also becoming conurbations.
At our Park Royal and Greenford increasingly critical for e-retailers, needing to estates in West London we have a range of deliver directly to their customers within short existing customers, such as H&M and Sainsburys WAREHOUSE lead times.
We are starting to see demand serving their London store networks.
We also manifest itself through third party parcel delivery completed a large letting at Heathrow during the SPACE companies, such as Fedex, UPS, Geopost DPD year to Wincanton, a third party logistics provider, and DHL Express.
which is contracted to supply Morrisons West London convenience stores.
The major supermarket chains are also embracing a new type of dark store, or dot.
com only store, At our new development at La Courneuve, We believe that a focus on highto meet the rising demand for home delivery.
located next to the A86 ring road close to the quality and well-located industrial Our estates in West London and the Ile fide France, centre of Paris, we completed a letting to Chateau positioned on the edge of large conurbations, are DEau, a leading distributor of water to ofces.
property, predominantly ideally situated to take advantage of these changes From here it delivers to clients in the city centre comprised of warehousing, light to supply chains.
We also let space at the industrial and data centre assets, provides a good basis from which to deliver attractive returns for shareholders.
Over the last 25 years, total returns from industrial property, as measured by the UK IPD Index, have been higher than from retail and ofce sectors, principally due to the higher income returns i. e. yields typically available.
Increased levels of international trade, the outsourcing of distribution by manufacturers and retailers and growth in consumer spending have created robust demand for warehousing space over this period.
The opportunity to convert industrial land to higher-value uses such as ABOVE ofces, retail units or trade counters, has also Casino in Gonesse, enhanced the returns available from owning Ile fide France industrial property.
More recently, growth in high-tech manufacturing and the engineering LEFT Geopost, services sector, the pressure for more efficient Eneld supply chains and the trend towards online and convenience shopping have all been driving BELOW LEFT demand for modern warehouses.
Additionally, Premier Park, Park Royal growth in the financial services and technology, media and telecommunications sectors has been feeding requirements for new data centres.
We believe that these trends are likely to continue in the years ahead and will serve to provide robust levels of demand for modern, well-located property.
Our urban logistics and data centre portfolios are two excellent examples of how we are positioning ourselves to benefit from some of the trends discussed above.
In addition, our Chief Investment officer, Phil Redding, talks in more detail on pages 2223 about supply and demand dynamics in the big box logistics market and how we have strengthened our platform through the acquisition of two prime logistics portfolios during the year.
00 008 8 SE SEGR GRO O A AN NN NU UA AL L R RE EP PO OR RT & A T & AC CC CO OU UN NT TS S 2 20 01 12 2 OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DATA CENTRE PROVIDERS Advances in technology and the growth of the internet have become key drivers of demand for data centre facilities.
This is coming from corporates, such as financial institutions, managing their information and communication technology infrastructure in-house, managed TOP AND ABOVE RIGHT services providers, and co-location operators Innity, Slough Trading Estate providing outsourced services.
ABOVE LEFT Gyron, Slough Trading Estate During 2012, we continued to build our data We are delighted that our new facility in Slough centre portfolio, reinforcing our position as one is complete and ready for clients to lease.
This of the UKs leading providers of data centre site offers customers a whole range of dedicated, facilities.
We now have 25 data centres in the UK, shared and modular co-location solutions to meet totalling 144,000 sq m, let to a range of financial their exact needs in a low-risk area with low bre institutions, telecoms companies and specialist latency to London.
Innity Slough will provide much-needed data For mission-critical facilities providing real time centre capacity in the Thames Valley area, home back-up, there are a number of factors which to many of Europes leading IT and computing dictate location.
At SEGRO, we are proud that companies and a hub of national signicance.
The the Slough Trading Estate has become home to area already has an extremely high concentration 17 data centres as a result of it meeting industry of communications companies, and it will become location requirements, such as a close proximity increasingly significant in the future due to to Central London, dual power supply and initiatives such as Crossrail.
This includes Innity Slough is a fantastic addition to our three new facilities developed at the Estate during portfolio of data centres in and around London, the year, for Gyron, Innity and one other major further strengthening and extending our offer provider, totalling 20,300 sq m. Our remaining to clients.
facilities are located on the outskirts of London and at IQ Winnersh.
STUART SUTTON CEO at Innity January 2013 Our data centre portfolio is a good example of how we have applied our strategy to develop higher-value uses on industrial land.
For SEGRO, the built cost per sq m for such assets is broadly comparable to that of our light industrial units but we are achieving premium rents.
Additionally, due to the investment required by our customers to t out a data centre, lease lengths are typically in excess of 15 years.
Through the portfolio we have built, we have developed a strong understanding of the specication, power supply, connectivity and security issues that are of such importance to our customers.
We are now keen to use our expertise to expand our data centre portfolio into Continental Europe, focusing on Paris and Frankfurt.
