OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE G GO OVERNANCE VERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION summary report by the valuers TO THE DIRECTORS OF SHAFTESBURY PLC involvement in advising the Company or some of the Subsidiary Companies in connection with the acquisition or disposal of In accordance with your instructions, we have undertaken a certain properties and to our previous involvement on behalf of valuation of the various commercial and residential freehold the Company, or certain of the Subsidiary Companies, in acting and long leasehold property interests as at 30 September 2012 as letting agents in respect of certain of the office the date of valuation held by Shaftesbury Carnaby Limited, accommodation.
Shaftesbury Covent Garden Limited, Shaftesbury Chinatown Limited, Shaftesbury Charlotte Street Limited and Shaftesbury DTZ Debenham Tie Leung was a wholly owned subsidiary of Soho Limited, which are subsidiary companies collectively DTZ Holdings plc the Group until 5 December 2011, when all referred to as the Subsidiary Companies of Shaftesbury PLC the trading subsidiaries of the Group were sold to UGL Limited the Company, as referred to in our Valuation Reports dated UGL.
In UGLs financial year ending 30 June 2012, the November 2012 our Reports.
OurReports were prepared proportion of total fees payable by the Company to the total fee for accounts purposes.
income of UGL was less than 5%.
All properties have been subject to external inspections In accordance with the provisions of Guidance Note 3 of the between August and November 2012 and a number were RedBook, in undertaking our valuations, we have lotted subject to internal inspections.
together certain individual properties to form a separate property a Property or Properties in the manner we The valuations have been prepared in accordance with the consider to be most likely to be adopted in the case of an actual appropriate sections of the Valuation Standards VS, and sale.
We consider that lotting the properties together on the United Kingdom Valuation Standards UKVS contained within basis reflected in our valuations would allow a purchaser to the RICS Valuation Professional Standards 2012 the Red capitalise on the estate management advantages and Book.
We confirm that we have sufficient current knowledge opportunities available from such comprehensive ownership.
of the relevant markets, and the skills and understanding to undertake these valuations competently.
We also confirm that A high proportion of the total value of the Subsidiary where more than one valuer has contributed to the valuations Companies properties and Properties is accounted for by the requirements of VS 1.6.
4 of the Red Book have been properties and Properties situated in adjacent and or adjoining satisfied.
Finally, we confirm that we have undertaken the locations in four specific areas of the West End of London: valuations acting as External Valuers, qualified for the purpose Carnaby Street and its environs, Chinatown and the adjoining of the valuation.
area immediately west of Wardour Street south of its junction with Shaftesbury Avenue, and the areas around Seven Dials in In accordance with VS 1.9 and UKVS 4.3, we are required to the western part of Covent Garden and a block of properties to make certain disclosures in connection with this valuation the east of the Central Covent Garden Piazza with its main instruction and our relationship with the Company and the frontage to Wellington Street.
These areas are all dominated Subsidiary Companies.
John Bareham is the signatory of our byretail and restaurant uses.
In our opinion, at the date of Reports and he has been the signatory of Reports addressed valuation, this particular unusual confluence of ownership and tothe Subsidiary Companies since September 2006.
DTZ use characteristics may cause some prospective purchasers to Debenham Tie Leung has been carrying out this valuation regard parts of the portfolio when combined as having a instruction for the Company, and now the Subsidiary greater value than the aggregate of the individual values of the Companies, for a continuous period since 1996.
As well as combined properties and Properties which make up those preparing our Reports, we also undertake valuations of certain parts.
of the properties referred to in our Reports for other purposes, such as secured lending and for inclusion in shareholders As required by the provisions of the Red Book, in undertaking circulars.
There are no current fee-earning instructions our valuations, we have valued each property or Property between DTZ Debenham Tie Leung and the Company or the separately, rather than valuing the portfolio as a whole or in Subsidiary Companies other than valuation instructions.
The total valuation figure below is the However, in addition to valuation instructions, there are other aggregated value of the separate properties or Properties previous fee-earning relationships between DTZ Debenham Tie within the various categories of tenure referred to below.
Leung and certain of the Subsidiary Companies or the All valuations were on the basis of Fair Value.
These relate to our previous appointment as assessed Fair Value in accordance with VS 3.5 item 2 of the Red property and asset managers in respect of the properties Book.
Our opinion of the Fair Value of each of the properties or known as Wellington House 6-9 Upper St Martins Lane, 6-8 Properties has been primarily derived using comparable recent Shelton Street & 7-13 Mercer Street, 10 11, 12, 13 14, 16-19 & market transactions on arms length terms.
20 Upper St Martins Lane, 124, 125 126, 127 130 inc 1-3 We have not made any allowance for vendors sale costs nor for Slingsby Place, 132 135, 136 137, 138 Beckett House, 140-142 any tax liabilities which may arise upon the disposal of any of & 143 Long Acre, 1, 3-5 &15 17 Mercer Street, London WC2 all the properties or Properties.
We have made deductions to of which are owned by Longmartin Properties Limited, a joint venture company owned in equal shares by the Company and reflect purchasers normal acquisition costs.
the Mercers Company : to our previous involvement in advising the Company and Longmartin Properties Limited in respect oflandlord and tenant and other matters: to our previous SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 page 67 summary report by the valuers summary report by the valuers continued Having regard to the foregoing, we are of the opinion that the A full explanation of the Assumptions made in our valuations and details of the sources of information are contained within aggregates of the Fair Values, as at 30 September 2012, of the our Reports.
freehold and long leasehold property interests owned by theCompany and the Subsidiary Companies, subject to the We have measured certain of the properties, or parts of Assumptions and comments in our Reports dated November properties, either on site or by scaling from floor plans.
The 2012, were as follows:- Company, its managing agents or professional advisers have provided us with the floor areas of the remaining properties or Freehold 1,590,680,000 parts of properties.
properties One billion, five hundred and ninety We have read the majority of the leases and related documents million, six hundred andeighty thousand provided to us in respect of the commercial properties.
Where pounds we have not read leases, we have relied on tenancy information provided by the Company, its managing agents or professional Long leasehold 108,300,000 advisers.
properties One hundred and eight million, three Certain properties were subject to works of repair or hundredthousand pounds refurbishment at 30 September 2012, or were subject to Total 1,698,980,000 outstanding retentions and fees in respect of projects already One billion, six hundred and completed at that date.
In these instances, the Company ninety-eight million, nine hundred advised us of the amount of the outstanding costs.
The costs will be borne by the Company as they are not recoverable from andeighty thousand pounds tenants.
We have reflected these costs in our valuations.
The total amount of such costs is 23,294,000 and details of the A long lease is one with an unexpired term in excess of individual sums are included in our Reports.
As referred to above, we have lotted together certain individual The contents of our Reports are confidential to Shaftesbury properties to form a number of separate Properties.
In the case PLC, Shaftesbury Covent Garden Limited, Shaftesbury Carnaby of three Properties which comprise a number of individual Limited, Shaftesbury Chinatown Limited, Shaftesbury Charlotte properties, the majority of such properties are held freehold but Street Limited and Shaftesbury Soho Limited, for the specific certain of them are held on long leases.
In order to divide our purpose to which they refer and are for their use only.
valuation of these Properties between the categories of Consequently, and in accordance with current practice, no freehold and long leasehold, we have undertaken notional responsibility is accepted to any other party in respect of the apportionments of value between the freehold elements and whole or any part of the contents of our Reports or this the long leasehold elements which together comprise the summary report.
Before our Reports or this summary report, relevant Properties.
The amounts arising from these notional or any part thereof, are reproduced or referred to, in any apportionments of value have been included in the figures document, circular or statement, and before their contents, or representing the freehold and long leasehold categories below.
any part thereof, are disclosed orally or otherwise to a third The amounts arising from the notional apportionments do not party, the valuers written approval as to the form and context themselves represent the Fair Value of the two elements.
of such publication or disclosure must first be obtained.
For the avoidance of doubt such, approval is required whether or not The Subsidiary Companies own a number of properties on a DTZ Debenham Tie Leung is referred to by name and whether freehold basis where they also hold long leasehold interests or not the contents of our Reports or this summary report are within the freehold and have not merged the interests.
For the combined with others.
purposes of the freehold long leasehold split below, we have included such properties within the freehold category.
John Bareham BSc Hons MRICS Senior Director RICS Registered Valuer For and on behalf of DTZ Debenham Tie Leung Limited 48 Warwick Street London W1B 5NL page 68 SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 summary report by the valuers
