our portfolio In the locations we have chosen to invest in, planning policies MIXED-USE PORTFOLIO have, for many years, restricted the creation of new restaurant Virtually all our buildings contain a mix of uses.
Lower floors space in order to preserve a balance with other commercial comprise shops, restaurants, cafes and bars, which together uses.
In the West Ends flourishing visitor economy, there is provide 73% of our wholly owned current income.
Upper floors considerable demand for restaurant and leisure contain offices, residential or a combination of both.
accommodation, such that leases for these uses provide a SHOPS secure income for us as landlord.
For the tenant they are a valuable asset so it is unusual for us to obtain vacant Our wholly owned portfolio includes 413,000 sq.
ft. of retail possession of our restaurants but, when we do, there is accommodation across 330 shops, which provide 38% of considerable demand from a wide range of potential occupiers.
We have a wide range of unit sizes and rental Often new operators will open in our locations by taking an tones which reflect the particular location of individual shops.
assignment of a lease from an existing tenant, making a We have 76 larger shops rents in excess of 100,000 per substantial initial investment by paying a premium to acquire annum which provide 61% of current rental income.
smaller shops, which provide 39% of current income, complement our larger shops.
They are an important element The extensive range of dining and leisure choices is a feature of of the character and retail mix in our villages, providing the West End and is a draw for many visitors.
As with our shoppers with a wide variety of interesting formats.
shops, we seek out and encourage new food and beverage concepts both from the UK and abroad to add to the appeal of Our large shops are generally let on leases of between five and our villages.
ten years, whilst smaller shops are let for terms of three to five years.
The weighted average unexpired lease length of our OFFICES shops is five years.
Offices in our wholly owned portfolio extend to 388,000 sq.
ft. We provide retail space in shell form for the tenant to fit out and provide 16% of current income with a weighted average and refit as necessary over their period of tenure.
We make no unexpired lease term of three years.
contribution to these costs but do grant appropriate rent-free Offices are an integral part of the mix of uses, bringing an periods to help tenants to establish their businesses.
important working population who contribute to the local Rents payable under the terms of the leases we grant are economy in our villages.
However, in many of our older subject to review to current market levels during their term at a buildings, office floor plates are relatively small, and occupancy maximum of five-yearly intervals, or effectively on renewal if and rents are cyclical.
Offices generally give rise to unavoidable earlier.
costs of obsolescence for the landlord, particularly where leases are short.
For these reasons we often seek alternative The success of our retail destinations depends on maintaining their appeal to fashion-conscious shoppers.
In todays world, uses to replace offices where it is not practical to up-grade them to provide better space and more secure income.
new ideas and trends in fashion evolve at an ever-faster rate.
We invest considerable time and effort in sourcing new retailers 58% by floor area of our offices are in Carnaby and include and concepts appropriate to each of our locations.
Shorter and some of our more modern space.
ft. flexible leases enable us to respond quickly to shoppers they are relatively large compared with our other areas.
There changing tastes and expectations.
is a long-established concentration of occupiers from the fashion and creative industries which, in this location, to some RESTAURANTS, CAFES AND BARS degree counteracts the cyclicality of demand.
Within our wholly owned portfolio we have 232 restaurants, 23% by floor area of our offices are in Covent Garden.
We have cafes and bars totalling 508,000 sq.
ft. which provide 35% of our some of our oldest and smallest buildings in this area so, over current income.
Their weighted average unexpired lease term time, we have returned many upper floors to their original is twelve years.
Today, residential area and income in Covent As with our shops, these units are provided in shell form and Garden exceed that of offices.
we grant appropriate rent-free periods covering the fit out and In Chinatown, which accounts for 9% of our office space, units initial trading period.
Tenants expenditure to fit out kitchens are small average size 600 sq.
ft. but are essential for the Far and trading space is substantial so leases are often granted for Eastern business community which is concentrated here.
up to 25 years, and on terms which allow the tenant the right to renew on expiry of the term.
This lease structure provides an incentive for tenants to invest for the long term.
Rents are reviewed to market levels generally every five years during the lease term and at renewal.
page 20 SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 our portfolio OVERVIEW PERF PERFORMANCE ORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION page 21 page 22 OVERVIEW PERF PERFORMANCE ORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION our portfolio continued RESIDENTIAL LONGMARTIN Our wholly owned portfolio includes 424 apartments, extending The Longmartin joint venture owns a 1.9 acre island site in to 257,000 sq.
ft. which provide 11% of our current income.
A major refurbishment and reconfiguration scheme, completed in 2011, created at its centre St Martins Many of our apartments have been created from the conversion Courtyard, a new shopping and restaurant destination in this of upper floors of our buildings, an important aspect of our busy location close to Leicester Square.
Longmartins portfolio strategy to extend the useful lives of existing buildings.
ft., eight restaurants and bars resident population in our villages is an important ingredient of 43,000 sq.
ft. of office accommodation and the overall mix, bringing an additional strand of life and activity.
These uses share the We provide stylish, characterful apartments which appeal characteristics of our wholly owned portfolio.
particularly to those who work or study close by and who appreciate the many benefits of living in our lively, central locations.
In our experience, demand and occupancy is not cyclical and the costs of obsolescence are low.
Other than in exceptional situations, we do not sell our apartments as we believe to do so would inhibit the management flexibility necessary to realise the long-term potential of the valuable commercial uses in our buildings and villages.
We find that letting not only provides a reliable and increasing source of income, but also adds to the vibrancy of the local residential community, making the area accessible to those who wish to live here but are unable or unwilling to buy.
PORTFOLIO SUMMARY Current Fair Value % of income ERV Wholly owned portfolio m portfolio m m Carnaby 610.1 33% 25.3 36.4 Covent Garden 508.5 28% 23.2 26.5 Chinatown 412.3 23% 19.4 20.6 Soho 118.0 6% 5.2 6.5 Charlotte Street 50.1 3% 2.5 2.6 1,699.0 93% 75.6 92.6 Longmartin joint venture 129.2 7% 5.3 7.3 Total portfolio 1,828.2 100% 80.9 99.9 Wholly owned portfolio Longmartin joint venture % of % of Area current Area current Number sq.
SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 page 23 our portfolio page 24 OVERVIEW PERF PERFORMANCE ORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION carnaby Carnaby is our largest single village, which covers 4.1 acres across twelve streets.
It has a number of high profile flagship stores as well as a wide variety of smaller, often independently owned shops.
With a long-established 33% focus on youth fashion, we are always seeking to introduce new retailers of our portfolio and concepts to refresh its appeal to occupiers and shoppers.
We ensure the structure of our retail leases allows us to accelerate change, which is essential in a market where consumer tastes move quickly.
Carnaby has a world-renowned reputation for fashion retail, Restaurant and leisure uses are of growing importance, dating back to the early 1960s, when it became synonymous drawing footfall from busy areas in the vicinity.
We have with swinging London and the emerging youth fashion and 44 restaurants, bars, and cafes across 83,000 sq.
ft. valuation pop music culture.
Shops currently provide 54% of current Kingly Street, which runs parallel to Regent Street to the income, of which 73% comes from the 38 larger shops which west, and to Carnaby Street to the east, now has a much 610.1m front Carnaby Street itself.
We continue to see considerable improved concentration of good quality restaurants interest from retailers throughout Carnaby.
following the pedestrianisation and repaving of the street acquisitions during We have two important schemes in hand one on site in 2011.
The northern end of the street will be further theyear and one commencing in January 2013 to add 12,500 sq.
enhanced by the new large restaurant we will be creating ft. of retail space on Fouberts Place, a busy pedestrian in our Fouberts Place scheme.
In Kingly Court we are nil thoroughfare linking Regent Street and Carnaby Street.
now in the process of strengthening and adding to the food and beverage choices, introducing new, On the north side of Fouberts Place, we are contemporary formats.
In particular, we have secured capital expenditure reconfiguring and extending existing shops to create consent to change 3,400 sq.
ft. of retail space to during the year three larger units totalling 10,800 sq.
ft. of which 5,000 restaurant use on the lower floors, which will be sq.
ft. has been added from conversion of offices.
The available for occupation in Spring 2013.
5.7m scheme will complete in early summer 2013, and we already have considerable interest in this much improved Having completed the repaving of the western end of and extended space.
We pre-let the remaining 15,000 sq.
Ganton Street, from its junction with Kingly Street, in capital value return ft. of office space in Lasenby House to the adjacent 2013 we will be carrying out an innovative new lighting Liberty department store for a term of 30 years.
The scheme to further enhance the ambience of this busy 7.3% estimated cost of the scheme is 4.25 million.
On the south side of Fouberts Place, we will commence Offices have always been an important aspect of the work in January 2013 on an intricate development to village, producing 26% of its current income.
The area is demolish existing structures which link through to Kingly popular with businesses from fashion retailing as well as Street.
An existing restaurant use will be relocated from those in the media, creative and IT sectors.
Demand for Fouberts Place to a new 6,500 sq.
ft. unit on Kingly space from these sectors remains strong.
By the end of Street, allowing us to introduce 7,500 sq.
ft. of retail 2012 we will have 24,000 sq.
ft. of office space with an space to Fouberts Place itself.
Upper floors of the ERV of 1.1 million under refurbishment, which will begin to become available in autumn 2013. scheme will include 7,000 sq.
ft. of offices and twelve apartments.
The scheme, which will complete in autumn 2014, is estimated to cost 13.5 million.
shops restaurants and leisure offices residential 126 44 68 175,000 sq.
ft. of current of current of current of current 54% rent 14% rent 26% rent 6% rent SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 page 25 our portfolio page 26 OVERVIEW PERF PERFORMANCE ORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION covent garden Covent Garden has a diverse and eclectic mix of commercial activities, cultural attractions and a flourishing residential community.
Together with its historic street patterns and architecture, the area has a distinctive 35% character and bohemian atmosphere which appeal to visitors.
We foster of our portfolio and encourage the areas diversity and features, and welcome the efforts ofneighbouring owners who share our approach.
Our wholly owned holdings in Covent Garden extend to unsatisfied demand from independent operators and 4.5 acres in the districts of Seven Dials, Coliseum and multiples from the UK and overseas who wish to open the Opera Quarter.
Together with our 50% interest in the inthese busy districts.
Longmartin joint venture, Covent Garden is our largest Our plans include reconfiguration and refurbishment of investment location.
valuation buildings to provide more efficient trading space for Most of the shops in our wholly owned Covent Garden retailers and restaurant operators on lower floors, and 637.7m holdings are in and around Seven Dials, which is already often to convert upper floors to meet the continuing benefiting from improved footfall from major new office strong demand for apartments to rent.
Crossrail is fuelling a number of acquisitions during Longmartins St Martins Courtyard, owned by our 50 50 important developments in and around Tottenham Court theyear joint venture with the Mercers Company, is progressing Road which will raise further the profile of streets well since its completion some 18 months ago.
71% of its around Seven Dials as their importance as pedestrian 2.5m retail income comes from the eight large shops which routes grows.
In anticipation, we are already refreshing front Long Acre, part of an exceptionally busy and the retail choice on Earlham Street and Monmouth improved route between Regent Street, through Piccadilly capital expenditure Street.
We are also liaising with the London Borough of Circus and Leicester Square to central Covent Garden.
during the year Camden to bring forward traffic management and public Footfall into the Courtyard is growing and, as visitor realm improvements to create a more  evolve, we expect to instigate some 5.1m friendly environment.
changes to the initial retail mix.
The five restaurants in the Restaurants and leisure uses are an important aspect of Courtyard and on St Martins Lane are well established.
capital value return Covent Gardens lively atmosphere, and are the dominant Longmartins offices are fully let, having now completed the uses in our Coliseum and Opera Quarter districts.
ft. which was under offer at the year end.
4.7% our other villages, we are keen to introduce new Weare advancing a number of schemes to improve operators and concepts to improve the variety and quality unmodernised buildings on the periphery of the site.
We are aware of considerable Includes the Groups 50% share WHOLLY OWNED of the Longmartin joint venture.
shops restaurants and leisure offices residential 104 84 178 130,000 sq.
ft. of current of current of current of current 36% 33% 14% 17% rent rent rent rent LONGMARTIN JOINT VENTURE shops restaurants and leisure offices residential 23 8 75 69,000 sq.
ft. of current of current of current of current 46% rent 19% rent 16% rent 19% rent SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 page 27 our portfolio page 28 OVERVIEW PERF PERFORMANCE ORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION chinatown Chinatown is at the heart of the West Ends entertainment district, close to Piccadilly Circus and the important cluster of theatres and cinemas in and around Shaftesbury Avenue and Leicester Square.
Although busy throughout 23% the day, the areas long-established night-time leisure economy also attracts of our portfolio large numbers of visitors.
These long hours of trading, particularly at weekends, underpin the prosperity of the local economy.
Our holdings in this location extend to around 2.75 acres currentincome, are let to people who work in local and encompass around two-thirds of the district businesses, particularly those who are involved in the generally known as Chinatown.
late-night economy and who value living close by.
Unsurprisingly, catering is the dominant use in our The exceptionally busy and often congested streets in valuation Chinatown holdings, with 65 restaurants totalling and around Chinatown present particular challenges in 188,000 sq.
ft. providing 62% of current income.
They maintaining the good standard of public environment 412.3m offer a wide variety of Far Eastern cuisine which has expected by todays visitors.
We work closely with developed far beyond the tradition of Cantonese cooking Westminster City Council and the local community to which prevailed for many years.
Choice today includes improve streets and their day-to-day servicing.
We have acquisitions during food from regions across China as well as Vietnamese, been involved with numerous schemes in recent years theyear Japanese, Malaysian and Taiwanese cuisine.
We and in 2013 we will be part-funding further encourage this variety, which improves choice and pedestrianisation at the southern end of Wardour Street 3.1m quality, bringing more custom to the area as a whole.
and the western part of Lisle Street as well as new public art installations.
We are aware of a number of substantial restaurant capital expenditure groups based in the Far East which have expressed an Developments close to Chinatown are improving local during the year interest in bringing their successful trading formats to amenities and add to the attraction of the area for Chinatown, and we are keen to facilitate their plans as visitors.
The recently completed major refurbishment of 1.0m part of the continuing evolution of our holdings.
Leicester Square has greatly improved this high-profile destination and the reopening of the Hippodrome as a Londons long-established Far Eastern community capital value return new leisure and entertainment venue is attracting much brings considerable demand for our 62 shops, which interest.
Recent and planned hotel developments close extend to 62,000 sq.
ft. of offices, 5.3% by are bringing considerable investment by others which which together provide 31% of our current income.
will benefit this important area of the West End.
Manyof our 87 apartments, which provide 7% of shops restaurants and leisure offices residential 62 65 87 62,000 sq.
ft. of current of current of current of current 25% rent 62% rent 6% rent 7% rent SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 page 29 our portfolio page 30 OVERVIEW PERF PERFORMANCE ORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION soho Soho has a bustling local economy and is home to a wide variety of generally smaller shops, restaurants and bars, many small businesses in the media and creative industries and a long-established residential community.
6% Our investment in Soho, which was initially centred on 3ODQQLQJ FRQVHQW IRU WKH GHPROLWLRQ RI 7UHQFKDUG of our portfolio Berwick Street alone, has now expanded to adjacent House on Broadwick Street, which has been derelict streets, such as Brewer Street, which have many for many years, to be replaced by 78 new homes, new features in common.
shops and a restaurant: Despite Sohos popularity, fragmented ownerships have $IWHU PXFK GHOD :HVWPLQVWHU &LW &RXQFLO KDV resulted in an absence of long-term strategy and a lack entered into an agreement which should lead to the of investment.
Better quality buildings and public realm refurbishment of the commercial elements of Kemp are needed in order to improve the environment and House, at the south end of Berwick Street and amenities for visitors, businesses and local residents.
investment in surrounding public space: valuation Our contribution to meeting the areas long-term :HVWPLQVWHU &LW &RXQFLO LV FDUU LQJ RXW D FRQVXOWDWLRQ 118.0m challenges is through our investment and management to identify strategies to revive the market in Berwick strategies which have proved successful elsewhere in Street: acquisitions during the West End.
Inevitably, change will take a number of, QLWLDO GLVFXVVLRQV DUH XQGHU ZD ZKLFK VKRXOG LPSURYH theyear years to bring about.
Walkers Court, which links Berwick Street to Brewer We acquired properties to the value of 29.5 million in Street and Rupert Street to the south: 29.5m the year, comprising eleven shops, four restaurants, four 7KH &URZQ VWDWH KDV UHFHQWO FRPSOHWHG D PDMRU apartments and 3,500 sq.
We expect to add mixed-use scheme at the western end of Brewer further to our ownerships to help bring cohesion and capital expenditure Street which is bringing more footfall from Regent improvement to the streets in which we are investing.
during the year Street, and now has plans to refurbish an adjoining We welcome schemes and plans by others which, block on Brewer Street: and 1.9m together with our initiatives, should bring significant $ PDMRU KRWHO DQG UHWDLO VFKHPH LV XQGHU FRQVWUXFWLRQ investment and regeneration in the years ahead.
These at Ham Yard, behind Piccadilly Circus, which will capital value return include: particularly benefit our ownerships in Denman Street.
7KH QXPHURXV UHJHQHUDWLRQ VFKHPHV DORQJ WKH All these projects give us confidence in the future 0.9% eastern end of Oxford Street in anticipation of the prospects for our chosen locations in Soho.
Meanwhile, footfall that will result from Crossrail and the we are pressing ahead with the improvement of the redevelopment of Tottenham Court Road station and buildings we already own, providing a range of uses for its new entrance on Dean Street: which there continues to be considerable demand.
shops restaurants and leisure offices residential 34 24 52 38,000 sq.
ft. of current of current of current of current 31% rent 37% rent 15% rent 17% rent SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 page 31 our portfolio page 32 OVERVIEW PERF PERFORMANCE ORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION charlotte street Charlotte Street is a geographically small neighbourhood, north of Oxford Street and close to Tottenham Court Road.
It has an established reputation as a lively and popular restaurant district.
3% Our holdings in and around Charlotte Street, southof As well as the impact of the new Tottenham Court Road of our portfolio Goodge Street, nowrepresent 3% by valueof our transport interchange a few minutes walk away, the portfolio and include fifteen restaurants, bars and cafes development of the former Middlesex Hospital site now which provide 55% of current income.
The residential under way will create 310,000 sq.
ft. of new offices as community is growing and we have 39 apartments which well as shops, restaurants and 237 apartments.
The produce 28% of current income.
redevelopment of the Royal Mail site on Rathbone Place is expected to commence in late 2013 and will create a The supply of properties in this close-knit area is always mixed-use scheme of over 400,000 sq.
ft. Our holdings limited but, in the last year, we have added two are well placed to benefit from these and other schemes properties totalling 8.9 million to ourholdings.
comprised two restaurants and seven apartments.
50.1m We are aware that there is considerable interest from new restaurant operators who wish to locate in or close acquisitions during to Charlotte Street.
This demand is driven by several theyear important schemes in the vicinity which will bring more footfall and raise the areas profile.
8.9m shops restaurants and leisure offices residential capital expenditure 415 39 during the year 8,000 sq.
ft. 1.2m of current of current of current of current 9% gross rent 55% gross rent 8% gross rent 28% gross rent capital value return 3.7% SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 page 33 our portfolio
