12 Industrial Chemicals Crodas Industrial Chemicals business serves a variety of important industrial markets with ingredients, additives and processing aids.
Revenue 82.7m 0.4% 2011: 83.0m Operating profit 10.3m 8.0% 2011: 11.2m Sustainable Construction During 2012, a unique carbon neutral masonry brick was Return on Sales developed by Encos using a product from our BioStack range.
Offering the ability to produce a high performing binder based on renewable biopolymer chemistry, this range provides an innovative route to sustainable new products for the construction industry.
12.5 Combined with Encos patented method of manufacture, the production of these new bricks consumes no water, eliminates waste and uses 80% less energy compared to the construction 1.0% points 2011: 13.5% of traditional clay bricks and brick slips.
13 BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Both sales and profits recovered strongly in the second half after a weak performance in the first half as a result of high raw material prices and intense competition in the commodity and textile markets.
Markets 2012 Performance Our Industrial Chemicals business, reporting Sales from continuing operations showed separately for the first time this year, addresses a marginal reduction of 0.4% to 82.7m a wide range of markets and applications in 2011: 83.0m while operating profit declined mostly industrial sectors that are not covered by 8.0% to 10.3m 2011: 11.2m, a return on by our more focused Personal Care and sales of 12.5% 2011: 13.5%.
Both sales and Performance Technologies operations.
Margins profits recovered strongly in the second half after are lower and volumes higher than in our a weak performance in the first half as a result of other reporting sectors, and tend to be more high raw material prices and intense competition volatile as a result of our limited pricing power.
in the commodity and textile markets.
The market applications for Industrial Chemicals additives and intermediates include Looking Ahead speciality and performance bres, chemical The disposal of Cremona and our targeted manufacturing, advanced materials, business development have already made performance emulsions, construction, textiles, Industrial Chemicals a more market focused leather, pet care, rubber and food emulsiers.
business, and this will continue as we increase the proportion of its revenues derived from Products higher margin specialities that offer real growth The divestment of Cremona during the year potential.
We will focus on understanding permits Industrial Chemicals to apply more our customers unmet needs and delivering focus on the sale of key Croda speciality speciality ingredients to meet them.
Examples ingredients including esters, amides, in the pipeline for 2013 include new alkoxylates, polymeric dispersants and environmentally friendly and carbon neutral sarcosinates.
It is also a major seller of products for the building and construction polymerised fatty acids, building on the market.
Our expertise in emulsication, high quality of our products and our long-term dispersion, lubrication and wetting is also being relationships with the chemical manufacturers applied to the development of new business who utilise these building blocks.
In Europe, in hi-tech markets, including the use of Industrial Chemicals retains the lead role micro-particle technology for advanced in driving Crodas oleo chemical sales and materials.
Coupling increased sales of speciality in maximising our returns on sales of products with a reduction of our oleo chemical co-products and residues.
and co-product footprint will enable us to make further progress towards our strategic goal of maximising profitability in this sector.
