28 Board Proles Martin Flower Steve Foots Sean Christie Keith Layden Martin Flower, Chairman Steve Foots, Group Chief Executive Appointment: Appointed to the Board in May 2005 and became Appointment: Appointed to the Board in July 2010 and became Group Chief Executive at the beginning of 2012.
Chairman at the end of September 2005.
Key strengths experience: Strong business, operation and strategic Key strengths and experience: Considerable board and international leadership and wide ranging sales and marketing experience.
Steve experience and a broad knowledge of strategic management.
Martin joined Croda as a graduate trainee in 1990 and has held a number of formerly held various senior executive positions over 36 years with Coats senior management positions in the Group, becoming President of Croda plc, culminating in a period as Chairman before his retirement in 2004, Europe in July 2010.
Prior to this, Steve held a number of Managing Director and he was Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director of Severn roles across Crodas European business.
In 2010 he retired as Chairman of Autogrill Committee membership: Chairman of Group Executive Committee Holdings UK Plc formerly Alpha Group Plc.
and Finance Committee, member of Nomination Committee and External appointments: Chairman of Low & Bonar PLC and Senior Remuneration Committee.
Independent Director of The Morgan Crucible Company plc.
Committee membership: Chairman of Nomination Committee, Keith Layden, Chief Technology officer member of Remuneration Committee.
Appointment: Appointed to the Board as Chief Technology officer in February 2012.
Sean Christie, Group Finance Director Key strengths and experience: Deep understanding of chemical Appointment: Appointed to the Board as Group Finance Director in April 2006. innovation and broad operational and management experience.
Key strengths and experience: Extensive experience in financial Keith joined Croda in 1984 and since 2004 has been President of Crodas management and acquisitions and disposals.
Sean previously held a Enterprise Technology and Actives businesses.
Prior to this he held a number of senior finance positions in Northern Foods Plc and was Group number of Managing Director roles across Crodas European business.
He was a Non-Executive Director of External appointments: Keith currently represents Croda as a member KCOM Group plc for eight years until 2007 and a Non-Executive Director of the advisory board for chemistry at the Universities of Newcastle, of Cherry Valley Farms Ltd from 2006 until the company was sold in 2010.
Nottingham and York and is a member of the Innovation Strategy Board for Chemistry Innovation and the Industrial Biotechnology Leadership External appointments: Appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Eminate Forum.
Keith is a Representative of the Council of the Learning and Limited, a developer of intellectual property and a wholly owned subsidiary Teaching Committee, University of Shefeld and a member of the of The University of Nottingham, in November 2012.
Industry and Technology Division Council, Royal Society of Chemistry.
Committee membership: Chairman of Risk Management Committee, Committee membership: Member of Group Executive Committee, member of Group Executive Committee and Finance Committee.
Risk Management Committee and Group SHE Steering Committee.
Tom Brophy, Group General Counsel and Company Secretary Appointment: Appointed as Secretary plc in a number of legal roles, including as Deputy General Counsel to the Board in December 2012. and Company Secretary.
Before then he worked as a corporate lawyer Responsibilities: Tom is a solicitor and at City law rm, Hogan Lovells.
has responsibility for legal affairs, Committee membership: Secretary to the Audit, Remuneration and corporate governance and insurance.
Member of the Group Executive Committee, Tom spent seven years at Wolseley Risk Management Committee and Group SHE Steering Committee.
29 BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Stanley Musesengwa Nigel Turner Steve Williams Alan Ferguson Stanley Musesengwa, Non-Executive Director Nigel Turner, Non-Executive Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board in May 2007.
Senior Independent Director Key strengths and experience: Considerable operational experience in Appointment: Appointed to the Board in June 2009 and was appointed global manufacturing, sales and marketing.
Stanley joined the Tate & Lyle Senior Independent Director in August 2011.
Group in 1979 as a renery manager and subsequently performed a Key strengths and experience: Considerable City experience having number of different roles in Africa, before becoming Regional Director, Tate spent over 35 years as a corporate nancier in the UK and USA.
In December 1999 he was appointed Group Chief Recently Nigel was the Chairman of Numis Securities Ltd and Deputy Executive officer of Tate & Lyle Europe.
He was appointed to the Tate & Lyle Chairman of Numis Corporation plc from December 2005 until his Board in April 2003 and took up the position of Chief Operating officer on retirement in November 2007.
From 2000 until 2005 he was with ABN 1 May 2003 until his retirement in 2008.
Prior to that Stanley worked for Nestl.
AMRO responsible for Global Corporate Finance and Global Equities Committee membership : Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Divisions.
Between 1985 and 2000 he was with Lazard Brothers in London member of Audit and Nomination Committees.
and New York where he was Managing Director and a member of the Supervisory Board of the Lazard Group.
Steve Williams, Non-Executive Director External appointments: Senior Independent Director of Genus plc since 2008.
Appointment: Appointed to the Board in July 2010.
Committee membership: Member of Audit, Remuneration and Key strengths and experience: Extensive industry, legal and board Nomination Committees.
Steve was General Counsel and Chief Legal officer of Unilever plc and Unilever NV from 1986 until 2010.
Prior to this he spent 11 years at Alan Ferguson, Non-Executive Director Imperial Chemical Industries PLC as a commercial lawyer and Assistant Appointment: Appointed to the Board in July 2011.
From 2004 until 2010 he was Senior Independent Director of Key strengths and experience: Extensive international financial Arriva plc.
From 1995 until 2004 he was a Non-Executive Director of Bunzl plc.
management and board experience gained in a broad range of External appointments: Since 2008 he has been a Non-Executive Director industries.
Alan was Chief Financial officer and a Director of Lonmin Plc of Whitbread PLC where he is also the Senior Independent Director.
Prior to that he was Group Finance Director of In addition Steve is a Non-Executive Director of Eversheds LLP, an The BOC Group until it was acquired by the Linde Group in 2006.
Before international law rm, and a senior advisor to Spencer Stuart LLP.
He is then he spent 22 years in a variety of roles at Inchcape plc, including 6 Chairman of the fide La Warr Pavilion Charitable Trust and a member of years as Group Finance Director from 1999.
the Board of Leverhulme Trust and of Moorelds NHS Trust.
External appointments: Has been a Non-Executive Director of Johnson Committee membership: Member of Audit, Remuneration and Matthey PLC since January 2011 and was appointed as a Non-Executive Nomination Committees.
Director of The Weir Group PLC in December 2011.
He chairs the Audit Committes at both these companies.
Committee membership: Chairman of Audit Committee and member of Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
