08 Consumer Care Crodas Consumer Care sector consists of the global businesses in the following markets: Personal Care, Health Care and Crop Care.
Revenue 586.4m 2.6% 2011: 571.4m Operating profit 185.4m 8.3% 2011: 171.2m Return on Sales 31.6 1.6% points 2011: 30% Financial Highlights The first time in Crodas history that we have achieved a ROS in excess of 31%.
09 BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Markets Consumer Care addresses fast growing niche markets which demand high quality, differentiated and patented technologies and exceptional customer relationships.
This is a low volume, high value business.
In all markets we are a leading speciality ingredient supplier offering unique performance claims to our customers, often with very small inclusion levels.
Our Personal Care business addresses a wide range of subSustainable, Efcacious Innovation markets including hair care, skin care, sun care and colour cosmetics.
We were delighted to announce the In Health Care the markets we supply include human pharmaceuticals acquisition of Italian based Istituto di and dermatology, nutrition, animal health and active pharmaceutical Ricerche Biotecnologiche SpA IRB in July ingredients APIs.
In Crop Care our ingredients bring value-added 2012, the world leader in developing benets to herbicides, fungicides and insecticides.
actives for Personal Care and Health Care Products applications from plant stem cells.
This We have extensive product ranges within each of our core sectors.
innovative, sustainable and renewable Our business model is set up to supply thousands of products to raw material source complements the thousands of customers, offering multiple different solutions for our product developments of our research customers current and future needs.
In many cases our products deliver team at Sederma, who launched our first product in this arena, unique performance benets in our customers formulations.
Care our product range includes pentapeptides for skin actives, surfactants IRB has an exclusive, versatile method to use biotechnology for for hair care and novel delivery systems and metal oxides for UV lters.
sourcing plant stem cell ingredients from small amounts of leaf, Our Health Care range extends from taurates sarcosinates for oral care ower and seed tissue.
This process allows a truly sustainable path to Omega 3 for nutritional and pharmaceutical use, and super rening to plant based active ingredients and ensures a total absence of products for drug delivery.
In Crop Care our polymeric dispersants, as environmental contaminants.
Comparative data against conventional well as other inerts and adjuvants, assist the performance of formulations agriculture shows a 99.9% decrease in water consumption, in increasing yields.
guaranteed purity with negligible soil occupation and the total 2012 Performance absence of pesticides or other contaminants.
The sector continued to break all records, with sales growing by 2.6% to 586.4m 2011: 571.4m and operating profit increasing by 8.3% to 185.4m 2011: 171.2m.
Our return on sales ROS rose by 1.6 percentage points to 31.6%, the first time in Crodas history that we have achieved a ROS in excess of 31%.
It was particularly pleasing to see profit increases in each of the three business areas.
Crop Care led the way, driven primarily by the very strong growth of our excipient and adjuvant business in Europe, the USA and Latin America.
Health Care saw impressive growth in Latin America and Asia, led by the success of our Super Rening technology, partially offset by a quiet Europe and USA.
Personal Care also moved forward with the help of new emerging market sales, led by Asia.
Looking Ahead All our markets will continue to grow, driven by the rise in global population and consumer spending, and by the positive long term mega trends in beauty and ageing, health and well-being, and the increasing importance of sustainability and environmental protection.
We are well placed to capitalise on these trends with a strong pipeline of new products in all areas of the business.
Our continuing organic growth in Personal Care will be enhanced by the new Sederma skin actives developed using the cutting edge plant cell culture biotechnology of our IRB acquisition.
We have an exciting range of opthalmic excipients in Health Care, while Crop Care will continue to benefit from a strong demand for our polymeric dispersants and adjuvants to help increase crop yields.
