10 Performance Technologies Crodas Performance Technologies sector consists of Lubricants, Polymer Additives, Coatings & Polymers, Geo Technologies and Home Care.
Revenue 382.8m 2.5% 2011: 373.6m Operating profit Sustainable Innovation in Niche Markets Increasing environmental regulations in Oil & Gas acid fracturing have provided a niche opportunity for our expertise in demulsication.
Kemelix D510 has outstanding performance in 59.7m the emulsion prevention that customers require while also increasing efcacy and reducing environmental impact, meeting stringent US environmental regulations.
8.0% 2011: 55.3m 11 BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Markets Crodamide and Atmer.
In Lubricants, our Looking Ahead The markets for our Performance Technologies speciality lubricity esters help to deliver An exciting pipeline of product launches for businesses possess similar characteristics to improved fuel economy, energy efficiency and the year ahead includes new patented those addressed by Consumer Care.
In both reduced emissions, as well as extending the technologies in toughening additives for epoxy cases, our customers want differentiated working life of both equipment and lubricants.
resins, lubricity improvers for metalworking and patented technologies and we focus on Our Geo Technologies business delivers uids and new demulsiers for oil recovery numerous, profitable niche market applications.
innovative demulsiers, dispersants and applications.
We will also be launching further Margins are high, though not as high as in surfactants, while we supply a wide range of products in our NatSurf and NatraSense ranges Consumer Care, while volumes are more in speciality surfactants in Home Care.
of bio based surfactants in Home Care, along the middle of the scale compared with the low with extensions of our Cirrasol nishes for levels typical of Consumer Care.
In all subhygiene products and new developments to 2012 Performance markets we have leading edge world class promote easier and more effective cleaning.
The newly created Performance Technologies technologies.
Our Coatings & Polymers The pace of innovation, and increased activity sector exceeded our expectations in its first year.
business supplies additives for industrial and in the emerging markets of Asia and Latin Sales increased by 2.5% to 382.8m 2011: protective coatings: we supply ingredients in America, will be the key drivers of our 373.6m and operating profit grew by 8.0% polyolens in Polymer Additives and in continued growth.
Our return on sales Lubricants our products deliver superior ROS rose by 0.8 percentage points to 15.6% performance in several automotive and 2011: 14.8%.
Our strategic aim in this sector industrial lubricant niches.
Oil and gas is the fast is to replicate the success we have achieved Return on Sales growth segment of Geo Technologies, while in in Consumer Care by launching many new Home Care we supply innovative ingredients to products into profitable niche market the household, industrial and institutional HI&I applications, and these results reected the cleaning industry around the world.
good progress that was made during the year.
Geo Technologies, Polymer Additives and 15.6 Products Home Care all contributed to the strong profit We offer an extensive range of products that is growth of the sector, reecting our continued rapidly expanding through our continued product innovation and strong demand from 0.8% points 2011: 14.8% innovation.
We are the global leaders in the emerging markets of Asia, Latin America polymeric fatty acids for dispersancy, and the Middle East.
In Lubricants, weaker toughening and resin emulsication in Coatings sales in Europe outweighed the strong growth & Polymers.
Our Polymer Additives modify the achieved in other parts of the world.
Coatings surface of plastics to increase slip and improve & Polymers remained at.
clarity and antistatic properties, and include such globally recognised brands as The pace of innovation, and increased activity in the emerging markets of Asia and Latin America, will be the key drivers of our continued growth.
