57 BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Other Disclosures FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Principal Activities and Business Review Croda International Plc is a marketing and technology company that produces and sells speciality chemicals.
It is the parent company of a group with operations across the globe with its headquarters at Cowick Hall, Snaith, Goole, East Yorkshire.
The Group carries out research and development activities in the main markets it serves, further details of which can be found in the Chief Executives review on pages 4 and 5.
The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company have a reasonable expectation that the to set out in this report a fair review of the Company and the Group have adequate The Directors are recommending business of the Group during the financial year resources to continue in operational a full year dividend of ended 31 December 2012 including an analysis existence for the foreseeable future.
of the development and performance of the Research and Development Group during the year and the position of the Research and development activities are Group at the end of the financial year, and a 59.5p undertaken with the prospect of gaining description of the principal risks and new scientific or technical knowledge and uncertainties facing the Group known as a 8.2% understanding.
2011: 55.0p profit and Dividends The information which makes up the Business The results for the year are set out on page Review can be found in the following sections of 62.
The Directors are recommending a final the annual report: dividend of 32.75p per share 2011: 30.25p.
s#HAIRMAN SSTATEMENTONPAGES AND If approved by shareholders, total dividends s#HIEF%XECUTIVE SREVIEWONPAGES AND for the year will amount to 59.5p per share s& AND 2011: 55.0p per share.
Details of dividends are shown in note 9 on page 77 and details  TO of the Companys Dividend Reinvestment Plan  can be found on page 110. in the Financial Review section on pages 16 to 19.
Directors The Companys Articles of Association the Further information on Sustainability can be Articles give the Directors power to appoint found in our full Sustainability Report or on and replace Directors.
Under the terms of our website at www.
reference of the Nomination Committee, any appointment must be recommended Pages 1 to 60 inclusive together with the by the Nomination Committee for approval sections of the annual report incorporated by by the Board of Directors.
The present Directors reference constitute a Directors Report that has of the Company are shown on pages 28 been drawn up and presented in accordance and 29.
In accordance with the UK Corporate with applicable English company law and the Governance Code each Director will be standing liabilities of the Directors in connection with for election at the AGM.
Details of the Directors that report are subject to the limitations and service contracts are given in the Directors restrictions provided by that law.
Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 56.
Going Concern Apart from the share option schemes, long term The financial statements which appear on incentive schemes and service contracts, no pages 61 to 98 have been prepared on a going Director had any beneficial interest in any concern basis as, after making appropriate contract to which the Company or a subsidiary enquiries, including a review of forecasts, was a party during the year.
budgets and banking facilities, the Directors 58 Other Disclosures A statement indicating the beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the Power to Issue or Buy Back Shares Directors in the share capital of the Company, including share options, is At the 2012 AGM, authority was given to the Directors to allot unissued shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 56. shares in the Company up to a maximum amount equivalent to approximately one third of the issued share capital excluding shares held The Directors are responsible for managing the business of the Company in treasury for general purposes, plus up to a further one third of the and may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the provisions Companys issued share capital excluding shares held in treasury, but of relevant statutes, the Companys Memorandum and Articles and any only in the case of a rights issue.
No such shares have been issued.
directions given by special resolution.
A further special resolution passed at that meeting granted authority to the Directors to allot equity securities in the Company for cash, without regard Directors Indemnities to the pre-emption provisions of the then Companies Act 1985.
Both these The Company maintains Directors and Ofcers liability insurance which authorities expire on the date of the 2013 AGM to be held on 25 April 2013 gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its Directors.
and so the Directors propose to renew them for a further year.
The Company has also granted indemnities to each of its Directors and the Company Secretary which represent qualifying third party indemnity At last years AGM the members renewed the Companys authority to provisions as dened by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, in purchase up to 10% of its ordinary shares.
No purchases were made relation to certain losses and liabilities which the Directors or Company during the year.
As a result the Company will be seeking to renew its Secretary may incur to third parties in the course of acting as Directors or authority to purchase its own shares at the 2013 AGM.
Shares will only be Company Secretary or employees of the Company or of any associated purchased if the Board believes that such purchases will improve earnings company.
In addition such indemnities have been granted to other ofcers per share and be in the best interests of the shareholders generally.
It is of the Company who are Directors of subsidiary companies within the the Companys intention that any shares purchased will be held as Group.
The Company has also granted an indemnity representing treasury shares.
At the date of this report the company holds 4,646,198 qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions as dened by section shares in treasury.
235 of the Companies Act 2006 to a paid director of the corporate trustee of the Groups UK pension scheme.
Articles of Association Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles, the Companys Share Capital Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the Companys At the date of this report, 139,949,969 ordinary shares of 10 pence each shareholders.
have been issued and are fully paid up and quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary significant Contracts and Change of Control shares are set out in the Articles, copies of which can be obtained from The Group has borrowing facilities which may require the immediate Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Company Secretary.
There repayment of all outstanding loans together with accrued interest in the are no restrictions on the voting rights attaching to the Companys ordinary event of a change of control.
The rules of the Companys employee share shares or on the transfer of securities in the Company.
No person holds plans set out the consequences of a change in control of the Company on securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of participants rights under the plans.
Generally such rights will vest and the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between become exercisable on a change of control subject to the satisfaction of holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of performance conditions.
None of the Executive Directors service contracts securities or on voting rights.
contain provisions which are affected by a change of control and there are no other agreements to which the Company is a party which take effect, Further information which fulls the requirements of Section 992 of the alter or terminate in the event of a change of control of the Company Companies Act 2006 and which should be treated as forming part of this which are considered to be significant in terms of their potential impact report by reference are included in the following sections of the annual on the Group.
report: The Company does not have any contractual or other arrangements which #OMPANY  are essential to the business of the Group.
attached to the Companys shares are set out on pages 92 and 97  TO The Company will be seeking to renew its authority to purchase its own shares at the 2013 AGM.
Shares will only be purchased if the Board believes that such purchases will improve earnings per share and be in the best interests of the shareholders generally.
59 BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Employees Corporate Social Responsibility Diversity Croda is committed to the principle of equal opportunity in Croda continue to believe that good corporate social responsibility is employment and to ensuring that no applicant or employee receives less essential to the long term success of the business.
Details of our corporate favourable treatment on the grounds of gender, marital status, race, responsibility initiatives and activities are set out on pages 20 to 27 of this ethnic origin, religion, disability, sexuality, or age, or is disadvantaged by report.
Our separate Sustainability Report, available in print and online conditions or requirements which cannot be shown to be justied.
com csr, expands on the core themes of CSR within Croda HR Policies are clearly communicated to all our employees and are as well as providing more quantitative information on our performance available through the Company intranet.
Recruitment & Progression It is established policy throughout Croda that Under the supervision of the CSR Steering Committee, responsibility is now decisions on recruitment, career development, promotion and other completely embedded within the regional business units, which are fully employment related issues are made solely on the grounds of individual accountable for delivering business objectives.
Crodas CSR Steering ability, achievement, expertise and conduct.
Committee is comprised of representatives from all regional business units and is responsible for the strategic management of CSR within the Group Croda gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment from as well as ensuring all reporting obligations can be satisfied through the disabled persons.
Should an employee become disabled during their effective collation of robust data.
employment with Croda, they are fully supported by its occupational health provision.
Efforts are made to continue their employment with reasonable Community Engagement adjustments being made to the workplace and role where feasible.
Community engagement is of great value within Croda and enables Retraining is provided if necessary.
us to meet our business aims as well as satisfying our moral obligations to our employees and the local communities in which we live and Development & Learning Croda recognises that the key to future operate.
Community engagement extends across the three key areas of success lies in the skills and abilities of its dedicated global workforce.
The effects of our activities in It is only through the continuous development of our employees that we these three areas combine to create beneficial outputs such as increased will be able to meet the future demands of our customers in relation to morale, better skills development training, easier employee recruitment, enhanced creativity, innovation and customer service.
During 2012 our enhanced public relations and a positive reputation with our stakeholders.
employees had an average of 28 hours of training.
In 2011 we embarked on an ambitious programme of improving our educational offering in the area of science by developing a programme Involvement Croda is committed to ensuring that employees share in aligned to the needs of pupils following the UK National Curriculum.
This the success of the Group.
Owning shares in the Company is an important was further developed in 2012 and we have an aim to see this extended way of strengthening involvement in the development of the business into other geographies in the coming years.
and bringing together employee and shareholders interests.
In 2012 over 56% of employees participated in one of our all-employee share plans, Supplier Payment Policy indicating a continued desire of employees to be involved in the Company.
Group policy concerning the payment of suppliers is that each operating This performance saw Croda honoured for best overall performance in unit agrees terms of payment at the beginning of business or makes the fostering employee share ownership at the 2012 IFS Proshare Awards.
supplier aware of the standard payment terms, and pays in accordance Employees are kept informed of matters of concern to them in a variety with those terms or other legal obligations.
At 31 December 2012, the of ways, including the Crodaway the Company magazine, quarterly Group had an average of 30.6 days 2011: 31.2 days purchases outstanding updates, Croda Connect the Company intranet, team briengs, webinars in trade payables.
The Companys trade payables are not material.
and Croda Now email messages.
These communications help achieve a common awareness among employees of the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of Croda and of changes happening within the business.
Croda is also committed to providing employees with opportunities to share their views and provide feedback on issues that are important to them.
All regions have undertaken an employee survey since 2010.
The largest of these targeting our European employees was completed during 2011.
During 2012 over 56% of employees participated in one of our all-employee share plans.
60 Other Disclosures Market Value of Properties The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that The Groups property, plant and equipment are included in the financial are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and statements at depreciated historic cost where the assets were acquired in disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the the normal course of business or depreciated fair value if the assets were Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the Group acquired as part of a business combination.
The properties are in financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with continuing use and many of them were acquired when market values the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, were substantially lower than at present.
The Directors consider that a Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding surplus over book value exists, but have not quantied the excess.
the assets of the Group and the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other Charitable and Political Donations irregularities.
Charitable donations made by the Group in the year amounted to 19,000 The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 2011: 11,000.
No donations were made for political purposes 2011: Nil.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the Independent Auditors preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from Our auditors,  LLP, have indicated their willingness legislation in other jurisdictions.
to continue in ofce and, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, a resolution regarding their reappointment and remuneration will be Each of the Directors, whose details are set out on pages 28 to 29 submitted to the AGM.
"confirms that, to the best of their knowledge:   Directors Responsibilities accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the Directors the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with sTHE"" applicable law and regulations."
development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for that it faces.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Audit Information Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the Company The Directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United audit information of which the auditors are unaware and that each Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Director has taken all the steps he ought to have taken as a Director in Accounting Practice.
Under company law the Directors must not approve order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
The Directors report is the management report for the purposes of the Financial Services Authority Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 4.1.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: The Directors report was approved by the Board on 1 March 2013 and is  signed on its behalf by  sSTATEWHETHER &23S ASADOPTEDBYTHE%UROPEAN5NION ANDAPPLICABLE UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent company Tom Brophy financial statements respectively: and Group General Counsel and Company Secretary  1 March 2013 inappropriate to assume that the Company will continue in business.
