Board of Directors Joep van Beurden Andrew Allner Mr. van Beurden age 52, Chief Mr. Allner age 59, a non-executive Executive Officer, was appointed director, joined CSR as a nonChief Executive Officer on executive director on 1 October 2008.
He has over Mr. Allner was appointed Chairman of 15 years of experience in managing the Audit Committee on 27 May 2009 technology companies in the US and and is also a member of the Europe.
Prior to joining CSR, Mr. van Remuneration and Nomination Beurden was Chief Executive of Committees.
Mr. Allner is a chartered NexWave Inc. a provider of accountant with extensive experience embedded software solutions for the in senior executive and non-executive consumer electronics market based positions.
Mr. Allner is currently in France.
Before joining NexWave, Chairman of Marshalls plc, a nonBoard of Directors Mr. van Beurden held senior positions executive director, senior independent at Canesta Inc. a fabless director and Chairman of the Audit semiconductor company in San Jose, Committee at AZ Electronic Materials California and Philips Components SA and The Go-Ahead Group plc, a also in San Jose.
Prior to that, non-executive director and Chairman Mr. van Beurden had worked for five of the Audit Committee of Northgate years for management and strategy plc and non-executive Chairman of consultants McKinsey & Company in Fox Marble Holdings plc.
Mr. van Beurden has 2013, Mr. Allner will be appointed also worked as a crude oil trader for non-executive Chairman of the GoAudit Committee Royal Dutch Shell in Rotterdam and Ahead Group plc.
Mr. Allner was lectured in Physics and Electronics at Group Finance Director of RHM plc, Remuneration Committee the University of Zambia in Lusaka.
In taking a lead role in its flotation in July January 2009, Mr. van Beurden was 2005 on the London Stock Exchange.
Nomination Committee appointed a director of the Global Prior to joining RHM plc, Mr. Allner Directors Biographies Semiconductor Alliance GSA, a notwas CEO of Enodis PLC.
Mr. Allner Will Gardiner for-profit organisation supporting has also served in senior executive Mr. Gardiner age 48, Chief Financial collaboration, supply chain integration positions with Dalgety PLC, Officer, joined CSR as Chief Financial and innovation in the global Amersham International PLC and Officer in June 2008.
Prior to joining semiconductor industry.
He is a former partner CSR, Mr. Gardiner was Finance appointed Chairman of the GSA in of Price Waterhouse and is a Fellow of Director for Technology and December 2011 after serving as a the Institute of Chartered Accountants Enterprise at BSkyB plc.
Before its Vice Chairman since December 2009. in England and Wales.
He is a acquisition by BSkyB in 2006, Mr. van Beurden holds a Masters graduate of the University of Oxford.
Mr. Gardiner had, since 2001, been degree in Applied Physics from Christopher Ladas CFO of Easynet Group plc, a panTwente University of Technology in Mr. Ladas age 67, Operations European broadband telecoms Enschede, The Netherlands.
Director, was appointed a director of company.
Between 1991 and 2001, Ron MackintoshCSR on 1 January 2008.
He joined Mr. Gardiner held a number of senior Mr. Mackintosh age 64, Chairman, the Company in May 2000 when he roles within JPMorgans investment has served as a non-executive served as CSRs Executive Vice banking division, specialising in the director since May 2004 and was President, Operations.
He has been telecoms and technology sectors.
appointed Chairman with effect from instrumental in establishing CSRs Mr. Gardiner has a BA from Harvard 2 May 2007.
Mr. Mackintosh is a nonsupply chain partnership with TSMC, College and MA from Johns Hopkins executive director of software world leader in wafer foundry University.
company Fidessa Group plc and nonoperations and ASE, the largest Anthony Carlisle executive chairman of AlertMe.
com assembly and test subcontractor in Mr. Carlisle age 66, a non-executive Ltd. Mr. Mackintosh has held a the industry.
Mr. Ladas currently director and CSRs Senior number of senior executive positions serves as Executive Vice President Independent Director, was appointed in European technology companies.
Between January 1996 a non-executive director of CSR in Between 1992 and 2000, and May 2000, Mr. Ladas served as July 2005 and was appointed as Mr. Mackintosh was Chief Executive the vice president of operations at Senior Independent Director on of Computer Sciences Corporations Micro Linear Corporation.
He is also a member of CSC European business, which had 1996, Mr. Ladas held several our Audit, Remuneration and revenues of $2.5 billion.
He is also a managerial and technical positions at Nomination Committees.
Mr. Carlisle former director of Gemplus SA, and National Semiconductor, Fairchild, is the Chief Executive of Citigate the former chairman of each of Harris, Sperry, Motorola and Dewe Rogerson Consultancy.
He has Smartstream Technologies Ltd, Signetics.
Mr. Ladas holds a BS in over 30 years experience in marketing Northgate Information Solutions plc Chemistry from Arizona State and communications, advising major and also of Differentis, a privately University, USA.
He is also a member companies in the UK and owned IT consultancy which he coof the Institute of Electrical and internationally.
He holds a BA in founded in July 2000.
Mr. Mackintosh Electronics Engineers and a member Economics.
is Chairman of the Nomination of the Europe, Middle East and Africa Committee and a member of the Leadership Council of the Global Remuneration Committee.
com Technologies Inc. a leading global acquisition of Northgate in 2007 by Board of Directors provider of telecommunications private equity firm KKR for 1 billion, continued software and services for network when Northgate fide-listed, Mr. Stone operators.
Ms. Vega is currently nonremained as CEO until December executive chairman of Cambridge 2011.
Prior to his role at Northgate, Broadband Networks Limited and Mr. Stone held senior positions with ip.
access Limited, both Cambridge, Accenture, Digital Equipment UK based, and non-executive Corporation UK and EDS.
chairman of Arieso Ltd, based in Newbury, UK.
Levy Gerzberg Dr. Levy Gerzberg age 68, a nonSergio Giacoletto-Roggio executive director, joined the Board of Mr. Giacoletto-Roggio age 63, a CSR as a non-executive director on non-executive director, joined CSR as 31 August 2011 as a result of the a non-executive director on acquisition of Zoran Corporation 4 January 2007.
He is Chairman of where he was co-founder, President, the Remuneration Committee and a CEO and Director.
Dr. Gerzberg has member of the Nomination over 30 years experience in the high Committee.
In December 2008, technology industry in areas related to Mr. Giacoletto-Roggio retired from ICs, software and systems utilising Oracle Corporation, where he had digital signal processing in consumer been executive vice president, electronics, communications, PCs, Europe, Middle East and Africa and a military and medical electronics member of Oracles executive markets.
Prior to co-founding Zoran, committee.
Prior to joining Oracle in Dr. Gerzberg was Associate Director 1997, Mr. Giacoletto-Roggio was of Stanford Universitys Electronics President, value added services at Laboratory, where he managed, AT&T, before which he spent 20 conducted research and taught.
He years with Digital Equipment was named Northern Californias Corporation in various senior 2003 Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of management and executive roles.
the Year in the Semiconductor Mr. Giacoletto-Roggio has served on category, and in 2004, he was multiple company boards and IT honoured as the recipient of the industry associations.
He is currently California Israel Chamber of the senior independent director of Commerce International Partnership Colt Technologies SA, a nonaward.
Dr. Gerzberg holds a PhD in executive director of Oberthur Electrical Engineering from Stanford Technologies Holdings, a nonUniversity and an MS in Medical executive director of Temenos AG, Electronics and a B. S. in Electrical and an Operating Partner with Advent Engineering from the Technion-Israel International.
Mr. Giacoletto-Roggio Institute of Technology in Haifa, Israel.
holds a Masters degree in Computer He is currently serving his second Science from the University of Turin.
term on the Consumer Electronics Teresa Vega Associations Board of Industry Ms. Vega age 58, a non-executive Leaders.
director, joined CSR as a nonChris Stone executive director on 27 October Mr. Chris Stone age 50, a non- 2010 and is also a member of our executive director, joined the Board of Audit Committee.
Ms. Vega has over CSR as a non-executive director on 30 years experience gained working 16 July 2012 and is also a member of in the technology and the Remuneration Committee.
telecommunications industries for Mr. Stone served as Chief Executive leading global companies, including Officer of Northgate Information Motorola Inc. where she served as Solutions plc now Northgate senior vice president between June Information Solutions Holdings 2005 and July 2007, leading their Limited, Northgate from October global CDMA handset business, and 1999 until December 2011, and was Lucent Technologies Inc. where she responsible for creating a market served as Chief Operating Officer of leader in providing specialist software, the wireless infrastructure unit.
In outsourcing and information each of these organisations, Ms. technology services to the human Vega led and built multi-billion dollar resources, local government, divisions and spearheaded major education and public safety markets product launches.
Between 2002 and across 5 continents with revenues of 2005, Ms. Vega also served as Group over 800 million and employing over President, Wireless Cable and 10,000 people.
Following the Emerging Markets at Telecordia CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
