Our strategy focuses on targeting our chosen end markets with our integrated and differentiated technology platforms, with a goal to achieve sustainable growth with higher margins and returns.
We are developing enhanced and connected platforms in end markets where we have a position of scale, including voice & music, automotive and imaging.
We also develop a range of products for other markets including Our areas of focus handsets, gaming and computer peripherals.
We take a disciplined approach to capital allocation, investing in higher margin platforms and markets where we see the best prospects for pro table revenue growth.
for mor for r more on pr e on progr ogress on platforms ess on platforms see our business and see our business and financial financial r re eview view Following the transfer of on on page page 16 16 handset connectivity and handset location development operations to Samsung, our platform strategy has accelerated and we have focused our energies on five markets which we believe provide growth potential.
Bluetooth Smart Market leader Imaging Voice & Music Market leader Market leader Market leading positions Indoors Automotive Location Infotainment New market Market leader CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 CSR in review Why is it important?
Bluetooth Smart is an evolution of the Bluetooth We have introduced a range of turnkey hardware and software Bluetooth short range standard, which uses signi cantly solutions, based on the CSR Energy platform, that OEMs Smart lower power levels to operate.
CSR has been and ODMs can customise to rapidly develop new and investing in developing solutions for this market.
innovative Bluetooth Smart tness, smart home and human Bluetooth Smart is currently being adopted to interface products.
For example, we demonstrated a turnkey CSR1000 CSR1001 connect many new types of low-energy devices platform based on CSR Energy devices, with accelerometers CSR1010 such as computer mice and keyboards, and and software to create an example design manufacturers can CSR1011 health and tness products.
We expect wider use to quickly develop the next generation of smart remotes adoption of this technology during 2013 which for TVs and set top boxes.
we believe provides us with the prospect of strong growth.
This market is growing rapidly, as more The MAPX multimedia applications processor family Voice & Music and more people carry their music in is a portfolio of high performance, integrated, high quality digital form on their smartphone, tablet or audio system-on-chip SoC devices for Soundbars, MAPX other mobile digital music players and stream Docking Speakers, AV-Receivers, Home Theatre Systems, CSR8670 their music to stereo headsets, sound bars or and Integrated Audio Systems.
An increasing proportion of these devices connect wirelessly through CSR8670 is our latest-generation exible audio Bluetooth with customers seeking high quality system-on-chip SoC solution with Bluetooth wireless audio playback.
We have proven capabilities connectivity, embedded ash memory and numerous and lead the market in a range of audio inter-operable capabilities, including analogue and digital solutions, targetting all segments of wireless audio, USB and capacitive touch sensors.
Our aptX CODEC ensures the delivery of high-quality audio over wireless CSR8645 is a our next latest generation Stereo ROM solution connectivity.
with built-in support for Bluetooth wireless audio streaming using our aptX CODEC technology.
The adoption of integrated information and SiRFstarIV GSD4e WLCSP is a complete navigation Automotive entertainment systems in vehicles continues processor built on a low-power RF CMOS single-die, Infotainment to grow, whether its GPS to guide the journey, incorporating the baseband, integrated navigation solution, video and music systems for passengers, software, ARM7 processor, and RF functions that form a or diagnostic systems which are used to complete internal ROM-based standalone or Aided-GPS engine.
SiRFstarIV maintain and repair the vehicles we drive.
We GSD4e SiRFprimaII work with many of the leading automotive SiRFprimaII is the latest member of the CSR family of manufacturers in the world, providing integrated location SoCs with integrated GNSS, designed to bring the solutions that combine our existing strengths in rich location, connectivity and multimedia experience of audio and location.
a tablet computer to mainstream automotive dashboards.
More than twice the application throughput and 3-4x more powerful graphics and multimedia acceleration.
Integrated multi-satellite GNSS capabilities support all global navigation systems, providing exibility and improved satellite acquisition.
We expect the infrastructure supporting SiRFstarV and SiRFusion platforms represent a new approach Indoors Indoors Location for example indoors maps to to location and navigation, supplementing traditional GPS Location become more established through 2013. location signals with other information such as other satellite Indoors Location has the potential for systems, multiple radio systems, and various sensors, like a wide range of applications such as social accelerometers, gyros and compasses.
We gave a live, hands-on SiRFstarV networking, promoting locating shops or demonstration of CSRs industry-leading indoor location and SiRFusion restaurants, and even particular products navigation capabilities at an Indoor Navigation Seminar at the or brands that can be used by business to Museum of Contemporary Art in Taipei, Taiwan on August 1, advertise what they provide, and from where 2012.
In January 2013, SiRFstarV and SiRFusion location they provide it.
technologies were honoured at the CES Best of Innovation Design and Innovation Awards, in the Embedded Technologies category.
Whether its for moving or still pictures, COACH16 is CSRs agship Digital Camera Processor that Imaging consumers want the ability to take high provides support for the most advanced features in todays fide nition images whether on their smartphone, high-performance still and motion-image portable devices.
COACH16 or specialist cameras, whatever the light level COACH15s and wherever they are located, whether indoors, COACH15s is a single chip solution for compact digital still or outside.
CSR has technologies that are cameras and video applications.
being used by some of the worlds leading imaging companies across different product groups.
The performance of our latest imaging chip makes it suitable for camcorders and other mobile video applications, including those in digital single lens re ex cameras, sport cameras, security cameras and mobile drive recorders.
