Core products Auto Automotive Infotainment Our company and Portable Navigation Devices PND.
structure Strong revenue growth from in-dash and aftermarket products Continued SoC design win momentum Strong design wins in automotive Wi-Fi Re ecting our new structure 2012 saw revenues in Auto of following the disposal of the handset $212.
2 million, a growth of 3.5% compared to 2011 $205.0 million.
connectivity and handset location We saw increasing orders for our Wi-Fi in automobiles and have business to Samsung, we have two started to ship our next-generation auto infotainment SoC SiRFPrimaII.
business groups Core, and Legacy During 2012, we introduced several new platforms to the market, products.
Core comprises Auto, including the CSR8350 Bluetooth audio solution, which incorporates Consumer and Voice & Music.
The our aptX audio technology and SiRFatlasVI, the latest generation of Legacy products business consists our mainstream Auto Infotainment system-on-a-chip.
The PND market of those business lines which continues to decline as navigation and formed part of Zoran Corporation location capabilities move towards in-dash navigation and location in which we discontinued capabilities carried by smartphones.
We expect this trend in the PND investment, in addition to the market will continue.
revenue streams in handset Revenue connectivity and handset location which were not transferred as part $212.2m of the transaction with Samsung.
% of revenue 21% for mor for more on our pr e on our products oducts please visit please visit www www.
com products oducts to to n nd out mor d out more e fr fro om our CEO m our CEO see page see page 09 09 to see our business and to see our business and financial financial r re eview view see page see page 14 14 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 CSR at a glance Core products Core products Consumer Voice & Music Legacy products Cameras, Gaming, Document Mono and Stereo Audio.
Legacy Home Entertainment, Imaging, Indoors Location, Bluetooth Handset Connectivity and Location Smart and Other Consumer.
Continued growth in Document Increasing demand for Partnership programme Imaging CSR8600 stereo audio platform with baseband providers Expect strong medium-term Continued strong growth driving revenues for Wi-Fi chips growth in Indoors Location and in Bluetooth stereo product in China in second half of 2012 Bluetooth Smart quali cations Market demand for soundbars and speakerboxes set to continue The year has seen a growth in The year saw growth in Voice & Music 2012 saw a growth in Legacy Consumer revenues to $258.7 million, revenues by 26.9% to $190.
We saw from $324.7 million in 2011, re ecting million, bene ting from the inclusion strong growth in the stereo audio the inclusion of sales of the Groups of Zoran business for a full 12 months.
market for our products in devices handset connectivity and handset While revenues in Gaming have been such as soundboxes and soundbars.
location product lines to existing under pressure, we continue to supply During the year our CSR8600 customers which were retained the two major companies that utilise next-generation audio platform following the transaction with Bluetooth for their gaming controllers.
entered mass production for mono Samsung.
We expect Legacy We saw weakening of the camera and stereo headsets.
We extended revenues to reduce in 2013 compared market as consumers switch from the reach of our aptX audio codec, to 2012 by approximately half, as we Digital still cameras to using cameras which ended the year with 120 are no longer investing in new on smartphones.
During 2012, we licencees, up from 52 at the same time products in this area.
We expect introduced several new products in 2011. minimal revenues in this area in 2014. including the latest version of our IPS Universal Print Interpreter which supports all major print languages and protocols and COACH16, our new agship Digital Camera Processor that provides support for high-performance still and motion-image portable devices.
