Afren plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Operations review Strategic priorities Pursue materially accretive acquisitions 1 Organic reserves growth 2 3 Production growth Afren East Africa Operational ef ciency and financial discipline 4 Corporate responsibility 5 Exploration P20 Our portfolio of East African Kenya assets cover an extensive surface 2 Block 1 area of 100,221 km on a gross basis, and are all located in basins with strong evidence of working hydrocarbon systems Working interest 80% Operator Afren EAX being present.
We are focused Work programme Seismic acquisition on Cretaceous, Jurassic and EAX is a wholly owned subsidiary of Afren plc.
Tertiary rift basins which are geological settings that have yielded significant discoveries Overview Unfortunately, during the seismic acquisition inUganda, Sudan, Tanzania, process we recorded our first fatality from Block 1 is located on the western margin Madagascar, Mozambique and aroad trafc accident involving one of of the Mandera-Lugh basin in north-eastern ourseismic contractors.
We deeply regret Kenya bordering both Somalia and Ethiopia, most recently in Kenya.
the loss of this life and are very saddened by where it is connected to the Ogaden basin.
the effect this tragedy has had on the family The Upper Triassic and Jurassic formations Following the completion of the involved.
Following a full and thorough that have been identied are considered to BlackMarlin acquisition in investigation into the incident, we have be the primary zones of oil prospectivity.
October2010, and the ongoing further strengthened measures in place to Anoil seep close to the Tarbaj-1 well in the ensure that the required standards of driver maturing of the portfolio through south-west corner of the block confirms the training and vehicle safety are met by our seismic data acquisition, mean net presence of hydrocarbons.
Analogous data contractors across all operations.
with the Ogaden basin also suggests there prospective resources have been may be other potential source rocks and upgraded for the East Africa portfolio 2013 outlook reservoirs.
The Bur Mayo and the Kalichaduring the year from 2,113 mmboe Seir formations in the Mandera-Lugh basin The completion of recently acquired seismic to5,838 mmboe.
In addition, new appear comparable to the Lower and Upper data is expected to further enhance Afrens Hamanlei Jurassic formations in the Ogaden understanding of the existing prospectivity plays have been identied offshore basin.
If analogous, these formations should and facilitate prospect selection ahead of Kenya and Tanzania.
have high total organic content TOC source planned exploration drilling in 2014. rocks and good quality reservoirs.
During the period we successfully Several major structures have already been acquired 3,483 km 2D seismic, mapped on the block with the 850 km of 2 2,262km 3D seismic and 1,193 km existing 2D seismic coverage.
On 5 April gravity and magnetic data.
2012, Afren exercised its option to increase its participating interest on the block from 50% to 80% and during the year the Partners commenced and completed the acquisition of 1,900 km of 2D seismic data to rm up the mapped structures and augment the results of airborne gravity and magnetic data acquired in 2011. Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 51 Following our entry into the region we have been investing heavily intheacquisition of new geological data and have now entered the phase whereour investment will be focused on drilling multiple explorationwells in order to fully realise the potential of our acreage.
Galib Virani, Director, Afren EAX Ltd Kenya Kenya Block 10A Block L17 & L18 Working interest 20% Working interest 100% Operator Tullow Oil Operator Afren EAX Work programme Ongoing evaluation Work programme Seismic acquisition and exploration drilling and interpretation EAX is a wholly owned subsidiary of Afren plc.
Overview Overview In January 2012, Afren completed the acquisition of 1,207 km of additional Block 10A is located in the Anza Basin Blocks L17 & L18 are located in the Lamu 2D seismic data targeting the deeper water onshore northern Kenya, which is part of Coastal Basin, offshore south-east Kenya, 2 portion of the blocks.
Interpretation of the Central African Mesozoic rift system that covering an area of approximately 1,259 km 2 the data has identied four new highly includes the Muglad Graben in Southern and 3,583 km respectively.
They are situated encouraging prospects, in addition to the Sudan, and the Lamu Graben in Kenya.
The in water depths varying from a few feet 2 previously mapped prospects in the shallow block covers a total of 14,747 km.
Three along the shoreline to up to around 2,625 ft water.
These prospects represent a major exploration wells were drilled by Amoco in in the Pemba Channel.
new play with lower risk and greater Block 10A Sirius-1, Bellatrix-1 and Chalbi-3 There are several potential source rocks materiality than the shallow water play, and throughout 1988 and 1989, in the southern for the Tertiary and Cretaceous plays in the together have increased mean prospective part of the block.
The presence of oil and southern areas of the basin including the resources on the blocks, from 94 mmboe gas shows and the high maturity level of Premo-Triassic Karoo interval sections within to1,088 mmboe, since the Black Marlin organic rocks in wells Bellatrix-1 and Sirius-1 the Lower to Middle Jurassic and high Total acquisition.
As a result, Afren, in close are evidence of a working hydrocarbon Organic Counts TOCs are recorded within consultation with the Ministry of Energy, system on the block.
The latter well notably the Eocene section in the Pemba-5 well.
2 completed the acquisition of 1,006 km established the presence of an Upper There are oil seeps in the Lamu Basin and 3D seismic during December 2012, in lieu Cretaceous lacustrine source rock that may Pemba Island linked to a Jurassic source of thewell commitment, in order to better have generated low-sulphur parafnic oil.
which implies that the structures in Blocks understand the deep water prospectivity, Having satisfied all seismic work L17 & L18 are most likely oil bearing.
The prior to exploration drilling.
In addition, commitments with the acquisition of 750 km hydrocarbons are expected to have been an onshore 2D seismic survey of 120 km of 2D seismic over the block in 2011, the generated in the deep Pemba trough south was commissioned in September 2012 operator commenced exploration drilling at of Block L18 and in the Tembo Trough to to simultaneously continue maturation of the Paipai prospect in September 2012. theeast.
the shallow water onshore play: this survey was completed in December 2012.
2013 outlook On 1 March 2013, the operator, Tullow Oil 2013 outlook announced the temporary suspension of The recently acquired 3D and 2D seismic the Paipai-1 exploration well.
The well which data will be processed and interpreted to wasdrilled to a total depth of 13,960 ft further rene the prospect inventory in encountered light hydrocarbon shows across anticipation of a 2014 drilling programme.
a 180 ft thick gross sandstone interval.
This sandstone is overlain by a 656 ft thick source rock which forms an effective regional top seal.
Attempts to sample the initial reservoir uids were unsuccessful and the hydrocarbons encountered whilst drilling were not recovered to surface.
The well has been temporarily suspended pending agreement on future evaluation options.
Afren plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Operations review Afren East Africa Exploration Continued Tanzania Seychelles Tanga Areas A & B Block Working interest 74% Working interest 75% Operator Afren Operator Afren EAX Work programme Seismic acquisition and Work programme Seismic acquisition exploration drilling EAX is a wholly owned subsidiary of Afren plc.
Overview Overview 2013 outlook The Tanga Block is located offshore and In 2012, the Company elected to relinquish In Q1 2013, Afren completed a major 3D onshore north-east Tanzania.
The block lies Area C in order to focus on high-priority seismic programme, the first 3D survey to be south of, and is contiguous with, Afrens plays in Areas A & B. conducted in the Seychelles.
The programme 100% owned and operated Blocks L17 & L18 consisted of two surveys in Afrens licence Areas A & B are located in the Seychelles in Kenya.
It contains a southerly extension areas.
The first 3D survey was conducted in micro-continent in shallow to deep water in of the same coastal high and basin trough the southern portion of the licence over the the northern half of the Seychelles plateau 2 plays allowing us to leverage our regional Bonit prospect and covered 600 km.
The and cover a combined area of approximately expertise and knowledge.
second survey was in the northern section 2 14,319 km.
ofthe licence area and covered an area of Interpretation of previously acquired 900 km 2 The main exploration targets are the 2,775 km.
The new 3D seismic combined 2D seismic data reinforced the Partners views Permo-Triassic Karoo interval, which with existing 2D data are being processed by that the prospectivity in the deeper water comprises non-marine sands inter-bedded the Partners to assess in detail the Tertiary, parts of the acreage represents a potentially with shales and a Cretaceous marine rift Cretaceous and Jurassic prospectivity.
lower geological risk exploration opportunity.
basin underlain by Jurassic platform source Gross un-risked prospective resources for the rocks.
The Karoo formation contains both 2013 outlook two areas are estimated at 2,800 mmboe.
the source rock and the reservoir.
Over 1980 2 A 620 km 3D seismic survey was completed to 1981, three exploration wells were drilled, in January 2013 and processing is being fast all of which encountered oil shows and tracked in order to bring the deeper water confirmed the presence of a working prospectivity to equal technical maturity as hydrocarbon system.
the shallow water prospects and allow the Seismic data previously acquired by the Group to optimise the prospect selection Partners revealed the presence of several ahead of exploration drilling.
Mean large-scale structures in the two licence areas prospective resources on the block were that are located in shallow to deep water in upgraded in the period from 1,026 mmboe the northern half of the Seychelles plateau.
A major new 2D survey in Q4 2011 3,733 km focused on these areas to better define the areas true prospectivity.
Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 53 Madagascar Ethiopia Block 1101 Blocks 7& 8 Working interest 90% Working interest 30% Operator Afren EAX Operator New Age Work programme Exploration drilling Work programme Exploration drilling EAX is a wholly owned subsidiary of Afren plc.
Overview During the year, the Partners continued Overview tomake good progress in meeting the Block 1101 is located on the eastern ank In 2012, Afren and its Partners decided to requirements of the expanded work ofthe Ambilobe Basin, onshore northern relinquish Blocks 2 & 6 in order to focus programme as agreed with state oil and gas Madagascar.
The block encompasses future exploration activities on Blocks 7 & 8.
An airborne gravity an area of approximately 14,900 km.
Blocks 7 & 8 are located in the Ogaden and magnetic survey was completed in The main exploration targets are sands Basin and are both part of the same PSC January 2012, and in June 2012 the Partners of the Isalo formation.
There are proven 2 covering an overall area of 23,162 km.
conducted geological eldwork on the heavy oil accumulations in the Isalo Exploration in the Ethiopia area began in the block.
Acquisition of 230 km of 2D seismic formation in Central Madagascar such as 1970s with Tenneco discovering the Calub was completed during Q4 2012 and will Bemolanga andTsimiroro, indicating good and Hilal gas elds approximately 200 km be used to augment the interpretation of reservoir conditions.
Exploration continued approximately 220 km of previously acquired throughout the 1980s.
El-Kuran-1, El Kuran-2 and Bodle-1, have been drilled on the blocks.
Both of the El Kuran 2013 outlook wells encountered hydrocarbons and oil The expanded work programme combines was recovered from the Jurassic Hamanlei the first two exploration phases on the block formation.
The main potential reservoirs are and requires the drilling of one exploration in the basin and clastic sediments of the well expected to be drilled in 2013.
Carboniferous age Calub formation and the Triassic age Adigrat formation.
In addition, some permeable Jurassic carbonate rocks in the Hamanlei formation can be considered potential reservoirs.
2013 outlook Work is ongoing to further interpret the prospectivity of Blocks 7 & 8 ahead of expected drilling by the new operator New Age in the first half of 2013.
