Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 65 Human 28% Afren now has 460 employees and contractors, which is an increase of 28% on 2011 numbers Resources Afrens people are responsible With our expansion into East Africa and Training and development Kurdistan, we have grown our organisation In 2012 we invested over US$1.1 million for delivering our success story.
toover 460 employees and contractors, which inemployee training and development is an increase of 28% on 2011 numbers.
We have also We are totally committed to continued with state-of-the-art online We have reviewed our HR practices against making Afren the employer of learning for both soft skills and technical the IPIECA sustainability reporting guidelines professional courses.
choice in the areas we operate and consider the key issues to be proactively and effectively managed as described below.
and to ensure that we are able We are developing an Afren Leadership Programme, a bespoke modular programme to attract, retain and support Diversity and inclusion for senior managers which will signicantly The international nature of our business the development of the most enhance our leadership and management isreected in our workforce.
We employ capability and, we believe, our overall talented and skilled employees people from local communities and business performance.
Our ability to operate countrieswhere we operate, offering We have also introduced a new Technical excellent career opportunities regardless is built not just on physical Development Programme which focuses on ofethnicity, gender, age, religion or assets but on our people.
early-career development for our technical disability.
We are extremely proud that employees and will also be enhancing our over94% of permanent employees in Theydetermine how effectively employee induction programme during 2013. ouroverseas locations are local nationals.
we uphold our values and We are sponsoring four Masters Degree Engagement reputation and how successful students from Nigeria in top universities and We want our employees to feel valued and we are.
have continued with our intern programmes engaged and we provide an excellent physical inLondon, Houston, Lagos and Abidjan environment with state-of-the-art new ofces wherewe have offered valuable technical and in Erbil, Kurdistan region of Iraq and planned professional experience to over 41 graduates.
new ofces for Nairobi, Kenya: competitive rewards programmes including aconsistently applied bonus based on performance: and challenging and interesting work and projects.
Our voluntary staff turnover gure rose to 4.6% during 2012, but this is still below the industry standard and our own target of 5%.
Case study Early-career development programme Afren recognises that the first several years after graduation areacriticaltime for engineers and geoscientists.
Early-career employees atAfren are in an enviable position to apply their education to impactful and interesting projects and are accountable for contributing actively tofast-paced eld development plans and operations.
In order to fast-track technical development to ensure early-career employees reach their potential, in 2012 Afren management focused on a more structured technical skills assessment process, personal development plans and mentoring.
Employees and managers have started to construct 12- to 18-month development plans which focus on their most pressing technical skills gaps and address the development of these skills through a mix of training, on-the-job practical experiences and mentoring and coaching from more senior staff.
Afren plc 66 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate governance Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 67 Chairmans overview 68 Afrens Board of Directors 70 Directors report 72 Corporate governance statement 74 Nomination Committee 80 Audit and Risk Committee 81 Directors remuneration report 85
