Afren plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business review A strategy delivering long-term value Our vision to be the leading independent Pursue materially 1 upstream Exploration and Production E&P accretive acquisitions company in each of the areas in which we operate is underpinned by a clear and consistent strategy one that is designed to provide a framework for sustainable long-term growth across the E&P value chain through balanced funding, exploration and production in our core areas of operation Nigeria and other West Africa, Afren East Africa Exploration and the Organic reserves 2 Kurdistan region of Iraq.
growth In order to full our strategy, we have identied five clear strategic priorities focused on running our business and delivering efficient growth in a responsible way.
Production 3 Vision Ob jective Strategy growth To be a To maximise To acquire and leading shareholder value develop a balanced independent and diversied upstream portfolio of quality Exploration assets across andProduction theExploration company and Production Operational efficiency 4 valuechain and financial discipline Corporate 5 responsibility Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 21 Delivering against our strategy Throughout the Business review, you can P22 nd a number of examples demonstrating We measure our progress through how our strategic priorities have been veKPIs that are closely aligned applied.
These are annoted by the use of withdelivering our strategy.
the numbered icons: See how we measure our progress overleaf.
1 2 3 4 5 Read more: A hallmark of our growth to date has been seizing the These include areas where: Kurdistan P54 earlymover advantage when the opportunity merits it.
There are proven working hydrocarbon systems region of Iraq Wehave been successful in achieving low-entry acquisition costs byfocusing on areas where we are strategically and Opportunities have been overlooked, under-developed competitively advantaged.
ormay be out of reach to much larger companies We have an in-depth understanding of the subsurface, keyrelationships or a local structure we can leverage.
Read more: Exploration and Appraisal E&A success are integral to creating Higher risk frontier areas with play opening possibilities Our most P16 value for our shareholders.
Our dedicated E&A team have andpotential large rewards.
active responsibility for identifying exploration ideas, prioritising our exploration Our 2012 exploration campaign was very successful with prospect inventory and ensuring efficient deployment of capital period world-class discoveries announced at the Okoro Field Extension and execution of our exploration and drilling activities.
Our and Ebok North Fault Block, offshore Nigeria and at the exploration strategy is play led and balanced across key themes: Simrit-2 discovery located on the Ain Sifni PSC, Kurdistan Exploration in proven areas, which are low risk and quick region of Iraq.
We achieved an E&A success ratio of 88%, tomonetise increasing net 2P reserves to 210 mmboe excluding Ain Sifni.
In 2013, we have identied high-impact opportunities across Proven play concepts that offer significant upside, with our three business units targeting net Pmean resources in moderate risk excess of 650mmboe.
Growing our production prole helps to generate strong During the year, we delivered record production of 43,059 Read more: Ebok P42 predictable cash ows for the Group and improves our financial boepd including OML 26 net to Afren representing a more exibility to execute and develop our forward work programme.
than two-fold increase from the previous year.
In 2013, we are Read more: We have a proven track record as an Operator and have targeting full year net working interest production of between Okoro P40 successfully delivered oil in record time at the Okoro and Ebok 40,000 to 47,000 boepd excluding Barda Rash.
We have successfully leveraged this skill With a net 2P & 2C recoverable reserves and resources total setinto the Kurdistan region of Iraq where we initiated production ofover a billion barrels of which only 5% has so far been operations at the Barda Rash PSC in 2012, just over one year developed we have a sustainable platform for long-term growth.
Read more: Having in place effective operational and financial management At 31 December 2012, we had US$525 million of cash P32 Robust capital processes which place emphasis on delivery, safety and efficient and net debt excluding finance leases of US$488 million.
structure allocation of capital are key areas of focusfor Afren.
As an agile We have a clear debt reduction schedule, with the majority independent, we utilise a range offunding sources including of debt due in 2016 or later.
Following our successful entry debt, equity, operating cash owand portfolio management.
and participation to the Bond market in 2011, our capital structure was strengthened in the period by the completion of a second secured Bond issue, with proceeds before issue costs of US$300 million, in Q12012.
Corporate responsibility CR continues to be a critical Maintaining these standards will ensure that the business Read more: P58 Our CR focusarea.
We are committed to ensuring that Afren grows successfully for the benefit of all stakeholders, whose schemes isrecognisedasa responsible organisation with high concerns and aspirations we must understand if we are to standardsof CR performance.
