Afren plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Our business model At Afren, our business model is designed to create Business development andpreserve long-term value for our shareholders deal-making acrossthe E&P value chain.
Priority on value acquisitions, in addition to farm-in opportunities and selective divestments including farm-out opportunities.
This allows us to ultimately maximise value for our shareholders.
Exploration Appraisal and Production Development Access early stage Early mover advantage High return projects Add value Proving up resources for relatively low Low cost, efficient operations capital cost Mitigate risk Add additional reserves efficiency and speed key to success e. g. Black Marlin Extend eld maturity e. g. Kurdistan region of Iraq e. g. Ebok and Okoro Business review Operations review Corporate responsibility Corporate governance Financial statements Supplementary information Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 19 P04 For more information our key business areas We create value by pursuing a clear and consistent How we are organised strategy that seeks to deliver a balance between exploration, appraisal and development investment At Afren, we aim to be a responsible and with funding from production and portfolio activities transparent business.
and debt and equity nancing.
The Board has established a management structure with To do this successfully and sustainably, our business dened lines of responsibility and clear delegation of model is supported through a meticulous planning authority.
The various committees are key elements of andnancial management process which focuses on the overall control structure.
These include the Executive execution and delivery of our project milestones and Committee, which meets at least bi-monthly and is ensures at all times that we adhere to high standards responsible for the day-to-day management of all of governance, corporate and social responsibility.
The Group has developed a formal structured business planning process, which operates on an annual cycle.
The Board approves the consolidated annual budget, and performance P38 P56 against budget is monitored and reported to the Board.
For more For more information on information Key risks for strategic delivery are identied and assessed our operations on our CR in the context of our business plans and the risk registers that are generated are monitored and actioned by functional and line managers.
The Audit andRisk Committee of the Board are then regularly appraised of progress on implementing the risk management systems and the steps that have been taken to mitigate the significant business risks.
Board of Directors Executive Committee Senior management Technical Corporate operational functions team leadership team P70 For more information on the skills and experience of our Board members
