24 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 Business review continued Dairies The Dairies Division processes and delivers fresh conventional, million 2011 12 2010 11 organic and flavoured milk to major retailers, middle ground Revenue 1,069.0 1,089.8 Profit 10.2 27.1 customers including, for example, smaller retailers, coffee shops Margin 1.0% 2.5% and hospitals and residential customers.
We also manufacture and sell FRijj, the leading fresh flavoured milk brand, cream, and milk powders.
Reported revenue fell by 2% to 1,069.0 million and in a tough trading environment, segment profit fell to 10.2 million 2011: 27.1 million, resulting in an unsatisfactory segment margin of 1% 2011: 2.5%.
A tough year for Dairies achieved in our Dairies business, much of it A strong performance from FRijj Along with the rest of the sector 2011 12 has by increasing manufacturing efficiencies and We have grown sales of our branded been a tough year for our Dairies business.
reducing administration costs associated milkshake, FRijj, by 7% compared to last Average selling prices remained flat year on with our depot network.
The market for flavoured milk remains year, reflecting the full year impact of last In addition, since the year end we have buoyant and we have invested in production years intense competition in the middle announced further depot closures and head capacity to enable us to continue to grow ground and major tender negotiations, office job losses and the proposed closure sales.
FRijj is the largest fresh flavoured milk improved by mid-year selling price increases.
We have also cut some of our brand and has nearly half of that market.
Reduced retail selling prices in supermarkets milk purchase prices, principally reflecting We expect to see ongoing growth.
have also put pressure on our residential lower cream returns.
Market growth has been driven by sales volumes.
In the last four months of the We will continue to review the premium products and during the year year cream realisations fell away while milk geographic and customer mix of this we launched a new premium range, FRijj purchase prices remained at historic highs.
business to ensure its ongoing strength.
The Incredible to participate in this sector We have embarked on a series of of the market.
This is proving popular and actions designed to restore our Dairies A more efficient business with less is widening the appeal of FRijj to a larger business to an acceptable level of exposure to the middle ground consumer group.
profitability over the medium term.
We also Our proposals to close Aintree and We have completed a trial to produce have a continuous programme of innovation Fenstanton dairies would concentrate our longer life FRijj using UHT milk and this which has led to increased sales of new milk business into three modern dairies will allow us to increase penetration in products including milk&more, FRijj the which have benefited from our ongoing 75 convenience outlets.
Incredible, milk bags and 1% fat milk.
million investment programme and one glass Our focus remains on cost, quality and bottling site.
All four of the dairies would be Residential deliveries service, and our ongoing three year 75 operating at or around optimum throughput Delivering milk to customers doorsteps million investment programme is contributing with fewer sales to the middle ground.
In remains a key part of our business.
We have a addition, we continue to operate our milk have around 1 million residential customers programme across Dairy Crest as a whole balancing creamery at Severnside and our and have a network of over 2,100 milkmen to deliver 20 million of annualised savings small, specialist creamery at Chard.
each year, and the bulk of this has been Reduced selling prices in supermarkets 7% No.
1 1.2m growth in FRijj sales market leader in fresh weekly milk&more sales avoured milk with FRijj and supermarket own label Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 25 have put pressure on our residential sales volumes which were down 12% at the half year stage and 10% over the year.
Since the year end, the rate of decline has fallen to around 9%.
Our internet doorstep delivery proposition, milk&more, continues to make progress and we now have 210,000 active customers.
Weekly sales are now 1.2 million.
We remain committed to making milk&more a success, although pressure from lower retail selling prices has slowed down the growth of milk&more in the short term.
Ingredients Our ingredients operation provides us with a valuable balancing solution for seasonal raw milk supplies and cream.
We minimise throughput in this business to reduce our exposure as far as possible to dairy commodity markets.
However our Dairies business does generate substantial volumes of cream, not all of which is used by our Spreads business.
Prices for dairy ingredients increased in the first half of the year but fell back sharply in the last quarter and since the year end.
