Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 27 Business review continued Milk Procurement Dairy Crest sources 2.1 billion litres of milk annually currently almost 80% of this volume comes direct from around 1300 dairy farms located throughout England & South Wales.
80% The Milk Procurement team works very closely with our supplying farmers to ensure an efficient and sustainable supply of of our milk is sourced high quality milk.
We have adopted a partnership approach and directly from UK dairy our aim is to build long-term relationships with our farmers.
We farms offer a range of contract options to suit all business types as well as providing professional support and advice on our contract requirements and all aspects of milk production and animal welfare requirements.
All our supplying farms meet the Red Tractor there was evidence of increased farm Recruitment security of milk supply farm assurance and Dairy Crest quality investment.
Total milk production in Great We have increased the proportion of milk we standards.
We take this very seriously and Britain grew for a second consecutive year.
buy from direct supply from 73% to 79%.
are proud of achieving results considerably However since the year end we have had This is a key part of our strategy and our higher than the dairy industry average.
to reduce some of the prices we pay for farmer recruitment programme will continue In addition to our core activity of milk as have most milk purchasers.
This is to replace milk from third parties until we sourcing milk to meet the needs of the disappointing but unavoidable given weak reach our target volume of 85%.
We also business, we work closely with Dairy Crest dairy commodity markets.
successfully launched a volume incentive Direct DCD, the independent organisation In addition to financial challenges the scheme to reward farmers on standard which represents our supplying dairy farmers, dairy industry, like other agricultural sectors, liquid contracts for increasing production.
to explore initiatives to add value and deliver has remained in the public eye with the We are now looking to extend this scheme greater efficiency for both parties.
increasing focus on animal welfare and the to more of our farmers.
type of farming systems under which milk is External Environment produced.
Consumers want to know how Contracts The 2011 12 year has continued to be their food is produced and are much better Recognising the diverse range of dairy farm challenging for the dairy sector with higher informed about farming methods.
types and business models we buy milk production costs throughout the supply At Dairy Crest we allow our farmers to from, we continue to develop new contracts.
chain at a time when household incomes farm in the way that is most suitable to their In 2010 we offered a two-year, stable priced were also being squeezed.
type of business and the resources that are contract and around 100 suppliers chose For farmers, significant milk price available to them.
Our focus is on the level of this option.
During the life of the contract increases shown in the chart below have stockmanship and expertise to deliver high on-farm costs escalated and we had to helped to offset the impact of these higher standards of animal health and welfare and intervene and make a discretionary payment costs and create an environment where therefore milk quality.
contrary to the principle of a stable price.
Monthly Farmgate prices Great Britain pence per litre Source: DairyCo Datum 30 25 20 Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar 2010-11 2011-12 23.4 26.3 26.5 28.9 Business review 28 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 Business review | Milk Procurement continued 400 farmers are now using the online carbon assessment tool supplied by Agri Assist In the light of this we have reviewed whether Retailer pools Looking ahead we can offer stable price contracts going We continue to work with our existing With the number of dairy farmers in the forward.
We continue to try different ideas retailer milk pools to increase efficiency UK being in decline, succession remains and have successfully introduced another and sustainability and explore new market a key concern.
Dairy Crest is a long-term new contract in both liquid and cheese opportunities that deliver consumer supporter of a number of initiatives to milk supplying areas.
The Dairy Crest Farm or farmer value.
Examples include the encourage and support the next generation Business Contract offers larger farms the M&S Better for You milk initiative, of dairy farmers.
We are proud to sponsor opportunity to share the benefit from any the development of a Sainsbury Dairy the Dairy Crest RABDF Student Award additional efficiency savings we can achieve.
Development Group cost of production and the Dairy Crest NFU South West We are continuing to evaluate new pricing model, and further cow welfare Scholarship Fund.
Once again these contract opportunities and pricing monitoring initiatives for the Waitrose Dairy programmes have shown the enormous mechanisms with DCD so we can offer Farmer Milk Scheme.
In addition, with talent that exists, and that we need to retain greater flexibility and choice to all our farmers.
Morrisons we have initiated a series of Focus within this sector for the future.
We are also Farm events to raise awareness of topical exploring how we can work more closely Farmer support & training issues including health & safety on farms.
with some of the agricultural colleges in our We continue to develop the unique farm core milk collection regions.
advisory service, White Gold, to offer further Distribution support to our farmers.
One example is a Our distribution operation has been a Summary water resource model, which aims to create focus for achieving greater efficiency whilst Dairy Crest recognises and values the greater awareness of current water utilisation maintaining service levels to farmers and huge efforts our farmers make in producing to help deliver efficiency improvements in the customers.
Two new transport depots top quality milk to the highest standards future.
We are also working to expand the in Carmarthen and West Thurrock have of animal welfare and environmental herd health initiative provided by Edinburgh increased efficiency within our ex-farm management.
We are proud of the strong University as part of the White Gold service.
operation and reduced carbon emissions.
relationship we have built up with our Our regionally based farm liaison team Extensive work has taken place to ensure farmers and DCD, and recognise this as one are continually participating in additional the fleet is better able to cope with adverse of the core foundations of our business.
training and awareness events to ensure that weather conditions.
We have held a number of on-farm they are fully informed and up to date with training and awareness events with our staff the latest dairy knowledge and legislation.
Agri Assist throughout the other areas of the business, Agri Assist, the joint venture between in order to give them the opportunity to see Country Life new customer DCD and Dairy Crest, continues to explore first hand the key role our farmers play within opportunities cost saving and revenue generating Dairy Crest.
We have also given our farmers Our Country Life farm package, which initiatives.
These include a specialist online the opportunity to understand more about includes farm standards in addition to the carbon assessment tool now used by what happens to their milk further up the Red Tractor Assured Dairy Scheme, is over 400 farmers and a group electricity supply chain and the importance of meeting enabling us to build new propositions for purchasing deal.
the needs of our consumers.
The Country Life farm standards focus on efficiency, sustainability and key consumer issues including environmental issues.
