46 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 Directors report The Directors of Dairy Crest Group plc the Company present their Having reviewed and taken into account Going Concern and sixteenth Annual Report to shareholders together with the audited Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009, financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries for the year published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009, the ended 31 March 2012.
The purpose of the Annual Report is to Directors are satisfied that the Company and the Group have provide information to members of the Company.
The Company, its adequate resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future.
Directors, employees, agents and advisers do not accept or assume For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown preparing the financial statements.
or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
It contains certain forward-looking Business review statements with respect to the operations, performance and S417 of the Companies Act 2006 Companies Act requires that financial condition of the Group.
By their nature, these statements the Company sets out in this report a fair review of the business of involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause the Group during the 2011 12 financial year, including balanced and results to differ from those anticipated.
The forward-looking comprehensive analysis of the development and performance of the statements reect knowledge and information available at the date of Group during the financial year and the position of the Group at the preparation of this Annual Report and, except to the extent required end of the year: together with information relating to environmental, by applicable regulations or by law, the Group undertakes no employee, social and community matters.
In addition, the Company obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Nothing in is required to provide a description of the principal risks and this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
uncertainties facing the Group and, to the extent necessary for an understanding of the business, the main trends and factors likely to As the 2011 12 financial year commenced after 29 June 2010, affect the future development, performance and position of the references to the Code in this Report are to the UK Corporate Companys business.
The information satisfying the business review Governance Code of June 2010. requirements is set out in this report: the Chairmans Statement on page 13: the Chief Executives Review on pages 14 to 15: the Principal activities Business Review on pages 19 to 37: the review of the principal risks The principal activities of the Group are the manufacture, processing and uncertainties on pages 16 to 17: and the Group Key and distribution of milk and dairy products.
Further information can Performance Indicators KPIs on page 5: all of which are be found within the Business Review section at pages 19 to 37. incorporated into this Report by reference.
The Corporate Governance Report and biographical and other information set out Going concern on pages 10 to 12 and on pages 50 to 56 form part of this Directors The Group and Companys business activities, together with factors Report and are also incorporated into it by reference.
likely to affect future development, performance and position are set out in the Chief Executives Review on pages 14 to 15, the business Group results reviews on pages 19 to 37 and the review of principal risks and The Groups consolidated income statement set out on page 57 uncertainties on pages 16 to 17.
The financial position, cash ows, shows a loss for the financial year of 17.1 million compared with liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the 57.5 million profit in 2010 11.
Financial Review on pages 34 to 37.
In addition, notes 30 and 31 to the Accounts include the Group and Companys objectives, policies Post balance sheet events and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk On 9 March 2012 the Group announced that it was undertaking a management objectives: details of its financial instruments and strategic review of its French branded spreads business, St Hubert.
hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Since its acquisition in January 2007, St Hubert has consistently increased its market share and profitability.
However, the Group has As highlighted in Note 30, the Company and Group meet day-to-day been unable to make additional synergistic acquisitions in working capital requirements through syndicated revolving credit Continental Europe, as it envisaged at the time of acquisition, and facilities and ensure that forecast net borrowings plus a reasonable believes that greater value may be generated for shareholders operating headroom are covered by committed facilities which through the consideration of all available options for the business.
mature at least 12 months after the year end.
At 31 March 2012, This review is ongoing and is evaluating all possible options available effective headroom was 303.2 million.
During the year we cancelled to maximise shareholder value including potential divestment.
A the old facilities and entered into a new three-year multi-currency disposal would reduce the Groups debt and provide a number of revolving credit facility which matures in October 2016.
The next alternatives including releasing some proceeds to shareholders, maturity of funding is in April 2013 when $68.1 million of US loan investing in our core business and making strategic acquisitions of notes are to be repaid.
Repayment of these is intended to be out of branded dairy and chilled foods businesses in the UK.
Any disposal existing bank facilities, which will still leave the Group with would be likely to occur within the next 12 months and would be comfortable levels of facility headroom.
There were no breaches of bank covenants in the year ended 31 Dividends March 2012 and projections do not indicate any breaches in the The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 14.7 pence foreseeable future.
Since the reduction of Euro denominated 2011 12: 14.2 pence per ordinary share, which if approved, will be borrowings in the year ended March 2009, exchange rate paid to members on the register at the close of business on 22 June uctuations no longer materially impact our bank covenant tests.
Together, the final dividend and interim dividend 5.7 pence per ordinary share paid on 26 January 2012 make total dividends Forecasts and projections, taking into account reasonably possible for the year of 20.4 pence per ordinary share 2010 11: 19.7 pence.
changes in trading performance, show that the Company and Group will be able to operate within the level of current facilities.
Share capital The authorised and issued share capital of the Company together with details of movements in the Companys issued share capital during 2011 12 are shown in Note 24 to the financial statements.
As Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 47 at the date of this report, 133.357 million ordinary 25p shares were in purchase of ordinary shares, the contract for which was concluded issue and fully paid with an aggregate nominal value of 33.3 million.
before this authority expires and which will or may be executed wholly or partly after such expiry, the authority granted shall expire at Rights and obligations attaching to shares the conclusion of this years AGM.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys Reports and Accounts: to attend and speak at General Meetings of The Directors believe it advisable to seek renewal of both of the the Company: to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
To be above-mentioned authorities or replacement of them with suitable effective, electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting alternatives, annually at the AGM.
Approval will be sought from the instructions must be received at the Companys registered ofce, or shareholders at this years AGM to renew the authorities for a further such other place in the United Kingdom specified in the relevant year.
notice of meeting, not later than 48 hours before a General Meeting.
None of the shares carry any special rights with regard to control of Pensions the Company.
There are no known arrangements under which On 31 March 2010 the Groups dened benefit pension fund was financial rights are held by a person other than the holder of the closed to future accrual.
Accordingly, the fund is now in run-off.
It shares and no known agreements on restrictions on share transfers remains under the control of a corporate trustee, Dairy Crest Pension or on voting rights.
Shares acquired through Company share Trustees Limited, the board of which comprises four directors schemes and plans rank pari passu with the shares in issue and nominated by Dairy Crest Limited and three directors elected by all have no special rights.
The pension funds assets are held separately from those of the Group and can only be used in accordance with the rules of the Transfer of shares pension fund.
Pension provision for employees is now made through Subject to applicable statutes and regulations, there are no a dened contribution pension scheme.
restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of any class of shares and no requirements for prior approval of any transfers.
significant agreements change of control A change of control of the Company following a takeover bid may Shareholder waiver of dividends cause a number of agreements to which the Company or its The Company established an employee benefit trust in 1996 which subsidiaries are party, to take effect, alter or terminate.
The in certain circumstances holds shares in connection with the agreements that are considered significant are as follows: Groups employee share incentive plans.
As the registered holder, the voting rights in the shares are exercisable by the trustee.
Borrowing facilities However, the trustee does not ordinarily exercise those rights and Non-compliance with the change of control clauses in the Groups waives its entitlement to dividends.
funding arrangements, or failure to reach agreement with the parties on revised terms, would require any acquirer to put in place Articles of association replacement facilities.
Changes to the articles of association of the Company Articles must be approved by the shareholders in accordance with the Essential contracts legislation in force from time to time.
It is vital that the Group is able to source high quality raw milk at the most competitive prices.
To that end the Group has numerous No compensation for loss of ofce contracts for its supply.
While these contracts are collectively The Company does not have agreements with any Director or essential to the business, no single contract nor any single supplier employee that would provide compensation for loss of ofce or of raw milk is critical to the Companys business.
employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of the Companys share schemes and plans may cause options and The Company also has strong relationships with certain major awards granted to employees under such schemes and plans to retailers to supply them with liquid milk and other branded products.
Individually these contracts are important to the business but not essential.
Issue of shares At the Annual General Meeting AGM on 19 July 2011, Substantial shareholdings shareholders renewed the authority for the Board under the Articles During the period and up to 23 May 2012, the Company has been to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities up notied in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules to an aggregate nominal amount of 22,218,626. issued by the Financial Services Authority of the following interests of 3% or more in the Companys existing issued ordinary share capital.
Purchase of own shares Notified At the AGM on 19 July 2011, shareholders granted the Company percentage authority to make market purchases of up to 13,331,175 of its issued Notified of issued ordinary shares of 25 pence each, provided that: the minimum price No.
of shares share capital which may be paid for any such ordinary share is 25 pence Delta Lloyd & its Group of Companies 6,690,877 5.02% exclusive of expenses and appropriate taxes : the maximum price exclusive of expenses and appropriate taxes which may be paid for any such ordinary share shall be not more than 5% above the The Company also received notications during the period from average of the middle market prices for an ordinary share in the Aviva plc and its subsidiaries, Prudential plc group of companies and Company as taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial M&G Investment Funds 3, the most recent from each of which, List for the five business days immediately preceding the date of however, reported that they no longer have notiable interests.
The Company did not exercise this authority during the notications have been received in the period from 1 April 2012 to 23 year and made no market purchases.
Except in relation to a May 2012.
Governance 48 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 Directors report continued Directors The Board is committed to ensuring that a culture free from both The names and biographical details of the current Directors of the discrimination and harassment remains embedded within the Group.
Company and details of those who have served during the year are Discrimination of any sort is not tolerated.
Proper consideration is given on pages 10 to 11.
The names of those persons who were given to applications for employment from disabled people who are Directors during the year but have retired or resigned from the Board employed whenever suitable vacancies arise.
Wherever practicable, are set out at page 11, together with the dates on which they left the staff who become disabled during employment are retained.
Group practices equality of opportunity for all employees, irrespective of ethnic origin, religion, political opinion, gender, marital The rules on appointment, re-appointment and retirement of status, disability, age or sexual orientation.
Directors are contained in the Articles see Appointments to the Board on page 52.
Research and development The Group has adopted a target of delivering 10% of its annual Directors interests turnover through new product development.
Focus continues to be Details of the interests in the shares of the Company of the Directors on offering consumers a wide product mix, and especially the holding ofce as at the date of this report, along with those of the development of lower fat variants of existing products.
Dairy Crest Directors who held ofce during the year but retired or resigned from remains at the forefront of dairy industry developments to reduce ofce, and their immediate families appear in the Remuneration packaging waste through innovation such as our patented jug and Report on page 41. milk bag.
Details of the Directors service contracts and letters of appointment Land and buildings appear in the Remuneration Report on page 41.
Having obtained an informal valuation of certain of the Groups land and buildings, the Directors are of the opinion that the current No Director had a material interest in any significant contract with the market value in existing use of the Groups land and buildings slightly Company or any of its subsidiaries during the year.
Procedures for exceeds their book value.
dealing with Directors conicts of interest are in place and are operating effectively.
Supplier payment policy The Company is a holding company and had no amounts owing to Directors and ofcers indemnities and insurance trade creditors at 31 March 2012 2010 11: nil.
The Groups creditor The Company maintains liability insurance for its Directors and days outstanding at 31 March 2012 were 23.6 2010 11 24.3 days of Ofcers and of its subsidiaries.
The Directors, Secretary and other purchases.
With the exception of milk suppliers, the Group has Ofcers of the Company and of its subsidiaries are indemnified by the standard payment terms of 60 days of receipt of invoice.
Payment Company to the extent permitted by company law.
That indemnity terms for purchases under major contracts are agreed as part of the provision has been in place during the year and remains in force.
Employees Charitable and political donations The Group employs approximately 6,000 people throughout the No political donations or expenditures were made or incurred during United Kingdom, France and Italy and depends on the skills and the year.
Charitable donations amounted to 0.1 million 2010 11: commitment of its employees in order to achieve its objectives.
The Corporate Responsibility section of the Business Personnel at every level are encouraged to make their fullest review at pages 29 to 33 provides additional detail on the charitable possible contribution to Dairy Crests success.
activities of the Group and its employees.
Employees are kept regularly informed on matters affecting them Disclosure of information to the auditor and on issues affecting the Groups performance through a variety So far as each Director in ofce at the date of approval of this Report of communication tools, including the Group intranet and the is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the in-house magazine.
Companys External Auditor, Ernst & Young LLP Ernst & Young is unaware.
The Group has well-established consultation and negotiating arrangements with established trade unions.
Each of the Directors has taken all steps that they might reasonably be expected to have taken in order to make themselves aware i of Employees are encouraged to acquire shares in the Group through any relevant audit information and ii to establish that the Companys participation in the savings-related share option scheme Sharesave External Auditor is aware of such information.
Details of this Scheme are set out in Note 26 to the financial statements and at page 40 of the Directors Remuneration For the purposes of this statement on disclosure of information to Report.
the External Auditor, relevant audit information is the information needed by the Companys External Auditor in connection with the In recognition of the key part played by employee engagement in the preparation of its report at page 110.
Groups long-term success, the Group has established a wide ranging programme aimed at promoting and enhancing employee Directors responsibility statements engagement.
The programme includes regular surveys in which all The responsibility statements required under Disclosure and employees are invited to participate, to gauge the level of employee Transparency Rule 4.1 are set out on page 56. engagement within the Group.
Once the outcome of the survey has been fed back to the Divisions, business units and departments, plans designed to maintain and improve employee engagement are prepared and implemented.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 49 Annual general meeting The AGM will be held at Eversheds LLP, One Wood Street, London, EC2V 7WS on Tuesday, 17 July 2012 at 12.00 pm.
The Notice convening the meeting will be issued separately, together with details of the business to be considered and explanatory notes relating to each of the resolutions being proposed.
Auditor Ernst & Young has expressed its willingness to continue as Auditor of the Company.
A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young as the Companys Auditor will be put to the forthcoming AGM.
By order of the Board: Robin Miller Company Secretary Dairy Crest Group plc Claygate House Littleworth Road Esher Surrey KT10 9PN Registered in England and Wales No.
