Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 19 Business review Spreads We manufacture butter and spreads in the UK, and spreads in million 2011 12 2010 11 France and have strong market positions in both these countries Revenue 328.7 285.5 as well as in Italy.
Profit 63.0 53.3 Margin 19.2% 18.7% Consumption of spreads in the markets in which we operate has continued to edge back year on year volumes are down 2% but higher prices, reflecting higher input costs, have led to value growth in both UK 12% and France 6%.
Both these markets remain strongly branded.
We have broadly maintained our market share in the UK, with a good performance by Clover being offset by lower sales of Country Life, and have increased our market share in France, benefiting from strong growth in our market-leading brand St Hubert Omga 3.
We continue to increase expenditure on advertising and promotions and to drive innovation.
For the year ended 31 March 2012, revenue of 328.7 million is up 15% from last year, segment profit of 63.0 million is up 18% and a segment margin of 19% is the same as last year.
Share of UK retail butters and Share of French retail non-butter spreads market by value spreads by value Other 8% Other 7% Dairy Crest Private Lactalis St Hubert label 13% 15% 18% 39% Unilever 30% Arla 29% Unilever 41% Source: Nielsen 52 w e 31 March 2012 Source: IRI 52 w e 1 April 2012 St Hubert strategic review of this business which could lead to a potential divestment.
St Hubert achieves During the year the total non-butter French Spreads market grew to 397 market leadership as million.
St Hubert increased its market market share increases share to a record 39%, reflecting the growth of St Hubert Omga 3, St Hubert to a record 39% Bio and the successful launch of two new innovative products, St Hubert 5 Crales St Hubert manufactures spreads at Ludres and St Hubert Spcialit Culinaire.
The in North Eastern France, for distribution business also benefited from the temporary across France and to Italy.
It was acquired delisting of competitors products by some in January 2007 from Uniq plc, and under customers.
Dairy Crests ownership the business has In Italy our market-leading Vall brand prospered and has consistently grown has performed well and has maintained its market share and profits.
we announced that we had commenced a Business review 20 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 Business review | Spreads continued UK Spreads Another strong performance, led by Clover, our largest spreads brand We manufacture butters and spreads in Clover remains the UKs leading dairy we and our retail customers react to offset two factories in the UK, at Kirkby near spread and has grown market share again the economic pressure on consumers.
Liverpool and at Crudgington in Shropshire, this year.
Sales of We will grow profits in our UK Spreads using cream from our Dairies business, and Clover Lighter are now 17% of total Clover business by making it more efficient and distribute them to UK retailers through our sales and grew by 27% in the year.
We are in the process of consolidating Clover national distribution centre in Nuneaton.
have advertised Clover and Clover Lighter production at our Kirkby site.
During the The UK butter, spreads and margarine separately this year in order to continue to year, we also completed the rationalisation market grew 12% in the year to 1.3 billion, appeal to both health and taste conscious of our packaging across all our brands to a reflecting a small reduction in volume consumers.
As well as reducing costs, this being more than offset by significant price Country Life is the only major British also makes our supply chain more robust.
Input costs, most notably cream butter brand and we have continued to and vegetable oils, continued to rise in the highlight this in our advertising.
Country first half of the year and we had to increase Life Spreadable outperformed the market, our selling prices as a result.
albeit from a relatively small base.
However, We broadly maintained our market share.
Country Life block butter sales fell back as Our largest brand, Clover, grew ahead of the we reflected higher input costs in our selling 16 % market.
However, Country Life sales have prices sooner than our competitors and sales growth for Clover fallen back slightly.
These two key brands chose to improve our overall margins.
were well supported by Utterly Butterly, Higher levels of promotional activity have which also grew ahead of the market.
supported both Country Life and Clover as Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 21 Business review
