22 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 Business review continued Cheese Dairy Crest has the leading cheese brand in the UK, Cathedral million 2011 12 2010 11 City, and a world class supply chain.
Cathedral City is made at Revenue 229.6 223.1 Profit 35.5 28.0 our Davidstow creamery in Cornwall from milk supplied by around Margin 15.5% 12.6% 400 local dairy farmers.
The cheese is matured, cut and wrapped at our state of the art facility in Nuneaton from where it is despatched to retailers.
Share of the total UK retail We also make Davidstow branded cheddar and supply a small cheese market by value quantity of high quality retailer branded cheddar.
This year we Cathedral City have entered a new market with Chedds, the first 100% cheddar snack for kids.
10% Reported revenue for the year ended 31 March 2012 grew on a like for like basis by 7% to 229.6 million after adjusting for the sale Other 90% of our majority stake in Wexford Creamery in June 2010.
Segment profits increased by 27% to 35.5 million resulting in a segment Source: Nielsen 52 w e 31 March 2012 margin of 15% 2011: profit of 28.0 million and 13% margin.
The virtuous circle of market leading brands and facilities has delivered strong profit growth and record high milk prices to our farmers UK retail cheese market volumes were past this was positioned as a sub-brand, consistently producing the highest quality broadly flat in the year with values increasing carrying both the Davidstow name and that cheese, which reduces downgrade and by 4% to 2.5 billion.
The market has of the retailer, but last year we replaced the improves average realisations.
At Nuneaton been predominantly retailer own label, sub-brand in Sainsburys and Tesco with we have continued to increase the speed but Cathedral City has again increased its a new Davidstow cheddar and we now of the packing machines and delivered market share and is now approaching 10% have firm plans to continue to widen its improved efficiencies.
of the total market following a 12% sales distribution with other major retailers.
Improved profitability has allowed us to increase in the year.
We have continued We want to widen our consumer base increase the price we pay our dairy farmers to advertise and promote Cathedral City and during the year we launched Chedds, for the milk they supply to Davidstow to strongly using our successful advertising a new snack brand for children.
Chedds record highs of nearly 29 pence per litre, campaign, the nations favourite, which aims to solve the dilemma facing parents reinforcing the virtuous circle of market reflects the brands strength.
who want their children to benefit from the leading brands, facilities and milk prices.
Cathedral City now dominates the calcium and other nutrients cheese provides Looking forward we have a great branded everyday cheese category and from a product they dont see as artificial.
opportunity to deliver growth in revenue achieved a market share of over 50% of the Made from 100% Cathedral City cheddar, and profits in this business through a category in March 2012.
It has outperformed Chedds balances being tasty and fun combination of consumer-led innovation its rivals in this category and its sales now for kids with a vote of approval from their and marketing.
Further new products are exceed those of the next four brands parents.
Chedds has already gained good planned which will target different consumer combined.
In line with our strategy to widen penetration and has a strong repeat rate groups.
We have made more cheese at the appeal of Cathedral City to account for we plan to advertise on television later this Davidstow to meet demand, which, together all tastes, all the brands variants including year to continue to drive growth.
with higher milk prices, has resulted in an Lighter, Mild and Extra mature have grown Profits in our cheese business have increase in cheese stocks.
Planned capacity faster than the largest selling Mature variant.
been supported by strong returns from improvements will allow us to continue to In addition to Cathedral Citys strong whey and by efficiency measures across grow in the future.
performance, we have also made good the supply chain.
At Davidstow we have progress with our Davidstow brand.
In the been able to improve further the hit rate by Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 23 Business review
