6 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2012 Group Procurement Focus on cost reduction Driving value in mature markets A key part of Dairy Crests consistent strategy has been to reduce our costs and drive efficiencies year in and year out.
We set ourselves the target to reduce our costs by 20 million each year, and use the money saved to give greater value to consumers, increase marketing spend and W I NNER boost Dairy Crests profits.
Our Procurement In the year ended 31 March 2012 we saved 22 million team has won the 2012 Procurement Leaders from a range of initiatives, up from 20 million the previous Award for People year.
This allowed us to offset some of the inationary pressures facing consumers from higher commodity costs, boost the amount we spent on marketing our key brands and maintain adjusted profit before tax in challenging trading conditions.
Working with suppliers Cost reduction in practice innovative new milk bottles Our Procurement team has delivered purchasing savings Working up and down the supply chain we have developed totalling 14 million in the last two years.
This team is a new lighter milk bottle that uses 15% less plastic and is responsible for working with suppliers to drive change and easier for consumers.
The dual objectives of a lighter bottle deliver sustainable value to Dairy Crest.
The focus is on and improved performance have been achieved with a new continuous improvement in quality, service and innovation design that does not force the material as far into each of the while at the same time managing risk.
In reducing the distance to the corners of the Dairy Crest spends over 550 million each year on bottle there is a considerable reduction in the weight of material externally sourced goods and services, excluding milk, so required.
controlling our costs and ensuring we maximise value for every A further important element of the innovative design is the pound spent is essential.
We operate in an ethical, sustainable positioning of the handle at a corner edge of the bottle.
Stored and corporately responsible way and expect our suppliers in the fridge, the handle can therefore be positioned facing to do the same.
We have implemented a supplier Corporate outwards, making it easier for consumers.
Responsibility programme across our top 50 suppliers, setting In an initial trial, 30,000 bottles carried stickers which gave out the standards we expect from them.
consumers careline information in case they were not satisfied Our supply base remains a key source of current and future with the new bottle.
However, no complaints were received innovation as we look to seek out and deliver new solutions.
and consumers clearly like the new design.
A full roll-out of the new bottles will take place in 2012 13.
Our milkmen will deliver them to some of the one million British homes that receive supplies of Country Life milk from us and we Cost reduction in practice e-auctions drive costs down also expect to supply the new bottles to all our other customers.
We have embraced technology to drive better purchasing and our e-sourcing strategy has led to savings in areas such as gas, plastic packaging and logistics.
22million annualised cost savings during the year allowing us to spend more on marketing and offset ination for our consumers m 10 11 11 12 Production efficiencies 5 7 Overheads 5 3 Purchasing 5 9 Distribution 5 3 Total 20 22 Cost reduction in practice Single spreads tub design In the year ended 31 March 2012 we concluded a seamless move to a single spreads tub design for both our French and UK spreads operations.
The new tub is lighter and thus reduces cost and waste and buying more means we buy better.
Moving to a single tub also makes our supply chain more robust.
Managing risk Dairy Crest purchases vegetable oil and products derived from crude oil such as resins and diesel.
These markets can be volatile and we do all we can to minimise risk for ourselves and our customers.
We use sophisticated risk management strategies via a multi-functional Risk Committee, that gives us the best possible insight into volatile markets so we get fewer surprises.
We receive daily market reports from relevant parts of our supply chain and have developed contingency plans for key commodities and ingredients.
For example, dual sourcing of base oils reduces our exposure to unforeseen global events and supply constraints.
