SECTION 3 MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE Directors report The Directors present their Annual report together with the will be paid to those persons on the Register of Members at the audited financial statements for the year ended 30 April 2012. close of business on 14 September 2012, and the payment date will be 5October 2012.
Principal activities The Groups principal activities in the period comprise the following Directors operating segments: Darty France, Other established businesses The names and biographical details of the Directors holding ofce at which consists of Vanden Borre Belgium, BCC Holland, and Datart the date of this report are shown on pages 26 and 27.
Particulars of Czech Republic and Slovakia, and Developing businesses which Directors emoluments and their interests in the shares of the Group consists of Darty Italy, Darty Turkey and Darty Spain.
Comet, in the and its subsidiaries are shown in the report on Directors remuneration UK, was sold on 3February 2012. and related matters on pages 37 to 43.
There were no changes in the Directors interests in shares between the end of the financial year and Business model 20June 2012.
Our business model revolves around our strategy outlined in the Operating business and financial review on pages 14 to 20, focusing At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and in accordance with on the short-term priorities of building on the strength and success Principle B7.1 of the UK Governance Code all of the Directors will be of our cross channel approach, ensuring Darty France takes profitable retiring and the following, being eligible, are offering themselves for market share, evolving our approach at the Developing businesses to re-election: strengthen our local positions and eliminate losses, and continuing to increase the Groups operating synergies.
We aim to deliver on these Thierry Falque-Pierrotin priorities through individual retail fascias within a number of European Bernard Dufau countries operating in three segments whilst centralising a number Michel Lonard of activities to deliver greater efficiency and better service.
Alan Parker Dominic Platt Business and financial review Alison Reed Further information regarding the Group, its progress during the financial year, events since the year end and likely future developments Details of the terms of the appointment of all the Directors can be found is contained in the Chairmans statement and in the Operating business in the report on Directors remuneration and related matters on pages and financial review.
The information that fulls the requirements of 37 to 43.
The Board strongly supports their re-election and thebusiness review as required by Section 417 of the Companies Act recommends that shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions 2006, is incorporated in this Directors report by reference, and can proposing their re-election.
be found on the following pages: Details of all the Executive Directors service contracts are set out in the Information Location Pages report on Directors remuneration and related matters on pages 37 to 43.
None of the Non-Executive Directors has a service contract.
Development and performance Chairmans statement 13 during the financial year Operating business Throughout the financial year, the Group has maintained liability and financial review 1420 insurance for its Directors and Ofcers against the costs of defending Position at the year end Operating business themselves in civil proceedings taken against them in that capacity and including analysis and and financial review 1420 in respect of damages resulting from the unsuccessful defence of any key performance indicators proceedings.
To the extent permitted by UK law, the Group has also provided an indemnity for its Directors and Ofcers.
Neither the Other performance, Corporate responsibility 2225 insurance nor the indemnity provides any cover where the Director including environmental Operating business has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
and employee matters and financial review 1420 Principal risks and uncertainties Corporate governance facing the business Directors report 2831 The Groups statement on corporate governance is set out on pages 32 to 36.
Land and buildings value Note 15 of the accounts 7677 Principal risks and uncertainties profit and dividends The business, financial condition or results of operations of the Group Kesa Continuing Group sales for the financial year to 30 April 2012 could be adversely affected by any of the risks set out below.
The were 4.0 billion 2011: 4.1 billion with retail profit of 70.1 million Groups systems of control and risk management are designed to help 2011: 117.3 million.
The retained loss for the year ended 30 April manage and control risks to an appropriate level rather than to eliminate 2012 amounts to 313.9 million 2011: profit 30.7 million.
The corporate governance report on pages 32 to 36 sets out the operational procedures through which the Directors assess and An interim dividend of 2.25 cents per share was paid to the ordinary manage risk.
shareholders of the Company on 1 April 2012 and, on 20 June 2012, the Directors recommended the payment of a final dividend of The Directors consider that the principal risks to achieving the Groups 1.25 cents 2011: 4.75 cents, giving a total dividend for the year objectives are those set out below.
The final dividend, once approved, 28 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2011 12 SECTION 3 MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE a Economic and market conditions The amount of the deficit is volatile as a result of changes in the The economic environment inuences the level of consumer assumptions regarding life expectancy, discount rates, ination and future expenditure on electrical goods in a number of ways.
The state of salary increases, risks regarding the value of investments and the returns the housing market affects spending on white goods in particular, derived from such investments.
Changes in pension fund legislation have and the feel good factor has a significant influence on discretionary also caused increases in scheme deficits and uncertainties, and a number spending on higher value electrical products.
Many other economic of deficit mitigation measures have been undertaken, and will be taken factors influence customers spending decisions, including interest in the future, to reduce both the size of the deficit and its volatility.
rate, government economic policy and levels of personal debt.
TheGroup seeks to offset some of the adverse effects by trading f Financial risk management ina number of different countries, but over 100 per cent of retail Financial management risks relating to foreign exchange, credit risks profit isgenerated in France.
and liquidity are detailed in note 2 to the accounts.
Actions taken by the Groups competitors, the increasing g Legislative and regulatory risks participation of sales via the internet, as well as actions taken to The Groups operations are subject to extensive regulatory maintain its own competitiveness and reputation for value, have requirements, particularly in relation to its products and after-sales placed and may continue to place pressure on the Groups pricing, services, its advertising, marketing and sales practices, its employment margins and profitability.
The Group seeks to offset the pressure on and pensions policies, and planning and environmental issues.
margin by consistently trying to improve its buying terms, managing Changes in laws and regulations and their enforcement may adversely its cost base and store portfolio as well as enhancing its own online impact the Groups operations in terms of costs, changes to business offerings and store propositions.
practices, and restrictions on activities.
The Groups businesses may also be adversely affected by changes in tax laws.
The level of profit margin in electrical retailing is signicantly less than that of many other retailers and is largely determined by the Potential changes to legislation and regulatory requirements are market, consumer demand, manufacturer supply, competition and monitored, so that the business model and processes can be adapted accordingly to minimise the impact of such a change.
The Group protects its margins, as far as possible, through its buying arrangements and by maintaining an efficient sourcing operation.
Cost structures are actively managed h Reputational risks in order to mitigate the impact of product margin erosion.
The Groups success is dependent, in part, upon the strength of the Groups brands and their reputation.
The Group operates in an industry b Entry into new markets where integrity, customer trust and confidence are important and any There are only limited opportunities available to expand the Group, adverse publicity concerning corporate behaviour, policies and as suitable target companies may not be available for purchase at a strategies could damage that customer trust and damage the Groups reasonable price, and there is a shortage of appropriate sites to enable reputation and brands.
There are a number of internal controls and profitable rapid organic growth.
Efforts to seek growth in Southern Europe processes which have been put in place to try and limit the number have, to date, demonstrated the difficulty in achieving profitable growth.
and harmful effect of such incidents.
c Systems failure i Leased properties The Groups businesses are highly dependent on the suitability and A significant portion of the Groups properties are leasehold, and the reliability of their systems and procedures, especially information Group is therefore exposed to increases in commercial property rents technology, warehousing and distribution systems.
The Group and a restricted ability to terminate or renegotiate leases.
This exposure is implementing a number of common IT systems to both improve was substantially reduced by the sale of Comet, but there is still functionality and reduce complexity.
a significant amount of the property portfolio which is leasehold.
d Employees Share capital and control The Groups success depends on its ability to continue to attract, At 30 April 2012, there were 529,553,216 ordinary shares of 30 cents motivate and retain highly qualied employees.
There are also a number each in issue together with rights under the Groups Long Term Incentive of initiatives planned which may cause disruption.
The highly qualied Plans for 8,634,967 ordinary shares of 30 cents.
It is intended to satisfy employees required by the Group in various capacities are sometimes these rights through market purchase, rather than issuing new shares.
in short supply in the labour market.
Measures including an LTIP, employee satisfaction survey, better project management and performance Further details of the share capital are given in note 28 to the management systems have been introduced to address this risk.
e Pension risks Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and speak at general Following the sale of Comet, the UK dened benefit scheme for Comet meetings of the Company, to appoint one or more proxies and, if they employees was retained by Kesa Electricals.
There is a smaller dened are corporations, corporate representatives to attend general meetings benefit scheme in France for senior Darty and Kesa employees.
Both and to exercise voting rights.
Holders of ordinary shares may receive schemes are currently in deficit.
a dividend and on liquidation may share in the assets of the Company.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys Annual report and accounts.
Subject to meeting certain thresholds, holders Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2011 12 29 SECTION 3 MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE Directors report of ordinary shares may requisition a general meeting of the Company year at the Annual General Meeting.
A copy of the Articles is available or the proposal of resolutions at Annual General Meetings.
on request from the Company Secretary.
Voting rights There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every holder upon a change of control of the Group following a takeover, such as of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote commercial contracts, the Group bank agreements, and employees has one vote and on a poll every member present in person or by proxy share plans.
None of these are deemed to be significant in terms of and entitled to vote has one vote for every ordinary share held.
None their potential impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
of the ordinary shares carries any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting significant contracts instructions must be received by the Groups registrars not later than There are no persons with whom the Group has contractual or other i 48 hours before a meeting or adjourned meeting, or ii 24 hours arrangements which are essential to the business of the Group.
before a poll is taken, if the poll is not taken on the same day as the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Purchase of own shares At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 15 September Restrictions on transfer of shares 2011, authority was given for the Company to purchase, in the market, There are some restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company, which up to 52,955,321 ordinary shares of 30 cents each.
The Company did may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations forexample not use this authority to make any purchases of its own shares during insider trading laws.
Pursuant to the Groups Code of Conduct, the the period.
At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 13 September Directors and senior executives of the Group require approval to deal in the 2012, shareholders will be asked to give a similar authority.
Furthermore, where a person with at least a 0.25 per cent interest in a class of shares has been served with a disclosure notice and Substantial shareholding has failed to provide the Company with information concerning interests As at 20 June 2012, the following interests of more than 3 per cent in those shares, the Articles of Association the Articles provide that the in the issued share capital of the Company had been notied under Company may refuse to register a transfer of those shares.
6 of the Financial Services Authorities Disclosure and Transparency Rules: The Group is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting rights.
Percentage Number of of issued Name ordinary shares share capital The Companys Articles of Association give the Board the power Knight Vinke 132,605,624 25.04% to appoint Directors, but also require Directors to retire and submit Schroders plc 58,351,430 11.02% themselves for election at the first Annual General Meeting following Capital Research and Management Company 44,727,681 8.45% their appointment.
A Director who retires in this way is eligible for UBS Global Asset Management 39,093,824 7.38% election but is not taken into account when deciding how many Chase Nominees Limited A C TMBC1 27,066,865 5.11% Directors should retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting.
BlackRock, Inc 24,900,633 4.70% TheArticles themselves may be amended by special resolution Standard Life Investments Limited 23,162,688 4.37% of theshareholders.
Crdit Agricole Group 16,537,891 3.12% Pursuant to the Articles, at every Annual General Meeting any Director who i has been appointed by the Board since the last Annual General Annual General Meeting Meeting, ii who held ofce at the time of the two preceding Annual The ninth Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at General Meetings and who did not retire at either of them, or iii who 11.00am on Thursday, 13 September 2012 at Hilton London Euston has held ofce with the Company, other than employment or executive Hotel, 17-18 Upper Woburn Place, London WC1H 0HT.
ofce, for a continuous period of nine years or more at the date of the Annual General Meeting, shall retire from ofce and may offer himself for Corporate responsibility re-appointment by the members.
From time to time a Director may retire The Group has the Kesa Operating Principles handbook which contains and offer himself for re-appointment by the shareholders to ensure a code of conduct which sets out the standards of behaviour expected orderly succession.
in the Group and of all who work for the Group, in their relationships with employees, customers, suppliers, business partners, the Notwithstanding the Articles, in accordance with Principle B7.1 of the community including the environment, government and all other UK Corporate Governance Code 2010, all Directors offer themselves stakeholders in the business.
for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
More information on corporate responsibility is set out on pages 22 to 25.
The Board of Directors is responsible for the management of the business of the Group and may exercise all the powers of the Group Donations subject to the provisions of the Companys Memorandum of The Groups support for charitable causes is principally through the work Association and the Articles.
The Articles contain specic provisions done by the Groups operating companies to the value of 209,000. and restrictions regarding the Groups power to borrow money.
Powers Details of the types of activity undertaken are set out in the corporate relating to the issuing and buying back of shares are also included in responsibility report on pages 22 to 25. the Articles and shareholders are asked to renew such authorities each 30 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2011 12 SECTION 3 MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE The Group made no political donations and incurred no items of Creditor payment political expenditure.
For all trade creditors, it is Group policy to: Employment policies Agree and confirm the terms of supply at the commencement At 30 April 2012, the average number of employees working for the of business with that supplier: Group throughout Europe, Turkey and Asia was 16,986.
The Group consists of a number of businesses operating in different countries.
Pay in accordance with contractual and other legal obligations: and While employment practices may vary between these businesses, the Group is, nevertheless, committed to ensuring that: Continually review the payment procedures and liaise with suppliers as a means of eliminating difficulties and maintaining a good All employees receive fair and equal treatment irrespective of working relationship.
gender, ethnic origin, age, nationality, marital status, religion, sexuality or disability.
Trade creditors of the Group at 30 April 2012 were 47.6 2011: 46.9 days based on the ratio of Group trade creditors at the end of the The working environment is conducive to achievement and free period to the amounts invoiced during the period by trade creditors.
The trade creditors for the Company were nil 2011: nil.
Disabled persons, whether registered or not, have equal Directors disclosure of information to auditors opportunities when applying for vacancies, with due regard to their The Directors believe that there is no relevant audit information of which aptitudes and abilities.
In addition to complying with legislative the auditors are unaware and each Director has taken all steps that he requirements, procedures ensure that disabled employees are fairly or she ought to have taken as a Director to make themself aware of any treated and that their training and career development needs are relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware carefully managed.
The assessment of training needs and the provision of appropriate Auditors Resolutions concerning the re-appointment of the auditors and training is delivered to its employees.
authorising the Directors to set their remuneration will be proposed Health and safety at the Annual General Meeting.
Group companies have a responsibility to ensure that all reasonable precautions are taken to provide and maintain working conditions, for  LLP have been the Companys auditors since employees and visitors alike, which are safe, healthy and in compliance it listed on the London Stock Exchange in July 2003.
Following its with statutory requirements and appropriate codes of practice.
annual review, the Audit Committee considers that the relationship with the auditors is working well and remains satisfied with their effectiveness.
The Groups companies pursue the objective of minimising the Accordingly, it has not considered it necessary to date to require the instances of occupational accidents and illnesses.
Examples of this are rm to tender for the audit work.
The external auditors are required to to be seen in the employment of health and safety advisers and in the rotate the audit partners responsible for the Group and subsidiary establishment of detailed policies and statements of intent and training audits every five years and the current lead audit partner has been in programmes for employees.
The Company Secretary has the place for three years.
There are no contractual obligations restricting responsibility to ensure that the Board is presented with a review detailing the Companys choice of external auditor.
how the Group overall complies with the statutory requirements and appropriate codes of practice.
By Order of the Board Employee involvement Simon Enoch Secretary Group companies actively consult their staff on matters of concern to 20 June 2012 them in the context of their employment.
In Europe, where the largest numbers of employees are, there is a formal consultation process Registered Ofce: through workers councils.
Consultation also takes place through joint 22-24 Ely Place consultation committees.
London EC1N 6TE Information on matters of concern to employees, including the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of the Group, is also disseminated through conferences, meetings, publications and electronic media.
With the sale of Comet in February 2012 the UK employee savings scheme was wound up.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2011 12 31
