OTHER STATUTORY INFORMA TION Introduction Essential contracts or other arrangements fide La Rue plc is incorporated as a public limited company and is fide La Rue confirms there are no persons with whom the Group registered in England and Wales under the Companies Act 1985 has contractual or other arrangements which fide La Rue considers with registered number 3834125 and has its registered ofce at are essential to its business in the context of the Group as a whole.
fide La Rue House, Jays Close, Viables, Basingstoke, Hampshire, Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect RG22 4BS.
of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements The Directors present their Annual Report for the period ended The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 31 March 2012, which includes the Business review, Corporate and the Group and Parent Company Financial Statements in governance report and audited Financial Statements for the accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Pages 1 to 52 inclusive of this Annual Report comprise Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent a Directors Report which has been drawn up and presented in Company Financial Statements for each financial year.
Under that accordance with English law and the liabilities of the Directors law they are required to prepare the Group Financial Statements in in connection with that report are subject to the limitations and accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS restrictions of such law.
This Directors Report also represents as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to the management report for the purpose of compliance with prepare the Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance DTR 4.1.
8R of the UK Listing Authority disclosure rules.
with UK accounting standards and applicable law UK Generally The Business review contains certain forward looking statements Accepted Accounting Practice.
which are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties: actual Under company law the Directors must not approve the Financial future results may differ materially from those expressed in or Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair implied in such statements.
Many of these assumptions, risks and view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and uncertainties relate to factors that are beyond fide La Rues ability of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group to control or estimate precisely.
The forward looking statements and Parent Company Financial Statements, the Directors are reect the knowledge and information available at the date of required to: preparation of this Annual Report, and will not be updated during the year.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as s 3ELECT SUITABLE ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND THEN APPLY THEM a profit forecast.
consistently Payments to suppliers sAKE JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES THAT ARE REASONABLE AND PRUDENT The Company and Groups policy is that suppliers be paid s &OR THE 'ROUP &INANCIAL 3TATEMENTS STATE WHETHER THEY HAVE on the basis of monthly summary invoicing plus 60 days subject been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU to local laws or other exceptions.
The average number of days credit provided by suppliers to the Group has been calculated s &OR THE 0ARENT #OMPANY &INANCIAL 3TATEMENTS STATE WHETHER at 43 days 2010 11: 39 days.
The Company does not have applicable UK accounting standards have been followed, subject any trade payables.
to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Company Financial Statements Change of control A number of agreements take effect, alter or terminate upon s 0REPARE THE &INANCIAL 3TATEMENTS ON THE GOING CONCERN BASIS a change of control of the Company such as employee share unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the plans as well as bank loan and certain commercial agreements.
Parent Company will continue in business None of these is deemed to be significant in the context of the The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Group as a whole except for the following: records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent The 175.0m credit facility dated 11 March 2010 between Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy the Company and four of its key relationship banks contains a at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and provision such that, in the event of a change of control, any lender enable them to ensure that its Financial Statements comply with may, if it so requires, notify the agent that it wishes to cancel its the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for commitment whereupon the commitment of that lender will be taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard cancelled and all its outstanding loans, together with accrued the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and interest, will become immediately due and payable.
A change of control will be deemed to have occurred if any Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are person or persons acting in concert as dened in the City also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Code on Takeovers and Mergers at any time is are or become Remuneration report and Corporate governance statement interested in more than 50 per cent of the issued ordinary share that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity Political donations of the corporate and financial information included on the Groups The Groups policy is not to make any political donations and website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and none were made during the year.
The Company will propose to dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation shareholders at this years AGM that the precautionary authority in other jurisdictions.
granted at the 2011 AGM, pursuant to the Companies Act 2006, be renewed and details are included in the Chairmans Letter and Notice of AGM.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2012 38 Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements Directors responsibility statement in respect of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules The Directors who held ofce at the date of approval of this report confirm to the best of their knowledge: s 4HE 'ROUP &INANCIAL 3TATEMENTS PREPARED IN ACCORDANCE with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole s 4HE MANAGEMENT REPORT REPRESENTED BY THE $IRECTORS 2EPORT includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face Provision of information to auditors The Directors who held ofce at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors A resolution to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors to the Company will be proposed at the AGM.
By order of the Board Edward Peppiatt Company Secretary 29 May 2012 fide La Rue Annual Report 2012 39
