SHAREHOLDERS AND SHARE CAPITAL Issued Share Capital Deferred shares As at 31 March 2012, there were 99,498,423 ordinary shares Deferred shares carry limited economic rights and no voting rights.
and 111,673,300 deferred shares in issue.
The ordinary shares They are not transferable except in accordance with the Articles.
are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Dealings subject to the Model Code of the Listing Rules Details of shares issued during the year are provided in note 18 Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services to the Financial Statements on page 81.
Authority, Directors and other Persons Discharging Managerial Responsibilities and certain employees require the approval Preemption rights and authority to allot of the Company to deal in the ordinary shares of the Company.
The Companies Act 2006 requires that any shares issued wholly for cash must be offered to existing shareholders in proportion Exercise of rights of shares in employee share schemes to their existing holdings unless authorised to the contrary by a Awards held by relevant participants under the Companys various resolution of the shareholders.
Resolutions giving such authority share plans carry no voting rights until the shares are issued.
Authorities to renew for one year the power Trustee of the fide La Rue Employee Share Ownership Trust does of Directors to allot shares pursuant to sections 570 and 573 of not seek to exercise voting rights on existing shares held in the the Companies Act 2006 will be sought from shareholders at employee trust.
No shares are currently held in trust.
the Annual General Meeting AGM.
The Company was granted Substantial shareholdings authority by its shareholders at the 2011 AGM to purchase a As at 31 March 2012, the Company had received formal maximum of 10 per cent of its own ordinary shares either for notication of the following holdings of voting rights in its shares cancellation or to be held in treasury or a combination of these.
under the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and No purchases have been made pursuant to this authority and Transparency Rules: a resolution will be put to shareholders to renew the authority for a further period of one year.
% of issued ordinary share capital Takeover directive Persons notifying Nature of Interest held Pursuant to section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, which Prudential plc Direct 12.89 implements the EU Takeovers Directive, the Company is required group of companies to disclose additional information as set out below.
Mondrian Investment Indirect 5.80 Rights and restrictions on shares and transfers of shares Partners Limited Certain restrictions, which are customary for a listed company, apply to the rights and transfers of shares in the Company.
The Franklin Templeton Indirect 5.08 rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary and Institutional LLC deferred shares, in addition to those conferred on their holders by Ameriprise Financial, Inc Direct 0.053 law, are set out in the Companys Articles, copies of which can be Indirect 5.007 obtained from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Company Secretary.
The key points are summarised below.
Total 5.060 Ordinary shares BlackRock Inc Indirect 3.79 Notices of meetings must be given to every shareholder and Contracts for Difference 1.14 to any person entitled to a share unless the Articles or the rights Total 4.93 of the shares say they are not entitled to receive them from the Company.
The Board can decide that only people who are entered Kames Capital Direct 2.90 on the register of members at the close of business on a particular Indirect 1.06 day are entitled to receive the notice.
On a show of hands, each Contracts for Difference 0.05 holder of shares present in person and entitled to vote has one Total 4.01 vote and, upon a poll, each such holder who is present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote for every share held.
Legal & General Direct 3.86 Group Plc Dividends and distributions on winding up to shareholders Holders of ordinary shares may receive interim dividends approved Massachusetts Mutual Indirect 3.03 by Directors and dividends declared in general meetings.
On a Life Insurance Company liquidation and subject to a special resolution of the Company the Norges Bank Direct 3.01 liquidator may divide among members in specie the whole or any part of the assets of the Company and may, for such purpose, On 11 May 2012 Legal & General Group Plc notied the Company that their holding value any assets and may determine how such division shall be had fallen below 3 per cent.
Transfers of shares The Companys Articles place no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares or on the exercise of voting rights attached to them except: i in very limited circumstances such as a transfer to more than four persons, ii where the Company has exercised its rights to suspend their voting rights or to prohibit their transfer following the omission by their holder or any person interested in them to provide the Company with information requested by it in accordance with Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006, or iii where their holder is precluded from exercising rights by the Financial Services Authoritys Listing Rules, the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers or any other regulations.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2012 36 Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements Relationship with shareholders The Company places great importance on communications with and accountability to shareholders.
A fully audited Annual Report and Accounts is made available to shareholders either in hard copy by post or via the Groups website and the Interim Statement is posted on the Groups website.
Announcements are also regularly made by the Company through a Regulatory Information Service to the London Stock Exchange.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director are available to meet key shareholders to discuss strategy, governance and other matters.
All holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend the AGM and receive a Notice of Meeting which is posted at least 20 working days before the AGM.
They are also entitled to speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint one or more proxies or corporate representatives, and to exercise voting rights.
Shareholders may vote and appoint proxies electronically.
At this years AGM, voting on resolutions will be conducted on a poll.
Results of the poll will be made available to shareholders on the Groups website.
The Chairman will provide a trading update.
The Chairmen of the Board Committees are also present.
Shareholders may question the Board on these and other matters relating to the Groups business.
Shareholders also have an opportunity to meet Directors informally after the meeting.
The share register is actively monitored.
During the year meetings take place with individual institutional shareholders and analysts, and presentations are made at the time of major announcements.
Additionally, the Chairman, Senior Independent Director, Executive Directors and some Non-executive Directors together with members of the Executive Committee met with major shareholders and analysts in July 2011.
In February 2012, the Group hosted a sell-side analyst and investor presentation at its Gateshead facility, which included a tour of the site, to provide institutional investors and analysts with an overview of the business.
The views of shareholders and analysts and brokers reports are reported to the Board and from time to time a survey of institutional shareholders views is carried out by the Companys brokers.
Additional information to shareholders Processes for the appointment and replacement of Directors are governed by the Companys Articles of Association, The UK Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
The Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution of shareholders.
The powers of the Board are described in the Corporate governance statement on pages 40 to 44.
Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held at 10:30 on Thursday 26 July 2012 at fide La Rue House, Jays Close, Viables, Basingstoke, Hampshire, RG22 4BS.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2012 37
