Strategy review Having opened our doors in 1778, we are proud of our British heritage and our role as one of the UKs leading department store groups.
There are lots of growth opportunities in the UK.
Focusing on UK retail 16 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview 2 Strategy review 10 Finance and risk review 32 Sustainability 46 Governance 52 Accounts 75 Improving uninvested core stores We are driving sales ahead of modernisation by focusing on basic retail standards and improving choice.
Accelerating store modernisations 18 stores were modernised in 2012.
All remaining uninvested core stores will be modernised by Christmas 2014.
Opening new stores New stores in the UK could provide an additional 1 billion of sales.
The pipeline stands at 18 stores over the next fi five years.
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 17 Strategy review continued Focusing on UK retail Improving uninvested core stores It is not just as case of improving a stores Opening new stores At the end of 2012, there were 30 uninvested infrastructure: in order to achieve acceptable Debenhams is one of very few UK retailers core stores in the UK portfolio of 154 stores.
returns, store modernisations need to give with a space expansion strategy.
We believe All of these stores, none of which is losscustomers something diff erent.
We add we could operate up to 225 stores in the UK, making, will be modernised over the next new product off er through additional brands an increase of 70stores over the current estate.
two years but we are taking action ahead and categories.
We remix space based on These stores could add 1billion of sales of this to improve their performance and performance, ideal adjacencies and ease and off er economies of scale which should to put these stores in the best possible of shopping as well as the Groups overall provide margin enhancement over time.
position to benefi t from modernisation.
We invest in the health & beauty Stores will continue to be the largest channel This action is a question of focus rather than department.
We reclaim space from for the majority of customers despite the incurring additional costs or capital spend.
back-of-house where possible and we expected growth in online shopping.
As upgrade restaurants, WCs and other services.
Amongst the initiatives we take are such they form a key component of the reviewing management teams, undertaking In 2012 we modernised 18 stores in two multi-channel shopping environment space optimisation work to ensure each tranches, one starting in January and the and we know that customers who live product category trades from an appropriate second in May, and spent some 32 million near a store spend more online.
amount of space, replacing choice that may in total, averaging 20-25 per sq ft.
This was We have a strong track record of creating have been lost through concession closures the most stores we have ever undertaken in value from new store openings.
The 35 stores over the past few years and improving a single year.
opened since 2007 have delivered an average presentation standards.
In some cases we The 32 stores which have been modernised return on investment of c. 40%.
We employ hold a pre-modernisation sale to drive sales over the past two years are performing well.
robust acquisition criteria to ensure every and counteract the impact of disruption from On average these stores have recorded a sales new store has the right location, the right modernisation work.
increase in the fi first year after completion of developer, the right type and size of store In 2012 we started to see an improvement c. 6%.
It is particularly pleasing to note that for and the right deal so that it can achieve these in the performance of the uninvested core those stores which have completed two years superior levels of return.
stores as we undertook these actions.
since modernisation, we have seen a sales Of the 70 potential opportunities in the UK, We will continue to pursue this programme uplift in the second year of an average c. 1.5%.
atthe end of 2012, 18 were contracted and until all these stores have been modernised.
Previous modernisation programmes have are expected to open in the next fi five years.
generally achieved a one year increase, after Accelerating store modernisations These stores total 845,000 sq ft of trading which stores perform in line with the rest We modernise stores for a number of reasons: space and have predicted sales in excess of of the estate.
We believe the second year to meet customers demands for a modern 150 million at maturity.
One has already uplift is due to the extensive nature of the and contemporary place to shop: to improve opened Chesterfi eld in September 2012 modernisation work we are undertaking as perceptions of the Debenhams brand: to with Lichfi eld due to open in March 2013. well as being a function of the investment improve choice to suit the needs of local in health & beauty which can take more Discussions are ongoing on another markets: and to build a stronger relationship than 12months to translate into higher sales.
with our international brands and Return on investment is averaging 15%.
Our thorough planning process, expertise in implementation and strong The remaining 30 uninvested core stores capital discipline result in a modernisation will be completed in time for Christmas 2014 programme that is delivering increases in with 15 taking place in each of 2013 and 2014. sales and market share and a good return Amongst these is Oxford Street which will be on investment.
transformed inside and out by October 2013.
It will become a true company fl agship, showcasing the best of everything that Debenhams has to off er and a beacon for international expansion.
154 18 18 UK stores at the end of 2012 Store modernisations in 2012 New store pipeline 10.9m 30 150m Total UK trading space sq ft Modernisations over next two years Potential additional sales from pipeline We operated 154 stores in the UK at the end We are transforming our UK portfolio We have a track record of delivering strong of 2012, trading from a total of 10.9 million sq ft. by modernising all uninvested core fi financial returns from new stores.
The average Our stores vary in size from 13,000 to 200,000 stores.
return on investment of the 35 stores opened sq ft and are located in high streets, town The remaining 30 will be completed by during the last fi five years is c. 40%.
New stores shopping centres, regional shopping centres Christmas 2014, including Oxford Street.
could add 1 billion of sales in the UK.
18 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview 2 Strategy review 10 Finance and risk review 32 Sustainability 46 Governance 52 Accounts 75 1 1.
Modernising Oxford Street 2 3 Our vision is to create a branded environment that redefi fines Debenhams in the Oxford Street store and beyond.
Improving uninvested core stores We saw an improvement in the performance of uninvested core stores in 2012 by focusing on basic retail standards.
Opening new stores Designer at Debenhams Ashley Thomas opens our new store in Chesterfi eld in September 2012.
Another 17 stores will open over the next fi five years.
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 19
