Strategy review continued Expanding the brand internationally Debenhams is already so much more than a UK department store brand.
It is available in 92 countries through stores or online.
28 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview 2 Strategy review 10 Finance and risk review 32 Sustainability 46 Governance 52 Accounts 75 International franchise stores Franchise stores are a proven low-cost, low-capital way to expand the brand in distant and emerging markets.
We have ambitious plans to extend the franchise programme.
Owned international assets We own 11 Debenhams stores in the Republic of Ireland and six in Denmark which trade as Magasin du Nord.
International online We are beginning to see momentum in international online which we expect to account for 100 million of sales over time.
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 29 Strategy review continued Expanding the brand internationally Debenhams is already so much more than Owned assets International online a UK department store.
We are extremely Our owned store portfolio outside the UK Online retailing is a key part of our plans for proud of our British roots, but over time consists of 11 stores in the Republic of Ireland, international expansion.
Over the mediumwe believe that sales generated from outside which are branded as Debenhams, and six term we anticipate it will generate sales of the UK should exceed those from within stores in Denmark which have continued some 100 million.
to operate as Magasin du Nord since their Our strategy is two-fold.
For major markets acquisition in November 2009.
Franchise stores we will develop a series of country specifi c During 2012 we celebrated the 15th Magasin had a good year with like-for-like websites, which are presented in the local anniversary of the opening of our fi first sales increasing by 4.6% in local currency.
language and transact in local currency.
In franchise store in Bahrain.
We continue to During 2012 the Danish business was other markets we will use overseas delivery believe that in most distant and emerging integrated into the Debenhams retail from the UK.
We made progress in both these markets this proven low capital, low cost operational management through the areas during 2012. franchise model is the way to extend the reach international division.
This will allow The development of country specifi c of the Debenhams brand outside the UK.
for a faster and more eff ective exchange websites is facilitated by the investment of ideas and roll out of best practice.
The key to a successful franchise store made over the past year in the latest programme is having the right partners.
Since acquisition Magasin du Nord has Websphere 7 internet technology.
An Irish Our partners are retailers with considerable increased sales and margins through the website has been operating since Autumn experience of operating in their local markets introduction of both Debenhams own 2010.
The fi first local language site was as well as the resources to make the brands and Magasin branded volume lines.
launched in Germany in summer 2012. signifi cant investment in capital and costs There is more benefi t to come from this in We will monitor the performance of required to build and run a department store.
Although the propensity for debenhams.
fide and learn lessons from online shopping is low and multi-channel it before introducing further websites We entered two new markets in 2012, Russia virtually unknown amongst Danish in major markets.
We also opened new stores consumers at this time, this will change in India, the Philippines and Iran.
By the During the course of the year the number and we are well placed to take advantage end of the year our franchise partners were of countries we deliver to through of changing trends.
operating from 68 stores across 25 countries, debenhams.
com outside the UK increased a net increase of four stores during the year.
The business in the Republic of Ireland has from seven to 66.
Expansion to another been aff ected by the extremely diffi cult 30 countries is planned.
In 2013, seven new stores are scheduled to economic environment.
However it does open in both existing markets Indonesia, appear to be stabilising and we believe Malta, Saudi Arabia and the UAE and new we are gaining market share.
markets Bulgaria, Georgia and Libya.
Beyond this, the contracted store pipeline comprises 14 stores which are expected to open over the subsequent three years.
We are in discussions on another 50 or so stores.
As a result of the strength of the new store pipeline, we have increased our fi five year franchise store target from 130 to 150.
2.7% 68 66 2012 international sales growth Franchise stores at end of 2012 Countries we deliver to outside UK 18.5% 150 100m 2012 international operating profi t growth Five year target for franchise stores International online sales target The international segment performed The contracted new store pipeline stands at Although small at present, we have ambitious well in 2012 with sales growing by 2.7% to 21 stores with a further 50 in discussion.
We plans for international online.
Our approach is 503.4 million and operating profi t growing by will be opening in a number of new markets for local websites in major markets and online 18.5% to 30.7 million.
The main drivers of this including Bulgaria, Estonia, Georgia and Libya.
were the franchise stores and Magasin du Nord.
52 weeks to 1 September 2012 vs 52 weeks to 27 August 2011 30 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview 2 Strategy review 10 Finance and risk review 32 Sustainability 46 Governance 52 Accounts 75 1 1.
Welcome to Russia 2 3 Designers at Debenhams Ben fide Lisi, Aliza Reger, John Rocha and Julien Macdonald at the launch of the fi first franchise store in Russia.
Magasin du Nord Our Danish department store chain had a good year in 2012 with like-for-like sales growth of 4.6% in local currency.
Guten Tag Deutschland The fi first local language, local currency website launched in Germany during 2012.
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 31 Finance and risk review Over the next few pages we demonstrate our strong fi financial position and how we are protecting shareholder returns by managing risks.
p34 Chief Financial Offi cers review p39 Risk review For more information go to ar12.
com 32 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview 2 Strategy review 10 Finance and risk review 32 Sustainability 46 Governance 52 Accounts 75 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 33
