Strategic objectives Identify Overview 2 Strategy review 10 Finance and risk review 32 Risk review Sustainability 46 Safeguarding future returns Governance 52 Accounts 75 Eff ective management of risks and To support this system for internal control, opportunities is essential if Debenhams the Debenhams risk management is to deliver its strategic and operational framework fi gure 1 has been developed goals, protect its reputation and using the principles of the international ultimately enhance shareholder value.
The board, which has overall responsibility This framework highlights the central role for risk management and internal control, that the management of risk plays in the considers it important that there should successful delivery of strategic objectives be a regular and systematic approach to and the fact that this process is dependent the management of risks in order to provide on people fulfi lling their clearly defi ned assurance that strategic and operational roles and responsibilities.
goals can be met and the Groups reputation The key points of the process are described is protected.
In order to identify and manage risks Risk identifi cation eff ectively, a risk management framework has Risks exist within all operations and it is been developed, which includes: processes to important to identify them in order to identify the risks facing the Group: a process understand the degree to which their to evaluate the potential impact of risks: occurrence would threaten the delivery appropriate controls and strategies to treat the of key objectives.
risks: reporting requirements for changes to the risk profi le: and details of specifi c roles and Risks are identifi ed through a number of responsibilities relating to the management routes.
They include membership of industry of risk.
Management is expected to utilise the bodies, environmental scanning i. e. market risk management framework when assessing research, changes to legislation, enterprise risks and implementing suitable controls.
risk management best practices, strategic planning exercises, ongoing operational Risk management framework reviews by management, project governance The board is responsible for the Groups processes, internal audits and control system of internal control, which is based environment reviews.
on the COSO model covering control environment, risk assessment, information Whilst there are ongoing monitors in place, and communication, control activities the most extensive piece of work undertaken and monitoring and for reviewing the to identify risks is the annual organisationeff ectiveness of the internal control systems wide review facilitated by the risk in place.
Such systems are designed to management team.
This was most recently manage rather than eliminate the risk conducted in October 2012.
All senior of failure to achieve the strategic business managers participate in the exercise, objectives.
They can only provide reasonable including the board.
It considers strategy, and not absolute assurance against material objectives and risks to their achievement misstatement or loss.
The board has together with the existing and new controls conducted a review of the eff ectiveness required to mitigate risk.
The outputs from of internal controls and is satisfi ed that this process are collated into the Groups risk the controls in place remain appropriate.
register and are taken into consideration when setting the annual internal audit plan.
The board exemplifi es the control Management is required to update the environment to its stakeholders through register with any new or emerging risks its compliance with the UK Corporate as they are identifi ed.
Governance Code, Debenhams policies and procedures and, in particular, policies covering risk management, code of business conduct and anti-bribery and corruption.
Figure 1: Debenhams risk management framework Strategic objectives Report Define risk appetite Executive directors Audit Committee Risk reporting Define principal risks Risk management Risk identification and risk treatment team Risk identification Divisions Specialist functions Risk evaluation Evaluate Strategic objectives Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 39 Strategic objectives Treat Risk review continued Risk evaluation Risk reporting and monitoring In addition, the Audit Committee satisfi es In order to understand the impact specifi c Individual managers are expected to itself that key risks are being monitored by risks would have to the Group, each risk is defi ne and analyse the reports they require senior management and that the internal evaluated based on the likelihood of to enhance fi financial and operational audit plan is focused on high priority areas.
performance and identify emerging risks The internal audit team updates the board or control failures.
and the Audit Committee on the eff ectiveness The risk ranking matrix fi gure 2 has of risk management within each discrete been developed to ensure that a consistent Financial performance is monitored through area audited throughout the year.
The Audit approach is taken when assessing the overall a number of processes.
An operating plan Committee will bring any areas of concern impact to the Group.
Likelihood is based is prepared in August of each year, shortly to the attention of the board.
on the frequency of occurrence in a rolling before the start of the fi financial year and 12 month period and severity is determined a revised forecast is prepared each month Roles and responsibilities by the degree of change across key of the fi financial year which analyses actual The eff ective management of risk is reliant performance indicators.
performance and highlights variances upon all employees successfully performing against the plan.
In particular, performance their specifi c roles and responsibilities Management is responsible for ensuring is monitored through a series of key metrics.
and individual managers are expected that risks are evaluated correctly, with Daily sales, weekly sales and margin and to familiarise themselves with their support from the fi finance department monthly management accounts are responsibilities, which are outlined below, as required.
Individual managers consider prepared, all of which report on performance and to act accordingly.
the cumulative impact of all risks across against the operating plan, last year and their particular area of operation when Only suitably qualifi ed employees are forecast.
Additionally, a treasury report is determining the state of their overall control responsible for each of the functions made to each board meeting which covers environment.
The purpose of this exercise within the Group to ensure that each area matters such as senior operating restrictions, is to calculate the risk score for each risk operates eff ectively.
Training, performance covenant reporting and forecasting under identifi ed, which determines the level of reviews and support mechanisms are in the Groups banking facilities, exposure to treatment expected.
place to ensure performance standards foreign exchange and hedging arrangements, are maintained.
The board reviews the key risks to the Group, net debt and interest rate hedging, cash fl ow taking action to strengthen where necessary, and cash fl ow forecasting and amounts Board of directors and the output from this is used to populate deposited with counterparties.
The board of directors is responsible for: the Groups risk map.
approving the risk management policy Performance is reviewed at board meetings, and related framework: setting and Risk treatment senior management meetings, Audit communicating the Groups risk appetite The board is responsible for determining Committee, business continuity and related policies: setting the tone and the nature and extent of the risks it is willing management committee and executive culture for managing risk: providing to take in achieving its strategic objectives, health and safety meetings.
There are also strategic direction and guidance on risk which is defi ned as the risk appetite and is other mechanisms in place to monitor risks related decision making: ensuring that risk outlined in fi gure 3. such as internal audit reviews, critical and management processes are adopted across serious risk monitor, fraud detection systems, Risk scores are compared to the risk appetite the whole Group: obtaining assurance on whistleblowing, stock counts and security matrix, which provides guidance on the the eff ectiveness and compliance with the equipment such as CCTV.
expected level of treatment, timeframes risk management framework: reporting and authority levels.
The four methods used to treat risk are: Tolerate accept risk and take no Figure 2: Risk ranking matrix further action Treat reduce risk by defi ning and completing appropriate actions to improve or implement controls 416 36 64 Transfer share a risk via insurance policies or asking a third party to take the risk in another way Terminate avoid risk quickly and decisively by eliminating or re-engineering the 312 27 48 activities that lead to the risk occurring 28 18 32 14 9 16 Low Moderate Serious Critical 2 2 2 2 1 1 4 2 9 3 16 4 Impact 40 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Likelihood Unlikely Occasional Common Frequent 1 2 3 4 Overview 2 Strategy review 10 Finance and risk review 32 Sustainability 46 Governance 52 Accounts 75 on the management of risk to stakeholders: Internal audit team Business continuity planning and signing off public disclosures related In relation to risk management, the internal The business continuity committee to risk and risk management.
audit team is responsible for providing comprises the Chief Financial Offi cer, independent assessment of: the design, Retail Director, HR Director and Director Divisional directors operation and eff ectiveness of the risk of Internal Audit and Risk Management.
and heads of function management framework and process: Other executives are invited to attend Divisional directors and heads of function are management of key risks, including the meetings as and when appropriate.
responsible for: identifying and evaluating eff ectiveness of the controls: reporting the risks that relate to their areas and The objectives of this committee are to of risk and control status: reliability of activities: implementing appropriate controls ensure that potential threats to the Group assurances provided by management to manage risks in line with the Groups risk and the impact that those threats might relating to risk management.
appetite: and taking ownership for risks and cause have been identifi ed, that a framework controls within their area of responsibility.
Profi t protection to build organisational resilience to known The profi t protection teams responsibilities threats is in place and that the framework All employees include activities such as: ensuring is capable of providing an eff ective response All employees are responsible for: being loss prevention strategies are developed to safeguard the Group.
aware of the risks that relate to their roles and implemented, anti-fraud monitoring and their activities: continuously improving The committee uses a framework based across the Group and the management their management of risk: implementing on ISO 22301:2012 Business Continuity of whistleblowing.
appropriate controls to manage risks: and Management Systems and undertakes reporting ineff ective and or ineffi cient Whistleblowing a number of key activities.
These are to controls wherever they sit.
All Debenhams employees are required to review and agree: the business continuity adhere to the code of business conduct and management policy and how it will be Risk management the anti-bribery and corruption policy, with managed and communicated: the risks and internal audit function senior employees required to confi rm their and threats facing the Group and prioritise The Groups risk management and internal compliance in writing.
These policies set out them based on the evaluation of their audit function is made up of three discrete the ethical standards expected by the Group severity and likelihood: the business areas: risk management, internal audit and and include details of how matters can be continuity management strategy: the profi t protection.
This combination enables raised in strict confi dence.
Two main routes business continuity management response the Group to maintain a cohesive approach are available to employees at all levels within and its implementation: the process for to all aspects of risk management whilst the Group to raise concerns over exercising, maintaining and reviewing allowing the internal audit team to benefi t malpractices.
The fi first, Employees business continuity management from the insights that other areas of the guidelines to problem solving, encourages arrangements: and the mechanisms to function can provide.
employees to talk to their line manager, their embed business continuity management Risk management team managers line manager or, if still concerned, in the Groups culture.
The risk management team is responsible to call HR Connect the central human Principal risks and uncertainties for: developing, implementing and reviewing resources team directly.
The second route is The risks detailed on pages 42 to 45 and in the risk management framework and a confi dential reporting line through which the Notes to the Financial Statements are the process: promoting eff ective risk employees can speak to the Group anti-fraud principal risks and uncertainties that may management at all levels of the Group: team.
If an employee feels that the matter is impact the Groups ability to achieve its encouraging an appropriate risk culture so serious that it cannot be discussed in any strategic and operational goals.
Both external within the Group: liaising with other of these ways, s he can contact the Company factors, such as the economic environment, functions that advise on specialist areas: Secretary or the Director of Internal Audit and internal factors, such as the retention of coordinating responses where risks impact and Risk Management.
The Groups policy key management, are included in the risks more than onearea: reporting, escalating on whistleblowing and these methods of and uncertainties that could substantially and communicating risk management issues raising issues of concern are published on impact performance.
Relevant mitigation to key stakeholders: and providing assurance Debenhams intranet and emphasised on for each risk is also outlined.
These risks are regarding risk management within the posters.
The policy is reviewed annually by presented in no particular order.
In addition, the team manages the Audit Committee.
All serious matters corporate insurance and undertakes identifi ed are raised with the chairman of It should be noted that any system of risk business continuity planning activities.
management and internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Figure 3: Risk appetite matrix Risk Risk matrix Risk Treatment acceptance Risk score zone Action response timeframe owner Green Treat or Head of 1, 2, 3 or 4 Limited Optional tolerate 9-12 months department Yellow Treat or 8, 9 or 12 Moderate Optional tolerate 6-9 months Line director Orange Treat, transfer Executive 16, 18 or 27 Signifi cant Yes or terminate 3-6 months director 32, 36, 48 Red Treat, transfer or 64 Ultimate Yes or terminate 0-3 months Main board Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 41 Risk review continued External risk Risk and impact Example of mitigation Change Consistent fall in customer spending The board conducts strategic business reviews which ensure that as a result of economic downturn, management is focused on key priorities and cost control.
These reviews infl ation or defl ation also focus on the four pillars of the Groups strategy to build a leading international, multi-channel brand.
Reduction in gross transaction value and a decline in sales on discretionary purchases Competitive pressures in existing Debenhams brand and product strategy gives customers a unique, markets infl uence customer behaviour diff erentiated and exclusive choice of brand, products and categories within a good better best pricing architecture.
An understanding of customers Place pressure on our pricing strategy, and their needs is developed by listening to their views, market intelligence margins and profi tability and reviewing key performance indicators which ensures that pricing is competitive.
Debenhams is investing additional resources in customer analytics and insight.
Factors infl uencing the sustainability Debenhams fosters excellent relationships with its suppliers that of the supply chain are mutually benefi cial.
Both parties work towards the objective of optimising sustainable fulfi lment and costs, which is measured regularly Place pressure on margin and will also divert by management through key performance indicators.
Alongside this, fi financial and management resources from Debenhams develops multiple sourcing routes to ensure pricing remains more benefi cial uses competitive and that demand can be supplied.
Debenhams and its suppliers will continue to work hard to deliver the best performance possible in a very challenging market.
Loss of profi t or additional expenditure A key objective of the energy committee is to control energy usage, caused by increased energy or fuel costs including the impact of the Carbon Reduction Commitment scheme.
An energy hedging policy is in place to provide a high degree of Place pressure on margin and will also divert cost certainty.
fi financial and management resources from more benefi cial uses Financial risk Risk and impact Example of mitigation Change Risks associated with currency, Debenhams has a treasury policy in place which covers counterparty hedging, interest rates, credit, limits and hedging for interest rates, foreign exchange and energy.
counterparties and fi financial There is also an internal treasury function which is mandated by covenants under the credit facilities the board and audited annually.
Hinder ability to adjust rapidly to changing Debenhams closely monitors all aspects of cash management to optimise market conditions and impact earnings balance sheet metrics.
Eff ectiveness is measured regularly by management and cash fl ow through a series of key performance indicators.
Hedging strategy may not adequately Business critical spreadsheets and databases used by the fi finance protect operating results from the impact of department have been identifi ed and appropriate control measures exchange rate fl uctuations or may limit any are used in line with Debenhams policy to ensure data integrity.
benefi t caused by favourable movements in exchange rates Aff ect available cash and liquidity and could have material eff ect on the business, results of operations and fi financial condition Shortfall in the pension fund The trustees of the Groups pension schemes carefully monitor the pension fund and alter the investment strategy as appropriate.
Any shortfall in Increases in pension related liabilities could funding is brought to the attention of the board.
impact profi ts and cash fl ow Please refer to the Notes to the Financial Statements for other risks in this category Change in severity and or likelihood of risk during course of 2012 42 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview 2 Strategy review 10 Finance and risk review 32 Sustainability 46 Governance 52 Accounts 75 Strategic risk Risk and impact Example of mitigation Change Inability to predict or fulfi l customer Debenhams utilises market, trend and customer awareness research demands or preferences to understand current demands and preferences.
It delivers these requirements through multiple channels, including its store and non-store Sales will be lower, market share reduced sales channels.
To achieve this these channels are constantly developed and will be forced to rely on markdown and high operational standards maintained to diff erentiate from and promotions to dispose of excess or competitors.
Stock levels and the supply chain are monitored closely slow moving inventory.
May be inventory in order to ensure product newness is maximised.
shortfalls on popular merchandise This is a decreasing risk as a number of strategic projects have been undertaken to improve our understanding of our customers.
Departure of key personnel and failure In order to attract and retain talent, both succession and personal to attract or retain talent development plans are in place throughout the Group.
In addition, target-led, performance-related incentive schemes exist.
Signifi cantly delay or prevent achievement of strategy Failure to achieve the new store roll Debenhams undertakes research of key markets and demographics to out or acquisition targets identify potential locations to drive growth through new space.
A full investment appraisal is conducted as part of the decision making process Reduced growth or a decline in gross and a specialist team has responsibility for end-to-end management transaction value and may be required to of each project once the decision is made.
write down the value of any stock acquired for sale in an uncompleted store Failure of ethical trading policy, poor Ethical sourcing, legislative change and corporate responsibility matters perception in the market on corporate are key areas of focus for the sustainability committee.
responsibility matters or negative To ensure that Debenhams has the most current information available, impact to brand due to product quality, it is a member of relevant industry bodies that provide awareness of supply chain practices, health and changes to standards and legislation.
Debenhams is an active member of Ethical Trading Initiative ETI and Negative eff ect on reputation leading to loss expects all suppliers to follow the ETI base code and adhere to Debenhams of stakeholder trust and confi dence, material own supplier code of conduct.
adverse eff ect on the ability to attract and retain third party brands, suppliers, designers, A reliance on third party suppliers, the challenges of the current economic concessionaires and franchisees with environment and the complexity of new and existing legislation makes this subsequent impact on performance and results an ongoing risk which Debenhams and its suppliers have to manage.
Hazard Risk and impact Example of mitigation Change Loss of business or additional The business continuity committee is comprised of senior executives and expenditure caused by terrorism, works to a framework based on the most recent international standard.
strikes, riots, natural disasters The key objectives of this committee are to ensure that potential threats to or pandemics the organisation and the impacts that those threats might cause have been Adverse eff ect on inventory and gross identifi ed, that a framework that builds organisational resilience to known transaction value and will divert fi financial threats is in place and that the framework has the capability to deliver an and management resources from more eff ective response to safeguard the Group.
In the case of terrorism, Insurance policies have been placed as appropriate to minimise the impact customer confi dence may be impacted of specifi c risks.
Additional expenditure or reputational Debenhams has specialist accounting, taxation and legal and secretariat damage caused by changes in teams and is also a member of key industry bodies which provide legislation or a breach of regulations awareness of changes to standards and legislation.
Adverse eff ect on inventory and gross Forums exist to focus on specifi c areas of legislation.
Specifi c business transaction value and will divert fi financial policies and procedures are in place to ensure roles and responsibilities are and management resources from more understood across the Group.
benefi cial uses Change in severity and or likelihood of risk during course of 2012 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 43 Risk review continued Hazard continued Risk and impact Example of mitigation Change Theft of customer data or breach The information security forum reviews projects and key activities for of payment card industry data compliance to the relevant standards.
Debenhams compliance to the security standards PCI standard is monitored by management and reported to the Audit Committee.
A number of security tools are employed to protect data, Negative eff ect on reputation leading including encryption, intruder detection and data loss prevention.
to loss of stakeholder trust and confi dence, with subsequent impact on performance and results and will divert fi financial and management resources from more benefi cial uses Personal injury or property damage The executive health and safety committee reviews compliance in this area relating to a major Debenhams or and a number of participants are members of various relevant industry supplier location bodies.
The committee receives input from specialist teams which focus on discrete aspects.
These include health and safety, building services, insurance Injury or loss of life to staff or customers.
To support compliance and to maintain Negative eff ect on reputation and will divert high operational standards, health and safety awareness programmes are fi financial and management resources from in place and each site has its own health and safety committee.
more benefi cial uses Disruptions or other adverse events In order to minimise the impact of any third party relationship or aff ecting relationships with or the performance issues, Debenhams objectives are to: maintain excellent third performance of major suppliers, party relationships by ensuring strategies are aligned: have appropriate, franchise partners, store card providers, unambiguous contracts in place: ensure third parties are fi nancially robust: designers or concessionaires and have contingency plans in place in the event of a failure e. g. conversion of space to own bought for concessionaire failure, multiple sourcing routes Costs associated with the transfer of for supplier failure.
the operations or the potential of extra operational cost from a new provider This is an increasing risk due to the ongoing, global economic situation and the impact this could have on a signifi cant supplier or partner.
Changes in exclusivity arrangements with designers or any decline in their popularity could have a material adverse impact Loss of a number of important concession partners may adversely aff ect GTV Adverse events within the supply chain could restrict the availability or signifi cantly increase the cost of goods Credit insurance diffi culties for a signifi cant number of suppliers could lead to a detrimental variation of terms or alternative suppliers used to source some goods Fraud, theft or industrial espionage In order to mitigate fraud across all channels in which Debenhams operates, a number of preventative measures are in place.
These include Negative eff ect on reputation and will divert accounting policies and procedures, systems access restrictions, fi financial and management resources from expenditure authorisation levels, whistleblowing and anti-bribery and more benefi cial uses corruption policies and a code of business conduct, all of which provide employees with guidelines on how to escalate an issue confi dentially.
A variety of monitoring mechanisms are used to identify fraudulent activity including data mining across point of sale and head offi ce functions.
As part of the organisation-wide risk assessment, individual managers sign an anti-fraud, bribery and corruption declaration.
Issues identifi ed are investigated and reported to the Audit Committee.
Change in severity and or likelihood of risk during course of 2012 44 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview 2 Strategy review 10 Finance and risk review 32 Sustainability 46 Governance 52 Accounts 75 Operational risk Risk and impact Example of mitigation Change Failure to deliver a business A full investment appraisal is conducted as part of the decision making critical project process and must be signed off by a board member before any project is undertaken.
Divert fi financial and management resources from more benefi cial uses and signifi cantly As part of project governance, a steering committee monitors all key areas damage ability to manage information involved in the delivery of the project, a project framework is used, selected technology systems projects will be reviewed by internal audit and post investment appraisals are undertaken.
Debenhams is undertaking a head offi ce move during 2013 which increases the risk rating compared to last year.
Ineff ective brand awareness Debenhams utilises market, trend and customer awareness research to and marketing programmes understand current demands and preferences.
This information is used to identify specifi c segments of the market to target and to form a proposal as a Loss of market share, customer loyalty, marketing campaign.
A full investment appraisal is conducted and must be reduction in gross transaction value and a signed off by a board member before any campaign is undertaken.
Campaign decline in sales on discretionary purchases eff ectiveness is monitored through external feedback and internal analysis.
Risks associated with Debenhams has a specialist property team which manages all aspects of leasehold properties leasehold property, including cost renegotiations, communication of the store modernisation programme, lease renewals and adherence to all legal Signifi cant alterations in rental terms obligations under the lease.
could have a material adverse eff ect on the business, as would failure to Debenhams is also a member of key industry bodies which provide secure desirable locations awareness of changes to standards and legislation.
Disputes over store modernisations may Debenhams consults with industry experts to ensure that the asbestos lead to reinstatement costs and termination policy and asbestos register are fully up to date.
All locations where asbestos of leases may lead to dilapidation costs has been identifi ed are clearly marked with signage and the condition is being incurred checked on a regular basis with action taken in the event of any deterioration.
Any works undertaken in these areas are approved by both Failure to manage asbestos in specifi c the health and safety and building services teams prior to any work permits properties may lead to fi fines or other liabilities being issued with specialist companies used as required.
aff ecting Debenhams reputation and the full or partial closure of properties Debenhams is undertaking a head offi ce move during 2013 which increases the risk rating compared to last year.
Risks associated with systems Project governance, change control and implementation frameworks form failure, external attack of systems part of all project lifecycles and the IS management team is responsible for or data inaccuracy ensuring that they are adhered to.
Divert fi financial and management resources Monitoring processes are in place across a number of key business from more benefi cial uses and signifi cantly systems, alongside appropriately trained specialist teams and an internal damage ability to manage information knowledge database.
technology systems Disaster recovery site is in place and associated systems are regularly tested Inappropriate decisions could be made using to ensure that invocation would work eff ectively if required.
wrong or ambiguous information This risk was previously included within other risks in this section but has now been detailed separately, given the signifi cance of the risk should it occur.
Inability to eff ectively invoke The Business Continuity Committee is comprised of senior executives and the Business Continuity Plan works to a framework based on the most recent international standard.
Unable to continue operations smoothly The key objectives of this committee are to ensure that potential threats to in the event of a major incident the organisation and the impacts that those threats might cause have been identifi ed, that a framework that builds organisational resilience to known Divert fi financial and management resources threats is in place and that the framework has the capability for an eff ective from more benefi cial uses response to safeguard the Group.
Debenhams is undertaking a Head Offi ce move during 2013 which increases the risk rating compared to last year.
This risk was previously included within other risks in this section but has now been displayed separately, given the signifi cance of the risk should it occur.
Change in severity and or likelihood of risk during course of 2012 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 45 Sustainability We are committed to economic, environmental and social sustainability as an integral driver of long-term business success.
p48 Sustainability review 46 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview 2 Strategy review 10 Finance and risk review 32 Sustainability 46 Governance 52 Accounts 75 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 47
