Strategy review continued Delivering a compelling customer proposition Our customer proposition is based on a unique, diff erentiated and exclusive collection of brands, products and categories within a wide price architecture.
20 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview 2 Strategy review 10 Finance and risk review 32 Sustainability 46 Governance 52 Accounts 75 Brand and product strategy We off er our customers a unique, diff erentiated and exclusive collection of brands, products and categories.
Instore execution Raising standards of visual merchandising and product presentation reinforces Debenhams as a modern and contemporary place to shop.
Communicating the proposition Our marketing and PR activities are fully joined up and we are speaking with one voice across all media under the banner of Life Made Fabulous.
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 21 Strategy review continued Delivering a compelling customer proposition Brand and product strategy to replicate concession sales densities at production values for both premium brand Our brand and product strategy gives own bought gross margins.
This requires marketing and promotional marketing, customers a unique, exclusive and end-to-end investment, from buying which in the past had been dissimilar diff erentiated choice.
It is unique through the and merchandising to supply chain to and confusing.
combination of own brands, international marketing to instore resourcing.
We saw tangible evidence of market share brands and concession brands.
It is exclusive Instore execution growth in some of the categories where through our core own brands and Designers Good visual merchandising and product we introduced focused marketing activities.
at Debenhams which together account for presentation are key to creating an exciting Womens footwear market share, for example, half of everything we sell.
It is diff erentiated shopping experience.
Historically, our grew by 40 basis points following the launch through Designers at Debenhams, which standards have been inconsistent across of a shoe brochure and prominence in a two-thirds of our customers tell us is an the store estate and they need to improve.
important reason they shop with us.
Creating great looking stores must be a We have seen signifi cant shifts in customer An area of focus in 2012 has been the further core competence for the retail community.
perception in our independently conducted development of our non-clothing business, We will achieve this by defi ning standards brand tracker, with greater recognition particularly in areas such as health & beauty, of merchandising and presentation for for exclusive brands, fashionability footwear and accessories where there is clear each season in regional model stores and engagement.
Non-clothing and cascading them through the estate, sales accounted for 49% of total sales during Looking forward, we will continue to invest thereby ensuring that every store team the year, providing the balance and resilience in marketing, thereby demonstrating our understands and is equipped to deliver which is an inherent strength of the continuing confi dence in communicating these standards.
Excellence will be rewarded department store model.
We are targeting the proposition.
For the fi first time in six years on a regional basis.
further growth in non-clothing sales and we will have a TV advertising campaign at market share going forward.
Standards are complemented by increasingly Christmas 2012, aiming to increase our share strong instore graphics and displays which of voice when the market is at its largest.
Newness and product innovation are refl ect the overall marketing and advertising key to delivering a compelling customer Through our work to gain a single view of themes, giving customers a clear proposition.
We added several new brands the customer we will also be able to drive communication trail to follow from advert to to the portfolio in 2012.
These include: sales through more tailored and personalised store window to instore collateral to ticketing.
1 by Jenny Packham, a glamorous new communication with customers.
There are occasionwear range by one of the UKs best Communicating the proposition also new developments in our successful designers: classic American menswear brand For too long Debenhams was a hidden Beauty Club loyalty scheme which already Nautica which is now available in the UK secret to all but our regular customers.
Our has 1.3 million cards in regular use and the exclusively at Debenhams: footwear brand marketing and brand communication has introduction of a new store card and credit Call It Spring: and the extension of the improved signifi cantly over the past year card with a loyalty element.
Edition Designer concept into home through with a joined up approach under the theme Ashley Thomas, Yukari Sweeney and Carole of Life Made Fabulous.
New launches for 2013 include Marios We increased our marketing spend in 2012 Schwab in womenswear and Donna & Mark which has both driven sales and begun to in childrenswear.
change perceptions about the Debenhams Looking forward, we will drive growth brand.
We have increased TV advertising at by investing in our diff erentiated own the times and on the channels our customers bought strategy.
In particular, trials in are most likely to see them and we have fully Red Herring, Principles by Ben fide Lisi embraced digital and social media marketing.
and the footwear division will be aiming Further, we are using the same images and 26 49% 1.3m Designers at Debenhams brands 2012 sales mix of non-clothing categories Beauty Club cards in regular use 552m 40bps 485,000 Designers at Debenhams 2012 sales inc VAT Increase in womens footwear share Facebook fans Designers at Debenhams is an exclusive Non-clothing categories accounted for almost We communicate with our customers in many portfolio of diff usion brands designed by half of everything we sold in 2012.
We saw diff erent ways including the Beauty Club, some of the UKs leading fashion designers.
good growth in market share in non-clothing which off ers treats as well as loyalty points Our medium-term target for Designer sales including womens footwear source: Kantar in our premium health & beauty department.
Worldpanel Fashion market share 52 weeks We are increasingly using all forms of social to 2 September 2012 vs. 2011. media as a marketing channel.
22 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview 2 Strategy review 10 Finance and risk review 32 Sustainability 46 Governance 52 Accounts 75 1 1.
1 by Jenny Packham 2 3 We were delighted to welcome Jenny Packham to Designers at Debenhams in 2012 with a glamorous new range of occasionwear clothing and accessories.
Improving instore execution We are raising our standards of visual merchandising and product presentation in our UK stores.
Life Made Fabulous We are investing in marketing through the Life Made Fabulous campaign which focuses on Designers at Debenhams to drive sales and improve brand perceptions.
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 23
