Overview 2 Strategy review 10 Finance and risk review 32 Directors report Sustainability 46 Governance 52 Accounts 75 Principal activities Profi t and dividends Debenhams is a leading international, The profi t after tax for the fi financial year multi-channel brand which traded from ending 1 September 2012 was 125.3 million 239stores across 28 countries at the end 2011: 117.2 million.
Of these, Debenhams owns recommend the payment of a fi final dividend 171stores with a combined trading space of of 2.3 pence per ordinary share, to be paid on c. 12.5million sq ft.
The brand is also available 11 January 2013 to members on the register online in 67 countries.
Customers can also at the close of business on 7 December 2012. shop through mobile devices, catalogues This, together with the interim dividend of and by telephone.
Debenhams gives its 1.0 pence per share paid in July, gives a full customers a unique, diff erentiated and year dividend of 3.3 pence per share.
exclusive mix of own brands, international Share buy-back programme brands and concessions.
The Company announced on 20 October A detailed review of the business of the 2011 that it intended to return funds to Group during the fi financial year ended shareholders through a programme of share 1September 2012, including an analysis of repurchases once leverage neared 1.0 times the position of the Group at the end of the EBITDA.
At the January 2012 Annual General fi financial year, the trends and factors likely to Meeting shareholders authorised the aff ect the future development, performance Company to purchase up to 128,680,629 and position of the business and a description ordinary shares in the market.
On 24 April of the principal risks and uncertainties the 2012 a share repurchase programme Group faces constitutes the business review commenced and in the period 24 April 2012 and are therefore incorporated into this to 7 August 2012, 23.6 million ordinary shares report by reference.
Information about of 0.01p each were purchased at a cost of environmental matters, employees and 20.1 million.
All shares purchased by the social and community issues appear on Company are currently held as treasury pages 48 to 51 and on the Companys shares.
Approval will be sought from dedicated sustainability website shareholders at the forthcoming Annual sustainability.
General Meeting to renew the annual authority to purchase its own shares.
Any liability is restricted to the extent It is the boards intention to purchase up to prescribed by the Companies Act 2006.
40 million of shares in the next 12 months.
Events since the year end Share capital and control Since the year end Debenhams has: The issued share capital of the Company and Appointed Peter Fitzgerald as an the number of shares held in treasury as at independent non-executive director 1September 2012 are shown in note 27 to the Opened a store in Chesterfi eld Financial Statements on page 112.
In addition Opened international franchise stores to the shares trading on the London Stock in Indonesia, Georgia and Abu Dhabi Exchange, the Company operates a Level 1 Interests in voting rights In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6 2, the following investor interests have been disclosed to the Company pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: As at 1 September 2012: % of issued sharecapital excluding shares held as Shareholder Number of shares treasury shares Schroders plc 176,142,956 13.9 Bestinver Gestion, S. A. SGIIC 114,142,577 9.0 Milestone Resources Group Ltd 89,183,155 7.1 Morton Holdings, Inc 52,196,706 4.1 Legal & General Group plc 42,075,474 3.3 The following notifi cations have been received during the period 1 September 2012 to 19 October 2012: % of issued sharecapital excluding shares held as Date of notifi cation Shareholder Number of shares treasury shares 24 September 2012 Delta Lloyd N. V. 38,221,087 3.03 9 October 2012 Bestinver Gestion 61,554,348 4.87 S. A. SGIIC Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 63 Directors report continued ADR programme.
Each ADS represents four The Company also maintains directors and ordinary shares of 0.01p each.
offi cers liability insurance which gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to against its directors and offi cers.
exercise voting rights, to receive dividends when declared, to receive all shareholder Directors interests communications and to attend and speak The benefi cial and non-benefi cial interests at general meetings of the Company.
All of the directors and their connected persons the shares rank pari passu.
These rights and in the shares of the Company are shown on the obligations attaching to the Companys page 73 of the remuneration report.
Their ordinary shares, in addition to those interests in options and awards over shares conferred on their holders by law, are set out in the Company are shown on page 74 of in the Companys Articles of Association, the same report.
a copy of which can be obtained by writing No director had, during or at the end to the Company Secretary.
The Debenhams of the year, any material interest in any Retail Employee Trust 2004 the Trust contract of signifi cance in relation to holds 1,068,301 ordinary shares in the the Groups business.
Of those shares, 344,765 shares relate to invested shares held by the Employees Trust on behalf of the participants of the Business information and key messages are Deferred Bonus Matching Plan who instruct cascaded to all employees throughout the voting rights in relation to those shares.
Any business via personal briefi ngs and email.
voting or other similar decisions relating to Briefi ngs are also held by the Chief Executive the balance of shares held by the Trust is and members of the board to update taken by the trustees, who may take account employees on the performance of the of any recommendations of the Company.
Company and the Companys strategy.
The Employee Consultation Forum, which There are no signifi cant agreements to which is attended by elected representatives from the Company is a party which take eff ect, alter stores and head offi ce, is another medium or terminate in the event of change of control by which employees receive information of the Company except that the supplier on the Company as well as giving employees agreements with certain major cosmetic the opportunity to be consulted on certain suppliers contain termination provisions activities of the business.
on change of control and the multicurrency credit facility dated 16 July 2010 as amended Debenhams is committed to ensuring that by supplemental agreement dated 13 July employees or applicants for employment 2011 contains mandatory prepayment.
are treated equally regardless of gender, race, There are no agreements providing for ethic or national origin, religious, political compensation for directors or employees or philosophical beliefs, disability, marital on change of control.
Details concerning the or civil partnership status, sexual orientation, impact on share options and share awards gender reassignment and age.
Through our held by directors or employees in the event equal opportunities policy we aim to create of a change of control are set out on page 71 an environment that off ers all employees of the remuneration report.
the chance to use their skills and talent.
Essential contracts As part of the Companys policy on equality Debenhams has contractual arrangements of opportunity, decisions on recruitment, with many organisations, but no one contract training, promotion, pay, terms and is so material as to be essential to our conditions and leavers are based solely on business, with the exception of the objective, job-related criteria and personal warehouse operators.
The Company seeks wherever possible to make Board of directors reasonable adjustments to ensure that an The membership of the board and employee who becomes disabled during the biographical details of the directors are given course of his or her employment is able to on pages 56 to 57.
The rules governing the continue working eff ectively.
This includes: appointment and replacement of the board providing equipment or altering working members are set out in the Companys arrangements: providing additional training: Articles of Association.
reallocating on a temporary or permanent Directors indemnities basis some of the employees duties to other In addition to the indemnity provisions in members of staff : transferring the employee their Articles of Association, the Company to a suitable alternative role: and adjusting and other Group companies have entered working times.
Any such adjustment will be into a direct indemnity agreement with monitored and reviewed on a regular basis each of the directors and certain other to ensure it continues to be eff ective.
offi cers or senior employees of the Group.
64 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview 2 Strategy review 10 Finance and risk review 32 Sustainability 46 Governance 52 Accounts 75 Payment of suppliers Corporate Governance Statement It is the Companys policy to pay suppliers In accordance with the Financial Services in accordance with the agreed payment Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency terms provided that the invoice is properly Rule DTR 7.2.
1, the disclosures required presented and not subject to dispute.
10 are within the Chairmans introduction The ratio, expressed in days, between the to governance on page 55, the Corporate amounts owed by the Company to trade governance report on pages 58 to 62 and risk creditors at the end of the year and the review on pages 39 to 45 and are therefore amounts invoiced by suppliers in the incorporated into this report by reference.
fi financial year ended 1 September 2012 was nildays 2011: nil days.
The ratio, expressed Disclosure of information to auditors in days between the amounts owed by the Each of the directors of the Company at Group to trade creditors and the amount the time when the Directors Report was invoiced by suppliers in the fi financial year approved confi rms that: ended 1September 2012 was 59 days 2011: a so far as the director is aware, there is no 60 days.
information needed by the Companys Financial instruments auditors in connection with preparing their Debenhams does not enter into fi financial report of which the Companys auditors instruments for speculative trade.
Details are unaware of fi financial instruments entered into for b s he has taken all the steps that s he ought underlying risks are set out in note 22 on to have taken as a director in order to make page 105. herself or himself aware of any information Political donations needed by the Companys auditors in There were no disclosable expenses made connection with preparing the report and during the fi financial year which fall within to establish that the Companys auditors the defi nition of a political donation are aware of that information.
under the Political Parties, Elections and Auditors Referendums Act 2000.
It is the Groups  LLP have indicated policy not to make donations to political their willingness to continue in offi ce and a organisations or independent election resolution dealing with their re-appointment candidates or incur political expenditure.
as auditors of the Company will be proposed Charitable giving at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
During the year the Group made charitable Annual General Meeting donations totalling 0.75 million 2011: The Annual General Meeting of Debenhams 1.1million.
The Company supports various plc will be held at No.
Key donations made during the London W1G 0AN on Tuesday 8 January year were 178,144 to the NSPCC, 112,684 2013 at 2.00pm.
The Notice is given, together to the Breast Cancer Campaign, 77,071 to with explanatory notes, in the booklet which the Este Lauder MAC Aids campaign and accompanies this report.
53,842 to the Marine Conservation Society.
Following the incorporation of the By order of the board Debenhams Foundation in March 2012, Paul Eardley, Company Secretary future funds raised for charity will go 25 October 2012 through the foundation.
Going concern After making enquiries, the directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
For this reason and in accordance with the Going Concern and Liquidity Risk Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009, published by the FRC in October 2009, the directors have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 65
