Strategy review continued Increasing availability and choice through multi-channel We defi ne multi-channel retailing very simply.
It is about widening choice and off ering customers more ways to shop.
24 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview 2 Strategy review 10 Finance and risk review 32 Sustainability 46 Governance 52 Accounts 75 More choice and More ways to shop better availability We know that the more ways We are increasing the choice of we off er customers to shop, brands, products and categories the more they do shop.
Multithat we sell online as well as channel customers spend improving availability and up to three times more than working towards off ering a single channel customers.
better range of delivery options.
Improving the customer experience Growth will come through making shopping easier for our customers by better customer service and encouraging more customers to shop multi-channel.
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 25 Strategy review continued Increasing availability and choice through multi-channel Our multi-channel business continues More ways to shop Our refund policy has been updated to allow to grow strongly.
Online sales increased It is clear that the more ways we give customers to return a product purchased by 39.8% in 2012 to 250.6 million.
This customers to shop, the more they do shop.
through one channel to any other channel ongoing momentum has led us to increase that is most convenient for them.
Online The fastest growing sales channel is mobile.
our medium-term online sales target from shoppers are now able to return goods In 2012, 27% of all visits came from mobile 500 million to 600 million.
to any store, even if it does not stock that devices, higher than the industry average particular item.
More choice and better availability of c. 15%.
In May 2012 we were among the Multi-channel is all about choice.
Customers fi first major high street retailers to off er free Looking forward, growth will come from expect the walls of a multi-channel store wi-fi in all our stores.
This is undoubtedly improving the visibility of other shopping to be entirely elastic.
As a multi-brand, driving some of the growth inmobile channels across all channels to convert multi-category department store channel visit numbers.
Continuing single-channel customers to multi-channel.
Debenhams is well-placed to meet this to develop our mobile strategy will be So we will be raising awareness of services demand.
Our online product off er now a key focus in 2013 through, for example, such as click and collect and return to store.
encompasses some 110,000 product lines: introducing device-specifi c content which We are using vouchers to encourage store one third larger than our biggest store and recognises that customers use diff erent customers to try online shopping, reinforcing fi five times bigger than the smallest stores.
mobile devices to do diff erent things.
the availability of instore kiosks and promoting mobile sales channels and Online is becoming a key destination for The instore kiosks we installed across the free instore wi-fi.
In 2012, eight estate in time for Christmas 2011 have been out of ten furniture orders were placed very successful and customers are using We will be improving online visual online.
One in three dresses was sold online them to purchase both out of stock and merchandising and product presentation by even higher for occasionwear and one in unranged items.
In 2013 new collateral will introducing better photography and product fi five pairs of shoes.
Online health & beauty be rolled out across the estate to improve descriptions, particularly in womenswear.
sales, although still small, increased by 76%.
All clothing is now displayed on models, including childrenswear.
We have invested During the fi first half of 2012 we introduced Whilst technology is an important part inan online creative team which is driving a store-based fulfi lment service we call of giving customers more ways to shop, improvements in styling.
These initiatives Endless Aisle which improves availability by more traditional channels such as the home should also help to reduce the level of meeting demand for products which are out catalogue which was launched in September returned goods.
of stock in the fulfi lment centre.
By utilising 2011 have also proved successful.
the stock held on the trading fl oors and stock Customers see online and instore as one Improving the customer experience rooms of 36 of our largest stores we are able Debenhams brand and we as a business In 2012 we made some important changes to meet some 95% of this potentially lost need to see the customer in the same way.
in order to improve customer service.
In 2012 we estimate this accounted To this end stores are now being credited and trace is now available on all orders so for sales of 16 million.
Endless Aisle with online sales within their locality so customers can follow their deliveries online.
reinforces our stores as a vital element that each channel is focused on meeting We introduced webchat technology so of our multi-channel off er.
customers needs across their own and that customer service advisors can assist all other channels.
A focus in 2013 will be to improve the choice customers through the website.
We also of delivery options for multi-channel orders.
made the diffi cult decision to close our At present we have a standard delivery customer contact centre in Taunton and promise of four days as well as off ering outsource it to a dedicated call centre facility collect from store.
Investment in our delivery run by Capita in Leeds.
This took eff ect infrastructure will allow us to shorten the in August 2012 and is providing us with delivery promise and off er a range of delivery industry leading capability and technology options, including next day delivery.
These which aims to improve fi first call resolution, changes will also improve collation, thereby thereby improving customer satisfaction improving customer service and improving and reducing costs.
the margins of our online business over time 52 weeks to 1 September 2012 vs 52 weeks to by reducing delivery and logistics costs.
27 August 2011 250.6m 177m 200% 2012 online sales Visits to debenhams.
com in 2012 Increase in mobile visits in 2012 600m 11th 537% Medium-term online sales target largest UK online retailer Increase in iPad visits in 2012 Over the past three years online sales have Visits to debenhams.
com increased by 54% Mobile is by far the fastest growing sales grown by more than 350%.
This performance in 2012 to 177 million.
We are now the 11th channel through smartphone and tablet has given us the confi dence to increase our biggest UK online retailer by traffi c volume, apps and the mobile website.
Mobile visits medium-term sales target for online sales up from 13th last year source: IMRG Experian increased by over 200% and now account from 500 million to 600 million.
Hitwise Hot Shops List May 2012. for 27% of all visits.
26 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview 2 Strategy review 10 Finance and risk review 32 Sustainability 46 Governance 52 Accounts 75 1 1.
Raising the visibility of multi-channel 2 3 New collateral is being introduced in stores to reinforce the availability of other shopping channels.
Developing our mobile strategy We are introducing device specifi c content, particularly for iPads and other tablet devices.
Home catalogue Autumn 2012 saw the launch of the third edition of our catalogue for the home department.
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 27
