Market overview Putting our performance in context Market conditions in 2012 by the long Diamond Jubilee weekend but Market conditions remained challenging the Olympic and Paralympic Games in July throughout 2012.
Macroeconomic factors and August do not appear to have driven were compounded by unseasonal weather like-for-like sales growth on UK high streets.
throughout the year with a warm, dry Input costs autumn followed by a cold, wet spring After a volatile year in 2011, input costs were and summer.
The summer of 2012 saw an far more stable in 2012.
As can be seen in unprecedented number of special events fi gure 3, cotton prices fell signifi cantly from including the Queens Diamond Jubilee their 2010 11 highs leading to lower cotton and the Olympic and Paralympic Games.
fabric prices during the course of the year.
Consumer confi dence Other fabric costs such as viscose, polyester Consumer confi dence in the UK remained in and wool have also fallen.
There is still negative territory throughout 2012 fi gure 1, pressure on input costs, however, from rising causing Nick Moon, Managing Director labour rates.
The Chinese governments fi five of GfK Social Research, to comment that year plan will increase minimum wages by confi dence has never been so low for so long, 13% per annum.
Labour costs are also rising even during the dark days of the 2008-2009 in other countries, particularly Bangladesh.
The widely reported feel good Freight rates have remained broadly fl at with factor from the various events that took some shipping lines reducing tonnage due place during the summer did not translate to falling demand.
Sterling has appreciated into discernible improvements in consumer against the main sourcing currencies confi dence data.
including the Chinese yuan, US dollar and Indian rupee.
High street sales High street sales showed a fair degree UK clothing market of volatility in 2012, as measured by the The total market for clothing, footwear and BRC-KPMG Retail Sales Monitor fi gure 2. accessories grew in 2012.
In the 24 weeks The year-on-year percentage change to 2September 2012, it increased by 0.3%.
in like-for-like sales declined in the This was largely a result of increases in unseasonably warm autumn months of average prices which off set a decline in October and November 2011 but recovered volume as shown in fi gure 4.
Amongst in December as peak trading fi nally got the major product categories, the size of underway.
April saw a sharp drop, although the womenswear market declined whilst this is only to be expected given the very menswear and childrenswear both grew.
strong performance associated with the Royal Wedding in that month last year.
"June showed some growth, possibly driven Market metrics Figure 1 Figure 3 UK consumer confidence Monthly average cotton prices US cents per pound 0 150 -5 -10 100 -15 -20 50 -25 -30 -35 0 Sep 11 Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug 12 Sep 11 Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug 12 Source: GfK Consumer Confidence Index Score Source: National Cotton Council of America ""A"" Index Figure 2 Figure 4 UK high street sales % change year-on-year UK clothing market overview 5.0 % 2.5 Total clothing footwear accessory units sold -3.0 0 Total clothing footwear accessories average price 3.3 -2.5 Total market for clothing footwear accessories 0.3 -5.0 Sep 11 Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug 12 Source: Kantar Worldpanel fashion market share 24 weeks to 2 September 2012 vs 2011 LFL Sales % change vs LY Total sales % change vs LY Source: BRC-KPMG Retail Sales Monitor 8 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview 2 Strategy review 10 Finance and risk review 32 Sustainability 46 Governance 52 Accounts 75 Our conclusions An independent view of the UK retail market in 2013 Debenhams performed well in 2012 in a from Verdict market that was challenging on many levels."
Like-for-like sales growth of 1.6% for the year We at Verdict expect 2013 to be yet another tough year for clearly outperformed both the UK high street UK retail.
Despite talk of green shoots, the economy still and clothing sector.
We achieved this faces a long, slow haul to recovery.
Further public sector job through meeting our customers needs, especially when footfall was at its highest cuts will keep unemployment levels high and there will around key events as well as month ends.
be a time lag before the private sector can absorb this We began to see the benefi t of lower capacity.
Continuing infl ation in household expenditure, commodity prices in the fi final months of low wage rises and consumers building up their savings the year although infl ation in other areas and paying off debts will restrict consumer spending for of the supply chain, especially labour costs, will require careful management.
We agree with the sentiments expressed Furthermore, retail in the UK is a mature sector and was in Verdicts outlook for the UK retail market already facing saturation.
The recession has simply in 2013 and there are clear correlations expedited the demise of weaker retailers, especially those between these trends and the four pillars with propositions based on low margins and high volumes of Debenhams strategy.
Our unique, diff erentiated and exclusive customer and underpinned by large amounts of debt.
proposition helps us to get the price Austerity has settled in: consumers are buying less and product equation right.
Our buying and merchandising and supply chain teams considering purchases more.
Price has increased in who have many years of experience of importance in their buying decisions but so has quality.
direct sourcing and have developed They are more demanding and social media has given long-standing relationships with many of consumers the power to infl uence demand and businesses our suppliers will help us to manage input reputations instantaneously.
The development of a true customerfocused multi-channel model which focuses The outcome is that retailers have to reassess the basics of on improving choice, availability, convenience retailing.
First, getting the product and price equation right is and service for customers will help to essential.
Having a unique product reduces price comparisons optimise all sales channels, whether store based or otherwise.
Finally we are investing and drives footfall to your stores and website.
This demands more in communicating our proposition frequent and innovative design and product development.
and have a proven record of driving sales and improving the perceptions of the Secondly, managing costs in both retail operations and the Debenhams brand through this investment.
As global demand rises, there are fewer low-cost countries to source from and the rising cost of transport and long delivery times negate any manufacturing price advantages.
Buyers and merchandisers need to work closely with manufacturers and suppliers and have a real understanding of the true costs of the whole supply chain.
They must have the fl exibility to exploit sales opportunities and control margin risks.
This demands a high level of professionalism and the appropriate skills.
No longer can retailers depend on opening new space to drive sales, as the associated costs of maintaining physical stores can negate profi tability.
Retailers must develop an optimum model for both physical and online stores, with the two working seamlessly together to give consumers what they want, when and how they want it.
And fi nally is marketing.
Communicating the value of the brand, its relevance and benefi ts are vital in keeping a retailer top of mind when consumers fi nally decide to spend.
Customer loyalty will be vital in the new landscape of austerity.
About Verdict Research With over 25 years experience, Verdict Research is the leading authority on UK and European retail markets, publishing unrivalled independent analysis.
Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 9 Strategy review Over the next few pages we outline our growth strategy and what we have been doing to deliver against this strategy.
p12 Chief Executives review The four pillars of our strategy p16 Focusing on UK retail Delivering a compelling customer p20 proposition Increasing availability and choice p24 through multi-channel Expanding the brand p28 internationally For more information go to ar12.
com 10 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview 2 Strategy review 10 Finance review 32 Sustainability 46 Governance 52 Accounts 75 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 11
