com 26 27 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2012 Stock Code: DPH Directors Report: Our Performance Services: This segment comprises NVS and our Laboratories: DLS and DSL NVS Management Team Our Market Achievements Our principal customers are UK veterinary practices of all Services revenue grew by approximately 6.5% compared to types: small animal, equine, farm animal and mixed species the corresponding period last year.
Footfall through UK veterinary practices has remained gained in the period: however, operating margin declined in consistent throughout the year: however, increased volumes the first half of the financial year at NVS due to an increase in of unregulated products, such as diets and shampoos, discount allowed and the decline in the proportion of revenue are now being purchased through internet pharmacies as from higher margin product groups.
The increase in discount consumers look to reduce the costs of pet health spending.
The allowed has been a feature of the highly competitive market consolidation of veterinary practices into large corporate groups Martin Riley Dan Shipman Steven Williams Peter Cronin over recent years.
The sales mix has been influenced by Managing Director Finance Director Operations Director Sales and Marketing Director seen over recent years has continued within the period, putting consumers buying products such as pet diets from internet pressure on margins and cash flow.
pharmacies, a sector in which we are currently underweight.
A strong focus by the management team ensured that operating Key Strengths What we do margin showed a small improvement in the second half of the NVS offers very high levels of service, a large range and depth NVS Network financial year.
NVS is the UK market leader, as measured in terms of market of stock supplied via our reliable next day national delivery share, in the supply and distribution of veterinary products to Following several years of planning, a new integrated IT system service.
Additionally, NVS supplies a range of business solutions veterinary practices and other approved outlets.
NVS stocks went live at NVS on 1 July 2011, coinciding with the beginning for veterinary practices including practice management a range of over 14,000 products, including pharmaceuticals, of the financial year being reported.
This system has bedded in software, benchmarking systems and marketing and business pet products, consumables and accessories.
NVS has also and Phase I completed.
This has allowed management to focus support.
developed a range of IT solutions for veterinary practices.
more closely on our customer requirements and as a result communication and services have been significantly improved.
Operational Structure Furthermore, the IT platform has allowed us to develop a new The business is managed by an operating board of four range of services to practices, such as an online Web Shop and experienced directors.
NVS employs 426 people across the UK, Aberdeen an in-depth analytical tool for practices to monitor and manage 111 of whom are delivery drivers.
The centralised inventory held in Stoke-on-Trent, England is picked and packed throughout the afternoon and evening and Larkhall then distributed overnight to nine trunking depots via HGVs.
Van drivers are employed locally at these depots to distribute the goods directly to our customers.
NVS has developed an Carlisle advanced communication system for its customers and through this 85% of orders are received automatically without requiring human input.
Wetherby Stoke-on-Trent Mildenhall Hertford Gloucester Swanscombe Bracknell Tiverton 21587-04 10 08 2012 Proof 3 21587-04 10 08 2012 Proof 3 Shareholder Directors Report Directors Report Information Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Our Business
