com 72 73 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2012 Stock Code: DPH Directors Report: Our Governance Social, Ethical and Environmental Responsibilities continued Employee Charity 4,000 Environmental Policy An employee at NVS nominated Savana: This Staffordshire based charity supports anyone who has experienced or is affected The Group recognises the importance of good environmental controls.
It is the Groups policy to comply with environmental by any form of sexual violence including rape, sexual, domestic or honour related violence and childhood sexual abuse whether legislation currently in place, adopt responsible environmental practices and give consideration to minimising the impact of its recently or in the past.
The donation was spent in full on providing counselling sessions and equated to 50 individual face to face operations on the environment.
In terms of fuel, waste and travel we can report the following changes: counselling sessions for victims of sexual abuse.
Fuel The UK employees of DVP nominated Donnas Dream House: This charity in Blackpool provides free holiday experiences for Dechra has recently reviewed the Company Car Scheme and amalgamated the two lower car bands where employees previously children and teenagers with life-threatening illnesses and their families, as well as recently bereaved siblings and their families.
The had a choice of over 20 car variants.
This scheme change will result in over 55% of the Company car fleet converting to a vehicle home was closed in December 2011 due to an arson attack so we are pleased that the donation is being utilised to assist with with emissions of less than 119 CO km over the next two years.
A further 19% of the fleet are vehicles of less than 160 CO km.
The light commercial fleet of over 130 delivery vans has now integrated an alternative range of vehicles including small VW Caddy In addition to the annual Group donation, each business unit has discretion to allocate funds to local community groups, employee vans returning over 46 mpg, as opposed to the previously standard vehicle that delivered only 32 mpg.
The HGV fleet has been nominated charities and or animal welfare charities.
Below is a selection of what has taken place during the 2011 2012 financial limited to 53 mph and has subsequently delivered an improvement in fuel efficiency from 9.60 mpg to 9.92 mpg.
Dechra has chosen to maintain its 36 month lease term policy across both the Commercial and Company car fleets to ensure that Animal Welfare the business has access to the continued developments in engine technology.
Ongoing trials with a single deck trailer to replace As in previous years, many of our businesses have donated obsolete and or short dated stock, damaged products and double deck trailers are showing promising results.
In addition, tractor units are being trialled with the view of replacing two of the consumables to various charities, ensuring that such stock is not provided to charities where the donation-in-kind could be sold existing units during 2012 2013: some of these have returned in excess of 10.5 mpg.
The average miles per gallon as at the end of to third parties.
DVP UK continued to provide assistance to a charity called Help the Street Cats of Morocco which it has been June 2012 and June 2011 were as follows: involved with since 2006 providing supplies of Atipam, Canaural, Cleanaural, Fucithalmic and Sedator.
In addition, DVP UK has 2012 2011 provided assistance to GSPCA, an animal charity based in Grenada, which offers free veterinary care to domestic animals on HGV Fleet 9.92 9.60 the island with an ongoing neutering programme, by providing supplies of Clavudale, Fiprodog and Fiprocat.
NVS donated bird Transit 32.64 32.57 feeders and bird food to local schools and conservation organisations.
Environment The HGV fleet complies with the Euro 5 standard, a European regulation which sets emission limits for each category of pollutant emissions, such as carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides and combined emissions of hydrocarbons and nitrogen oxides.
DVP EU has continued to donate DKK0.02 for every kilowatt per hour used for the period 2011 to 2015 to Energreen ApS for the construction of new green energy production facilities within Denmark.
Travel Other In respect of travel, use of the video conference facilities is recommended as priority over travel.
Video conference facilities are Each year DVP EU nominates a Danish charity.
This year they donated DKK2,500 to the Danish Cancer Foundation.
Furthermore, installed at NVS, DVP UK, DVP US, Dales and Uldum, Denmark.
On the acquisition of Eurovet, video conference facilities were as reported in the previous Annual Report, DVP EU has continued its sponsorship of three children through SOS Childrens also installed at Bladel, the Netherlands.
Whilst the Company appreciates that face to face meetings are beneficial the use of video Villages.
conference facilities substantially reduces the amount of travel by car and aeroplanes.
Dechra Laboratory Services has maintained its links with local schools by offering a number of work experience placements to Waste eight children from local schools and three veterinary students.
In respect of waste, the Group is a registered member of a compliance scheme in respect of the Waste Packaging Obligations Business Ethics Regulations.
In addition, NVS operates a recycling programme which ensures that all trunking depots see page 26 return their The Board expects all of the Groups business activities to be conducted in accordance with the highest standards of ethical general waste to the main depot at Stoke-on-Trent.
The general waste is then sorted for collection by third party waste management conduct and in full compliance with all applicable national and international legislation: in doing so we aim to maintain a reputation companies.
Dales also actively monitors its recycling rates.
Dales continues to comply with, and exceed, effluent discharge for acting responsibly and with integrity.
standards into local water supplies, which is subject to random monitoring by Yorkshire Water Authority.
Standard operating procedures are in place to ensure that all contaminated waste is disposed of under strict controls.
Furthermore, all exhaust air is fully The Board has formalised its expectations in respect of business conduct into a policy known as The Code of Business Conduct filtered from the manufacturing unit before discharge into the environment.
DVP EU is legally obliged to submit an annual report to the Code.
The Code aims to set a standard of conduct which applies throughout the Group and ensures, amongst other things, the Danish Ministry of Environment in respect of its environmental impact.
that: Glass Cardboard Plastic Aluminium cans all third parties are treated fairly, openly and honestly: tonnes tonnes tonnes tonnes our employees do not accept or offer bribes, facilitation payments or other inducements: and 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 employees must avoid direct and indirect conflicts of interest and where this is not possible, the employee must follow the Dales 8.2 8.7 34.2 30.6 14.6 15.8 procedure set out in the Code in order to ensure that the employee is removed from the position of conflict as soon as possible.
NVS 261.1 276.1 13.1 18.4 0.002 0.03 A whistle-blowing policy is also in place whereby employees report, in confidence, any suspected wrongdoings within the business DVP EU 18.4 18.5 13.1 9.1 where they feel unable to discuss directly with local management.
Details of the whistle-bowing policy are detailed on the Company data collated on a calendar year basis website at www.
plastic and metal The Dechra Values were launched in June 2011 across the business.
A summary of which can be found on page 30.
Further information can be obtained via the Companys website at www.
The Board fully endorses these values and believes that they encapsulate Dechras business ethics and set standards that all employees wish to achieve and ultimately exceed.
21587-04 10 08 2012 Proof 3 21587-04 10 08 2012 Proof 3 Shareholder Directors Report Directors Report Information Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Our Business Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC www.
com 74 75 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2012 Stock Code: DPH Directors Report: Our Governance Social, Ethical and Environmental Responsibilities continued DVP EU also monitors: Employees We recognise that the success of the Group is dependent on our ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain skilled employees.
Annual energy consumption: In 2011, energy consumption totalled 1,474 MWh compared to 1,748 MWh in 2010.
The decrease For a number of years the Group has reported labour turnover as a non-financial KPI using a standard formula as follows: is primarily due to an increase in outside temperature.
Although there has been a slight increase in Total number of leavers over a period 100 usage compared to the previous year, over a five year period the usage has remained relatively stable.
Average total number employed over period Dales has implemented and embedded a lean manufacturing strategy into its operations, thereby assisting the business in achieving The Group has established a target of no more than 15% Moving Annual Turnover: during the 2011 2012 financial year we achieved a decrease in the time between placement of the customer order and end product shipment.
The implementation of these lean 16.10% 2011: 19.03%.
This figure includes fixed term contract workers, of which there were six leavers during the year.
Excluding manufacturing principles into the business has provided concrete results to date: specifically the time taken for a product to travel these six leavers, the MAT for permanent staff is 15.5%, which is slightly over our target of 15% but below the national CIPD figure through the manufacturing cycle from raw materials to stores as a finished product has reduced during the financial year from an of 16.10%.
Currently 22 employees are working towards a Certificate in Lean Manufacturing Business Improvement Dales is registered with Investors in People and has continued in its commitment to people development through a number of Techniques, which will bring the total trained at the business to 200.
Dales continues to work towards achievement of its ISO apprentices embarking on the Modern Apprenticeship Scheme.
Such employees are assisted in achieving National Vocational 140001 status.
Qualifications NVQ as part of their apprenticeship, usually work-based but also involving literacy and numeracy modules.
The The Group continues to review its environmental controls and encourage its own staff, suppliers and customers to achieve similar business continues to support several employees in attaining NVQ Level 2 Performing Manufacturing Operations and Certificate in standards.
Process Technology as well as Level 3 in Business Administration.
Additionally, two employees are undertaking Foundation Degrees in Chemical Science and another individual is about to complete a Chartered Institute of Purchasing & Supply Level 6 Advanced Health and Safety Policy Diploma.
Training in Lean Techniques continues to be rolled out across the workforce and up-skilling key personnel continues with The Group attaches great importance to the health and safety of its employees and the public.
The management is responsible and Team Leader and Management Training scheduled over the next financial year.
committed to the maintenance, monitoring and promotion of a policy of health and safety at work to ensure the care and well-being At NVS, one employee has completed the Institute of Payroll Professionals Degree, two employees have completed NVQ Level 2 of its employees and on-site visitors.
All of its UK sites are registered with the British Safety Council.
in Customer Services and two members of the Transport Department have completed the International Certificate of Professional Each unit within the Group has an active Health and Safety Committee comprising representatives from both management and Competence CPC course.
The workforce nominates employee representatives.
These committees meet on a regular basis to carry out a review It is the Companys policy to provide equal recruitment and other opportunities for all employees, regardless of age, sex, sexual of risk assessments and standard operating procedures as well as investigating any concerns raised by individual employees.
Each orientation, religion, race or disability.
The Group gives full consideration to applications from disabled people, where they adequately site has the requisite number of employees trained in health and safety legislation.
fulfil the requirements of the role.
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Groups policy whenever practicable to For a number of years the Group has reported Lost Time Accident Frequency Rates LTAFR as a non-financial key performance provide continuing employment under the Companys terms and conditions and to provide training and career development indicator see pages 32 to 33.
The LTAFR is a calculation of all injuries that would be statutorily reportable under the Reporting whenever appropriate.
of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations RIDDOR, normalised per 100,000 hours worked.
This measure The Group continues to encourage employees to share in the growth of the Company through eligibility to participate in the SAYE provides information to help monitor and control accidents and injuries to the workforce and is widely used as a key performance Scheme.
The SAYE Scheme is currently offered to UK employees only: the take-up for the 2011 grant was 15.34% 2010: 17.38%.
Although the UK reporting requirement for over-three day injuries to workers changed to over-seven Overall 29.45% of UK employees participate within the SAYE Scheme.
The graph below shows the percentage of employees who day injuries with effect from 6 April 2012, the Company is still obliged to keep a record of any accident if the worker has been have taken up the SAYE Scheme over the last five years.
incapacitated for more than three consecutive days.
Therefore for this reason and for consistency the Company will continue to report LTAFR on the same basis as in previous years, that is over-three day incidents.
Over the course of the last 12 months the Percentage take-up Eligible Employees number of accidents has decreased from 15 to 10, none of which resulted in a work-related fatality or disability.
It is hoped to 25.00 reduce this further during the 2012 2013 financial year.
Any material health and safety issues or incidents which occur are discussed in detail at both the monthly business unit board 20.00 meetings and the PLC board meetings.
The discussions include details of the incident that took place and also details of any remedial action which has been taken in order to mitigate or prevent a recurrence of the incident.
Twice a year a comprehensive 15.00 health and safety report is presented at each of the business unit board meetings and subsequently reported to the PLC board meeting the following month for discussion and review by the Directors.
10.00 The Transport Risk Committee assesses risks relating to the Group fleet and establishes control procedures, including regular 5.00 licence checks of all individuals who are able to drive company vehicles, investigations into all accidents and a disciplinary procedure for speeding offences.
During the year an online driver risk assessment was introduced for all Company car and Commercial vehicle 0.00 01 01 2007 01 01 2008 01 01 2009 01 01 2010 01 01 2011 drivers.
The results of the assessment enables the Company to identify any drivers at risk and to provide further training to those Grant Dates drivers.
All new Company car and Commercial vehicle drivers must complete the online driver risk assessment as part of their induction.
It is intended that all drivers will be reassessed every three years.
The investment so far in respect of the online driver assessments has had a positive impact on the number of insurance claims with both the frequency and severity of accidents having been reduced.
This committee has met three times during the year.
All issues raised by this committee are reviewed by the Board as part of the bi-annual health and safety review.
Simon Evans is the nominated Director responsible for Health and Safety policy.
21587-04 10 08 2012 Proof 3 21587-04 10 08 2012 Proof 3 Percentage take-up Shareholder Directors Report Directors Report Information Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Our Business
