com 28 29 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2012 Stock Code: DPH Directors Report: Our Performance Services Laboratories Management Team Our Market Achievements DLSs customers are UK commercial veterinary practices.
We have rebranded NationWide Laboratories to Dechra We have historically provided support to companion animal Laboratory Services and Cambridge Specialist Laboratories practices: in the last two years we have introduced an increased to Dechra Specialist Laboratories: the objective is to better range of farm animal and equine services.
DSL provides some integrate the businesses.
We have implemented a changeover first level support similar to DLS to UK veterinary practices: their from externally provided logistics to an internal Group solution, major area of specialisation is in very precise endocrine assays utilising the NVS distribution structure to collect samples from which it supplies directly to veterinary practices and other first veterinary clinics.
This initiative reduces costs and improves referral laboratories.
We are at an advanced stage of the Dr Peter Graham Paul Sandland Diane Saffery Managing Director Finance Director Commercial Manager implementation of a new Laboratories information management, Key Strengths accounting and customer relationship software package, with a We offer a high quality service with a very experienced team of go-live targeted prior to the end of the 2012 calendar year.
The veterinary pathologists who provide a fully interpreted results new system will significantly enhance the Laboratories customer What we do Operational Structure service on all samples received.
DLS is a first referral veterinary laboratory.
We provide histology, The Laboratories, employing 73 people, are run by an pathology, haematology, chemistry and microbiology services to operational board of two senior managers and are supported veterinary practices.
DSL provides secondary referral services by the Group Financial Controller who also sits on this board.
with our key area of expertise being endocrinology.
DSL also DLS is located in Poulton-le-Fylde, Leeds and Swanscombe, provides precise assays which support the dosage regimes and DSL is located at Sawston.
Samples are received on a daily and patient monitoring of DVPs key products, Vetoryl and basis via post, couriers and our own collection service.
the science allows, a same day or next day results service is provided.
21587-04 10 08 2012 Proof 3 21587-04 10 08 2012 Proof 3 Shareholder Directors Report Directors Report Information Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Our Business Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC www.
com 30 31 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2012 Stock Code: DPH Directors Report: Our Performance hR The senior management team has been significantly strengthened by the acquisition of Eurovet.
The DVP EU team has been restructured, incorporating senior managers from both businesses.
Tony Griffin, previously Eurovet and AUV CEO, will manage this team and become DVP EU Managing Director.
Furthermore, Tony will be invited to become a PLC Board Director and will be appointed prior to end of the 2012 calendar year.
Ed Torr has stepped down from the role of European Managing Director and reverted to his historic duties in charge of business development, international expansion and product development.
There have been three new senior managers recruited during the year: Allen Mellor has been appointed to a new role as Group IT Director, Peter Cronin has taken over the role of Sales and Marketing Director at NVS and Diane Saffery has been appointed as Commercial Manager of The Performance Development Review scheme which our Laboratories.
Steve Williams, NVS Operations Director, has incorporates the Dechra Values, outlined in the 2011 Annual taken responsibility for Group logistics.
Bryan Morton, who was Report and Accounts, has been rolled out across all senior appointed as a Non-Executive Director in January 2010, has management.
The review process will be extended to all middle unfortunately decided to step down from the role due to other management throughout 2013 and across the whole Group work commitments.
We are currently in the process of recruiting thereafter, further details are provided in the Remuneration two new Non-Executive Directors: one to replace Bryan and Report on pages 59 to 70. the second to ensure the Non-Executive Directors are in the majority once Tony Griffin is appointed to the PLC Board of Directors.
Our Values We are dedicated to delivering products and services that meet D EDICATION the highest level of service and quality to our customers We will endeavour to create an environment where our people E NJOYMENT want to come to work and feel part of Dechra We want a business where we dare to challenge each other, C OURAGE creating better cross-organisational solutions We will act with integrity and fairness and treat everyone h ONESTY with respect We see our customers and suppliers as business partners and R ELATIONSHIPS thereby work together to ensure common success We shall deliver solid results through our energetic and resilient A MBITION approach 21587-04 10 08 2012 Proof 3 21587-04 10 08 2012 Proof 3 Shareholder Directors Report Directors Report Information Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Our Business
