com 24 25 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2012 Stock Code: DPH Directors Report: Our Performance European Pharmaceuticals US Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing Management Team DVP US Management Team Mike Annice Kirsty Ireland Andrew Parkinson Gareth Davies Mike Eldred Doug hubert Dana Fertig Managing Director Finance Director Quality Director Sales and Marketing Director President, US Operations Vice-President, Sales and Marketing Veterinary Technical Services Manager pharmacies: there has, however, been a significant amount of What we do Key Strengths What we do publicity outlining to veterinarians the risks and lack of quality We manufacture the vast majority of our own branded, licensed Our ability to be flexible on batch size is a major advantage, DVP US markets and sells our own veterinary products across control associated with buying products from compounding pharmaceutical products which are marketed through DVP: especially when introducing new pharmaceuticals.
Throughout the year over 100 regional meetings we also derive revenue from third party toll manufacturing for key strength is our ability to produce several dosage formats Operational Structure have been conducted by our technical support veterinarians: human pharmaceutical and other veterinary companies.
This is such as sterile injectables, tablets, capsules, liquids, creams, The business has an operating board of three senior managers, these have been attended by over 3,100 veterinarians.
Dechras only significant source of revenue not derived directly gels, powders and pre-medicated feeds.
We have the capacity all of whom have in-depth experience of the American veterinary from the veterinary market.
to package these products in numerous formats.
Accounts, HR and pre-distributor logistics are all able to provide a full service for third party customers including Operational Structure currently outsourced.
Our business is located in Kansas City, product formulation, trial batch manufacturing, validation, The business has an operating board of four senior managers.
USA and employs 36 people, 22 of whom are field based sales production and packaging.
The majority of manufacturing is located at Dales in Skipton, representatives.
Achievements England and employs 209 people and at Eurovet in Bladel, the Our Market Netherlands which employs 106 people.
There is also a small The biggest single achievement at Dales in the year was the Our customers are small animal and equine veterinary surgeons, manufacturing facility in Uldum, Denmark which employs 26 FDA approval in November 2011 to manufacture 120mg predominantly operating out of commercial veterinary practices.
Vetoryl for sale in the USA market.
This approval, once The USA is the worlds largest veterinary market and represents extended into other dosage strengths of Vetoryl, will allow us Our Market a significant growth opportunity for Dechra.
Over 62% of to improve the margin on our leading product.
Work has also The primary customer for our manufacturers is DVP EU.
Our toll households own a pet which equates to 73 million homes, with commenced to extend FDA approval into other products and manufacturing customers are, in the majority, small or mid-sized a current estimated population of 86 million cats, dosage forms so we can manufacture other novel products UK based pharmaceutical companies.
However, we also supply 78 million dogs and 7 million horses.
in our pipeline for the USA.
A Medicines and Healthcare a number of other animal health businesses.
Regulatory Agency MHRA audit was conducted over Key Strengths the period which achieved the highest audit standard in our Our key pharmaceuticals, which are the focus of our sales and history.
Over 1 million of new contract business has been marketing efforts, are unique and are the first licensed products gained at Dales in the year which resulted in a 6.1% increase to treat the conditions for which they are recommended.
compared to the corresponding period last year.
Service levels Achievements have improved within the organisation, achieving 95% of lines fulfilled on time.
Furthermore, there has been continued Revenue across our US product range was approximately product mix rationalisation, whereby lower value and inefficiently 26% higher than last year.
Four new sales representatives and manufactured products have been deleted.
This has resulted two field veterinarians were added to the organisation within in an increase in unit added value of 9%.
Further increases in headcount are planned for the has been made at the Dales site with an upgrade in the future as we continue to increase our one-to-one coverage of injections facility, including a new replacement autoclave and the major US veterinary practices.
Our key products, Vetoryl laboratory expansion in both the quality control laboratory and and Felimazole and the DermaPet range showed good growth.
the product development formulation laboratory.
The key focus Overall revenue performance was again impacted by continual of the manufacturing management team in the forthcoming supply issues related to our historic dermatological, ophthalmic year will be the integration of the Eurovet site at Bladel into the and otic range by a third party manufacturer.
to improve supply consistency of the licensed dermatological products and the transfer of the sterile ophthalmic range into a new facility is ongoing.
This transfer is targeted to be completed prior to the end of June 2013.
Vetoryl sales achieved our expectations despite the ongoing battle against compounding 21587-04 10 08 2012 Proof 3 21587-04 10 08 2012 Proof 3 Shareholder Directors Report Directors Report Information Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Our Business
