com 20 21 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2012 Stock Code: DPH Directors Report: Our Performance Introducing the DVP Country Managers Denmark Norway Mette Trige MSc Sverre Aasgaard Dechra Veterinary Products currently operates sales, marketing and technical email: info.
no support teams in 14 countries, each led by a manager who has a wealth of web: www.
no knowledge and experience of the animal health market in which they operate.
Mette Trige commenced work in 2001 as a Sverre Aasgaard started work with the Group in 1980 and has These managers are integral to the growth in sales and profitability of our products sales representative and was appointed Country worked in various roles: he was appointed as the Country Manager in their countries.
She specialised in of Norway in 2005.
Sverre has over 30 years experience in the molecular genetics, nutrition and physiology at animal health business.
In 2006 he was appointed Honourable the Faculty of Life Sciences at the University of Member of the Norwegian Veterinary Association, being one of only Copenhagen, graduating in 1994. two non-veterinarians to receive this award.
United States Mike Eldred email: info@dechra.
com henri hilden DVM Mike Eldred was appointed as President of the email: info.
Details of his previous web: www.
fi professional experience can be found on page 43.
Henri Hilden was appointed as the Country Manager of Finland in December 2007.
He graduated as a veterinary surgeon in Sweden and Finland, in 1984 and 1988 respectively.
Henri has over 20 years experience in the animal health business in management positions for Orion Corporation Animal Health, Intervet Animal Health Finland, Veter Animal Health and Merial UK & Eire Norden A S. Bob Parmenter email: info.
com Sweden Bob Parmenter was appointed in July 2008 as the Country Manager of the UK and Eire.
He has Carina Kjellberg over 42 years experience in the animal health email: info.
com business, of which 38 years were spent with ICI web: www.
se Animal Health subsequently Intervet Schering Carina Kjellberg started in 2000 and was appointed the Plough.
Bob joined the board of NOAH in 2002 Country Manager of Sweden in 2005.
She has over 21 and was appointed its Chairman from April 2010 years experience in the animal heath business, 11 of to April 2012. which were working as a veterinary nurse.
France Spain & Portugal Germany Florence Lasvergres DVM, MBA Benelux Jesper Graff BBA, MBA, IESE email: info fr@dechra.
com Dr Gerfried Zeller Dr. med.
fr Kurt van der heijden email: infor@albrecht-vet.
com Florence Lasvergres was appointed as the Country web: www.
com Jesper Graff started work for the Group in 1991 Manager of France in June 2007.
She graduated as a and was appointed the Country Manager of veterinary surgeon from Alfort Vet School in 1988, and Kurt van der Heijden was appointed as the new Country Gerfried Zeller is the General Manager of Albrecht GmbH, the Spain and Portugal in 1998.
He has over 16 obtained a Masters in marketing from ESSEC-IMD.
Manager of Benelux, on the acquisition of Eurovet.
He has German subsidiary of Dechra.
He graduated as a veterinary years experience in the animal health business.
Florence has over 23 years experience in the animal over 20 years of management experience in various industries, surgeon from Humboldt University of Berlin.
Gerfried has more Jesper was previously an officer in the army.
He health business in various positions including regulatory, of which the last six years have been in the animal health than 21 years experience in the veterinary pharmaceutical graduated from Copenhagen Business School sales, marketing and management, successively with business, starting at Schering-Plough as Sales Manager industry, experienced with Hoechst Roussel Vet, Intervet, and and obtained an MBA from IESE in Spain.
SmithKline Beecham, Upjohn and Pharmacia.
She is also Benelux and subsequently as Business Unit Manager since 2006, with Albrecht.
Gerfried is member of the board of an active member of the French Office of Animal Health Companion Animal at Intervet Schering-Plough now Merck Bundesverband fr Tiergesundheit BfT, the German branch SIMV board.
Animal Health, followed by an international position as of IFAH and Chairman of the Friends Association of the Regional Director at Eurovet.
 FLI, Federal Research Institute for Animal Health.
21587-04 10 08 2012 Proof 3 21587-04 10 08 2012 Proof 3 Shareholder Directors Report Directors Report Information Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Our Business Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC www.
com 22 23 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2012 Stock Code: DPH Directors Report: Our Performance European Pharmaceuticals: This segment comprises DVP EU incorporating Eurovet and Dechra Manufacturing DVP EU Management Team Tony Griffin Ren hogenkamp Giles Coley Jan Jaap Korevaar Roeland Meijers Carsten Jeppesen Marie-Louise Mans Managing Director Finance Director Sales and Marketing Director, Sales and Marketing Director, Director of Diets Logistics Director Europe HR Director Europe Region I Region II Region I: Denmark, Finland, France, Norway, Sweden and UK Region II: Benelux, Germany, Portugal and Spain What we do Our Market Key Strengths This business unit markets and sells our own branded veterinary Our customers are veterinary surgeons, predominantly Our business is unique as the majority of our products products across 13 European countries and manages the operating out of commercial veterinary practices.
Before are either novel and are used to treat medical relationships with our worldwide marketing partners.
acquiring Eurovet, this was entirely small animal and equine: conditions for which there is often no other effective most European markets are demonstrating growth although, solution or have a clinical or dosing advantage over Operational Structure on the whole, this is inflationary.
Although consumers continue competitor products.
Our key marketing benefit, The business has an operating board of seven senior managers.
to treat sick animals, high levels of historic growth have especially on diets, is that our products are only The business is managed from Bladel, the Netherlands and declined in the current depressed global economy as spend marketed and sold to veterinary practices.
Companion animal marketing is located in has reduced on discretionary items such as pet diets.
However, technical nature of many of our products, we invest in Sansaw, farm animal marketing in Bladel and Specific pet diets this has had minimal effect on DVP as most our products state of the art online communication tools.
We are one marketing in Uldum, Denmark.
Internet pharmacies, predominantly in the of the leading companies in the veterinary industry to Eurovet revenue since acquisition has been in line with our UK, but also increasingly in other major European territories, offer online educational webinars and also approved continued We have nine Country Managers operating out of Denmark, expectations and ahead of their corresponding period last year.
are demonstrating stronger levels of growth as consumers professional development courses through our websites.
Finland, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, This was achieved despite ongoing pressure to reduce antibiotic look to reduce the cost of pet and horse ownership.
Through Sweden and the UK.
Ireland and Portugal are managed out of Achievements usage, especially in the Netherlands, one of the main markets Eurovet the business now supplies large animal practices: the UK and Spain respectively and Belgium and Luxembourg The main achievement and ongoing priority is the integration of for this range.
these are predominantly pig and poultry practices which are are managed out of the Netherlands.
Eurovet into our European operations.
Rationalisation of the four very specialised, and although few in number are high value.
Sales of our specialised pet diets grew by 1.9% at constant We currently employ 73 representatives across these territories.
duplicated sales offices has been completed.
Eurovets Danish DVP EU also sells into over 40 countries through relationships currency in the financial year.
We have successfully completed DVP EU, including Eurovet, employs 436 people.
and UK offices have been closed and now operate out of with distribution partners who themselves sell into veterinary the supply change of all feline dry products into our new Dechras facilities, whilst Dechras Dutch and Belgian operation practices in their own country.
outsourced manufacturing facility in Sweden following the has been closed and now operates out of Eurovets facility transfer of our canine diets in the preceding year.
The wet diets in a consolidated Benelux unit.
A number of key distribution have been re-optimised and introduced in new European pack agreements have been amended as we begin to realise revenue presentation with nine languages.
This has improved operational synergies on the marketing of Eurovet products through Dechra efficiency as it reduces the number of stocking units from 130 to subsidiaries and through Dechra products being marketed by 19.
Two new diets were launched during the period, Eurovets German operation.
Specific CED endocrine support and Specific FID digestive Like for like growth on our pharmaceuticals was 9.0% ahead of support.
last year with good growth seen from our key products, Vetoryl and Felimazole, which were introduced into our own subsidiary sales and marketing teams at the beginning of the financial year.
The DermaPet products, acquired in October 2010 to strengthen our US business, have been launched into several EU territories in Dechra livery with positive initial sales.
21587-04 10 08 2012 Proof 3 21587-04 10 08 2012 Proof 3 Shareholder Directors Report Directors Report Information Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Our Business
