com 42 43 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2012 Stock Code: DPH Directors Report: Our Governance Senior Management Tony Griffin Dr Susan Longhofer Rob Joosten Mike Eldred DVM, MS, DipACVIM BA, MBA Product Development & Regulatory Managing Director, Dechra Product Development and President, US Operations, Dechra Affairs Eurovet Veterinary Products Europe Regulatory Affairs Director Veterinary Products Tony was appointed Managing Rob joined Eurovet in 1989 as Susan joined the Group in June 2005.
Mike was appointed in November Director of DVP EU in May 2012 registration officer with responsibility She has 23 years industry experience 2004 to head up the Groups sales following the acquisition of Eurovet for veterinary services.
In 1990 in development and worldwide and marketing drive in the United Animal Health B. V. from AUV Holding he was appointed as Head of registration of animal health States.
He has over 18 years B. V. He joined the AUV Group in Regulatory Affairs and Development, pharmaceuticals, having worked for multinational corporations professional experience in the 1993 as Director of Exports, having before being promoted to R&D including Virbac Corporation, Heska Corporation and Merck US animal health sector, having held senior positions in previously worked at Norbrook Laboratories and Moy Park.
In addition to his role at Eurovet, Rob Research Laboratories.
Her veterinary degree is from Texas business development, sales and operations at Virbac Tony was promoted to Managing Director of Eurovet in 1996 is cofounder and chairperson of the European Group for A&M University and her MS is from the University of Corporation, and international marketing and operational and in 2006 became the CEO of the AUV Group.
Generic Veterinary Products EGGVP and regularly speaks Wisconsin, Madison.
She was awarded Diplomate status in positions at Fort Dodge Animal Health.
Mike began his at international conferences on various topics related to the the American College of Veterinary Internal Medicine in 1992. career with Sanofi Animal Health where he managed veterinary medicinal product authorisation process in the She has held a number of Academic and Professional the pharmaceutical and biological production planning European Union.
Honours including membership on the Board of Directors of activities.
the American Heartworm Society and the Executive Council of the American Academy of Veterinary Pharmacology and Therapeutics AAVPT.
She is currently the Secretary of AAVPT.
Martin Riley Dr Peter Graham Mike Annice Barbara Johnson BVMS, PhD, CertVR, DipECVCP, MRCVS BSc hons, MRPharmS Chartered MCIPD Managing Director, National Managing Director, Dechra Group HR Director Managing Director, Dechra Laboratory Veterinary Services Manufacturing Services and Dechra Specialist Barbara joined the Group in April Martin was appointed Managing Laboratories Mike graduated from The School 2008.
Prior to this she gained Director of NVS in 2005.
A graduate Peter was appointed Managing of Pharmacy at Aston University in 19 years human resources of the Welsh Agricultural College in Director of Dechra Laboratories in 1980.
Prior to joining Dales in 1990 management experience within the Aberystwyth, Martin has extensive 2003.
Peter graduated from the as Site Manager, he worked within food and drink industry covering knowledge of the animal healthcare University of Glasgow Veterinary the Hospital Pharmacy Service, Glaxo manufacturing, retail, wholesale and veterinary sectors.
Before joining School in 1989 and was awarded his PhD on the and SSS International formerly Cupal Pharmaceuticals.
Barbara has previously worked for Allied the Group, he previously held several senior positions over Epidemiology and Management of Canine Diabetes He was appointed Technical Director at the time of the Domecq plc, Geest plc and Nicholl Food Packaging an 18 year period with the pharmaceutical manufacturer Mellitus in 1995 by the same institution.
Mike was appointed Managing Director Limited.
Prior to joining private industry, Barbara served for Merial Animal Health.
2002, Peter was Assistant Professor at the worlds largest at Dales in March 2002 and has subsequently assumed ten years in the British Army.
specialist veterinary endocrinology laboratory in Michigan responsibility for all of Dechras manufacturing activities as State University, USA, leading it as Section Chief from the Group has acquired additional facilities in Denmark and 2000.
He was awarded Diplomate of the European College the Netherlands over recent years.
of Veterinary Clinical Pathologists in 2002.
Paul Sandland Allen Mellor Steve Williams MAAT, FCCA Group IT Director Group Logistics Director Group Financial Controller Allen joined Dechra in April 2012.
Steve joined the Group as Paul was appointed as Group During the last 20 years, Allen has Operations Director for NVS in July Financial Controller of Dechra gained a breadth of experience 2009, and was appointed Group and Finance Director of Dechra from the implementation of diverse Logistics Director in April 2012.
Laboratory Services and Dechra business solutions across multiple With over 18 years management Specialist Laboratories in January industry sectors including justice, experience in logistics, Steve 2010.
He qualified as a Chartered education, energy, distribution and has operated within both in-house and 3PL Logistics Certified Accountant in 2005.
Paul spent five years post retail.
Having held several senior management positions organisations, utilising single and multi-site distribution qualification at KPMG, during which time he was part of the encompassing software development, IT service provision networks.
Prior to joining Dechra, Steve worked for team which advised the Group on its acquisition of VetXX and IT departmental management, his last role was as Kronospan UK, TDG Logistics and Crest Medical Ltd. in 2008.
Head of IT for the BSS Group PLC, a leading plumbing and heating distribution company.
21587-04 10 08 2012 Proof 3 21587-04 10 08 2012 Proof 3 Shareholder Directors Report Directors Report Information Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Our Business
