com 56 57 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2012 Stock Code: DPH Directors Report: Our Governance Audit Committee Report continued Activities during 2011 2012 Meetings eligible Member Independent to attend Meetings attended The Committee normally meets three times during the year, timed to coincide with the financial reporting timetable of the Company, Neil Warner Yes 2 2 however, it was decided that the audit strategy meeting be deferred from May to July following the completion of the Eurovet Bryan Morton resigned 9 July 2012 Yes 2 1 acquisition.
The table below sets out a number of the matters which were discussed and where necessary approved at the three Dr Chris Richards Yes 2 2 meetings: Mike Redmond appointed 19 July 2012 Yes N A N A Meeting Matters discussed approved at the meeting August 2011 Auditors Report on the 2010 2011 financial results Secretary Draft preliminary statement Zoe Goulding Draft Annual Report Mike Redmond has been appointed to the Audit Committee until a new Non-Executive Director is appointed in due course.
External audit effectiveness Role and Responsibilities Audit Committee effectiveness review The main role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee the Committee are set out in the written terms of reference which are Auditor independence confirmation available on the Company website at www.
The Committees terms of reference are reviewed on an annual basis and Level of non-audit fees during the 2011 2012 financial year this took place at the February meeting.
Following this review no material changes to the terms Going concern confirmation of reference were made.
The main responsibilities of the Committee are: Internal controls to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, reviewing the annual and half-year reports in detail to ensure Proposed final dividend they present a balanced assessment of the Companys position and prospects which is understandable to Shareholders and Auditor representation letter potential investors: February 2012 Auditors report on half-year results to review the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls and risk management systems as described on pages 38 and 39 Draft half-year report and announcement and, in conjunction with the Auditor, consider the accounting policies adopted by the Company: Terms of reference Interim dividend to oversee the relationship with the Auditor.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the Going concern confirmation Auditor, approves their remuneration and their terms of engagement, monitors their independence and objectivity, and sets the Senior Accounting Officer requirement policy for non-audit work: Auditor representation letter to make recommendations to the Board on the requirement for an internal audit function: Level of non-audit fees to review the arrangements for employees to raise concerns about wrongdoings, the Companys systems and controls for Requirement for an internal audit function prevention of bribery and procedures for detecting, monitoring and managing risk of fraud.
Whistle-blowing Policy July 2012 Review of the requirement for internal audit function In the performance of its duties the Committee has access to the services of the Auditor and is at liberty to obtain outside Non-Audit fee update professional advice as necessary.
During the year, no legal or independent professional advice was sought.
The Auditor also has direct access to the Committee Chairman outside the formal committee meetings.
IFS review update Audit strategy for the year ended 30 June 2012 including timetable, scope and fees Membership, Meetings and Attendance Auditor independence The membership of the Committee and meeting attendance is stated in the table above.
Following the resignation of Bryan Morton, Company expectations of the audit Mike Redmond was appointed as a temporary member to the Audit Committee until a new Non-Executive Director is appointed to the Company.
The Board considers that Neil Warner has recent and relevant financial experience as recommended by the UK Meeting postponed from May 2012.
Corporate Governance Code as a result of his financial background.
He has held a number of financial positions throughout his Internal Control and Internal Audit Function career including most recently Finance Director of Chloride Group PLC a position he held from 1997 until end of December 2010 The Board retains overall responsibility for establishing the systems of internal control, monitoring their ongoing effectiveness and and as Chairman of the Audit Committee of Vectura Group plc to which he was appointed in February 2011.
No members of the also for the identification and management of risk.
The Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal Committee have links with the Auditor.
control activities and further detail in respect of the internal controls are provided within the Corporate Governance Section on The Auditor attends meetings of the Committee other than when their appointment or performance is being reviewed.
The requirement for an internal audit function was discussed at the committee meeting in July 2012.
In light of the Executive, Chairman, Group Finance Director and other senior finance staff attended as and when appropriate.
The Committee has Eurovet acquisition it was agreed that the Group was now of sufficient size to warrant an internal audit function.
The Committee is in discussions at least once a year with the Auditor without management being present.
During the year the Committee Chairman the process of defining the role and responsibilities for the function and intends to commence the recruitment process in meets informally and has access to the Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller and the senior audit engagement team.
This group generally meets before the Committee meetings that consider the full and half-year results.
21587-04 10 08 2012 Proof 3 21587-04 10 08 2012 Proof 3 Shareholder Directors Report Directors Report Information Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Our Business Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC www.
com 58 59 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2012 Stock Code: DPH Directors Report: Our Governance Audit Committee Report continued Directors Remuneration Report Auditor Independence and Non-Audit Fees The Auditor annually confirms their policies on ensuring audit independence and provides the Committee with a report on their own audit and quality procedures.
This report was reviewed during the audit strategy meeting held in July 2012 and the Committee remain satisfied of the Auditors independence.
In line with the ethical standards of the Audit Practices Board the Group Audit Engagement Director is rotated every five years.
The current Group Audit Engagement Director was appointed during the 2010 2011 financial year.
The Committee has discussed Dr Christopher Richards the various changes which have been proposed by the FRC to the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Guidance on Audit Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Committees, in particular the recommendations relating to the expectation of external audit being put to tender every ten years and the increased reporting obligations of the Committee.
The Committee will keep this matter under review during the forthcoming year.
With respect to non-audit assignments undertaken by the Auditor, the Company has a policy to ensure that the provision of such Dear Shareholder services do not impair their independence or objectivity.
Safeguards are in place to ensure continued audit independence including utilising separate teams to undertake the audit and non-audit work.
When considering the use of the Auditor to undertake nonOn behalf of the Board I am pleased to present Dechras Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 June 2012. audit assignments, the Chief Executive and Group Financial Director do at all times give consideration to the provisions of the FRC Following Bryan Mortons resignation at the beginning of July 2012 I have agreed to take on the responsibility Guidance on Audit Committees with regard to the preservation of independence.
Deloitte LLP have recently been appointed to as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
At a time when executive remuneration is under intense public undertake tax and compliance work in substitution for the Auditor: it is considered that this will assist the Auditors independence.
scrutiny, I believe that this role will be a challenging one.
I am mindful that when making decisions sensitivity The policy in respect of non-audit fees was reviewed and amended during the year ended 30 June 2009, whereby it was agreed is given to all stakeholders.
At the same time, we need to ensure that we provide remuneration packages for that the non-audit fee be capped at 50% of the audit fee.
Prior approval of the Committee is required should non-audit fees exceed Executives which motivate them to continue to grow the Company.
the cap and an explanation of the reasons for exceeding the limit is provided to the Committee, who assess the qualification, Remuneration increases for the Executive Directors over the last three years has been limited to inflation.
expertise, independence and objectivity of the Auditor prior to granting approval.
Over the same period, the Company has experienced annual double digit growth and completed a number of acquisitions, including DermaPet, HY-50 and Eurovet.
The latter acquisition is the largest transaction in the history The Committee believes that there are certain non-audit services where it is appropriate for the Group to engage the Auditor.
During of Dechra and represents a move into new territories and new markets for Dechra Veterinary Products and the year, the Auditor was commissioned to carry out extensive due diligence, working capital and reporting accountant work in significantly increases the complexity of the Group.
Given the increase in the scale and complexity of the Group respect of the Eurovet acquisition.
The Auditor was considered most appropriate to perform this work given both their knowledge of and the increase in the Directors responsibilities, the Committee has decided to carry out a review of Executive the existing business and the requirement to report on the existing as well as the enlarged Group.
This is consistent with the ethical remuneration.
The review should be completed by the end of the current financial year and it is intended that any standard recommended by the Accounting Practices Board.
The fees paid to the Auditor for this work were in excess of the limits proposals will be discussed with Dechras main Shareholders before implementing any changes.
above, prior Board approval was therefore obtained.
A summary of audit and non-audit fees in relation to the year is provided in note 6 to the Groups financial statements.
All non-audit The other focus for the year ahead will be the implementation of the Performance and Development Review work has been monitored at each meeting and approved by the Committee.
The approach has been piloted during 2011 2012 and initial feedback has been positive.
A full 12 month PDR cycle is now underway by way of an extended group during the 2012 2013 PDR year.
It is Effectiveness Review our intention to evaluate remuneration increases against individual performance results determined by the PDR During the year, the Committee reviewed its own effectiveness as a part of the overall board evaluation process.
Particularly in respect of the Executives, this will provide a distinct alignment between considered that it acted transparently and given the number of committee and board meetings scheduled throughout the financial any remuneration changes and the performance of the Group.
year, maintained a thorough understanding of the Group and its business.
The Committee also considered it had the skills to Finally, I welcome the view of all Shareholders in respect of this report.
I shall be at the Annual General Meeting to perform its responsibilities.
The results of the review were advised to the Board.
discuss any queries you may have.
Alternatively, I can be contacted via the Company Secretary.
The performance, cost and independence of the Auditor is reviewed annually by the Committee, together with a review of the level of service provided by the Auditor to the Group.
Based on the Committees review of the performance of the Auditor and on the planning and execution of the annual audit, the Committee has recommended to the Board that a resolution to reappoint KPMG be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Dr Christopher Richards Remuneration Committee Chairman Neil Warner Chairman Audit Committee 4 September 2012 21587-04 10 08 2012 Proof 3 21587-04 10 08 2012 Proof 3 Shareholder Directors Report Directors Report Information Our Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Our Business
