Devros business model Why our business exists Who we sell to s $EVRO S COLLAGEN CASINGS ARE USED TO MANUFACTURE ALL VARIETIES OF s $EVRO S REVENUE COMES FROM THE SALE OF COLLAGEN PRODUCTS DIRECTLY sausage.
Historically, animal intestines were used as casings for to food manufacturers in many markets, and to local distributors in sausage, but over the past 50 years the use of collagen casing has some markets.
Devro sells to over 2,000 customers in more than increased, as it enables food manufacturers to automate 100 countries, with a product range in excess of 500 individual production to reduce costs.
It is better suited to contemporary food items, covering 8 principal types of application.
Approximately one hygiene and traceability requirements, and technical specifications third of Devros sales are in emerging markets and two thirds are in can be determined in advance.
Over 70 Devro employees work in customer operations as sales and technical advisers.
What our customers do s $EVRO S CUSTOMERS MANUFACTURE BRANDED AND OWN LABEL SAUSAGE The market we are in products, worldwide, reaching consumers through retail and food s $EVRO IS ONE OF FIVE SIGNIFICANT PRODUCERS OF COLLAGEN CASINGS service outlets.
in the world market, with a smaller number of local or regional competitors.
Additional value is created for the customer by How we create value collaborating with specialist food machinery manufacturers, s $EVRO CREATES VALUE BY CONVERTING A BASIC RAW MATERIAL COLLAGEN and with suppliers of food ingredients, to optimise product from the inner layer of cattle and sow hides, into a homogenous performance.
gel and extruding it to tightly controlled dimensions, before being compressed and packed for supply to customers.
Devros What makes us different manufacturing processes are unique, evolved over many years s $EVRO DIFFERENTIATES ITSELF FROM COMPETITORS BY DEVELOPING DISTINCTIVE of technical development.
new products, by working closely with customers to enhance their manufacturing efficiencies, and by providing high-quality technical support to customers.
Three part strategy Devros three part strategy for organic growth to supply The strategy reflects the considerable opportunities for increased growing demand worldwide, was first outlined to investors sales of edible collagen casings to the food sector, and Devros in January 2008.
The strategy is reviewed annually by the ability to fund expansion from earnings.
Earnings growth and improving return on capital Revenue growth will come from: Margin improvement will be achieved by: Optimising the use of all assets, through efficiency Increasing Devros share of the edible casings consumed and productivity initiatives in developed markets, by promoting distinctive collagen casings that replace less efficient gut Investing in new capacity, by replacing our oldest equipment with Devros most modern technology, Growing volume in emerging markets where the demand for protein is rising in line with higher disposable reducing the cost per unit incomes, population growth, and urbanisation Managing input costs through improved raw material Achieving higher average prices per unit sold, reecting sourcing and investment in projects to provide lowerthe value of Devros products, technology and customer cost energy support Product differentiation and market leadership will be maintained by: Investment in research and development Actively sharing knowledge and experience from all markets Developing a unique knowledge of collagen science 02 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
