Business Review Directors Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors report The directors present their report and the audited consolidated The company maintains insurance for its directors in respect of their financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012. duties as directors.
Following shareholder approval, the company has also provided an indemnity for its directors and the secretary which Principal activities is a qualifying third party indemnity provision for the purposes of the The principal activities of the group are the production and sale of Companies Act 2006.
This indemnity was in force throughout the year manufactured casings for the food industry.
and remains in place at the date of this report.
The company is a public limited company and is incorporated in None of the directors had or has an interest in any material contract Scotland under number SC129785.
relating to the business of the company or of any of its subsidiary undertakings.
The companys principal subsidiary undertakings and branches, including those located outside the UK, are listed in note 16 to the The interests of the directors in the share capital of the company are financial statements.
shown on page 38. Review of business Charitable and political contributions The consolidated income statement for the year is set out on page 39.
The contributions made by the group during the year for charitable The information that fulls the requirements of the review of business purposes amounted to 52,000 2011: 58,000.
The contributions is contained in the Chairmans statement, the Business review, the were mainly made to charities where the groups operations are based Financial review, the Key performance indicators, and the Principal and can be analysed as follows: risks and uncertainties on pages 3 to 17, all of which are incorporated by reference into, and form part of, this report.
2012 2011 Dividends Reecting the improvement in the groups performance, the Board is Local community groups 27,000 38,000 proposing a final dividend in respect of 2012 of 5.85 pence per share Schools and colleges 15,000 13,000 2011: 5.5 pence, making a total dividend for the year of 8.5 pence 10,000 Healthcare and medical research 7,000 per share 2011: 8.0 pence an increase of 6.3%.
The final dividend will be payable to shareholders on the register as at 2 April 2013.
52,000 58,000 Based on the proposal for the full year, dividend cover will be 2.4 times 2011: 2.6 times.
There were no contributions for political purposes 2011: nil.
Share capital Employees The share capital of the company consists entirely of ordinary shares The group places considerable value on the involvement of its of 10 pence each, all of which have equal voting rights.
employees and has continued to keep them informed on matters affecting them as employees and on the various factors affecting The company had 165,633,564 shares in issue at 31 December 2012 the performance of the group.
This is achieved through regular 2011: 165,008,564 as shown in note 26 to the financial statements.
communications, and formal and informal meetings.
Financial results are circulated throughout the organisation on the day of their During the year, 625,000 shares were issued under the rules of the announcement.
Employees representatives are consulted regularly on Devro 2003 Performance Share Plan 2011: 1,381,557, and nil a wide range of matters affecting their current and future interests.
shares were issued under the Devro 1993 No.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
Research and development In the event of members of staff becoming disabled every effort is The group is committed to research and development activities made to ensure that their employment with the group continues and principally in relation to product and process development, in order that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of the group that to secure its position as a world leader in the casings industry.
the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons The research and development expenditure incurred in the year should, as far as possible, be identical with that of other employees.
is set out in note 9 to the financial statements.
Policy on payment of suppliers Directors The group agrees terms and conditions with suppliers before The names and brief biographical details of the directors of business takes place.
The groups policy is to pay agreed invoices the company at the date of this report are set out on page 18. in accordance with the terms of payment.
At 31 December 2012, Ms J A Lodge was appointed as a director on 1 March 2012. the amount of trade payables outstanding by the group was Mr S R Paterson stepped down from the Board on 19 April 2012. equivalent to 26 days purchases from suppliers 2011: 28 days.
7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the directors have resolved that they will all offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
23 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Directors report continued Financial instruments The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records Details of the groups financial risk management policies are included in that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and note 23 to the financial statements.
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and the group and enable them to ensure that the Change of control financial statements and the directors remuneration report comply The company has a number of financial agreements with major banks with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial containing certain termination rights for our counterparties upon a statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulations.
They are also responsible change of control of the company.
for safeguarding the assets of the company and the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud All of the companys share plans contain provisions relating to a change and other irregularities.
Outstanding options and awards may become exercisable, subject to the rules of the relevant schemes.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the companys website www.
Legislation in the United Annual General Meeting AGM Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial The AGM of the company will be held on 18 April 2013 at 11.00am at statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Marriott Hotel, 500 Argyle Street, Glasgow, G3 8RR.
The Notice of Meeting is set out on pages 91 to 93.
In addition to the ordinary Directors statement pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency business of the meeting under items 1 to 9, shareholders will be asked Rules for their approval of other items of business which are explained in the Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on page notes on pages 87 to 90.
These notes form part of this directors report 18, confirms that, to the best of each persons knowledge and belief: and are incorporated into it by cross-reference.
s THE lNANCIAL STATEMENTS PREPARED IN ACCORDANCE WITH &23S AS Independent auditors and disclosure of information to auditors adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the In the case of each person who is a director at the date of approval assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the group and of this report, each director is satisfied that the auditors are aware of COMPANY AND all information relevant to the audit of the groups financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 and that they have taken s THE DIRECTOR S REPORT CONTAINED IN THE ANNUAL REPORT INCLUDES A FAIR all the steps necessary to make themselves aware of the relevant review of the development and performance of the business and audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that the position of the company and group, together with a description information.
of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their Corporate governance willingness to continue in ofce, and a resolution that they be reThe companys statement on corporate governance can be found in appointed will be proposed at the AGM.
the corporate governance report on pages 25 to 29 of these financial statements.
The corporate governance report forms part of this Statement of directors responsibilities directors report and is incorporated into it by cross-reference.
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with Substantial shareholdings applicable law and regulations.
At 1 March 2013, the company had been notied of the following material interests in the issued ordinary share capital of the company Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements under DTR 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the group and parent company financial statements in accordance with Percentage International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the % of European Union.
Under company law the directors must not approve Number of issued the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true ordinary share and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and the company and of shares capital the profit or loss of the group for that period.
In preparing these financial Artemis Investment Management 16,390,815 9.90 statements, the directors are required to: Schroder Investment Management 15,103,943 9.28 s SELECT SUITABLE ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND THEN APPLY THEM CONSISTENTLY Marathon Asset Management 11,492,268 7.06 s MAKE JUDGEMENTS AND ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES THAT ARE REASONABLE Standard Life Investments 10,143,851 6.13 AND PRUDENT Blackrock Investment Management 8,304,621 5.01 s STATE WHETHER APPLICABLE &23S AS ADOPTED BY THE %UROPEAN 5NION By order of the Board have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed AND EXPLAINED IN THE lNANCIAL STATEMENTS AND J Meredith, Company Secretary 14 March 2013 s PREPARE THE lNANCIAL STATEMENTS ON THE GOING CONCERN BASIS UNLESS it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
24 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
