Directors and senior management Board Steve Hannam Chairman Steve was appointed Chairman of Devro in May 2009.
Until 2000, he was Chief Executive of the global speciality chemical company BTP plc.
Since that time Steve has held a number of Non-Executive Director or Chairman positions with both public and private companies, mainly in the food and chemical sectors.
These have included Clariant AG, ABF plc, Aviagen International Inc. and AZ Electronic Materials Ltd.
He is currently Senior Independent Director at Low & Bonar plc and Non-Executive Director at McBride plc.
Steve chairs the Nomination Committee.
Peter Page Chief Executive Peter has worked for 26 years in the international food and agribusiness sector, as a general manager, and as a marketing manager where he gained experience of managing the interface between technology and food manufacturers, which is relevant to Devros situation.
He joined Devro as Chief Executive in June 2007.
He is Chairman of the Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Committee.
Simon Webb Group Finance Director A Chartered Accountant, Simon joined Devro at the start of 2011.
He previously worked as Chief Financial Officer of fide La Rue plc and has held senior finance positions in global manufacturing companies such as Enodis plc, Paxar Inc and BAT plc.
Jane Lodge Non-Executive Director Jane joined the Board on 1 March 2012.
A Chartered Accountant, she was until recently a senior audit partner with Deloitte, where she spent over 25 years advising global manufacturing companies including businesses in the food and automotive sectors.
Jane was the partner in charge of the UK manufacturing industry sector, where she was responsible for strategy and marketing, and was a member of the Deloitte Global Manufacturing Executive.
She was a member of the CBI Manufacturing Council until 2011.
Janes extensive experience with manufacturing companies and her strategic work with Deloitte has given her a strong international business perspective.
She is a Non-Executive Director of Costain Group PLC and DCC plc.
Jane chairs the Audit Committee.
Paul Neep Non-Executive Director Paul joined Devro in February 2005 as a Non-Executive Director.
He is Chairman of The Glenmorangie Company, part of LVMH, having previously been President & Chief Executive.
Pauls knowledge of marketing and experience of international business development is particularly helpful in his role as a Non-Executive Director.
He is Senior Independent Director and is Chairman of the Executive Directors Remuneration Committee.
Paul Withers Non-Executive Director Paul joined the Board in April 2011.
At BPB plc, he was Group Managing Director responsible for emerging markets and group development, giving him real insights into the challenges and opportunities for growth at Devro.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Hyder Consulting PLC, Premier Farnell plc and Senior Independent Director at Keller Group plc, and is therefore able to bring experience of current thinking to Devros Board.
Paul chairs the Health and Safety Committee.
18 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Business Review Directors Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information Executive committee Mike Cooke Group Strategic Development Director Mike joined Devro in September 2001.
After 25 years experience at ICI in a wide variety of roles, and as a Fellow of the Institution of Chemical Engineers, he makes particularly useful contributions to long-term decision-making, the development of major capital investments and establishing effective business processes.
Mike is due to retire in April 2013.
Moir Donelson Business Director Moir joined Devro in January 2013 as Business Director with responsibility for all the groups activities in the Americas region.
He brings with him over 20 years experience in manufacturing, consulting and general management, with several well-known organisations including Motorola, Alcoa, Bain, Olin and most recently Kraft Foods, where he has held both corporate and operational responsibilities.
Gordon Frame Business Director Gordon joined Devro in 1986.
Over the past 26 years, Gordon has worked for Devro in USA, UK, Europe and Asia, and so has a broad understanding of customer applications and requirements in different situations.
Gordon has been based in Hong Kong since 2011 and is responsible for the groups activities in China and South East Asia.
Alan Kilpatrick Business Director Alan, a Chartered Accountant, joined Devro in 1996.
He now has 17 years experience at Devro, in both finance and general management roles at group and regional level.
In 2011, Alans role was expanded to cover UK and Ireland, Australasia and Japan.
Dorothy Lowry Group Human Resources Director Dorothy joined the company in January 2012.
She has held a number of senior level HR management positions across a number of sectors and brings with her a thorough understanding of how to develop a strong senior management team through leadership development, succession-planning, coaching and recruitment.
She is a Member of the Institute of Personnel and Development.
David Porter Group Strategy & Marketing Director David joined Devro in July 2012.
Prior to joining, he held a number of senior positions in consulting and industry in Europe and Asia.
David has broad experience in defining and delivering strategic development including product innovation and investment programmes.
Michal Stocek Business Director Michal has worked in product development and, more recently, general management, for 28 years, bringing in-depth knowledge of collagen products and an ability for adapting and improving them.
A chemical engineer, he was appointed to the Czech management team in 1997 and became a member of the Executive Committee of Devro and Business Director with responsibility for Eastern Europe in August 2006.
In 2011, his remit was expanded to include all of Continental Europe and Africa.
19 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
