Diageos innovation programme is also Diageo has a history of being a sustainable Diageo believes that industry leading based on consumer insights.
Recent launches and responsible company dating from performance will be delivered through a have focused on the consumers wish for Arthur Guinness who was responsible for talented and diverse workforce and great luxury, the tastes and increasing affluence philanthropic community programmes and leadership.
The company has active of the emerging middle class consumer and through the 1930s when its predecessor programmes that ensure the development of have increased the accessibility of spirits companies marketed their brands in a its management and leaders.
Great leadership through flavour extensions and packaging responsible manner.
Diageo understands the combined with a culture of good governance and drink formats.
social, environmental and economic impact and ethics, protect Diageos reputation and Diageo has strong routes to market of its activities and has adopted a structured supports the sustainable efficient growth which leverage local expertise.
In the United approach to manage these impacts, to build of the business.
States Diageo is required by law to operate engagement across stakeholders, to create via a three-tier distribution system which value, especially in emerging markets: Business overview separates suppliers, distributors and retailers.
and to protect Diageos license to operate.
Market participation Diageo works with distributors who provide Diageo and its employees are proud of Diageo manages its business through five a substantial dedicated sales team of over the responsible manner in which its brands regions: North America, Europe, Africa, Latin 2,900 people.
Outside of the United States are marketed and the role that moderate America and Caribbean and Asia Pacific.
North Diageo owns and controls the route to market consumption of its brands can play as part of America is the biggest region by net sales and in many markets, and where Diageo has not the balanced lifestyle for millions of people.
Here the business is focused established its own subsidiary, the route to Diageo seeks to be at the forefront of industry on using scale to drive cost advantage, to drive market is through joint ventures, associates efforts to promote responsible drinking and continued growth in the on trade, to deliver and third party distributors.
Diageo works works with key stakeholders to combat industry leading innovation and broaden its in collaboration with its customers to drive alcohol misuse.
reach to the multicultural consumer.
Europe profitable category growth, by building Diageos supply organisation is comprises Western Europe, Russia and Eastern partnerships with retailers and on-premise responsible for producing, distilling, brewing, Europe and Turkey.
The country teams within customers.
The Diageo Way of Selling bottling, packaging and distributing its Western Europe focus on sales execution, programme equips both Diageo and its brands.
It is committed to efficient, sustainable whilst marketing and back office functions customers with the tools to be the best sales production.
Diageo has created a competitive are integrated at a Western Europe level to force in the industry and to create commercial advantage in both its cost base and in the first drive flexibility and efficiency.
The remaining and strategic value for all parties.
The class customer service it delivers.
Investment emerging markets of Europe are resourced European Customer Collaboration Centre in production facilities is focused on building to capture the opportunity presented by the provides a state of the art facility to bring capacity for the production of scotch, beer growing number of middle class consumers.
consumer, shopper, retailer and distributor and rum, with both high speed and high The strategy in Africa is to grow Diageos insights together to facilitate integrated volume, cost efficient production lines and leadership across beverage alcohol, planning with customers.
These tools with flexible production facilities to create an increasing its presence in beer and growing enable Diageo to realise its ambition industry leading supply chain for innovation, the international spirits business.
In Latin to become an indispensable business especially in luxury products.
The business America and Caribbean the primary focus partner to its customers.
recognises that it operates in a world where is continued leadership in scotch, whilst natural resources are limited.
Diageo has set broadening category breadth to include itself challenging environmental targets vodka and liqueurs.
The strategy in Asia covering water efficiency: increasing use Pacific is to drive net sales growth through the of sustainable packaging and reduction in continued development of super and ultra pollution, carbon emissions and waste-topremium scotch and leverage the emerging landfill.
Diageos production teams have middle class consumer opportunity in the created award winning technologies to faster growing markets via a combination meet these targets with the aim of reducing of organic and inorganic growth.
Diageos environmental footprint, delivering business efficiencies and securing supply Market leading brands into the future.
In calendar year 2011, the Diageo brand range Diageo is committed to generating included eight of the top 20 premium spirits prosperity in the communities in which it brands worldwide by volume estimated by operates, especially in the emerging markets Impact Databank.
Diageo classifies its brands by integrating its supply chain into the local as spirits, beer, wine and ready to drink.
community and via direct community An analysis of the groups volume is initiatives such as Learning for Life and as follows: Water of Life.
2012 2011 2010 Volume Volume Volume units units units million million million Spirits 121 113 109 Beer 27 26 25 Wine 3 33 Buchanans delivered strong double digit net Ready to drink 6 66 sales growth for the Total 157 148 143 third consecutive year.
