Governance Nomination committee Remuneration committee Role of the nomination committee Role of the remuneration committee 85 Board of directors and The nomination committee is responsible for keeping under The role of the remuneration committee and details of how executive committee review the composition of the board and succession to it, and the company applies the principles of the Code in respect 87 succession planning for senior management positions.
It makes of directors remuneration are set out in the directors Directors recommendations to the board concerning appointments to the remuneration report.
remuneration report board, whether of executive or non-executive directors, having The chairman and the chief executive may, by invitation, regard to the balance and structure of the board and the required attend remuneration committee meetings, except when their 104 Corporate blend of skills experience, independence and diversity.
No director is involved in governance report The nomination committee also makes recommendations determining his or her own remuneration.
114 to the board concerning the re-appointment of any nonDirectors report executive director at the conclusion of his or her specified term Executive direction and control and the re-election of any director by shareholders under the Executive committee retirement provisions of the companys articles of association.
The executive committee, appointed and chaired by the chief No director is involved in determining his or her own executive, consists of the individuals responsible for the key re-appointment or re-election.
components of the business: the North America, Europe, Africa, Any new directors are appointed by the board and, in Latin America and Caribbean and Asia Pacific markets, global accordance with the companys articles of association, they supply and global functions.
The members of the committee must be elected at the next AGM to continue in office.
All existing and their biographies are set out above in the Board of directors directors retire by rotation every year, as required by the Code.
and executive committee section of this annual report.
During the year, IM Menezes was appointed chief operating officer and Activities of the nomination committee L Schwartz was appointed president of North America.
The principal activities of the nomination committee during the The executive committee met, fully, five times during the year were: the review of individual performance: a review of the year, and spent most of its time discussing strategy, including executive committee structure, membership and succession individual market and brand and category strategies, planning for it and senior leadership positions: and the management succession and talent and other people matters, consideration of potential non-executive directors.
and financial and operational performance.
Meetings were In respect of the appointment of Ho KwonPing to the board held in the US, the UK three meetings and India.
In addition, with effect from 1 October 2012, the recruitment process included scheduled interim update meetings were held by teleconference the development of a candidate profile and the engagement of a throughout the year.
Responsibility and authority within the professional search agency specialising in the recruitment of high financial limits set by the board are delegated by the chief calibre non-executive directors.
Reports on potential appointees executive to individual members of the executive committee were provided to the committee, which, after careful who are accountable to him for the performance of their consideration, made a recommendation to the board.
In respect of the appointment of IM Menezes to the board Executive direction and control procedures include and his appointment as chief operating officer, the committee approval of annual strategic plans submitted by each business made a recommendation to the board, believing that the unit executive and periodic business reviews.
These reviews are appointments strengthened the executive leadership of generally attended by the regional president responsible for the the business.
market and in certain cases additional members of the executive Diageo supports diversity within its board of directors, committee and are held in the relevant market.
The reviews including gender diversity.
Currently there are four female focus on business performance management and specific directors, out of a total of 10 board members.
We believe that all issues around brands, people, key business decisions and four bring a wealth of international business experience and are risk management.
an asset to the company and the board.
The chief executive has created several executive working Without seeking to set a specific goal for female groups to which are delegated particular tasks, generally with representation on the board, it remains our aspiration to maintain specific time spans and success criteria.
He has also created a high level of diversity, including gender diversity, within the committees, intended to have an ongoing remit, including boardroom, appropriate to and reflecting the global nature the following.
of the company and the strategic imperatives the board has agreed upon.
Audit and risk committee For similar reasons, Diageo has set itself a goal to increase Chaired by the chief executive and responsible for: overseeing the number of women in leadership positions in the company.
the approach to securing effective internal control and risk Currently 26% 2011: 27% fill leadership positions.
The aim of the management in the group: reviewing the adequacy of the board is to continue to ensure that the company has the right groups sources of assurance over the management of key risks: balance of skills, diversity, in all forms, and experience.
reviewing managements self-assessment process over internal This approach has led Diageo to be well represented by controls: reviewing the effectiveness of the groups compliance women on the board and having fully considered the succession programme: and reporting periodically on the above to the to the executive committee and to leadership positions over the audit committee or to the board.
In addition, the audit and risk ensuing years, the board is confident it will continue to be able committee is responsible for promoting the culture and to report progress on the gender diversity agenda.
processes that support effective compliance with the groups codes of conduct, global policies and business guidelines throughout the business and supports the audit committee, board and executive committee in satisfying its corporate governance responsibilities relating to internal control and risk management within the group.
