Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information DSA and DHN.
Diageo also owns 15.01% of Diageo sells directly.
Diageo Argentina also In North Asia, Diageo has its own distribution Namibia Breweries Ltd. Namibia Breweries owns and operates the Navarro Correas company in Korea.
In Japan, the joint venture is the producer of Windhoek lager which is winery in Mendoza, Argentina.
The winery with Mot Hennessy distributes super sold mainly in Namibia and through DHN sells directly to consumers.
Jamaica sells to premium brands such as the super deluxe in South Africa.
wholesalers and directly to retail trade variants of Johnnie Walker, while the joint Within Africa Regional Markets, Diageo accounts on the island.
venture with Kirin distributes Diageos other has wholly owned subsidiaries in Cameroon, In Andean, all products in Venezuela premium spirits such as Johnnie Walker Black Ethiopia and Reunion and majority owned are sold through dedicated third party Label and Smirnoff, as well as Guinness and subsidiaries in Ghana and the Seychelles.
In Colombia, Diageo sells directly Smirnoff Ice.
Other spirit brands, which are Angola and Mozambique are currently to major grocers, serving all other accounts not distributed by either Mot Hennessy supplied by third party arrangements.
In 2012 and channels through distributors.
or the Kirin joint venture, are distributed Diageo acquired 100% of the equity of Meta In Mexico, distribution of Smirnoff is by third parties.
Abo Brewery from the Ethiopian government, managed by Casa Cuervo SA.
All other brands In Greater China, Diageo distributes the of which Meta beer is the principal brand.
are sold directly by Diageo, either through majority of its spirits brands through a joint Diageo has brewing arrangements direct sales to international accounts or venture arrangement with Mot Hennessy with the Castel Group to license brew and through wholesalers and distributors.
in China, Hong Kong and Macau.
Diageo also distribute Guinness in the Democratic owns a wholly owned subsidiary in China that Republic of Congo, Gambia, Gabon, Ivory Asia Pacific distributes brands not included in the joint Coast, Togo, Benin, Burkina Faso, Chad, In the year ended 30 June 2012, Asia Pacific venture such as Smirnoff, Windsor and Baileys.
Diageo sells spirits comprises South East Asia Vietnam, Diageos beer brands are sold through a through distributors in most other Thailand, Philippines, Indonesia, Malaysia distribution agreement with Carlsberg in sub-Saharan countries.
and Singapore, Australia, North Asia Korea China and Hong Kong.
In July 2011, Diageo and Japan, Greater China China, Taiwan, acquired an additional 4% equity stake in Latin America and Caribbean Hong Kong and Macau, India and Global Sichuan Chengdu Quanxing Company Ltd.
In the year ended 30 June 2012, Latin America Travel Asia and Middle East.
Diageo operates Quanxing bringing its equity stake to 53%.
and Caribbean comprises PUB Paraguay, via a combination of Diageo companies, Quanxing is a holding company controlling Uruguay, Brazil, West LAC, Andean joint ventures and third party distributors a 39.7% equity stake in Shuijingfang, a super Venezuela, Colombia, Mexico and the in the region.
premium Chinese white spirits company LAC operations of Global Travel.
In South East Asia, Diageo distributes which itself became a subsidiary of Diageo In Latin America and Caribbean, its spirits brands through joint venture following the appointment of additional distribution is achieved through a mixture arrangements with Mot Hennessy in directors in June 2012.
Diageo is the sole of Diageo companies and third party Thailand, Malaysia and Singapore.
In distributor of Shuijingfangs Chinese white distributors.
In addition, Diageo owns a Indonesia, Guinness is brewed by PT Multi spirits outside of China.
In Taiwan, Diageo controlling interest in Desnoes & Geddes Bintang Indonesia, and is distributed through has its own distribution company for spirits.
Limited, the Jamaican brewer of Red a distribution agreement with PT Dima In India, Diageo has its own spirits Stripe lager.
Indonesia while spirit brands are distributed distribution company.
In PUB, Diageo sells directly to by government licensed distributors.
In Airport shops and airline customers in international retailers in Brazil, while selling Malaysia, Diageos own and third party Asia Pacific are serviced through a dedicated through distributors and wholesalers for the beers are brewed and distributed by a listed Diageo sales and marketing organisation.
In Paraguay the business Guinness Anchor Berhad in which In the Middle East, distribution is achieved majority of customers are served by Diageo Diageo and its partner, Asia Pacific Breweries, through third party distributors.
Lebanon with a portion of sales completed through have a majority share through a jointly is an exception, where a Diageo subsidiary wholesalers.
In Uruguay, Diageos distribution controlled entity.
In Singapore, Diageos beer distributes the majority of the Diageo company manages approximately half brands are brewed and distributed by Asia brands sold there.
of the sales in the market with the other half Pacific Breweries.
In Vietnam, Diageos brands managed through wholesalers.
In August are distributed through its own distribution Global Supply 2012 Diageo completed the acquisition company.
Diageo entered into a strategic Global Supply is responsible for the of 100% of Ypica, the leading producer and partnership agreement with Hanoi Liquor production of approximately 81% of Diageos distributor of a cachaa brand from Ypica Joint Stock Company Halico in January 2011. products sold globally, for sourcing materials Agroindustrial Limitada.
During the year Diageo acquired additional and services through global procurement, West LAC comprises Central America shares that increased its equity stake to 45.5% for providing consistent technical support and Caribbean, Jamaica, Argentina, Chile, Peru, in Halico.
Diageo also increased its ownership through the global technical function and Ecuador and Bolivia.
In select markets such as in Diageo Philippines Inc, a company that providing logistic and customer services the Free Trade Zone, Bolivia and Ecuador, sales distributes Diageos spirits brands in the through the global supply chain organisation.
are managed directly by Diageo.
Key markets Philippines, by 49% to 100%.
Global procurement has responsibility such as Costa Rica and the Dominican In Australia, Diageo has its own for sourcing goods and services on behalf Republic sell via exclusive distributors, while in production and distribution company.
A global network of Puerto Rico, Trinidad, Guatemala and Panama, previous distribution agreement with VOK suppliers provides for a wide range of raw third party distributors purchase directly from Beverages that included a number of smaller materials and packaging items that are Diageo and sell on to the local trade.
In Chile, brands like JB and Dimple was terminated necessary to ensure consistency of quality Diageo sells directly to international retailers, on 31 January 2012.
Diageo also has a licensed to support the brands.
With the high level partnering with an exclusive distributor in the brewing arrangement with Fosters which will of dependency on agricultural commodities remainder of the country for other channels.
transfer to Lion Nathan from November 2012. such as cereals, hops and sugar, forwardIn Argentina, Diageos business is managed In New Zealand, Diageo operates through buying takes place to minimise value at risk.
through a combination of wholesalers and third party distributors and has a licensed In marketing, global procurement supports distributors outside of major grocers, to whom brewing arrangement with Lion Nathan.
the business in sourcing creative media Business description 31
