Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Strategic brands Diageo classifies 14 brands as strategic brands worldwide.
These brands are considered to have the greatest current and future earnings potential.
Figures for strategic brands exclude related ready to drink products.
In the year ended 30 June 2012, strategic brands accounted for 61% of volume and 60% of net sales.
72% of the groups marketing spend supports these brands.
2012 Volume units Brand million Johnnie Walker Scotch whisky 19 The number one Scotch whisky in the world Crown Royal Canadian whisky 5 The number one Canadian whisky in the world JB Scotch whisky 5 The number five Scotch whisky in the world Buchanans Scotch whisky 2 The number two premium Scotch whisky in Latin America Windsor Premier Scotch whisky 1 The number one super premium Scotch whisky in Asia Pacific Bushmills Irish whiskey 1 Distilled at Irelands oldest working distillery Smirnoff vodka 26 The number one premium vodka in the world Ketel One vodka exclusive worldwide distribution rights 2 The number two super premium vodka in the United States Croc vodka 2 The number two ultra premium vodka in the world Captain Morgan rum and rum based products 10 The number two brand in the rum category in the world Baileys Irish Cream liqueur 7 The number one liqueur in the world Jose Cuervo tequila agency brand in North America and many 4 The number one premium tequila in the world other markets Tanqueray gin 2 The number one imported gin in the United States Guinness stout 11 The number one stout in the world Source: IWSR 2011: Source: Impact Databank: Source: IRI: Source: Adams Market Research Alcohol Beverage Industry: Source: Plato Logic.
Portfolio of premium drinks comprises brands owned by the company as a principal and some brands held by the company under agency or distribution agreements.
Diageos principal agency brand is Jose Cuervo in North America and many other markets with distribution rights extending to 1 July 2013.
Other spirits brands include Other beer brands include Wine brands include Ready to drink brands include Gordons gin and vodka Malta Guinness non-alcoholic malt Blossom Hill Smirnoff Ice Old Parr Scotch whisky Harp lager Sterling Vineyards Smirnoff cocktails Bundaberg rum Tusker lager Beaulieu Vineyard Bundaberg ready to drink Seagrams 7 Crown whiskey Senator lager Jose Cuervo cocktails Bells Scotch whisky Red Stripe lager The Classic Malts Scotch whiskies Yeni Raki Diageo also brews and sells other companies beer brands under licence, including Budweiser and Carlsberg lagers in Ireland, Heineken lager in Jamaica and Tiger beer in Malaysia.
There can be no assurance that Diageo will be able to prevent termination of distribution, manufacturing or licence agreements or to renegotiate distribution, manufacturing or licence agreements on favourable terms when they expire.
