Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information The finance committee receives monthly In assessing whether goodwill is carried at Exceptional items reports on the activities of the treasury above its recoverable amount, a discounted These are items which, in managements department, including any exposures cash flow analysis is performed annually to judgement, need to be disclosed by virtue different from the defined benchmarks.
compare the discounted estimated future of their size or incidence in order for the user The group purchases insurance for operating cash flows of cash generating units to obtain a proper understanding of the commercial or, where required, for legal or of the group to the net assets attributable to financial information.
In addition, the group the cash generating units including goodwill.
of which items are separately disclosed as retains insurable risk where external insurance The discounted cash flow review for goodwill exceptional items requires a significant is not considered an economic means of is consistent with the brand review in its use degree of judgement.
of estimated future operating cash flows, For a detailed analysis of the groups weighted average cost of capital for the cash Taxation funding, liquidity and exposure to foreign generating unit concerned and long term The group is required to estimate the exchange and interest rate risks see note 23 growth rates.
corporate tax in each of the jurisdictions in to the consolidated financial statements.
The tests are dependent on which it operates.
This requires an estimation managements estimates and judgements, of the current tax liability together with an in particular in relation to the forecasting of assessment of the temporary differences Critical accounting policies future cash flows, the discount rates applied to which arise as a consequence of different This section on critical accounting policies those cash flows and the expected long term accounting and tax treatments.
These forms part of the audited financial statements.
Such estimates and judgements temporary differences result in deferred tax The consolidated financial statements are subject to change as a result of changing assets or liabilities which are included within are prepared in accordance with IFRS.
Management attempts the balance sheet.
Deferred tax assets and accounting policies are set out in the notes to make the most appropriate estimates, but liabilities are calculated on the basis of to the consolidated financial statements.
actual cash flows and rates may be different.
taxation substantively enacted at the balance In applying these policies, the directors are See note 11 to the consolidated financial sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are not required to make estimates and subjective statements for the impact of a change in the recognised where it is more likely than not judgements that may affect the reported key assumptions to the more sensitive brands.
that the asset will not be realised in the amounts of assets and liabilities at the balance future.
This evaluation requires judgements sheet date and reported profit for the year.
Post employment benefits to be made including the forecast of future The directors base these on a combination of Diageo accounts for post employment taxable income.
past experience and any other evidence that benefits in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Tax benefits are not recognised unless is relevant to the particular circumstance.
Application of IAS 19 requires the it is probable that the tax positions are The actual outcome could differ from those exercise of judgement in relation to various sustainable.
Once considered to be probable, estimates.
Of Diageos accounting policies, assumptions including future pay rises in management reviews each material tax the directors consider that policies in relation excess of inflation, employee and pensioner benefit to assess whether a provision should to the following areas are particularly subject demographics and the future expected be taken against full recognition of the benefit to estimates and the exercise of judgement.
on the basis of potential settlement through Diageo determines the assumptions negotiation and or litigation.
Brands, goodwill and other intangibles to be adopted in discussion with its actuaries, The group operates in many countries Acquired intangible assets are held on the and believes these assumptions to be in line in the world and is subject to many tax consolidated balance sheet at cost.
Where with UK practice generally, but the application jurisdictions and rules.
As a consequence the these assets are regarded as having indefinite of different assumptions could have a group is subject to tax audits, which by their useful economic lives, they are not amortised.
significant effect on the amounts reflected in nature are often complex and can require Assessment of the useful economic life of the income statement, other comprehensive several years to conclude.
Management an asset, or that an asset has an indefinite life, income and balance sheet in respect of judgement is required to determine the total requires management judgement.
The assumptions provision for income tax.
Amounts accrued Impairment reviews are carried out vary among the countries in which the are based on managements interpretation to ensure that intangible assets, including group operates, and there may be an of country specific tax law and the likelihood brands, are not carried at above their interdependency between some of the of settlement.
However, the actual tax recoverable amounts.
The major assumptions used by liabilities could differ from the provision and group performs a discounted cash flow the group for the three years ended 30 June in such event the group would be required to analysis at least annually to compare 2012 are set out in note 4 to the consolidated make an adjustment in a subsequent period discounted estimated future operating cash financial statements and the sensitivity to which could have a material impact on the flows to the net carrying value of each these assumptions are given in note 4 h groups profit and loss and or cash position.
The analysis is based on to the consolidated financial statements.
forecast cash flows with terminal values being New accounting standards calculated using the long term growth rate During the year a number of accounting the long term inflation rate of the country standards, amendments and interpretations of the principal markets in which the majority have been issued by the IASB or IFRIC.
of the profits of each brand are or will be Those that are of relevance to the group generated.
The estimated cash flows are are discussed in note 1 to the consolidated discounted at the weighted average cost of financial statements.
capital reflecting the industry and country specific risks in the relevant country.
