Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Category review Organic Reported Volume net sales net sales movement movement movement Category performance % % % Spirits 3 8 12 Beer 25 4 Wine 3 7 9 Ready to drink 3 Total 26 8 Strategic brand performance Whisk e y: 4 10 9 Johnnie Walker 7 15 14 Crown Royal 4 3 3 J&B 1 3 5 Buchanans 12 24 23 Windsor 4 1 Bushmills 18 20 19 Vodka: 5 13 15 Smirnoff 5 6 5 Ketel One vodka 9 9 10 Croc 60 62 63 Rum: 6 8 8 Captain Morgan 9 9 9 Liqueurs: 2 1 Baileys 4 1 1 Tequila: 2 Jose Cuervo 4 5 5 Gin: 13 3 Tanqueray 12 2 Beer: 2 5 4 Guinness 1 4 3 Organic equals reported movement for volume, except for: total volume 6%, spirits 7%, beer 4%, wine 4 %, vodka 8% reflecting the Mey ki, Meta Abo and Serengeti Breweries acquisitions and disposals last year.
Spirits brands excluding ready to drink.
Black Label, together with price increases Spirits was 66% of Diageo net sales and marketing.
The Singleton more than doubled delivered over 80% of the groups growth.
net sales in Germany and France behind drove 15% net sales growth for the Black Label variant.
Super deluxe grew 28% in the year as Developed markets grew net sales 4% on flat the Best tasting Single Malt You decide volume and emerging markets grew 18% with campaign and Old Parr grew 23% with the brand experienced a significant shift to 10 percentage points of positive price mix higher marks in North America, driven by the 9 percentage points of positive price mix through strong pricing and favourable mix through exceptional growth in PUB and new Blue Label packaging and the successful Colombia.
In the growing North America engraving advertising campaign, and as Gold as consumers move up the price ladder.
whiskey segment Bulleit delivered over Label net sales more than doubled in Asia 60% growth in net sales on the back of the Pacific.
Johnnie Walker XR21 was also very Total Whisk e y was 35% of Diageo portfolio by net sales.
Scotch delivered strong growth success of Bulleit Rye.
successful within its core geographical target Johnnie Walker had another exceptional region of Asia Pacific, reaching near 20% share with net sales up 12%.
Premium and super premium drove this growth and price mix year, posting 15% net sales growth, with the in its segment since launch.
Total marketing fastest growth coming from super deluxe spend increased 11% with over 80% of the was up 7 percentage points as a result.
In the developed markets, weakness in Southern variants.
The growth of Red Label was driven incremental investment directed towards by the emerging middle class recruitment emerging markets, especially Asia Pacific and Europe led to declines in value and standard scotch brands.
These segments grew double programmes with the Step Up activation Latin America, and behind proven global delivering almost 60% net sales growth in growth drivers, including the Walk with digit in the emerging markets as Diageo continued to drive recruitment through the South Africa and the Keep Walking Brazil Giants and Step Inside the Circuit campaigns campaign driving 16% net sales growth in and ongoing grand prix sponsorships.
Premium and super premium brands grew in all regions on the PUB.
The continued success of Johnnie Walker While the economic challenges in back of successful innovations and strong Double Black, priced at a 20% premium to Europe have resulted in a 3% reduction in Business review 53 J&B net sales globally, this represented a Vodka, 12% of Diageo net sales, saw 13% Rum, which was 6% of Diageo net sales, significant slowing in the rate of decline versus growth with positive price mix as value vodka posted 8% growth with 2 percentage points last year as the JB business is rebalancing brands declined and super premium brands of positive price mix helped by 32% growth between developed and emerging markets.
grew strongly with volume up almost 30%.
in Latin America and a 7% increase in Slowdown in the second half reflected the The category drove a quarter of the group North America.
reversal of the pre excise duty increase buy-in net sales growth with the super premium The leading brand of the portfolio, in France, while underlying consumption segment delivering 74% of that increase Captain Morgan posted 9% net sales growth.
trends did not change materially.
Turkey through the continued strong performance In North America, the new Life, Love and Loot posted 21% net sales growth and Africa and of Croc.
campaign supplemented with the launch of Latin America also saw double digit top line Smirnoff returned to strong growth, Captain Morgan Black Spiced and marketing growth on the back of the City Remix driven by a marked acceleration in developed innovations, such as the Captains Conquest, programme significantly increasing consumer markets and double digit growth in Africa resulted in share gains and 7% net sales engagement with the brand.
Elsewhere the brand continued to Buchanans delivered strong double 10% focusing on proven growth drivers.
benefit from the long running Got a Little digit net sales growth for the third consecutive Fifty countries participated in the Smirnoff Captain in You?
and the Captains Island year, supported by the launch of the Share Nightlife Exchange Project, which in campaigns, which drove the 15% increase Yourself campaign and the solid growth of its second year was expanded by the in marketing spend globally and resulted Buchanans Special Reserve, especially in collaboration with Live Nation and Madonna.
in strong double digit top line growth in Venezuela and Colombia.
The 12 percentage In the United States, Smirnoff grew volume Germany, Ireland, Russia and Eastern Europe, points of positive price mix was a result of share with the highly successful innovation and the brand almost tripled in the Benelux.
price increases and premiumisation across the launches of Smirnoff Whipped Cream and The wider rum category saw very strong Americas, helped by the successful roll-out Fluffed Marshmallow and also as a result of the double digit growth in Zacapa due to Latin of Buchanans Master, trading consumers up Smirnoff 21 I Choose campaign.
Great Britain, America, Europe and North America.
The beyond deluxe at an 18% price premium.
Germany and the Benelux led Smirnoffs successful extension of Bundaberg into the The brand posted 11% net sales growth in growth in Europe through the execution of white rum segment and the launch of the North America.
limited edition premium Bundy Masters Windsor grew share and remained the Ketel One vodka delivered 8% net sales Distillers Collection drove growth of leading scotch brand in Korea, net sales growth in North America with continued Bundaberg in Australia.
however declined 1% as the whisky market share gains fuelled by the highly successful contracted further in the country.
Share gain Gentlemen, this is Vodka campaign.
Ketel Liqueurs were 5% of Diageo net sales.
The has been achieved through the Share the One vodka is now sold in 63 markets.
Latin challenging commercial environment in Vision campaign in the first half, followed by America and Asia Pacific posted net sales Western Europe together with the reduction point of sale promotions in the second half.
growth over 50%, with PUB, Australia and in the depth and frequency of promotions in Windsor 12 and 17 variants enjoyed 4 and South East Asia being the key drivers of Great Britain continued to impact Baileys 2 percentage points of positive price mix, growth in these regions on the back of performance.
However, Baileys posted 6% respectively on the back of price increases leveraging the brands association with growth outside Europe with net sales up put through last year.
cocktail culture through the media.
42% in China on the back of a new marketing While Crown Royal held share in the Croc had another outstanding year campaign aimed at female consumers.
highly competitive non flavoured North with 62% global top line growth supported America whiskey segment, the brands by 52% increase in marketing spend, mainly Tequila represented 3% of Diageo net sales.
performance was impacted by the lapping behind the Croc the New Year campaign Don Julio continued its strong performance of the successful launch of Crown Royal Black and in the digital space.
The highly successful with 26% growth, outperforming the fast last year and also by its segment losing share launch of Croc Peach together with the growing super premium tequila segment to flavoured whiskey.
Marketing spend was continued double digit growth of Red Berry with the continued acceleration of 1942, focused behind the launch of the Crown Life and Coconut depletions helped the brand to Reposado, Anejo and the successful launch programme appealing to the Africangain further share and it is the fastest growing of Tequila Don Julio 70, the worlds first American and Hispanic consumers in the ultra premium vodka in the United States.
Outside North America, the brand more Jose Cuervo Especial declined 5%, Bushmills delivered double digit than doubled its net sales.
driven by the impact of distributor destocking increases in both volume and net sales.
on Jose Cuervo Especial Gold in the first half Its performance was particularly strong and also by consumers shifting away from in Eastern Europe, where it made some dark tequilas.
This was partially offset by an important share gains.
Bushmills Honey increase in Jose Cuervo Especial Silver net was launched successfully in the United sales, helped by consumer trends and States and delivered a third of the brands the recruitment from the ProBeach growth globally.
54 Diageo Annual Report 2012 Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Gin represented 3% of Diageo net sales Guinness made up 52% of Diageos beer and grew 3%.
Emerging market consumer business by net sales.
The brand delivered 2% demand drove double digit net sales growth net sales growth in the developed markets as of value gin brands in Africa, while super the successful launch of Guinness Black Lager premium gin grew over 20% in Asia Pacific together with price increases on Guinness and Latin America as the category saw a Kegs drove 9% net sales growth for Guinness resurgence as the white spirit of choice in North America.
In the emerging markets, with bartenders.
net sales were up 8% with strong growth Tanqueray grew net sales 2% globally, across Africa and continued share gains and despite a slight decline in its biggest market, price increases in Indonesia.
Nigeria is now the North America, as the brand grew over 10% in biggest market for Guinness by net sales and its new markets across Western Europe, with the brand further extended its footprint this Iberia up 24%, and grew 17% in the emerging year with double digit growth across the other markets, with both Africa and Latin America Africa markets.
Marketing spend behind the posting double digit growth.
The new brand Guinness The Match and Guinness Football strategy and the supporting Tonight We Challenge campaigns tapped into African Tanqueray communications campaign consumers fervent love of football, and the drove 11% increase in marketing spend.
launch of a landmark new TV campaign The Ticket, and Guinness VIP, a mobile phone Premium local spirits: During the year Diageo relationship marketing programme with the completed the acquisition and integration participation of 2.4 million consumers, drove of Mey ki, the leading spirits company in 7% increase in spend globally.
Mey ki posted 291 million net sales Local African beers continued to perform in the year with 5.1 million equivalent units strongly, with Tusker and Harp posting strong of volume.
Raki is the main spirits category double digit top line growth supported by in the Turkish market and Mey ki is a clear innovations, such as the launch of Harp Lime market leader in the category with Yeni Raki in Nigeria and Tusker Lite in Kenya.
Senator being the most recognised brand.
Mey ki delivered more than a quarter of the beer net gained share during the year as marketing sales growth, driven by price increases and spend was focused on modern and traditional footprint expansion in Kenya.
raki occasions, building strong brand equities and maintaining executional excellence in Wine was 4% of Diageo net sales.
Diageo also increased its shareholding a challenging category with volume declining in Quanxing by 4% and from 29 June has in North America and Europe and with a shift control of Shuijingfang, fiscal 2013 will be to the lower end of the portfolio.
the first full year Diageo consolidates the companys results.
Chinese white spirits Ready to drink, 7% of Diageo net sales, was delivered 36% net sales growth outside flat.
Emerging markets posted a 7% increase, China, driven by price increases and expanded offset by a 2% reduction in developed distribution footprint with Shui Jing Fang markets, driven by a decline in Australia now available in the duty free channel at forty despite share gains.
The transfer of production airports and on two airlines worldwide and and sales of Smirnoff ready to drink in South also in seven domestic markets.
During the Africa to Diageos associate had a full point year Diageo also acquired an additional 20.6% impact on growth rates.
Excluding this the stake in Hanoi Liquor Joint Stock Company in category grew 1% globally.
Smirnoff Ice Vietnam and agreed to acquire Ypica, the posted strong growth across the emerging leading premium cachaa brand in Brazil.
middle class consumers of Africa and Latin America and the launch of Parrot Bay and Beer brands represented 21% of Diageo Smirnoff Frozen Pouches proved to be a huge net sales and grew 5% with the developed success in the United States.
The launch of markets up 1% despite declining volumes Smirnoff Ice Green Apple and Raspberry and emerging markets growing 9% with Splash revived the Smirnoff Ice portfolio in 6 percentage points of positive price mix.
Asia driving accessibility and recruiting female consumers to the category.
