Diageo is subject to litigation directed uncertainty and or governmental controls.
Changes at the beverage alcohol industry and Commodity price changes may result in in tax law including tax rates, accounting other litigation unexpected increases in the cost of raw policies and accounting standards could Companies in the beverage alcohol industry materials, glass bottles, flavours and other materially reduce Diageos reported after are, from time to time, exposed to class packaging materials and Diageos beverage tax income.
action or other litigation relating to alcohol products.
Diageo may also be adversely advertising, product liability, alcohol abuse affected by shortages of such materials.
Risks related to Diageos business problems or health consequences from the In addition, energy cost increases result Diageo faces competition that may misuse of alcohol.
Diageo may be subject in higher transportation, freight and other reduce its market share and margins to litigation with tax, customs and other operating costs.
Diageo may not be able Diageo faces substantial competition from regulatory authorities, including with respect to increase its prices to offset these increased several international companies as well as to the methodology for assessing importation costs without suffering reduced volume, local and regional companies in the countries value, transfer pricing and compliance sales and operating profit.
Diageo may in which it operates.
Diageo competes with matters, and Diageo is routinely subject to experience significant increases in drinks companies across a wide range of litigation in the ordinary course of its commodity costs and energy costs.
Diageo may also be subject to number of categories, consolidation or litigation arising from legacy and discontinued Risks related to regulation realignment is still possible.
Such litigation may result in Regulatory decisions and changes in the also taking place amongst Diageos customers damages, penalties or fines as well as legal and regulatory environment could in many countries.
Increased competition reputational damage to Diageo or its brands, increase Diageos costs and liabilities or and unanticipated actions by competitors or and as a result, Diageos business could be limit its business activities customers could lead to downward pressure materially adversely affected.
For additional Diageos operations are subject to extensive on prices and or a decline in Diageos market information with respect to legal proceedings, regulatory requirements which include those share in any of these categories, which would see Additional information for shareholders in respect of production, product liability, adversely affect Diageos results and hinder Legal proceedings and note 31 to the distribution, importation, marketing, its growth potential.
promotion, sales, pricing, labelling, packaging, advertising, labour, pensions, compliance and Diageo may not be able to derive the expected Climate change, or legal, regulatory control systems, and environmental issues.
benefits from its strategy to focus on premium or market measures to address climate Changes in laws, regulations or governmental drinks or from its acquisitions or cost-saving change, may negatively affect Diageos or regulatory policies and or practices could and restructuring programmes designed to business or operations, and water scarcity cause Diageo to incur material additional enhance earnings or poor quality could negatively impact costs or liabilities that could adversely affect Diageos strategy is to focus on premium Diageos production costs and capacity its business.
In particular, governmental drinks to grow its business through organic There is a growing concern that carbon bodies in countries where Diageo operates sales, operating profit growth and the dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the may impose new labelling, product or acquisition of premium drinks brands that atmosphere may have an adverse impact on production requirements, limitations on the add value for shareholders.
There can be global temperatures, weather patterns and advertising and or promotion activities used no assurance that Diageos strategic focus the frequency and severity of extreme to market beverage alcohol, restrictions on on premium drinks will result in opportunities weather and natural disasters.
In the event retail outlets, other restrictions on marketing, for growth and improved margins.
that such climate change has a negative effect promotion, importation and distribution It is possible that the pursuit of this on agricultural productivity, Diageo may be or other restrictions on the locations or strategic focus on premium drinks could subject to decreased availability or less occasions where beverage alcohol is sold give rise to further business combinations, favourable pricing for certain raw materials which directly or indirectly limit the sales of acquisitions, disposals, joint ventures and or that are necessary for Diageos products, such Diageo products.
Regulatory authorities partnerships including any associated as sugar, cereals, hops, agave and grapes.
under whose laws Diageo operates may also financing or the assumption of actual or Water is the main ingredient in substantially have enforcement power that can subject potential liabilities, depending on the all of Diageos products.
It is also a limited the group to actions such as product recall, transaction contemplated.
There can be resource in many parts of the world, facing seizure of products or other sanctions, which no assurance that any transaction will be unprecedented challenges from climate could have an adverse effect on its sales or completed.
The success of any transaction change, overexploitation, increasing pollution, damage its reputation.
An increase in the will depend in part on Diageos ability to and poor management.
As demand for water stringency of the regulatory environment successfully integrate new businesses with continues to increase around the world, and could cause Diageo to incur material Diageos existing operations and realise the as water becomes scarcer and the quality of additional costs or liabilities that could anticipated benefits, cost savings or synergies.
available water deteriorates, Diageo may be adversely affect its business.
There can be no guarantee that any such affected by increasing production costs or In addition, beverage alcohol products business combination, acquisition, disposal, capacity constraints, which could adversely are the subject of national excise, import duty joint venture or partnership would deliver affect Diageos results of operations and other duties in most countries around the the benefits, cost savings or synergies and profitability.
An increase in any such duties could anticipated, if any.
have a significant adverse effect on Diageos Similarly, there can be no assurance that An increase in the cost of raw materials or sales revenue or margin, both through the cost-saving or restructuring programmes energy could affect Diageos profitability reducing overall consumption and by implemented by Diageo in order to improve The components that Diageo uses for the encouraging consumers to switch to efficiencies and deliver cost-savings will production of its beverage products are lower-taxed categories of beverage alcohol.
largely commodities that are subject to price Diageos reported after tax income is volatility caused by changes in global supply calculated based on extensive tax and and demand, weather conditions, agricultural accounting requirements in each of its 40 Diageo Annual Report 2012 Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Contamination, counterfeiting or other events Diageos operating results may be adversely or physical plant issues could impact a large could harm the integrity of customer support affected by disruption to production facilities, portion of Diageos global business.
for Diageos brands and adversely affect the business service centres or information Certain change programmes designed sales of those brands systems and change programs may not to improve the effectiveness and efficiency The success of Diageos brands depends upon deliver the benefits intended of end-to-end operating, administrative and the positive image that consumers have of Diageo would be affected if there were a financial systems and processes continue to be those brands, and contamination, whether catastrophic failure of its major production undertaken.
This includes moving transaction arising accidentally, or through deliberate facilities or business service centres.
See processing from a number of markets to third party action, or other events that harm Business description Premium drinks business service centres.
There can be no the integrity or consumer support for those Production for details of Diageos principal certainty that these programmes will deliver brands, could adversely affect their sales.
Diageo operates the expected operational benefits.
There may Diageo purchases most of the raw materials production facilities around the world.
If there be disruption caused to production processes for the production and packaging of its were a technical integrity failure, fire or and to administrative and financial systems products from third party producers or on explosion at one of Diageos production as further changes to such processes are the open market.
Diageo may be subject to facilities, it could result in damage to the effected.
They could also lead to adverse liability if contaminants in those raw materials facilities, plant or equipment, their customer or consumer reaction.
or defects in the distillation, fermentation surroundings or the environment, could or bottling process lead to low beverage lead to a loss in production capacity, or could Diageos operations and financial results quality or illness among, or injury to, Diageos result in regulatory action, legal liability or may be adversely affected by movements consumers.
In addition, Diageo may damage to Diageos reputation.
In addition, in the value of its pension funds, fluctuations voluntarily recall products in the event of the maintenance and development of in exchange rates and fluctuations in contamination or damage.
A significant information systems may result in systems interest rates product liability judgement or a widespread failures which may adversely affect Diageo has significant pension funds.
product recall may negatively impact on sales business operations.
These funds may be affected by, among and profitability of the affected brand or all Diageo has a substantial inventory of other things, the performance of assets Diageo brands for a period of time depending aged product categories, principally Scotch owned by these plans, the underlying on product availability, competitive reaction whisky and Canadian whisky, which may actuarial assumptions used to calculate the and consumer attitudes.
Even if a product mature over periods of up to 30 years or more.
surplus or deficit in the plans, in particular the liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully The maturing inventory is stored primarily in discount rate and long term inflation rates pursued, resulting negative publicity could Scotland, and the loss through contamination, used to calculate the liabilities of the pension adversely affect Diageos reputation with fire or other natural disaster of all or a portion funds, and any changes in applicable laws and existing and potential customers and its of the stock of any one of those aged product regulations.
If there are significant declines in corporate and brand image.
categories could result in a significant financial markets and or deterioration in the In addition, to the extent that third reduction in supply of those products, and value of fund assets or changes in discount parties sell products which are either consequently, Diageo would not be able to rates or inflation rates, Diageo may need to counterfeit versions of Diageo brands or meet consumer demand for those products make significant contributions to the pension inferior brands that look like Diageo brands, as it arises.
There can be no assurance that funds in the future.
Furthermore, if the market consumers of Diageo brands could confuse insurance proceeds would cover the values of the assets held by Diageos pension Diageo products with them.
This could replacement value of Diageos maturing funds decline, or if the valuations of those cause them to refrain from purchasing inventory or other assets, were such assets to assets by the pension trustees decline, Diageo brands in the future and in turn be lost due to contamination, fire or natural pension expenses may increase and, as a could impair brand equity, adversely disasters or destruction resulting from result, could materially adversely affect affecting Diageos business.
negligence or the acts of third parties.
There is no addition, there is an inherent risk of forecasting assurance that interest rates or inflation rates Diageos operating results may be adversely error in determining the quantity of maturing will remain constant or that pension fund affected by increased costs or shortages stock to lay down in a given year for future assets can earn the assumed rate of return of labour consumption.
This could lead to an inability annually, and Diageos actual experience Diageos operating results could be adversely to supply future demand or lead to a future may be significantly more negative.
affected by labour or skill shortages or surplus of inventory and consequent write Diageo may be adversely affected by increased labour costs due to increased down in value of maturing stocks.
In particular, competition for employees, higher employee Any failure of information systems could any redenomination of the euro or its turnover or increased employee benefit adversely impact Diageos ability to operate.
constituent parts could materially adversely costs.
Diageos success is dependent on the As with all large systems, Diageos information affect Diageo.
The results of operations of capability of its employees.
There is no systems could be penetrated by outside Diageo are accounted for in pounds sterling.
guarantee that Diageo will continue to be able parties intent on extracting information, Approximately 37% of sales in the year ended to recruit, retain and develop the capabilities corrupting information or disrupting business 30 June 2012 were in US dollars, approximately that it requires to deliver its strategy, for processes.
Such unauthorised access could 13% were in euros and approximately 10% example in relation to sales, marketing and disrupt Diageos business and or lead to loss were in sterling.
Movements in exchange rates innovation capability within markets or in its of assets or to outside parties having access used to translate foreign currencies into senior management.
The loss of senior to privileged data or strategic information pounds sterling may have a significant impact management or other key personnel or the of Diageo and its employees, customers and on Diageos reported results of operations inability to identify, attract and retain qualified consumers, or to making such information from year to year.
personnel in the future could make it difficult public in a manner that harms Diageos Diageo may also be adversely impacted to manage the business and could adversely reputation.
The concentration of processes by fluctuations in interest rates, mainly affect operations and financial results.
in business service centres also means that through an increased interest expense.
any disruption arising from system failure To partly delay any adverse impact from Business description 41
