The economy remains very uneven in Europe.
We continue to deliver substantial 2012 sales and profit growth in Europes emerging countries of Russia, Eastern Europe Europe and Turkey, as well as a good performance across Northern Europe.
Clearly though, Southern Europe remains challenging.
From a category point of view, scotch remained very strong in the emerging markets offsetting decline in Southern Europe.
Smirnoff continued to grow in Great Britain and Captain Morgan continued to perform strongly with 18% net sales growth.
Weaker Baileys performance was driven by the change in promotional strategy in Great Britain and the challenges in Southern Europe.
Overall marketing campaign activity has been maintained and the reinvestment rate increased as we spent more behind scotch and emerging markets while improving effectiveness in Western Europe.
In Turkey, the integration of Mey ki has been completed successfully and the enhanced route to market will be a key growth driver as we bring our international brands to the expanding middle class consumer base there.
Finally, the new operating model has delivered further efficiencies and improved operating margin.
Andrew Morgan, President Diageo Europe r In Great Britain, reduced promotional r In Russia and Eastern Europe, double digit Key highlights activities across the portfolio drove 2% net sales growth was driven by scotch, with r In increasingly challenging economic decline in net sales with 4 percentage Johnnie Walker up 11%, Bells up 57% and conditions in Southern Europe, Diageo points of positive price mix.
Marketing spend was Europes underlying performance delivered 6% net sales growth, driven by focused behind Johnnie Walker and also remained relatively consistent throughout Smirnoff Red gaining share despite the on launching the first ever local campaign the year.
Organic net sales growth in Turkey promotional reductions.
Beer net sales for White Horse, the biggest whisky was 12 % in the second half against 114% grew 6% with price increases on Guinness brand in Russia.
Black & White, targeting in the first half as it lapped the customs and a successful year for Red Stripe as the consumers seeking a more affordable entry dispute that was resolved in April 2011. into the scotch category, performed well brands sales, distribution and marketing The second half was also impacted by the were brought in house.
following its launch last August.
As a result decision to increase H1 shipments into of broadening from scotch into other r The rest of Western Europe delivered Eastern European markets to avoid custom categories in these fast growing markets, 6% growth in spirits, fuelled by double digit administration delays which had occurred Captain Morgan and Bushmills also top line growth of Smirnoff and Captain in H2 in prior years.
contributed to top line growth with net Morgan.
Germany maintained strong r Formerly material markets for Diageo, sales growth over 30% for both and share momentum on the back of increased Iberia, Greece and Italy in total represent 5% gains within the growing rum and Irish customer marketing focus and benefited of net sales globally after a number of years whiskey categories.
from the premiumisation trend for of tough trading.
These Southern European international spirits.
Captain Morgan r In Turkey the integration of Mey ki has markets declined 6% in volume and 9% in saw almost 60% net sales growth with been completed successfully.
Net sales net sales as deeper austerity measures put 4 percentage points of share gain.
Net growth of 28% reflected the resolution additional pressure on consumption and sales in France were flat as the second in 2011 of the customs dispute which had sales mix.
JB and Baileys were the brands half saw the reversal of the pre excise tax impacted imports and also the share gains impacted most, both declining 8% in net increase buy in coupled with difficult made as a result of marketing investment sales in these markets.
However, growth of market conditions.
The Singleton more behind Johnnie Walker, JB and Smirnoff.
Tanqueray, Captain Morgan and Bushmills than doubled in net sales as the brand The inorganic part of the Turkish business partially offset these declines.
gained share in France supported by delivered 291 million of net sales as Yeni r In Ireland, Guinness Draught and improved distribution.
Raki continued to be the market leader Smithwicks grew share in the on trade and and while the recent duty increase Harp in the off trade, but the beer market impacted sales in the category, Mey ki remains in decline and net sales fell 5%.
gained 3 percentage points of share on the back of very effective on trade marketing activities and increased penetration into beer led outlets.
58 Diageo Annual Report 2012 Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Performance 2011 Acquisitions Reported and Organic 2012 Reported restated Exchange disposalsmovement Reported movement Key financials million million million million million % Net sales 2,703 25 288 17 2,949 9 Marketing spend 403 4 30 10 439 9 Operating profit before exceptional items 796 4 107 26 925 16 Exceptional items 157 41 Operating profit 639 966 51 Organic Reported Volume net sales net sales movement movement movement % % % Key markets and categories: Europe 1 1 9 Western Europe 3 3 4 Russia and Eastern Europe 14 16 13 Turkey 728 983 Spirits 1 17 Beer 3 1 Wine 5 10 5 Ready to drink 8 7 7 The strategic brands: Johnnie Walker 5 4 3 J&B 4 7 8 Smirnoff 1 5 4 Captain Morgan 20 18 18 Baileys 9 7 8 Guinness 4 2 3 Organic equals reported movement for volume except for: total Europe volume 12%, spirits 16%, wine 2 % and Turkey 1,081% reflecting the acquisition of Mey ki this year and sale of Gilbeys in the previous year.
Spirits brands excluding ready to drink.
