1 Innovation unlocks growth in developed executions and the gold etched bottle itself Innovation is markets.
In Ireland, for example, we have showcases a flurry of real, edible gold leaf introduced new dispense technology to bring flakes, magically suspended in this truly embedded within perfect cocktails to bars which do not usually indulgent vodka.
Smirnoff Mojito is available in over 600 Irish outlets which are now selling a 4 Guinness Black Lager has the refreshing total of nearly 40,000 cocktails a week.
taste of lager, but all the character of Guinness which consumers love.
We take immense 2 Diageo entered the Indian made foreign pride in the quality of our product and liquor segment IMFL with the launch of ensured that we built on the Guinness legacy.
1 Rowsons Reserve, a premium IMFL whisky.
The refreshing taste is locked in by the It is a blend of selected premium Indian whiskies bespoke amber Guinness bottle.
The and reserve stocks of the finest aged Scotch contemporary packaging design combines whisky matured in American oak casks that are premium, detailed silver and blue colour with mellowed to give a rich smooth finish.
It has a hallmark symbols of Guinness brewing well rounded and balanced flavour profile, provenance and heritage.
Its distinctly superior liquid and premium packaging allows 5 This March saw the launch of Orijin, it to stand out as a premium offering.
the latest drinks innovation from Guinness Cameroon.
Perfect for all social occasions, 3 Smirnoff, the worlds number one vodka, this authentic ready to drink alcoholic revealed an exciting new flavour variant, beverage, an alternative to beer, is made exclusive to travel retail.
Smirnoff Gold from a blend of traditional African herbs such Collection with the luxury of gold in every as kola nuts, ginger and cloves, and sweet drop is a unique, cinnamon spiced vodka.
tropical fruits, giving it a refined, bitter-sweet Gold cues feature prominently in all and uplifting taste.
6 We need to offer more choices to female consumers.
In Kenya, we launched Snapp.
Women there told us they didnt like drinking beer, particularly in the on trade because both the packaging and the liquid were viewed as too masculine.
Snapp is a premium, crisp apple tasting drink that provides women with a more stylish and sophisticated alternative to beer.
3 4 5 2 2 18 Diageo Annual Report 2012 Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information 6 7 7 8 9 7 As a darker, spiced rum from Captain Morgan, Captain Morgan Black Spiced expands the brands footprint into the 10 bolder, more masculine whiskey occasion.
The brand honours the legend of the real Captain Morgan, whose spirit is said to still roam the waters of the Caribbean today.
Captain Morgan Black Spiced Rum is best enjoyed on the rocks, but is also delicious as the key ingredient in edgy, new twists on classic cocktails, such as Henry Morgans Old Fashioned.
8 The new frozen Ready to Serve pouch 11 The Tusker brand has been enjoyed in format from Parrot Bay offers consumers an Kenya since 1922, and now new Tusker Lite easy and affordable way to enjoy the drinks keeps the brand innovative and relevant by they love.
Parrot Bay frozen tropical drinks addressing todays consumers balanced are your favourite tropical drinks perfectly lifestyle choices with a refreshing low calorie mixed every time, available in Pia Colada, beer.
Tusker Lite is positioned within the same Strawberry Daiquiri, and Mango Daiquiri.
mainstream segment as the parent brand Just freeze, squeeze and enjoy.
11 9 Offering a credible, exciting new 12 This years Asian Festive season gifting alternative to beer for British males, Jeremiah design was inspired by the characteristic big, Weed Brews is a range of two products, bold flavours of the Johnnie Walker brand.
The combination of The packs were launched in stages, from an authentic American brand, independent India for Diwali and then across Asia Pacific positioning, simple design and a unique for Chinese New Year.
The eye-catching jam jar serve over ice has helped deliver limited edition gift boxes boast a beautiful the masculine credibility of beer with design that allows each variant to stand an enjoyable taste.
Jeremiah Weed has out on shelves, with impressive and refined now been rolled out to 7,000 on trade packaging including an embossed box outlets in Great Britain.
10 Harp Lime is Nigerias first flavoured beer.
With a clean and crisp taste, and just a hint of lime, it is uniquely refreshing.
Harp Lime has been well received, with distribution growing steadily, and the distinctive Harp Lime 12 advertising impacting positively on the Harp Trademark equity.
Harp Lime is available in both sleek 30cl bottles and cans.
