Diageo is subject to litigation directed uncertainty and or governmental controls.
Changes at the beverage alcohol industry and Commodity price changes may result in in tax law including tax rates, accounting other litigation unexpected increases in the cost of raw policies and accounting standards could Companies in the beverage alcohol industry materials, glass bottles, flavours and other materially reduce Diageos reported after are, from time to time, exposed to class packaging materials and Diageos beverage tax income.
action or other litigation relating to alcohol products.
Diageo may also be adversely advertising, product liability, alcohol abuse affected by shortages of such materials.
Risks related to Diageos business problems or health consequences from the In addition, energy cost increases result Diageo faces competition that may misuse of alcohol.
Diageo may be subject in higher transportation, freight and other reduce its market share and margins to litigation with tax, customs and other operating costs.
Diageo may not be able Diageo faces substantial competition from regulatory authorities, including with respect to increase its prices to offset these increased several international companies as well as to the methodology for assessing importation costs without suffering reduced volume, local and regional companies in the countries value, transfer pricing and compliance sales and operating profit.
Diageo may in which it operates.
Diageo competes with matters, and Diageo is routinely subject to experience significant increases in drinks companies across a wide range of litigation in the ordinary course of its commodity costs and energy costs.
Diageo may also be subject to number of categories, consolidation or litigation arising from legacy and discontinued Risks related to regulation realignment is still possible.
Such litigation may result in Regulatory decisions and changes in the also taking place amongst Diageos customers damages, penalties or fines as well as legal and regulatory environment could in many countries.
Increased competition reputational damage to Diageo or its brands, increase Diageos costs and liabilities or and unanticipated actions by competitors or and as a result, Diageos business could be limit its business activities customers could lead to downward pressure materially adversely affected.
For additional Diageos operations are subject to extensive on prices and or a decline in Diageos market information with respect to legal proceedings, regulatory requirements which include those share in any of these categories, which would see Additional information for shareholders in respect of production, product liability, adversely affect Diageos results and hinder Legal proceedings and note 31 to the distribution, importation, marketing, its growth potential.
promotion, sales, pricing, labelling, packaging, advertising, labour, pensions, compliance and Diageo may not be able to derive the expected Climate change, or legal, regulatory control systems, and environmental issues.
benefits from its strategy to focus on premium or market measures to address climate Changes in laws, regulations or governmental drinks or from its acquisitions or cost-saving change, may negatively affect Diageos or regulatory policies and or practices could and restructuring programmes designed to business or operations, and water scarcity cause Diageo to incur material additional enhance earnings or poor quality could negatively impact costs or liabilities that could adversely affect Diageos strategy is to focus on premium Diageos production costs and capacity its business.
In particular, governmental drinks to grow its business through organic There is a growing concern that carbon bodies in countries where Diageo operates sales, operating profit growth and the dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the may impose new labelling, product or acquisition of premium drinks brands that atmosphere may have an adverse impact on production requirements, limitations on the add value for shareholders.
There can be global temperatures, weather patterns and advertising and or promotion activities used no assurance that Diageos strategic focus the frequency and severity of extreme to market beverage alcohol, restrictions on on premium drinks will result in opportunities weather and natural disasters.
In the event retail outlets, other restrictions on marketing, for growth and improved margins.
that such climate change has a negative effect promotion, importation and distribution It is possible that the pursuit of this on agricultural productivity, Diageo may be or other restrictions on the locations or strategic focus on premium drinks could subject to decreased availability or less occasions where beverage alcohol is sold give rise to further business combinations, favourable pricing for certain raw materials which directly or indirectly limit the sales of acquisitions, disposals, joint ventures and or that are necessary for Diageos products, such Diageo products.
Regulatory authorities partnerships including any associated as sugar, cereals, hops, agave and grapes.
under whose laws Diageo operates may also financing or the assumption of actual or Water is the main ingredient in substantially have enforcement power that can subject potential liabilities, depending on the all of Diageos products.
It is also a limited the group to actions such as product recall, transaction contemplated.
There can be resource in many parts of the world, facing seizure of products or other sanctions, which no assurance that any transaction will be unprecedented challenges from climate could have an adverse effect on its sales or completed.
The success of any transaction change, overexploitation, increasing pollution, damage its reputation.
An increase in the will depend in part on Diageos ability to and poor management.
As demand for water stringency of the regulatory environment successfully integrate new businesses with continues to increase around the world, and could cause Diageo to incur material Diageos existing operations and realise the as water becomes scarcer and the quality of additional costs or liabilities that could anticipated benefits, cost savings or synergies.
available water deteriorates, Diageo may be adversely affect its business.
There can be no guarantee that any such affected by increasing production costs or In addition, beverage alcohol products business combination, acquisition, disposal, capacity constraints, which could adversely are the subject of national excise, import duty joint venture or partnership would deliver affect Diageos results of operations and other duties in most countries around the the benefits, cost savings or synergies and profitability.
An increase in any such duties could anticipated, if any.
have a significant adverse effect on Diageos Similarly, there can be no assurance that An increase in the cost of raw materials or sales revenue or margin, both through the cost-saving or restructuring programmes energy could affect Diageos profitability reducing overall consumption and by implemented by Diageo in order to improve The components that Diageo uses for the encouraging consumers to switch to efficiencies and deliver cost-savings will production of its beverage products are lower-taxed categories of beverage alcohol.
largely commodities that are subject to price Diageos reported after tax income is volatility caused by changes in global supply calculated based on extensive tax and and demand, weather conditions, agricultural accounting requirements in each of its 40 Diageo Annual Report 2012
