Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information If the economy in the United States or in the guarantee that this strategy will be successful Risk factors countries that form the European Union do and some of the markets represent a higher Diageo believes the following to be the not recover as forecast or if there is a significant risk in terms of their changing regulatory principal risks and uncertainties facing the deterioration in the economic conditions in environments and higher degree of group.
If any of these risks occur, Diageos any of Diageos important markets, including uncertainty over levels of consumer spending.
business, financial condition and results of any resulting social unrest, reduction in operations could suffer and the trading price consumer confidence and spending levels, Risks related to the industry and liquidity of securities could decline.
customer destocking, the failure of customer, Demand for Diageos products may be In the ongoing uncertain economic supplier or financial counterparties or a adversely affected by many factors, including environment, certain risks may gain more reduction in the availability of, or an increase changes in consumer preferences and tastes prominence either individually or when taken in the cost of financing to, Diageo, it could and adverse impacts of a declining economy together.
The following are examples of ways have a material adverse effect on Diageos Diageos collection of brands includes some that any of the risks below may become business and results of operations.
In of the worlds leading beverage alcohol exacerbated.
Demand for beverage alcohol particular, the ongoing sovereign debt crisis brands as well as brands of local prominence.
products, in particular luxury or super in certain countries in Europe has increased Maintaining Diageos competitive position premium products, may decrease with a concerns that, were one or more countries depends on its continued ability to offer reduction in consumer spending levels.
Costs to leave the euro, Diageos investment in any products that have a strong appeal to of operations may increase if inflation were to countries concerned could be impaired and consumers.
Consumer preferences may shift become prevalent, or upon an increase in the may be subject to redenomination and other due to a variety of factors including changes in costs of raw materials.
These factors may also risks going forward.
This crisis, as well as other demographic and social trends, public health lead to intensified competition for market economic events, may lead to reduced regulations, changes in travel, vacation or share, with consequential potentially adverse economic growth and, in turn, reduced leisure activity patterns, weather effects and a effects on volumes and prices.
The financial demand for Diageos products, in Europe downturn in economic conditions, which may and economic situation may have a negative and other markets in which Diageo operates, reduce consumers willingness to purchase impact on third parties with whom Diageo which could have a material adverse effect on premium branded products.
The competitive does, or may do, business.
Any of these factors Diageos business and results of operations.
position of Diageos brands could also be may affect the groups results of operations, Diageos operations are also subject to a affected adversely by any failure to achieve financial condition and liquidity.
Diageo has variety of other risks and uncertainties related consistent, reliable quality in the product or taken and may take further steps to manage to trading in numerous foreign countries, service levels to customers.
its business through this challenging including political or economic upheaval and In addition, the social acceptability of economic environment and position its the imposition of any import, investment or Diageos products may decline due to public business to benefit from economic recovery currency restrictions, including tariffs and concerns about alcohol consumption, as and when it may occur in the various import quotas or any restrictions on the including alcohol abuse, drink driving, markets in which Diageo operates, but repatriation of earnings and capital.
Political underage drinking or potential health there can be no assurance that the steps and or social unrest, potential health issues consequences.
These concerns may also taken will have the intended results.
including pandemic issues, natural disasters result in regulatory action, litigation or If there is an extended period of and terrorist threats and or acts may also customer complaints against companies constraint in the capital markets, with debt occur in various places around the world, in the industry and may have an adverse markets in particular experiencing a lack of which will have an impact on trade, tourism effect on Diageos profitability.
liquidity, at a time when cash flows from and travel.
Many of these risks are heightened, The launch and ongoing success of new Diageos business may be under pressure, or occur more frequently, in emerging products is inherently uncertain especially as this may have an impact on Diageos ability markets.
These disruptions can affect Diageos to their appeal to consumers.
The failure to to maintain current long term strategies, ability to import or export products and to launch a new product successfully can give with a consequent effect on the groups repatriate funds, as well as affecting the levels rise to inventory write-offs and other costs and growth rate.
Such developments may of consumer demand for example, in duty can affect consumer perception of an existing adversely affect shareholder returns or share free outlets at airports or in on trade premises brand.
Growth in Diageos business has been price.
Additionally, continued volatility in in affected regions and therefore Diageos based on both the launch of new products exchange rates used to translate foreign levels of sales or profitability.
A substantial and the creation of brand extensions, and can currencies into pounds sterling may have portion of Diageos operations, representing impact growth of existing products.
Product a significant impact on Diageos reported nearly 40% of Diageos net sales for the year innovation remains a significant aspect of results.
Decreases in the trustees valuations ended 30 June 2012, are carried out in Diageos plans for growth.
There can be no of Diageos pension plans may also increase emerging markets, including Brazil, Venezuela, assurance as to Diageos continuing ability to pension funding requirements.
Mexico, Russia and emerging markets in Africa develop and launch successful new products and Asia.
Emerging markets are also generally or variants of existing products or as to the Risks related to the global economy exposed to relatively higher risk of liquidity, profitable lifespan of newly or recently Diageos business may be adversely impacted inflation, devaluation, price volatility, currency developed products.
Any significant changes by unfavourable economic conditions or convertibility and sovereign default.
Due to in consumer preferences and failure to political or other developments and risks in Diageos specific exposures, any or all of the anticipate and react to such changes could the countries in which it operates aforementioned factors may affect Diageo result in reduced demand for Diageos Diageo may be adversely affected by political disproportionately or in a different manner products and erosion of its competitive and and economic developments or industrial as compared to its competitors.
Continued economic action in any of the countries where Diageo Part of Diageos growth strategy includes pressures could lead to consumer selection has distribution networks, production facilities expanding its business in certain countries of products at lower price points, whether or marketing companies.
Diageos business is where consumer spending in general, and Diageos or those of competitors, which may dependent on general economic conditions spending on Diageos products in particular, have an adverse effect on Diageos profitability.
in the United States, countries that form the has not historically been as great but where European Union and other important markets.
there are prospects for growth.
There is no Business description 39
