Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Diageo is the worlds leading premium Diageos broad range of leading brands Business drinks business.
Its geographic breadth covers all major categories.
It owns seven of and range of leading brands across the worlds top 20 brands, including Smirnoff, description categories is unparalleled.
the number one brand by volume and The business is balanced having a Johnnie Walker, the number one brand by strong presence in the worlds largest and value and manages Jose Cuervo, making most profitable beverage alcohol market, Diageo the leading premium spirits business the United States: an integrated Western in the world by volume, net sales and European business: and a large and increasing operating profit.
In beer, Diageo owns one presence in the faster growing markets of of the truly global beer brands, Guinness.
Asia, Africa, Latin America, Russia and Eastern Diageos wine brands are sold predominantly Europe.
Diageos strong financial position in North America and Great Britain.
Diageos has been built through the growth of its global brands are complemented by strong brands, the development of its routes to local brands to create category breadth.
market and the value creating acquisitions Diageos brands cover a range of price points, it has made.
Diageo maintains the strength from Diageos reserve brands, including of its brands through excellence in marketing Johnnie Walker Blue Label, Croc and Ketel and innovation.
Diageo has scale but acts One vodka to more affordable brands, tailored with agility to deliver top line growth, margin for the growing number of emerging middle improvement and improving shareholder class consumers, such as VAT69 in India, White returns.
Diageo is taking action to ensure Horse in Russia and 20cl bottles of Johnnie that every aspect of its product lifecycle Walker Red Label across Africa.
is sustainable and is proud to lead the Diageo is a global company selling responsibility agenda in the beverage products in more than 180 markets around industry.
Diageo is proud of the role its the world.
In the developed markets, primarily, brands play in the social life and celebrations in North America and Europe, Diageo has of consumers around the globe.
built scale and strong routes to market.
In the emerging markets, Diageo is the number one international spirits company in Asia, Latin Strategy America and Africa.
These rapidly growing Diageos strategy is to drive top line growth markets now contribute nearly 40% of and margin improvement in a sustainable and Diageos net sales, up from a fifth in 2005. responsible way, to deliver consistent value These markets are expected to contribute creation for shareholders over the long term.
It 50% of Diageos net sales by 2015 through will do this through its geographic breadth, its double digit organic growth and targeted outstanding brands across beverage alcohol acquisitions.
categories and the expertise of its people.
Diageo expects to make selective acquisitions, in particular the acquisition of companies with both strong local routes to market and brands that appeal to the growing number of middle class consumers in the emerging markets.
The acquisitions of Mey ki in Turkey, Ypica in Brazil, the Serengeti and Meta breweries in Africa and the investments in Shuijingfang and Halico in Asia demonstrate this strategy in action.
Diageo leads the industry in marketing and innovation combining expertise and creative alliances to engage consumers via digital and traditional media channels.
This expertise and collaboration, combined with the benefits of global scale and consumer insights, delivers world class marketing campaigns.
For example, the global Johnnie Walker Keep Walking campaign has been in place for over 10 years.
While the campaign Sixty years to the day is based on the universal appeal of personal since The Queens progress, each market has local creative accession, the occasion was celebrated with the executions which reflect local insights.
bottling of Diamond Jubilee by John Walker & Sons.
Sixty editions are being sold for 100,000 each.
