Category review Organic Reported Volume net sales net sales movement movement movement Category performance % % % Spirits 3 6 3 Beer 1 4 3 Wine 2 6 11 Ready to drink 3 1 Total 3 5 2 Strategic brand performance Whisk e y: 4 7 2 Johnnie Walker 11 11 11 Crown Royal 1 3 2 J&B 6 8 8 Buchanans 2 14 21 Windsor 3 8 12 Bushmills 9 10 11 Vodka: 2 7 7 Smirnoff 1 1 1 Ketel One vodka 1 1 Croc 123 126 122 Liqueurs: 3 1 7 Baileys 3 1 Rum: 2 2 3 Captain Morgan 44 4 Tequila: 55 3 Jose Cuervo 43 1 Gin: 2 1 Tanqueray 34 3 Beer: 14 3 Guinness 232 Organic equals reported movement except for beer which was 3% and wine which was 11 % due to acquisitions and disposals.
Spirits brands excluding ready to drink.
70 Diageo Annual Report 2012 Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Spirits: Net sales grew across all spirits The decision to reduce promotional activity delivering double digit net sales growth on categories and across all price segments, in the United States resulted in share loss.
the back of targeted distribution expansion with the super premium segment growing InEurope, net sales declined due to lower and super premium sampling activities.
significantly faster than the others.
volume and negative channel mix in Great Britain and challenging economic conditions Tequila: Despite lower competitor pricing Whisk e y: The growth of whisk e y delivered in Spain and Greece.
Marketing spend Jose Cuervo grew in the United States as almost half of Diageos incremental net sales, increased 11% behind the Smirnoff Nightlife a result of a successful on trade events driven by success in emerging markets.
The majority of programme, innovation in on trade dispense Johnnie Walker is Diageos biggest brand and the increase focused on emerging markets, and the strong growth of the super premium was the biggest contributor to total net sales especially Latin America and India to segment.
Jose Cuervo price mix was negative growth, with the fastest growth coming from position the brand for emerging middle but this was offset by the growth of super super deluxe variants, up 25%.
premium Don Julio and price mix was flat markets net sales were up 20% supported In the United States, Ketel One vodka for the category.
Don Julios net sales by incremental marketing investment behind net sales and share were maintained as the growth accounted for roughly half of the proven global growth drivers, including the brand held its price positioning.
Walk with Giants and Step Inside the Circuit some weakness in flavours but Ketel One campaigns and ongoing Grand Prix vodka grew, supported by the Gentlemen Gin: Growth of Tanqueray was driven by sponsorships.
The roll out of Ketel Spain, Canada and Global Travel Asia.
Spain Innovation drove the growth of One vodka into markets outside the United contributed more than a third of growth, Crown Royal, with the successful launch of States, particularly in Latin America, drove where despite the difficult economic Crown Royal Black, a variant which attracts the net sales growth of the brand globally.
conditions, premium gin brands performed super premium bourbon consumers.
Sold The performance of Diageos vodka well and Tanqueray gained volume share at a higher price point than the base brand, brands was led by Croc, which more than through strong promotional sales drivers Crown Royal Black improved brand mix, and, doubled its net sales.
Innovation on the brand, in the off trade.
In contrast, the United States together with a reduction in discounting, the new Coconut and Red Berry flavours, gin category declined.
Tanqueray reduced delivered two percentage points of price mix is supporting growth.
The brands appeal discounting and focused on visibility improvement as the brand gained share in the continues to increase and it gained share in drivers to maintain net sales.
growing North American whiskey category.
the ultra premium vodka segment following Overall J&B brand performance was distribution gains and the success of its Beer: The 4% net sales growth in beer was impacted by the weak scotch market in Spain, multicultural marketing programmes.
driven by the emerging markets of Africa and the brands largest market.
However, in its Croc is now sold in over 70 countries outside Asia Pacific where incremental marketing second largest market, France, the brand its United States base.
spend on Guinness and local lager brands, performed well with net sales up 9% and price increases in selected markets drove supported by increased marketing spend and Liqueur: Baileys returned to growth with positive price mix for the category.
Africa net campaigns advertising new bottle formats.
the launch of the new campaign Baileys.
sales grew 11% and Guinness returned to Price increases on Buchanans in Latin Lets do this again.
It was supported by strong growth led by Nigeria and Cameroon, America, the success of the new Buchanans sales programmes that drove increased supported by an 18% increase in marketing Master and increased marketing investment visibility and gifting, and the launch of the spend across the region.
Net sales of Guinness drove double digit net sales growth.
In the new Hazelnut flavour.
Performance improved declined in Ireland and Great Britain where the United States net sales grew 41%.
Upin North America and in emerging markets beer category was weak, particularly in the on weighted marketing investment and rapidly net sales grew 30%.
Local lager brands such as Harp, Senator expanded distribution allowed Buchanans and Tusker in Africa, and Tiger in Malaysia to reach more of its core multi-cultural Rum: Diageos largest rum brand, Captain delivered further growth for the category.
consumers and Buchanans is now the Morgan, grew net sales in every region fastest growing scotch in the market.
Growth was Wine: Volume declined in North America, Windsor extended its scotch leadership particularly strong in Canada, Great Britain offset by improved price mix.
In Great Britain, position in Korea.
Windsor 12 continued to and Germany where the brand gained share a strong Bordeaux campaign and price perform strongly and price increases across and delivered double digit growth.
In the increases delivered net sales growth of 14%.
the variants delivered positive price mix.
United States, the brands net sales declined Marketing spend was focused on the Worlds as smaller competitors have gained share by Ready to drink: Weakness in Europe and No.
1 campaign which built on Windsors gold pricing and discounting aggressively in a flat North America led to a 1% drop in net sales.
medal at the prestigious 2010 International category.
However, Captain Morgan is one of In the United States, a successful programme Wines and Spirits Competition.
the strongest and most enduring industry of innovation slowed the rate of decline.
In Bushmills grew net sales in all regions icons and the new marketing campaign Australia, there was a return to growth driven with a particularly strong second half, primarily will build on this.
by Smirnoff Ice and the emergence of the new driven by a 29% net sales increase in Russia Net sales of Diageos second largest ready to serve segment through innovations and Eastern Europe.
Marketing spend was rum brand, Cacique, declined as growth in such as Smirnoff Signature Serves.
Ready to focused behind global growth drivers, the Venezuela was offset by decline in its largest drink continued to grow in emerging markets Bushmills Brothers campaign and the launch market, Spain.
Bundaberg grew in Australia such as Nigeria and Brazil.
of new packaging for Bushmills single malt.
driven by innovation, led by the launch of Bundy 5, a white rum, and Bundaberg limited Vodka: Diageos vodka portfolio grew net editions.
In July, Diageo acquired a controlling sales 7% in a competitive category.
Strong stake in the super premium rum, Zacapa.
Smirnoff growth in Latin America and The brand grew strongly in every region Caribbean, Africa and Asia partially offset net sales decline in the United States and Europe.
