interest rate movements, the groups policy for counterfeit products to be manufactured Data security and reliability is important to is to maintain fixed rate borrowings within a and traded.
Diageo cannot be certain that maintaining Diageos business operations, certain percentage of forecast net borrowings, the steps it takes to assist the authorities to and a breach of Diageos data security could and the overall net borrowings portfolio is prevent, detect and eliminate counterfeit negatively affect Diageo managed according to a duration measure.
products will be effective in preventing The security and reliability of Diageos data See note 23 to the consolidated financial material loss of profits or erosion of brand infrastructure are critical to maintaining the statements.
equity resulting from lower quality or even availability and reliable operation of Diageos dangerous counterfeit product reaching business applications, including technology Diageos operations may be adversely the market.
If Diageo is unable to protect used in Diageos business operations, in the affected by failure to maintain or renegotiate its intellectual property rights against collection and processing of financial and distribution, supply, manufacturing or licence infringement or misappropriation, this could operational data and in the maintenance agreements on favourable terms materially harm its future financial results and of the confidentiality of certain third-party Diageos business has a number of ability to develop its business.
A breach of the security or distribution, supply, manufacturing or licence reliability of Diageos data infrastructure, agreements for brands owned by it or by The value of Diageos brands and its whether by intentional actions, negligence other companies.
These agreements vary net sales may be negatively affected by or otherwise, could result in interruption of depending on the particular brand, but tend its failure to maintain its brand image and and serious damage to Diageos business to be for a fixed number of years.
There can corporate reputation operations and, in some circumstances, be no assurance that Diageo will be able to The value of Diageos brands and its could result in property damage, breaches renegotiate its rights on favourable terms profitability depends heavily on its ability of regulations, litigation, legal liabilities when they expire or that these agreements to maintain its brand image and corporate and reparation costs.
Failure to renew these reputation.
Adverse publicity, whether or not agreements on favourable terms could have justified, may tarnish Diageos reputation and Risks related to Diageos securities an adverse impact on Diageos sales and cause consumers to choose products offered It may be difficult to effect service of US process operating profit.
In addition, Diageos sales by its competitors.
Such adverse publicity and enforce US legal process against the and operating profit may be adversely could arise as a result of a perceived failure directors of Diageo affected by any disputes with distributors of by Diageo to make adequate positive social Diageo is a public limited company its products or with suppliers of raw materials.
contributions, any tax disputes or failures incorporated under the laws of England and of internal controls or compliance breaches Wales.
The majority of Diageos directors and Diageo may not be able to protect its leading to a breach of Diageos Code of officers, and some of the experts named in intellectual property rights Business Conduct, its other key policies or this document, reside outside of the United Given the importance of brand recognition to of the laws or regulations in the jurisdictions States, principally in the United Kingdom.
its business, Diageo has invested considerable in which it operates.
A substantial portion of Diageos assets, and effort in protecting its intellectual property Diageo also maintains an online the assets of such persons, are located outside rights, including trademark registration and presence as part of its business operations.
Therefore, it may not be domain names.
Diageos patents cover some Diageos reputation may suffer if it is perceived possible to effect service of process within the of its process technology, including some to fail to appropriately restrict access to its United States upon Diageo or these persons aspects of its bottle marking technology.
online content or if it breaches any marketing in order to enforce judgements of US courts Diageo also uses security measures and regulation, code or policy.
In addition, the against Diageo or these persons based on agreements to protect its confidential proliferation of new methods of mass the civil liability provisions of the US federal information and trade secrets.
However, communication facilitated by the internet securities laws.
There is doubt as to the Diageo cannot be certain that the steps it makes it easier for false or unfounded enforceability in England and Wales, in original has taken will be sufficient or that third parties allegations to adversely affect Diageos brand actions or in actions for enforcement of will not infringe on or misappropriate its image and reputation, which may in turn judgements of US courts, of civil liabilities intellectual property rights in its brands or affect Diageos profitability.
solely based on the US federal securities laws.
Moreover, some of the countries in which Diageo operates offer less intellectual property protection than Europe or North America.
Given the attractiveness of Diageos brands to consumers, it is not uncommon 42 Diageo Annual Report 2012
