Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Other than disclosed in this report, no director had any interest, Additional information beneficial or non-beneficial, in the share capital of the company.
Emoluments and share interests of senior management Save as disclosed above, no director has or has had any interest The total emoluments for the year ended 30 June 2012 of the in any transaction which is or was unusual in its nature, or which executive directors, the executive committee members and the is or was significant to the business of the group and which was company secretary together, the senior management of Diageo effected by any member of the group during the financial year, comprising base salary, annual incentive plan, share incentive or which having been effected during an earlier financial year, plan, termination payments and other benefits were 17,918,855 remains in any respect outstanding or unperformed.
There have 2011 21,636,952. been no material transactions during the last three years to The aggregate amount of gains made by the senior which any director or officer, or 3% or greater shareholder, or any management from the exercise of share options and from the spouse or dependent thereof, was a party.
There is no significant vesting of awards during the year was 12,246,024.
In addition, outstanding indebtedness to the company from any directors they were granted 1,678,400 options under the SESOP during the or officer or 3% or greater shareholder.
year at a weighted average share price of 1230 pence, exercisable by 2021 and 5,564 restricted stock units under the Diageo Statutory and audit requirements Executive Long Term Incentive Plan, which will vest in three years.
This report was approved by a duly authorised committee of They were also initially awarded 1,556,951 shares under the PSP the board of directors, on 21 August 2012 and was signed on its in September 2011, which will vest in three years subject to the behalf by Lord Davies of Abersoch who is senior non-executive performance tests described above.
Five members of the director and chairman of the remuneration committee.
As executive committee were also awarded an exceptional grant required by the Companies Act 2006, a resolution to approve of 903,312 deferred shares under the Discretionary Incentive Plan the directors remuneration report will be proposed at the AGM DIP in September 2011 and March 2012.
There are performance and will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote.
conditions attached to the release of these awards and they The board has followed and complied with the will be released, subject to achievement of the performance requirements of the Companies Act 2006 with reference to conditions, in phased tranches between September 2014 and Schedules 5 and 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies September 2019. and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and section D of the UK Corporate Governance Code in preparing Senior management options over ordinary shares this report and in designing performance-related remuneration At 13 August 2012, the senior management had an aggregate for senior executives.
beneficial interest in 2,127,887 ordinary shares in the company KPMG Audit Plc has audited the report to the extent and in the following options over ordinary shares in the company: required by the Regulations, being the sections headed Directors remuneration for the year ended 30 June 2012, Long Weighted average term incentive plans, Directors share options over ordinary exercise shares, Directors interests in PSP and TSR plan awards and Number price of options in pence Option period Executive directors pension benefits.
In addition, the following sections form part of the audited financial statements: Share D Mahlan 611,064 1092 Sep 2008 Sep 2021 and other interests and Key management personnel related PS Walsh 2,242,652 1029 Sep 2009 Sep 2021 party transactions.
Other 5,614,897 1128 Oct 2005 Sep 2021 Terms defined in this remuneration report are used 8,468,613 solely herein.
Other members of the executive committee and the company secretary.
Definitions Adjusted eps for the purpose of the SESOP, an underlying Key management personnel related party transactions measure of eps is used, calculated as reported eps adjusted Key management personnel of the group comprises the to exclude exceptional items and the impact of changes in executive and non-executive directors, the members of the exchange rates, to apply a tax rate before exceptional items for executive committee and the company secretary.
As previously each year and to exclude the impacts of IAS 19, 21 and 39 from disclosed, PS Walsh and G Williams have informed the company net finance charges.
that they have purchased seasonal developments at Gleneagles Average cash for the purpose of the AIP, average cash is a from a subsidiary of the company, Gleneagles Resort metric where free cash flow delivery in each month is weighted Developments Limited.
The transactions were priced on the by time.
same basis as all the external seasonal development transactions Organic net sales growth for the purpose of the PSP, the and were at arms length.
The values of the transactions at the growth in the groups sales net of excise duties and calculated on date of purchase were as follows: PS Walsh 43,000 and a constant currency basis excluding the impact of acquisitions, in G Williams 19,400.
Each director continued to hold these the year in which they arise, and disposals.
Organic operating margin improvement for the purpose of Diageo plc has granted rolling indemnities to the directors the PSP, the movement in the groups organic operating margin.
and the company secretary, uncapped in amount, in relation to Organic operating margin is the ratio calculated by dividing certain losses and liabilities which they may incur in the course of organic operating profit by organic net sales expressed as a acting as directors or company secretary as applicable of Diageo percentage.
Organic operating profit is calculated on a constant plc or of one or more of its subsidiaries.
These indemnities currency basis excluding the impact of exceptional items, continue to be in place at 30 June 2012. acquisitions, in the year in which they arise, and disposals.
TSR for the purpose of the PSP, total shareholder return is the percentage growth in Diageos share price assuming all dividends and capital distributions are reinvested.
