Governance How do the incentive plan measures link to business strategy?
85 The following table describes the performance measures that are used in the companys short and long term executive incentive Board of directors and plans and the business performance that they drive: executive committee 87 Short term incentive plan measures Long term incentive plan measures Directors remuneration Net sales year-on-year organic net sales growth is a key Net sales sustained year-on-year organic net sales growth report performance measure.
104 Profit before exceptional items and taxation stretching profit Operating margin organic operating margin measures the Corporate governance report targets drive operational efficiency and influence the level of efficiency of the business in delivering top line growth.
114 returns that can be delivered to shareholders through increases Directors report in share price and dividend income.
Free cash flow positive cash flow is an indicator of the financial Earnings per share eps reflects profitability and is a key health of the business and critical to enabling infrastructure measure for shareholders: an adjusted measure of eps is investment, marketing investment, capital expenditure and used in the share option plan.
acquisition opportunities in line with Diageos strategy.
A proportion of this metric is focused on average cash performance to enhance focus on sustained cash generation throughout the year.
Individual business objectives these are measurable Relative total shareholder return TSR reflects the value of deliverables that are specific to the individual and are focused share price growth plus dividends, thus measuring the value on supporting the delivery of key strategic objectives.
returned on shareholder investments: Diageos performance relative to its selected peer group determines how much reward is delivered to plan participants.
How is pay for performance achieved?
What is the proportion of fixed to variable pay?
The board of directors sets stretching performance targets for The balance between fixed and variable elements of the business and its leaders.
To achieve these targets and deliver remuneration changes with performance.
Based on expected performance requires exceptional business management and values at target and the average of remuneration elements for strategic execution.
This approach to target setting reflects the both executive directors, the mix between fixed and variable aspirational performance environment that Diageo wishes remuneration for executive directors is that for 100 of to create.
remuneration earned, 33 will be fixed remuneration and The annual incentive plan aims to reward the delivery of 67 will be performance-related remuneration, excluding short term financial and individual business performance goals pensions and other benefits.
At maximum, the mix increases with commensurate levels of remuneration.
Long term incentive the weighting on variable pay and in particular, long term plans aim to reward long term sustained performance and create variable pay so that for 100 of remuneration earned, 14 will alignment with the delivery of value for shareholders.
Under both be fixed remuneration and 86 will be performance-related sets of plans, if the demanding targets are achieved, high levels of remuneration, excluding pensions and other benefits.
This mix reward may be earned.
All incentives are capped in order that is illustrated in the following charts.
inappropriate risk-taking is neither encouraged nor rewarded.
Fixed vs variable pay mix Target Maximum 1 1 1 Fixed base salary 33% 1 Fixed base salary 14% 2 Variable long term 34% 2 Variable long term 57% 3 Variable short term 33% 3 Variable short term 29% 2 3 3 2 How is risk managed in the incentive plans?
The remuneration committee considers the management of risk to be important to the process of designing and implementing sustainable remuneration structures and to setting appropriate performance targets for incentive plans.
The members of the remuneration committee also constitute the membership of the audit committee, thus ensuring full oversight of any risk factors that may be relevant to remuneration arrangements and target setting specifically.
Before agreeing bonus payments and approving the vesting under long term incentive plans, the remuneration committee, in conjunction with the audit committee, considers the underlying performance of the business during the relevant period to ensure that the level of reward is appropriate and aligned with shareholder interests.
A clawback condition has been introduced to future long term incentive plan awards such that outstanding awards may be reduced in the event of a material performance failure.
