Production United Kingdom, and is distilled, blended future demand and to invest at a cost of over Diageo owns manufacturing production and bottled in the US Virgin Islands, Australia, 500 million in maturing spirit over the next facilities across the globe, including maltings, Venezuela and also as a result of an acquisition five years.
This requires the construction of a distilleries, breweries, packaging plants, of a controlling interest in Zacapa in July 2011, new malt distillery and additional distillation maturation warehouses, cooperages, in Guatemala.
Diageos maturing Scotch and warehousing capacity in Scotland for vineyards, wineries and distribution whisky is located in warehouses in Scotland over 500 million in the same period.
Diageos brands are also primarily at Blackgrange, its maturing A distillery was opened in November produced at plants owned and operated Canadian whisky in La Salle and Gimli in 2010 in St. Croix as a result of a public private by third parties and joint ventures at Canada and its maturing American whiskey in initiative formed by Diageo and the a number of locations internationally.
Kentucky and Tennessee in the United States.
government of the US Virgin Islands.
This new Approximately 84% of total In June 2012, Diageo acquired a facility has the capacity to distil up to 13 million manufacturing is undertaken by Global controlling equity stake in Sichuan equivalent units annually and will supply all Supply organised into four production Shuijingfang Co. Ltd Shuijingfang.
bulk rum used to produce Captain Morgan centres: Europe Supply, America Supply, Shuijingfang owns a distillery which produces branded products for the United States.
Global Beer Supply and Asia Pacific Supply.
a Chinese white sprit, in Chengdu, Sichuan Diageo produces a range of ready to The remaining production activities of the province in China.
drink products mainly in the United Kingdom, group are integrated into the distribution In August 2011 Diageo acquired Mey ki Italy, South Africa, Australia, the United States organisation, principally in Africa.
The which owns ten plants in Turkey.
locations, principal activities, products, plants are intermediate and finishing plants for Diageos principal brewing facilities are at packaging production capacity and raki.
Two plants are for vodka, gin and liqueur the St Jamess Gate brewery in Dublin, Ireland packaging production volume of Diageos production and two for wine production.
and also in Nigeria, Kenya, Ghana, Cameroon, principal production centres in the year ended In May 2011 Diageo announced the Tanzania, Malaysia and Jamaica.
In addition, 30 June 2012 are set out in the table below.
closure of the Menlo Park bottling plant in Diageo owns a 25% equity interest in Spirits are produced in distilleries located California and the specialty product building Sedibeng brewery in South Africa and in worldwide.
The group owns 29 Scotch whisky at the Relay plant in Maryland, in the United January 2012 completed the acquisition of distilleries in Scotland, an Irish whiskey distillery States.
New investment is being made in Meta Abo Brewery in Ethiopia.
Additionally, in Northern Ireland, two whisky distilleries the North American spirits supply chain Guinness is brewed by more than 35 third in Canada and a whiskey distillery in the principally in the packaging plants at parties around the world under licence United States.
Diageo produces Smirnoff Plainfield in Illinois and Relay in Maryland.
Guinness flavour extract is internationally with the production of some A restructuring of the groups supply shipped from Ireland to all overseas Guinness brands such as Gordons vodka United States operations in Scotland was announced in brewing operations.
In January 2012 Diageo or Croc France being managed in one July 2009.
This resulted in the consolidation announced that its Irish breweries will be location.
Ketel One vodka is purchased as of production activities into fewer sites.
centralised in Dublins St Jamess Gate site finished product from The Nolet Group.
The Kilmarnock packaging plant ceased as part of an investment project at a cost Gin distilleries are located in both the United operations in March 2012 after production of 153 million 123 million.
The brewing Kingdom and the United States.
Baileys is was moved to the newly expanded activities at Dundalk and Kilkenny are produced in the Republic of Ireland and packaging facility at Leven in Fife.
expected to cease by the end of 2013.
Rum is blended and bottled The group plans to lay down maturing All Guinness Draught production in the in the United States, Canada, Italy and the scotch inventory in order to be able to meet Republic of Ireland is at the St Jamess Gate Production Production volume in capacity in 2012 in millions of millions of equivalents equivalent Production centre Location Principal products units units Scotch whisky, Irish whiskey, gin, vodka, rum, Europe Supply United Kingdom ready to drink 80 52 Ireland Baileys Irish cream liqueur, vodka 12 8 Italy Santa Vittoria Vodka, wine, rum, ready to drink 10 6 Turkey Raki, vodka, gin, liqueur, wine 10 7 America Supply United States, Canada, US Virgin Islands Vodka, gin, tequila, rum, wine, Canadian whiskey, American whiskey, progressive adult beverages, ready to drink 44 38 United States Wine 2 1 Global Beer Supply Ireland Guinness Beer 9 8 Jamaica Beer 1 1 Asia Pacific Supply Australia Rum, vodka, ready to drink 4 3 Singapore Finishing centre 4 2 Africa Supply Nigeria Beer 6 5 South Africa Beer and spirits 3 3 East Africa Beer 10 9 Africa Regional Markets Beer 3 3 Capacity represents ongoing production capacity at any production centre.
The production capacities quoted in the table are based on actual production levels for the year ended 30 June 2012 adjusted for the elimination of unplanned losses and inefficiencies, and taking into account planned manning levels for the coming year.
