Executive committee James Jim Grover Andrew Morgan Larry Schwartz 2 2 Group strategy director President, Diageo Europe President, Diageo North 2 America British 54 British 56 American 59 Appointed group strategy Appointed president, Diageo director in September 2011, Europe in October 2004, having Appointed president, Diageo Nicholas Nick Blazquez Gilbert Ghostine having been global business been president, Venture 2 North America in 2012 having President, Diageo Africa President, Diageo Asia support director since February Markets since July 2002. been president, Diageo USA 2 Pacific British 51 2004.
Formerly he held a He joined United Distillers in since September 2008.
He number of senior strategy 1987 and held various senior Lebanese 52 joined the company in 2001, as Appointed president, having positions in GrandMet and management positions with president of Joseph E Seagram been managing director, Appointed president, Diageo worked as a management Guinness and then Diageo, & Sons, having held a variety of Diageo Africa since August Asia Pacific in July 2009, having consultant with Booz Allen including group chief senior management positions 2004, prior to which he was previously been managing Hamilton Inc and OC&C information officer and managing director, Diageo Asia with Seagram.
director, Diageo Continental Strategy Consultants.
president, new business Key Markets.
He held various Europe, since July 2006.
He was ventures for Guinness United managerial positions in formerly managing director, Distillers & Vintners and United Distillers between Northern Europe, and director, global strategy and 1989 and 1998.
President, US Major markets, innovation for United Distillers and held various senior & Vintners.
managerial positions in Africa, Asia, Europe and the United States, having joined International Distillers & Vintners in 1995.
Gareth Williams John Randy Millian Human Resources President, Diageo Latin 2 director 2 America and Caribbean British 59 Andrew Andy Fennell American 59 2 Appointed human resources Chief marketing officer Timothy Tim Proctor Appointed president, having director in January 1999.
2 British 45 been managing director of General counsel Formerly he held a number of Diageo Latin America and Appointed chief marketing senior personnel management American British 62 Caribbean since 2005.
Prior to officer of Diageo plc in positions with GrandMet and Appointed general counsel joining Diageo, he held senior September 2008.
He held a David Gosnell then United Distillers & Vintners of Diageo plc in January 2000. management positions with number of marketing roles in and spent 10 years with Ford President, Global Supply Formerly he was director, American Express, Scheringthe UK and internationally with of Britain in a number of 2 worldwide human resources of and Global Procurement Plough, Personal Care Group Guinness and Diageo, prior to personnel and employee Glaxo Wellcome and senior vice USA and Pepsi in a number which he worked in various British 55 relations positions.
president, human resources, of territories, including Latin sales and marketing roles with Appointed president, having general counsel and secretary America, Europe, Asia and Britvic and Bass plc.
been managing director, for Glaxos US operating the United States.
Global Supply and Global company.
He has over 25 years Procurement, Diageo plc since international legal experience, July 2003.
He joined Diageo including 13 years with Merck in 1998 as European supply and six years with Glaxo director, then headed up Wellcome.
Guinness & European RTD supply, prior to which he spent 20 years in various roles with Heinz.
He is a non-executive director of Brambles plc.
Ian Wright Corporate Relations 2 director British 54 Appointed corporate relations director of Diageo plc in July 2004, having previously held positions with a number of public relations consultancies and The Boots Company.
Executive comprising senior management 86 Diageo Annual Report 2012
