We had another successful year in Asia Pacific maintaining our leadership 2012 position in international spirits and gaining share in all key markets and categories.
Asia Pacific The emerging markets of Asia grew double digit with South East Asia up 15%, Greater China 13% and India 24%.
Uncertainty around the global economy led to further contraction of the whisky market in Korea and weaker consumer confidence in Australia which led to roughly flat net sales in developed Asia Pacific.
The price increases we implemented in South East Asia, China and Global Travel Asia drove more than half of our incremental top line, and this together with the premiumisation of our portfolio delivered 6 percentage points of positive price mix.
Scotch remained the growth engine of the region delivering more than 80% of net sales growth and almost half of this growth came from our super deluxe brands.
Other reserve brands also performed well, with very strong net sales growth from Zacapa, Ketel One vodka and Croc.
I am also proud of the performance of Guinness, delivering 12% net sales growth through share gains and strong pricing.
We continued to invest in infrastructure, sales execution, innovation and acquisitions, including our increased stake in Shuijingfang in China and Halico in Vietnam, creating a stronger platform for future growth.
Despite these investments and as a result of our successful premiumisation strategy and focus on pricing, operating margin improved in the year.
Gilbert Ghostine, President Diageo Asia Pacific r Net sales growth of 13% in Greater China, r Strong momentum across the scotch Key highlights and 16% in China, with 5 and 6 percentage portfolio, with share gains in every r Underlying consumption trends continued points of positive price mix, respectively, segment, was the main driver of 24% net to be strong in emerging Asia as reflected was due to the successful premiumisation sales growth in India.
VAT69 delivered 39% in the 14% increase in full year net sales.
strategy and price increases across the top line growth with 10 percentage points In the fourth quarter route to market portfolio.
Reserve brands net sales increased of price mix, supported by increased changes were implemented in South over 60% in China with continued strong marketing spend and the launch of VAT69 East Asia which reduced shipments in performance from Johnnie Walker super Black.
Johnnie Walker Black Label net sales the period and adversely impacted the deluxe variants and The Singleton.
Baileys increased over 40%, driven by the Formula markets second half performance.
The 1 sponsorship programme, along with the posted 37% net sales growth with 18 global slowdown affected consumer percentage points of positive price mix, Step Inside the Circuit campaign.
Rowsons sentiment in Australia and the second half Reserve, launched in the prestige Indian supported by increased marketing spend, was weaker.
Diageo Korea net sales also in particular the Baileys Perfect Place Made Foreign Liquor segment in October, slowed from the first half but Diageo gained distribution and share.
The launch of gained share in scotch and vodka.
Guinness Original in January in Shanghai r Diageos Global Travel Asia and Middle r South East Asia delivered 3% volume together with the strategy of super East remained strong.
Volume in the growth with 12 percentage points of premium pricing drove 17% net sales Middle East was impacted by price price mix as a result of price increases increase for Guinness.
Marketing spend increases and despite 9% positive price and premiumisation and the market was increased ahead of net sales at 20%, with mix, net sales declined 2% as a result.
In the biggest contributor to pricing, deluxe most of the incremental investment going Global Travel Asia, reserve brands net sales and above scotch growth and margin behind Johnnie Walker Deluxe and Super increased 37% supported by the successful improvement in the region.
Deluxe and Deluxe in China.
Strong premiumisation launch of Johnnie Walker Platinum, Gold super deluxe launches, such as Platinum, momentum continued in the second half Label Reserve, XR21 and the Blue Label XR21 and Double Black helped the of the year as reflected in the 7 percentage Casks Edition.
The increased focus on Johnnie Walker portfolio to gain further points of price mix achieved and reserve brands together with price share which together with price increases underlying consumption trends remained increases and product differentiation resulted in 23% net sales growth.
Lower top line growth in the second strategy for duty free consumers resulted in had another strong year, breaking the half was driven by lapping an unusually 31% net sales growth for Global Travel Asia.
100 million barrier, with 13% net sales strong third quarter last year together growth through strong pricing and with shipment phasing in Taiwan.
continued share gains in Indonesia on the back of St Patricks and Arthurs Day and World Series of Pool activations.
64 Diageo Annual Report 2012 Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Performance 2011 Acquisitions Reported and Organic 2012 Reported restated Exchange disposalsmovement Reported movement Key financials million million million million million % Net sales 1,377 17 107 1,501 9 Marketing spend 303 6 35 344 14 Operating profit before exceptional items 299 11 54 342 14 Exceptional items 50 10 Operating profit 249 332 33 Organic Reported Volume net sales net sales movement movement movement % % % Key markets and categories: Asia Pacific 28 9 South East Asia 315 14 Greater China 8 13 16 India 17 24 13 Global Travel Asia and Middle East 5 11 11 Australia 1 3 North Asia 1 1 3 Spirits 3 10 12 Beer 1 11 11 Ready to drink 6 6 2 The strategic brands: Johnnie Walker 4 17 18 Windsor 4 1 Smirnoff 1 3 2 Guinness 10 12 12 Organic equals reported movement for volume.
Spirits brands excluding ready to drink.
r In a weaker market Diageo Australia net brands net sales remained in decline sales declined slightly, however the as the contraction of the whisky market business delivered share gains in spirits accelerated.
Guinness grew 18% in Korea and ready to drink.
The market is expected and Smirnoff more than doubled with to return to growth on the basis of strong increased marketing spend behind vodka and beer as part of the strategy to fundamentals.
Increased focus and marketing spend delivered over 80% net build Diageos footprint outside of the sales growth of reserve brands, with whisky category.
Japan delivered 3% net Johnnie Walkers ultra premium brands sales growth, lapping the launch of I. W. the main contributors.
Innovation Harper ready to drink, with strategic brands extended Bundaberg into new segments growing double digit, with Guinness up with the launch of Bundaberg Five into 17% and Smirnoff up 33%, as the brand white rum and the limited edition Bundy increased market share on the back of Masters Distillers Collection into premium improved distribution and successful to drive 5% growth.
Smirnoff also grew 5% brand activations.
on the back of a successful advertising campaign.
Baileys gained share but declined in a tough category.
r In North Asia strong share gains in a declining scotch category and in the growing beer category in Korea, together with share gains in vodka, resulted in 1% net sales growth.
Windsor gained further market share in Korea, however the Business review 65
