three-tier distribution system, where the Europe wholly owned subsidiaries.
Throughout the product is initially sold to distributors, who In the year ended 30 June 2012 Europe whole of the former Soviet Union and Eastern then sell it to on and off trade retailers.
In most comprises Western Europe, Russia and Eastern Block excluding Russia and Poland plus control states, Diageo sells its spirits products Europe, Turkey and the European operations Iceland, Finland, Malta, Cyprus and Israel, to state liquor control boards through the of Global Travel.
Diageo sells and markets its brands via local bailment warehousing system, and from there Western Europe comprises Great Britain, distributors.
In Hungary, Diageo sells its brands to state or agency liquor stores.
There are Ireland, Iberia, Italy, Switzerland, Germany, through its associate company Zwack.
variations for example, certain states control Austria, Benelux, Nordics, France, Greece, In Turkey, Diageo sells its products via distribution but not retail sales.
Generally, the Western European reserve brands, the distribution network of its wholly owned wines are treated in the same way as spirits, Diageo Guinness Continental Europe and subsidiary, Mey ki.
Mey ki distributes both although most states that are control states for European wines.
local brands which are produced in its spirits are open states for wines.
Five of the US In Great Britain, Diageo sells and markets distilleries raki, other spirits and wine and Spirits & Wine divisions execute against open its products via three business units: Diageo Diageos global spirits brands.
Sales to states and two execute against control states.
GB spirits, beer and ready to drink, Percy Fox traditional on and off trade outlets are made National brand strategy and strategic & Co wines and Justerini & Brooks Retail through Mey kis exclusive distributors and accounts marketing are managed at the private client wines.
Products are distributed sales to some large store chains are made North America level.
The Spirits & Wines both through independent wholesalers and directly by Mey ki.
divisions market Diageos collection of spirits directly to the major grocers, convenience and and wine brands across the United States.
In the on trade for example, Africa Diageo-Guinness USA markets Diageos licensed bars and restaurants, products are In the year ended 30 June 2012, Africa US beer brands nationally as well as the sold through the major brewers, multiple comprises Nigeria, East Africa Kenya, Tanzania, groups progressive adult beverages.
Beer retail groups and smaller regional Uganda, Burundi, Rwanda and South Sudan, distribution generally follows the three-tier independent brewers and wholesalers.
South Africa, Africa Regional Markets open state regulations across the US.
The customer base in Great Britain has seen including Ghana, Cameroon, Ethiopia, Angola Diageo Chateau & Estate Wines DC&E consolidation in recent years in both the on and Mozambique and the African operations owns, leases and operates wineries in trade and home consumption channels.
Diageo has 14 breweries in California.
In the US, the majority of the wine is Ireland comprises the Republic of Ireland Africa including Sedibeng in South Africa sold through the Spirits & Wines divisions with and Northern Ireland.
In both territories, which is 25% owned by Diageo.
In addition, the remainder sold through the winery visitors Diageo sells and distributes directly to both Diageos beer and spirits brands are produced centres and club sales.
In the year ended the on trade and the off trade for example, by third parties in 20 other African countries.
30 June 2012, DC&E completed its portfolio retail shops and wholesalers through Diageo also owns six other manufacturing rationalisation strategy disposing of certain a telesales operation, extensive sales calls facilities including glass manufacturing, brands and terminating other agency brands.
to outlets and third party logistics providers.
blending, malting and cider plants.
The Canada business unit distributes Across the remainder of Western Europe, In Nigeria, Guinness, Harp and Malta the groups collection of spirits, beer and Diageo distributes its spirits brands primarily are principal brands that are brewed and wine brands across all Canadian territories.
through its own distribution companies with distributed by Guinness Nigeria plc.
Diageo In Canada, beer and spirits distribution laws the following exceptions.
In France Diageo owns 53.8% of the company, which has been are generally consistent and similar to those sells its spirits and wine products through brewing Guinness locally since 1962.
Diageos of control states in the United States.
Diageo, a joint arrangement with Mot Hennessy, spirits brands are distributed by a wholly however, has some licences to deliver keg and its beer products through Brasseries owned subsidiary.
beer directly to licensed accounts, which Kronenbourg part of the Carlsberg group.
East African Breweries Limited EABL is account for approximately 20% of Diageos In the Nordic countries Diageo has sales the leading premium drinks business in East beer business in Canada.
offices in Sweden, Norway and Denmark, Africa and produces and distributes beer and Across the United States, Diageos and representation through third party spirits brands to a range of consumers.
Diageo distributors and brokers have over 2,900 distributors in Finland and Iceland.
In all Nordic owns 50.03% of EABL which in turn owns dedicated sales people focused on selling its markets except Denmark, off trade sales are 100% of Kenya Breweries Limited, 98% of spirits and wine brands.
Diageo has pursued a controlled by state monopolies, with alcohol Uganda Breweries Limited and 51% of distribution strategy centred on consolidating tax rates among the highest in the world, Serengeti Breweries Limited in Tanzania.
the distribution of Diageos US spirits and and border trade and duty free are important South Sudan, Rwanda and Burundi are wine brands into a single distributor or broker sources of sales.
Smirnoff Ice is sold in Nordic serviced through third party arrangements.
in each state where possible.
The strategy countries through Carlsberg.
EABL also owns a glass manufacturer and a is designed to provide a consolidated A specialist unit, Diageo Guinness malting business.
distribution network, which will limit the Continental Europe, has been established for In South Africa Diageos business consists duplication of activities between Diageo and the distribution of Diageos beer brands in of its spirits business through its wholly the distributor, improve selling capabilities mainland Europe in order to achieve synergies owned subsidiary Diageo South Africa and enable a number of alternative in the marketing and distribution of the Limited DSA : a 42.25% share in DHN Drinks approaches to optimise product distribution.
The Pty Ltd DHN, a joint venture with Heineken To date, Diageo has consolidated its business distribution of these brands is managed by International Heineken and Namibia in 41 markets 40 states plus Washington DC, this specialist unit with particular focus on Breweries Ltd in respect of beer, cider and representing over 80% of Diageos US spirits Germany, Russia and France, which are the ready to drink brands: and a 25% interest in and wine volume.
The remaining states will largest mainland European beer markets Sedibeng Brewery Pty Ltd, the remainder be consolidated as opportunities arise.
Diageo by size for Diageo.
The route to continues to focus on building the capabilities Russia and Eastern Europe comprises market for DSA and DHNs brands in South and selling tools of the distributors dedicated Russia, Poland and 32 distributor serviced Africa is managed by brandhouse Beverages sales forces and creating a more efficient and countries in Central and Eastern Europe.
Brandhouse is a cost effective value chain.
Russia and Poland Diageo operates through sharing joint venture owned equally between 30 Diageo Annual Report 2012
