Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information What is the philosophy underpinning executive remuneration?
The plans in which Diageos executive directors and senior management participate are designed to reflect the principles detailed below: What Why How Performance-related It influences and supports r 4IPSU BOE MPOH UFSN JODFOUJWFT DPOEJUJPOBM VQPO compensation performance and the creation of achieving stretching performance targets.
"Rewarding sustainable It is at the heart of Diageos r "" DPNCJOBUJPO PG BCTPMVUF BOE SFMBUJWF QFSGPSNBODF performance corporate strategy and is vital to measures for short and long term incentives that meeting stakeholder interests."
reflect sustainable profit growth and underlying financial performance.
r 4IBSFIPMEJOH SFRVJSFNFOUT UIBU BMJHO UIF JOUFSFTUT PG senior executives with those of shareholders and that are a condition of full participation in long term incentive plans.
Measuring performance over It aligns with the time cycle over rPOH UFSN JODFOUJWFT UIBU DPNQSJTF B DPNCJOBUJPO PG three years which management decisions share option grants and share awards in each year and are reflected in the creation of vary with three year eps, and TSR, organic net sales and value in this business.
organic operating margin performance, respectively.
Providing a balanced mix It enables focus on long term r #BTF TBMBSZ CFOFUT SFUJSFNFOU TBWJOHT TIPSU UFSN of remuneration value creation while avoiding cash incentives and long term equity incentives.
Providing a competitive total It helps Diageo attract and retain r 3FXBSE MFWFMT DPOTJEFSFE JO UIF DPOUFYU PG UPUBM remuneration opportunity the best global talent.
remuneration packages paid in relevant global comparators, reflecting the size, complexity and global scope of Diageos business.
Simplicity and transparency It allows targets to be motivating r 5BSHFUT UIBU BSF XJUIJO B TQIFSF PG EJSFDU JOVFODF BOE and demonstrably linked to that align with the companys short and long term goals.
How does executive remuneration link to business strategy?
Diageos strategy is to drive top line growth and margin improvement in a sustainable and responsible way and to deliver consistent value creation for shareholders over the long term.
It will do this through its geographic breadth, its outstanding brands across beverage alcohol categories and the expertise of its people.
In support of this objective, the company seeks to accelerate value creation through medium term goals that are centred on delivering faster organic net sales growth, strong organic operating margin improvement and double-digit growth in core earnings per share over the medium term.
The remuneration structures and performance measures used in executive incentive plans are designed to support Diageos business strategy as follows: Focused on sustainable As a public limited company, Diageo has a fiduciary responsibility to maximise long term growth drivers value for shareholders.
Thus, variable elements of remuneration are dependent upon the achievement of performance measures that are identified as key sustainable growth drivers for the business and that are aligned with the creation of shareholder value.
Variable with performance A significant proportion of total remuneration for the executive directors is linked to individual and business performance so that remuneration will increase or decrease in line with performance.
The fixed versus variable pay mix is illustrated on the following page.
Share ownership Full participation in incentives is conditional upon building up a significant personal shareholding in Diageo to ensure the companys leaders think and act like owners.
Cost effectiveness Fixed elements of remuneration are determined by reference to the median of the market, individual experience and performance, and other relevant factors to ensure competitiveness while controlling fixed costs to maximise efficiency.
