Regional overview Our business is balanced through a strong presence in the worlds most profitable beverage alcohol market, the United States: an integrated Western European business: and a large and increasing presence in the faster growing markets of Africa, Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe.
"Total net sales breakdown by region m North America Europe "" !"
28% Net sales 6% Net sales 1 % $ 13% Marketing spend 7% Marketing spend 3% $ 12% Operating profit 6% Operating profit 3% $ 14% North America delivers around a third of Our new integrated market structure in Diageos net sales, and is our largest region Western Europe is completely aligned by operating profit.
The business is focused behind our customer and consumer on using scale to drive cost advantage, to fuel agendas.
The country teams within Western continued growth in the on trade, to deliver Europe focus on sales execution, with industry leading innovation and broaden marketing and support functions integrated its reach to the multicultural consumer.
at a Western Europe level to drive flexibility This year we delivered another strong set and efficiency.
The remaining faster growing of results, continuing to drive price mix by markets of Europe Russia and Eastern staying disciplined on promotional spend, Europe, and Turkey are resourced to capture and focusing on the growth of our strategic the opportunity presented by the growing brands and premium and super premium number of middle class consumers.
We brands, most notably Johnnie Walker continue to deliver substantial sales and and Croc.
Innovation continues to be a profit growth in emerging Europe, as well as competitive strength as we have both good performance across Northern Europe.
sustained past launches and delivered Southern Europe remains challenging.
The enhancements Scotch remained very strong in the emerging we made to our distribution system were markets.
In Turkey, the integration of Mey ki implemented in the year and will benefit has been completed successfully.
Thelaunch of Johnnie WalkerDouble Smirnoffs growth in Europe was led through Black contributed to the strong the execution of Madonna Limited Edition performance of Johnnie Walker.
6Diageo Annual Report 2012 Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Africa Latin America Asia Pacific and Caribbean 1,447m 2012 net sales 1,501m 2012 net sales Volume 5% 1,239m 2012 net sales Volume 2% Net sales 11 % Volume 10% Net sales 8% Marketing spend 11 % Net sales 19% Marketing spend 11 % Operating profit 20% Marketing spend 17% Operating profit 18% Operating profit 22% The strategy in Africa is to grow Diageos In Latin America and Caribbean the The strategy in Asia Pacific is to drive leadership across beverage alcohol by primary focus is continued leadership net sales growth through the continued building brands and through geographical in scotch, whilst broadening category development of super and ultra premium expansion.
In January, Diageo completed breadth to include vodka, rum and liqueurs.
scotch and harness the emerging middle the acquisition of Meta Abo Brewery, a leading We finished the year with the acquisition of class consumer opportunity in the faster beer company in Ethiopia.
Diageos strong Ypica, the leading premium cachaa brand growing markets via a combination of routes to market and leading brands have in Brazil.
Brazil is one of the most exciting organic growth and acquisitions.
Having delivered on the growth opportunities emerging markets for our brands: this gained a controlling stake in Quanxing, the in Africa.
Nigeria is now the biggest market acquisition will both expand Diageos largest shareholder of Shuijingfang in 2011, for Guinness by net sales.
While it was a further presence in this market and enhance our Diageo completed a mandatory tender offer year of strong growth in beer, driven by the access to the growing number of middle in April.
We had another successful year, pan-regional performance of Guinness class consumers who are driving the growth maintaining our leadership position in and our local beer brands, the accelerated of premium brands.
Our performance international spirits and gaining share in all key markets and categories.
Scotch remained the growth of spirits means they are now making during the year demonstrated the strength a significant contribution.
Over the year, and sustainability of our business.
We grew growth engine of the region, with almost half of our scotch growth from our super deluxe we continued to invest in marketing our marketing spend to enhance our scotch brands, primarily Guinness, Tusker and Johnnie brand equities, increase the resonance of brands.
Other reserve brands also performed well, particularly Zacapa, Ketel One vodka and Walker, in innovations such as Harp Lime in vodka and support innovation.
We enhanced Nigeria and Snapp in Kenya, and in capacity our routes to market with more dedicated Croc.
We continued to invest in infrastructure, sales execution and innovation, creating a to meet increasing demand.
distributors in Brazil, a new distributor agreement in Costa Rica and a new supply stronger platform for future growth.
Diageo is the only Investing in new growth Ypica provides a unique opportunity international company opportunities in Africa to build on our success in scotch and to have invested at scale Meta joins the Diageo family.
All are organic movements unless stated otherwise.
For a definition of organic movement see the inside back cover.
