Responsible sourcing is critical to maintaining Additionally, Diageos brands reach In the year ended 30 June 2012, the groups Diageos reputation and meeting customers consumers directly through responsible research and development expenditure and consumers demands.
To this end, Diageo drinking and cause-related marketing amounted to 18 million 2011 17 million: manages social and ethical risk, ranging from campaigns.
In the year ended 30 June 2012, 2010 13 million.
Research and labour and human rights to commercial many brands launched social and development expenditure is generally integrity, through a four-stage screening and environmental projects around the world.
written off in the year in which it is incurred.
Diageos expectations of For example, Johnnie Walker continued to use business ethics and sustainability are made its sponsorship of the Vodafone McLaren Trademarks clear to suppliers.
Minimum compliance and Mercedes Formula One team to prevent drink Diageo produces, sells and distributes ethics standards as well as aspirational goals driving for the fifth year running.
Guinness, branded goods and is therefore substantially are set out in Diageos Partnering with Baileys and Bushmills joined New York Citys dependent on the maintenance and Suppliers Standards.
Additionally, a department of transportation to launch a protection of its trademarks.
All brand names representative of Diageo is currently chairing month-long Safe Rides initiative marking mentioned in this document are trademarks.
AIM-PROGRESS, the collaborative consumer St Patricks Day and the NCAA basketball The group also holds numerous licences and goods sector forum working to improve tournament in March.
Throughout the month, trade secrets, as well as having substantial processes and standards in a more effective thousands of free taxi, livery car and public trade knowledge related to its products.
The way through member organisations transit rides were given away to legal group believes that its significant trademarks supply chains.
Guinness are registered and or otherwise protected Sustainable agriculture is of particular also continued its strong support of social insofar as legal protections are available in importance to the company.
Through analysis entrepreneurs through the Arthur Guinness all material respects in its most important of its biggest inputs, Diageo prioritised its Fund.
Diageo believes that, when these markets.
Diageo also owns valuable patents programme to focus on four raw materials: sustainability activities are done well, they and trade secrets for technology and takes barley, sorghum, sugar and cream.
In the year engage consumers to become partners, all reasonable steps to protect these rights.
ended 30 June 2012, Diageo continued to and thus build its brands and contribute promote its Sustainable Agriculture Sourcing to business performance.
Regulations and taxes Guidelines through a programme in Ireland Diageos worldwide operations are subject with its primary cream supplier.
Diageo also Competition to extensive regulatory requirements continued to run a number of other Diageo competes on the basis of consumer regarding production, product liability, programmes across Africa that aim to develop loyalty, quality and price.
distribution, importation, marketing, partnerships with farming communities, In spirits, Diageos major global promotion, sales, pricing, labelling, packaging, governments and NGOs to fuel growth competitors are Pernod Ricard, Bacardi, advertising, labour, pensions, compliance and through sustainable cultivation of local crops.
Fortune Brands and Brown-Forman, each control systems and environmental issues.
of which has several brands that compete In the United States, the beverage alcohol Customers and consumers directly with Diageo brands.
In addition, industry is subject to strict federal and state Sustainability performance is becoming Diageo faces competition from local and government regulations covering virtually increasingly important in the consumer regional companies in the countries in every aspect of its operations, including product marketplace.
Diageo sees this directly which it operates.
production, distribution, marketing, in its relationships with many of its customers, In beer, the Guinness brand competes promotion, sales, pricing, labelling, packaging who are looking for suppliers to meet their globally as well as on a regional and local basis and advertising.
sustainability criteria and contribute to with the profile varying between regions Spirits, beer and wine are subject to reducing the environmental impact of their with several competitors, including AB InBev, national import and excise duties in many supply chains, and in its relationships with its Heineken, SABMiller, Coors Brewing Carling markets around the world.
Most countries consumers, who are increasingly interested and Carlsberg.
impose excise duties on beverage alcohol in the companys sustainability practices.
In wine, the market is fragmented with products, although the form of such taxation Driven in part by consumer demand, many producers and distributors.
varies significantly from a simple application as well as regulatory and commercial trends, to units of alcohol by volume, to advanced customers are starting to demonstrate Research and development systems based on imported or wholesale interest in Diageos sustainability The overall nature of the groups business value of the product.
As a result, Diageo is further does not demand substantial expenditure additional import duty on distilled spirits, integrating sustainability objectives into its on research and development.
However, often discriminating between categories commercial strategies, such as developing the group has ongoing programmes for such as Scotch whisky or bourbon in the rate sustainable packaging solutions that help to developing new drinks products.
Within the European Union, reduce its customers environmental footprint.
forms an important part of Diageos growth such products are subject to different rates Diageo also actively works with its customers strategy, playing a key role in positioning its of excise duty in each country, but within an in consumer facing campaigns, primarily brands for continued growth in both the overall European Union framework, there around promoting responsible drinking.
The are minimum rates of excise duties that can strength and depth of Diageos brand range be applied.
provide solid platforms from which to drive innovation, while insights into shopper trends and changing consumer habits inform product and packaging development.
