Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Activities of the board Board of directors It is the responsibility of the chairman and the company secretary Membership of the board and board committees, other to work closely together in planning the annual programme directorships and attendance at meetings and agendas for meetings.
During the year, six scheduled board The chairmen, senior non-executive director and other members meetings were held, five in the United Kingdom and one in of the board, audit committee, nomination committee and Turkey, which incorporated a specific Turkey and Western Europe remuneration committee are as set out above in the biographies business focus and involved visits to customers.
In addition, of directors and members of the executive committee.
an annual strategy conference with the full executive committee The directors biographies also show the significant other was held offsite at which the groups strategy was reviewed commitments of the chairman and other directors and whether in depth.
there have been any changes to them during the year.
Directors When directors were unable to attend a meeting, they attendance during the year at board meetings, meetings of the were advised of the matters to be discussed and took advantage audit, nomination and remuneration committees and at the of the opportunity to make their views known to the chairman annual general meeting was as set out in the table at the end prior to the meeting.
The board manages overall control of the of this report.
companys affairs with reference to the formal schedule of The board considers that it is beneficial for the executive matters reserved for the board for decision.
The schedule was directors to hold an external directorship to broaden their last revised in June 2012. experience and normally this would be limited to one company.
The board makes decisions and reviews and approves The chief executive, PS Walsh, holds UK non-executive key policies and decisions of the company, in particular in relation directorships in Unilever PLC and Avanti Communications Group to: group strategy and operating plans: corporate governance: plc and a US non-executive directorship in FedEx Corporation.
compliance with laws, regulations and the companys code of The time commitment for these three directorships is not business conduct: business development, including major considered to be onerous and the board considers that, given investments and disposals: financing and treasury: appointment the importance of the United States to the companys business, or removal of directors and the company secretary: risk the FedEx directorship is of benefit to Mr Walsh in terms of management: financial reporting and audit: corporate market awareness, US business practices and networking.
The sustainability and responsibility, ethics and the environment: chief operating officer, IM Menezes, appointed a director on and pensions.
2 July 2012, holds a US non-executive directorship in Coach, Inc.
The Act sets out directors general duties concerning The chief financial officer, D Mahlan holds a UK non-executive conflicts of interest and related matters.
The board has agreed directorship in Experian plc effective 1 September 2012. an approach and adopted guidelines for dealing with conflicts There is a clear separation of the roles of the chairman and of interest and has added responsibility for authorising conflicts the chief executive.
The chairman, Dr FB Humer, is responsible of interest to the schedule of matters reserved for the board.
for the running of the board and for ensuring all directors are fully The board confirmed that it was aware of no situations that informed of matters sufficient to make informed judgements.
may or did give rise to conflicts with the interests of the As chief executive, PS Walsh has responsibility for implementing company other than those that may arise from directors other the strategy agreed by the board and for managing the group.
appointments as disclosed in their biographies above.
In He is supported in this role by the executive committee.
accordance with the articles, the board authorised the chairman The non-executive directors, all of whom the board has or the company secretary, as appropriate, to receive notifications determined are independent, are experienced and influential of conflicts of interest on behalf of the board and to make individuals from a range of industries, backgrounds and recommendations as to whether the relevant matters should countries.
Their diverse mix of skills and business experience is be authorised by the board.
The company has complied with a major contribution to the proper functioning of the board and these procedures during the year.
its committees, ensuring that matters are fully debated and that All directors are equally accountable for the proper no individual or group dominates the boards decision-making stewardship of the companys affairs.
The non-executive directors have a particular responsibility Through the nomination committee, the board ensures for ensuring that the business strategies proposed are fully that plans are in place for the succession of the executive and discussed and critically reviewed.
This enables the directors non-executive directors.
to promote the success of the company for the benefit of its A summary of the terms and conditions of appointment shareholders as a whole, whilst having regard to, among other of the non-executive directors is available at www.
com matters, the interests of employees, the fostering of business or on request from the company secretary.
relationships with customers, suppliers and others, and the impact of the companys operations on the communities in which the business operates and the environment.
Corporate governance report 105 Governance The non-executive directors also oversee the operational Performance evaluation performance of the whole group.
To do this they have full During the year, an evaluation of the boards effectiveness, 85 Board of directors and and timely access to all relevant information, with updates also including the effectiveness of the audit committee, the executive committee provided on governance and regulatory matters affecting nomination committee and the remuneration committee 87 the company.
In addition, executive committee members and was undertaken internally by way of a written questionnaire Directors other senior executives are invited, as appropriate, to board followed by the chairman of the board meeting individually remuneration report and strategy meetings to make presentations on their areas of with all directors.
The chairman and non-executive directors are The board questionnaire focused on the performance 104 Corporate also invited to attend the executive committee members of the board throughout the past year in the areas of: strategy, governance report senior leadership meetings to gain further insight into different and how effective the board had been in supporting the 114 aspects of the business.
development of strategy: performance management: Directors report In order to fulfil their duties, procedures are in place for management succession, and talent: risk management: ensuring directors to seek both independent advice and the advice and appropriate knowledge of the business and its people: the services of the company secretary who is responsible for advising boards collective judgement: boardroom dynamics: areas in the board, through the chairman, on all governance matters.
which the board felt it could improve its performance: and external factors that the board should remain particularly alert to.
The non-executive directors meet independently without the chairman present, and also meet with the chairman The questionnaires for the committees focused on the performance of the respective committees throughout the past independently of management, on a regular basis.
The non-executive directors fulfil a key role in corporate year: whether the agendas appropriately covered the remits of the committees: how the performance of the respective accountability.
The remits of the audit, the nomination and the remuneration committees of the board are set out below and committees could be enhanced and areas of focus for the forthcoming year.
membership of these committees is as set out above in the Board of directors and executive committee section of this A report was prepared for the board on its effectiveness and that of its committees.
The report concluded that the board and annual report.
The company secretary acts as secretary to all of these committees.
The terms of reference of the committees its committees continued to operate effectively, meeting the requirements and spirit of the Code.
Processes were seen to have are available on the companys website at www.
com en-row ourbusiness aboutus corporategovernance.
improved to allow a focus and time spent on the most important matters for the company, including the development of strategy, Induction, training and business engagement and the climate in the boardroom continued to create the optimum conditions for good decision making and sound There is a formal induction programme for new directors: they meet with the executive committee members individually and guidance.
The importance of ensuring appropriate succession to the board to maintain boardroom dynamics and the appropriate receive orientation training from the relevant senior executive in relation to the group and its business, for example in relation balance of skills, knowledge, diversity and experience was recognised in the search for non-executive directors and the to its assurance processes, environmental and social policies, corporate responsibility policies and practices and governance appointment, with effect from 1 October 2012, of Ho KwonPing.
Areas identified for the board and committees to maintain matters.
Following this initial induction, appropriate business engagements are arranged for the chairman and the nonthe appropriate governance for and development of the business have been integrated into the evolving annual agendas executive directors.
In addition to those associated with overseas board meetings, during the year these included: visits to the of the board and its committees.
The performance of each director was evaluated by the supply operations in Scotland: the chairman of the audit committees visit to the Nigerian operations: the chairman chairman based on self-analysis and input from the other directors.
A report on the individual performance evaluation and senior independent director taking advantage of overseas business commitments to meet with local management: process was given to the nomination committee.
Following the performance evaluation of individual directors, the chairman and visits to the customer collaboration centre in the UK.
All directors are provided with the opportunity, and has confirmed that the non-executive directors standing for encouraged to attend regular training to ensure they are kept re-election at this years annual general meeting continue to up to date on relevant legal developments or changes and best perform effectively and demonstrate commitment to their roles.
practice and changing commercial and other risks.
Typical The chairmans performance was evaluated by the directors, training experience for directors includes attendance at seminars, using an internally produced questionnaire which was forums, conferences and working groups and, during the year completed and returned to the senior non-executive director, ended 30 June 2012, also included internally led training on who discussed the feedback in a meeting with the executive and compliance, information security and business continuity.
non-executive directors and then privately with the chairman.
Training for directors is kept under review during the year and It is the boards intention to continue to review annually its forms part of the chairmans individual meetings held with performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
each director, with feedback sought from directors on areas In respect of the evaluation process in 2013, it is likely that the and topics that they want to be covered.
same method of internal facilitation will be used.
106 Diageo Annual Report 2012 Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Audit committee The audit committee reviews annually the appointment of the Role of the audit committee auditor and, on the audit committees recommendation, the The audit committee is responsible for monitoring and board agreed in August 2012 to recommend to shareholders at reviewing: the annual general meeting in 2012, the re-appointment of the r UIF JOUFHSJUZ PG UIF OBODJBM TUBUFNFOUT JODMVEJOH B SFWJFX external auditor for a period of one year.
The current overall of the significant financial reporting judgements contained tenure of the external auditor dates from 1997.
Any decision in them: to open the external auditor to tender is taken on the r UIF FFDUJWFOFTT PG UIF HSPVQ T JOUFSOBM DPOUSPM BOE SJTL recommendation of the audit committee, based on the results management and of control over financial reporting: of the effectiveness review described below.
There are no r UIF FFDUJWFOFTT PG UIF HMPCBM BVEJU BOE SJTL GVODUJPO contractual obligations that restrict the companys current including the programme of work undertaken by choice of external auditor.
that function: The audit committee assessed the ongoing effectiveness r UIF HSPVQ T QPMJDJFT BOE QSBDUJDFT DPODFSOJOH CVTJOFTT of the external auditor and audit process on the basis of meetings conduct and ethics, including whistleblowing: and a questionnaire-based internal review with finance and r UIF HSPVQ T PWFSBMM BQQSPBDI UP TFDVSJOH DPNQMJBODF XJUI global audit and risk staff and other senior executives.
In laws, regulations and company policies in areas of risk: and reviewing the independence of the external auditor, the audit r UIF DPNQBOZ T SFMBUJPOTIJQ XJUI UIF FYUFSOBM BVEJUPS committee considered a number of factors.
These include: the standing, experience and tenure of the external audit director: including its independence and managements response to any major external audit recommendations.
the nature and level of services provided by the external auditor: and confirmation from the external auditor that it has complied For the purposes of the Code and the relevant rule under the with relevant UK and US independence standards.
The group has a policy on auditor independence and on US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Exchange Act, the board has determined that PG Scott is independent and may be regarded the use of the external auditor for non-audit services, which is reviewed annually, most recently in June 2012.
Under this policy as an audit committee financial expert.
The chairman, the chief financial officer, the group controller, the provision of any non-audit service must be approved by the audit committee, unless the proposed service is both expected the head of global audit and risk, the group chief accountant and the external auditor are normally invited to attend meetings.
to cost less than 250,000 and also falls within one of a number of service categories which the audit committee has pre-approved.
The audit committee met privately with the external auditor and with the head of global audit and risk as appropriate.
These pre-approved service categories may be summarised as follows: Work of the audit committee r BDDPVOUJOH BEWJDF FNQMPZFF CFOFU QMBO BVEJUT BOE BVEJU or other attestation services, not otherwise prohibited: During the year, the audit committee formally reviewed the annual reports and associated preliminary year-end results r EVF EJMJHFODF BOE PUIFS TVQQPSU JO SFTQFDU PG BDRVJTJUJPOT disposals, training and other business initiatives: and announcement, focusing on key areas of judgement, provisioning and complexity, critical accounting policies and any r DFSUBJO TQFDJFE UBY TFSWJDFT JODMVEJOH UBY DPNQMJBODF UBY planning and related implementation advice in relation to changes required in these areas or policies.
In addition, the audit committee reviewed the interim results announcement, which acquisitions, disposals and other reorganisations.
included the interim financial statements and the companys interim management statements.
The audit committee also Fees paid to the auditor for audit, audit related and other services are analysed in note 3 c to the consolidated financial reviewed the work of the filings assurance committee described below and was updated on litigation risks by the groups statements.
The main non-audit related services provided by the auditor during the year were in respect of due diligence work for general counsel.
The audit committee received detailed presentations from potential acquisitions, a review of internal controls, process review and tax advice.
The auditor was considered to be best placed to certain senior executives on the management of key risk and control issues in their respective business areas, reviewed the provide these services and was the provider that offered the best value.
The nature and level of all services provided by the effectiveness and findings from internal control and risk management processes described below and reviewed the work external auditor is a factor taken into account by the audit of the compliance programme and the work of the audit and risk committee when it reviews annually the independence committee, described below.
The audit committee had available to it the resources of the global audit and risk function, the activities of which are described below.
During the year, the audit committee reviewed the external audit strategy and the findings of the external auditor from its review of the interim results and its audit of the consolidated financial statements.
