1 Smirnoff successfully activated its scenic Sugar Loaf Mountain.
Johnnie Driving growth partnership with Madonna and Live Nation Walker, a brand with personal progress through numerous activities.
Smirnoff, at its core, recognises this important time through powerful together with Madonna and millions of for Brazil, and through this new campaign, and engaging international revellers spanning five seeks to inspire a new generation of continents, celebrated The Smirnoff Nightlife Brazilians to Keep Walking and actively marketing Exchange Project in New York.
Madonna, participate in the progress of the nation.
1 along with choreographers Rich & Tone Talauega watched the final dancers perform 3 Croc rolls big with a fresh new and selected the winner of Smirnoffs campaign that takes audiences on a exclusive high profile global dance first-person journey into a special night competition.
Lil Buck from Memphis, out to the tune of Frank Sinatras iconic Luck Tennessee, was the designated winner and Be a Lady.
The ad campaign was directed became an official member of Madonnas by world-renowned commercial visionary, dance crew.
Anthony Mandler and features Sean Diddy Combs and a cast of up and coming artists 2 Johnnie Walker is appealing to the fast representing the future of Hollywood.
growing Brazilian market with a blockbuster Together, they bring to life the art of campaign recognising Brazil as a colossus that celebration that Croc embodies in a has finally awakened.
In a new campaign, a contemporary, yet classic way.
Rock Giant emerges from Rio fide Janeiros 4 We launched the Tonight we Tanqueray 2 campaign in key Western European countries as well as North America.
Tanqueray aims to inspire consumers to start the night with swagger, building a distinctive brand image in the premium gin category.
Including the revival of classic cocktails and the new Quatro serve a striking take on the classic Tanqueray and Tonic the campaign opened up a world for consumers to engage and interact with the brand via style, film and music platforms.
was the biggest campaign Gordons has produced in recent years.
Gordons is ideally placed to remind consumers just how great the taste of the 3 4 classic Gordons and Tonic serve can be to get your evening off to great start.
6 We have continued to build momentum in our Ease of Shop programme, extending our reach on category partnerships into new geographies, prioritising our emerging markets.
Latin America is a particular highlight with significantly more stores covered through new approaches enabling access to different routes to market and channels.
At the same time 5 6 16 Diageo Annual Report 2012 Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information 7 8 9 S S S T T T T TE E E E E E EP P P P P P P P P P IIIIIIIN N N N N N N NS S S S S S S S S S SIIIIIIIID D D D D D D fide E E E T T T T T T T T T TH H H H H H HE E E E E E E E C C C C C C C C CIIIIIIR R R R RC CUIT JWSTEPINSIDE.
COM NEVER DRINK AND DRIVE LEWIS HAMILTON DOWNTIME.
18 The GUINNESS word, the HARP device and associated logos are trademarks.
12 our collaboration with customers to 9 Across the globe, Johnnie Walkers Formula 1 sponsorship develops great step-change the shopping experience has led to retail transformation programmes being content for our Step inside the Circuit campaign.
Through this partnership we are executed in Travel Retail e. g. the new Smirnoff store in Tenerife pictured and in major global connecting with consumers in an innovative and cost effective way, with a focus on high customers in Western Europe and Asia Pacific.
quality human interest content that includes exclusive behind the scenes footage.
We have 7 Guinness is considered the most stylish beer in Korea, enjoyed by both men and women in been able to share this branded content with broadcasters, resulting in a TV audience of their twenties.
The Guinness pop-up store was built as a multi-experimental platform in order over 170 million across 150 countries.
to reformulate our Guinness immersion programme, helping consumers find, talk 10 The Guinness Football Challenge about, and experience the brand voluntarily in entered its second year, connecting deeply an easy and interactive way.
The store opened with African consumers by tapping into their for only four weeks in Koreas hippest shopping fervent love of football.
This innovative district and engaged over 21,000 consumers, campaign is centred around an engaging reaching outstanding trial penetration of over weekly TV game show where contestants 50% of visitors.
compete in a number of football challenges for a jackpot prize.
Digital platforms enable 8 The Diageo Bar Academy DBA was mass consumer participation and a national 12 Bushmills performance was particularly launched in 2011 to raise bar service standards consumer promotion directly linked between strong in Eastern Europe this year, where it across Asia Pacific.
The academy seeks to the TV show and the pack effectively drive made some important share gains.
In Bulgaria, provide world class training to bar staff and sales of Guinness.
the brands success has been based on has proven to be a big channel of support to creating compelling emotional territory for our customers in growing and sustaining their 11 We are igniting Chinas passion for scotch whiskey from Irelands oldest working businesses.
In partnership with the globally through our brand building and innovation distillery.
The focus was on the power of recognised Wine and Spirits Education Trust, capabilities.
The Johnnie Walker House in whiskey to bring men together, by celebrating the DBA delivers a practical and industryShanghai is leading the creation of a Scotch true male friendships, through the creative leading bar training initiative to provide whisky culture in China, with over 3,000 VIPs execution Bushmills Brothers.
This was accredited instruction and professional having visited since its opening in May 2011. reinforced by several local influencers.
The certification for all trainees.
To date, over The Johnnie Walker House in Shanghai campaign was executed at scale through a 10,000 bartenders across Asia Pacific have has received numerous design and 360 degree campaign in outdoor, press and been trained.
digital as well as a series of events.
