Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Corporate citizenship committee Additional information Chaired by the chief executive and responsible for making Internal control and risk management decisions or, where appropriate, recommendations to the Diageos aim is to manage risk and to control its business and board or executive committee concerning policies, issues and financial activities cost-effectively and in a manner that enables it measurement and reporting for the following impacts across to: exploit profitable business opportunities in a disciplined way: Diageos value chain: alcohol in society: water: broader avoid or reduce risks that can cause loss, reputational damage or environmental sustainability: community: our people and business failure: support operational effectiveness: and enhance governance and ethics.
Progress in these areas is reported resilience to external events.
To achieve this, an ongoing process periodically to the board and publicly through a separate has been established for identifying, evaluating and managing Sustainability & Responsibility Report, selected aspects of which risks faced by the group.
This process, which complies with the are subject to external assurance.
This report and the groups requirements of the Code, has been in place for the full financial social, ethical and environmental policies are published on the year and up to the date the financial statements were approved Diageo website.
and accords with the guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Two executive working groups one on alcohol in society, Council in October 2005, Internal Control: Revised Guidance for chaired by the corporate relations director, and one on Directors on the Combined Code, also known as the Turnbull environmental performance, chaired by the president, global guidance as amended by the Flint review.
supply and global procurement assist the committee with The board acknowledges that it is responsible for the decisions on specific issues.
companys systems of internal control and risk management and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The board confirms that, Finance committee through the activities of the audit committee described above, Chaired by the chief financial officer and including the it has reviewed the effectiveness of the companys systems of chief executive, this committee is responsible for making internal control and risk management described below.
recommendations to the board on funding strategy, capital All business units and the executive committee are structure and management of financial risks and the policies and required to maintain a process to ensure key risks are identified, control procedures including financial issues relating to treasury evaluated and managed appropriately.
This process is also and taxation required to implement the companys financial applied to major business decisions or initiatives, such as systems strategy and financial risk management policies.
In certain implementations, new product development, business specific circumstances, the board has delegated authority to the combination activity or significant business strategy finance committee to make decisions in these areas.
Additional risk management activity is activity is managed centrally within tightly defined dealing focused directly towards operational risks within the business, authorities and procedures recommended by the finance including health and safety, product quality and environmental committee and approved by the board.
Business unit risk assessments, and the activities planned to Filings assurance committee manage those risks, are reviewed by relevant executives, for Chaired by the chief financial officer and including the chief example at periodic business reviews.
The oversight of primary executive, this committee is responsible for implementing and level risks, as detailed in the executive committee risk assessment, monitoring the processes which are designed to ensure that the is allocated as appropriate between the board, board committees company complies with relevant UK, US and other regulatory and the executive committee.
The executive committee risk reporting and filing provisions, including those imposed by SOX assessment, and selected key risk assessments, are reviewed by or derived from it.
As at the end of the period covered by this the audit and risk committee and by the audit committee.
report, the filings assurance committee, with the participation In addition, business units are required to self-assess the of the chief executive and chief financial officer, carried out an effectiveness of the design of their internal control framework.
evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of Relevant executives review the results of these self-assessments disclosure controls and procedures.
These are defined as those and summary reporting is provided to the audit and risk controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that committee and audit committee.
Risk management and internal information required to be disclosed in reports filed under the control processes encompass activity to mitigate financial, Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarised and reported operational, compliance and reputational risk.
Specific processes within specified time periods.
As of the date of the evaluation, are also in place to ensure management maintain adequate the chief executive and the chief financial officer concluded internal control over financial reporting, as separately that the design and operation of these disclosure controls and reported below.
procedures were effective to ensure that information required A network of risk management committees is in place to be disclosed in the reports that the company files or submits across the group, which has overall accountability for supporting under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the audit and risk committee in its corporate governance the management, including the companys chief executive and responsibilities by proactively and effectively identifying and chief financial officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions managing risk and monitoring the effectiveness of internal controls.
Corporate governance report 109 Governance Processes are in place to ensure appropriate action is taken, Compliance and ethics programme guidelines specify where necessary, to remedy any deficiencies identified through the manner in which any potential violations of these codes 85 Board of directors and the groups internal control and risk management processes.
should be dealt with, including line manager reporting and an executive committee The global governance and control and global audit and independent SpeakUp employee help line.
The latter is operated 87 risk functions give the audit committee, board and executive independently and all reports are sent, in confidence, to the Directors committee visibility and understanding of the groups key risks global compliance and ethics director and head of corporate remuneration report and risk management capability and provide assurance over the security for review, and where appropriate, investigation and quality of the groups internal control and management of key escalation to the audit committee as required.
There is an annual 104 Corporate risks in line with a plan agreed by the audit committee.
certification requirement for all management level employees governance report The above risk management processes and systems of to confirm compliance with the code of business conduct and 114 internal control, together with the filings assurance processes, to identify areas of possible non-compliance to the global Directors report are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure compliance and ethics director.
To reinforce our stand against to achieve the groups strategic objectives.
It should be bribery or corruption in any form and to create greater simplicity recognised that such systems can only provide reasonable, not in our guidance in this area, Diageo launched a new global absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
anti-corruption policy during the year.
Both the audit and risk committee and the audit committee During the year, in line with the revised principles of the Code, the board considered the nature and extent of the risks it review the operation of the compliance programme.
was willing to take to achieve its strategic goals and reviewed the existing internal statement of risk appetite, which describes Relations with shareholders The company values its dialogue with both institutional and existing risk behaviours and identifies a set of high level risk statements underpinning them.
The statement of risk appetite private investors.
The boards primary contact with institutional shareholders is through the chief executive and chief financial serves to complement Diageos risk policy and was considered and recommended to the board by both the audit and risk officer.
The chief executive and chief financial officer are supported committee and the audit committee.
The company has in place internal control and risk by the investor relations department, who are in regular contact with institutional shareholders and sell-side analysts.
Coverage of management systems in relation to the companys financial reporting process and the groups process for preparation of the company by sell-side analysts is circulated to the board.
The board also ensures that all directors develop an understanding consolidated accounts.
These systems are described above and under the headings Filings assurance committee, Audit and risk of the views of major institutional shareholders through an independent survey of shareholder opinion.
In addition, major committee and Managements report on internal control over financial reporting.
Diageos filings assurance committee and shareholders are invited to raise any company matters of interest to them at an annual meeting with the chairman and senior audit and risk committee are each responsible for overseeing elements of these internal control and risk management systems.
The chairman reports on any meeting to the board.
As reported in the remuneration report, shareholder Furthermore, a review of the consolidated financial statements is completed by management to ensure that the financial position engagement meetings were also held with the chairman of the remuneration committee.
and results of the group are appropriately reflected therein.
Investor seminars and analyst presentations, including those following the announcement of interim results and preliminary Compliance and ethics programme Diageo is committed to conducting its business responsibly and year end results, are webcast and other presentations made to institutional investors are available on the companys website.
in accordance with all laws and regulations to which its business activities are subject.
The board has a comprehensive training For the year ended 30 June 2012, Diageo produced an annual report, which is available to all shareholders on its website, and education programme for both employees and the network of compliance and ethics ambassadors, whose role it is to be the or in paper form by election or on request.
As an alternative to receiving a paper notification through the post, shareholders key point of contact for compliance within each market and function.
The code of business conduct is also supported by a set may elect to receive email notification that the documents are of global policies.
Work commenced during the year to simplify available to be accessed on the companys website.
Shareholders these policies and to make access and governance of the can also choose to receive email notification when new company policies easier.
information is published on www.
The website also The Diageo marketing code together with Diageos digital provides private shareholders with the facility to check their code of practice remain the principles that Diageo follows in shareholdings online and to send any questions they may have relation to marketing and promotional activities of its brands to the company.
Private shareholders are invited to write to the chairman In addition, in accordance with the requirements of SOX or any other director and express their views on any issues of and related SEC rules, Diageo has adopted a code of ethics concern at any time and the AGM provides an opportunity covering its chief executive, chief financial officer, regional for private shareholders to put their questions in person.
presidents and other identifiable persons in the group, including those performing senior accounting and controller functions.
No amendments to, or waivers in respect of, the code of ethics were made during the year.
The full texts of the code of ethics, code of business conduct, marketing code and other Diageo policies that comprise the compliance programme are available on the companys website at www.
com en-row ourbusiness aboutus corporategovernance.
110 Diageo Annual Report 2012 Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information The chairmen of the audit, nomination and remuneration The group has significant financial resources, strong cash committees are normally available at the AGM to take any generation from operations and good access to debt markets.
relevant questions and all other directors attend, unless illness or Consequently, the directors believe that the group is well placed another pressing commitment precludes them from doing so.
to manage its business risks despite the current uncertain At general meetings, a schedule of the proxy votes cast is made economic environment.
available to all shareholders and is published on www.
The directors confirm that, after making appropriate com.
The company proposes a separate resolution on each enquiries, they have reasonable expectation that the group has substantially separate issue and does not bundle resolutions adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the together inappropriately.
Non-binding resolutions on the receipt foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going of the reports and accounts and the approval of the directors concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
remuneration report are put to shareholders at the AGM.
Managements report on internal control over Charitable and political donations financial reporting During the year, total charitable donations made by the group Management, under the supervision of the chief executive were 28.7 million 2011 28.0 million.
UK group companies and chief financial officer, is responsible for establishing and made donations of 12.0 million 2011 10.5 million to maintaining adequate control over the groups financial charitable organisations including 1.1 million 2011 1.1 million reporting.
Diageos internal control over financial reporting to the Diageo Foundation and 8.1 million 2011 7.7 million to includes policies and procedures that: pertain to the the Thalidomide Trust.
In the rest of the world, group companies maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets: provide made charitable donations of 16.7 million 2011 17.5 million including 1.5 million to the Thalidomide Foundation Ltd in reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of financial statements in accordance Australia 2011 3.0 million.
The group has not given any money for political purposes with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as endorsed and adopted for use in the European Union EU in the United Kingdom and made no donations to EU political organisations and incurred no EU political expenditure during and IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB : provide reasonable assurance that receipts and the year.
The group made contributions to non-EU political parties totalling 0.4 million during the year 2011 0.6 million.
expenditures are made only in accordance with authorisation of management and the directors of the company: and provide These were all made, consistent with applicable laws, to federal and state candidates and committees in North America, where it reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of any unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition of assets is common practice to make political contributions.
No particular political persuasion was supported and contributions were made that could have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements.
with the aim of promoting a better understanding of the group and its views on commercial matters, as well as a generally Management has assessed the effectiveness of Diageos internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules improved business environment.
13 a -13 f and 15 d -15 f under the Exchange Act based on the framework in Internal Control Integrated Framework, issued Supplier payment policies and performance Given the international nature of the groups operations, by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission COSO.
Based on this assessment, management there is no group standard in respect of payments to suppliers.
The group has moved to a standard term of 60 days in respect concluded that, as at 30 June 2012, internal control over financial reporting was effective.
of payments to the majority of suppliers.
Where this standard term does not yet apply, operating companies are responsible Any internal control framework, no matter how well designed, has inherent limitations, including the possibility of for agreeing terms and conditions for their business transactions when orders for goods and services are placed, so that suppliers human error and the circumvention or overriding of controls and procedures and may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, are aware of the terms of payment and the relevant terms are included in contracts where appropriate.
Creditor days for Diageo projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate plc have not been calculated, as the company had no material trade creditors at 30 June 2012.
The majority of the companys because of changes in conditions or because the degree of invoices for goods and services are settled by subsidiaries acting compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
During the period covered by this report, there were no changes in internal control over financial reporting that have Going concern materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect The groups business activities together with significant risk the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.
factors are set out above in the Business description section of KPMG Audit Plc, an independent registered public accounting this annual report.
The liquidity position, capital resources and risk firm, who also audit the groups consolidated financial management processes covering exposure to currency, interest statements, has audited the effectiveness of the groups internal rate, credit, liquidity and price risk are described in the notes to control over financial reporting, and has issued an unqualified the consolidated financial statements.
report thereon, which will be included in the companys Form 20-F filed with the SEC.
Corporate governance report 11 1 Governance Directors responsibilities in respect of the annual report and Responsibility statement financial statements Each of the directors, whose names are set out above in the 85 Board of directors and The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the Board of directors and executive committee section of this executive committee information filed with the SEC on Form 20-F and the group and annual report, confirms that to the best of his or her knowledge: 87 parent company financial statements in accordance with r UIF DPOTPMJEBUFE OBODJBM TUBUFNFOUT DPOUBJOFE JO UIF BOOVBM Directors applicable law and regulations.
report for the year ended 30 June 2012, which have been remuneration report Company law requires the directors to prepare group and prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB and as parent company financial statements for each financial year.
endorsed and adopted for use in the EU, give a true and fair 104 Corporate Under that law they are required to prepare the group financial view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the governance report statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted for use in the EU group: and 114 and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent r UIF NBOBHFNFOU SFQPSU SFQSFTFOUFE CZ UIF EJSFDUPST SFQPSU Directors report company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting contained in the annual report for the year ended 30 June Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted 2012 includes a fair review of the development and Accounting Practice.
The directors have taken responsibility to performance of the business and the position of the group, prepare the group financial statements also in accordance with together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that the group faces.
IFRS as issued by the IASB.
The directors have also presented certain additional information required by the SEC for the The responsibility statement was approved by the board of purposes of the companys Form 20-F.
The group financial statements are required by law and IFRS directors on 22 August 2012. to present fairly the financial position and the performance of the group: the Act provides in relation to such financial statements New York Stock Exchange corporate governance rules Under applicable SEC rules and the NYSEs corporate governance that references in the relevant part of the Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their rules for listed companies, Diageo must disclose any significant ways in which its corporate governance practices differ from achieving a fair presentation.
The parent company financial statements are required those followed by US companies under NYSE listing standards.
Diageo believes the following to be the significant areas in by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company.
which there are differences between its corporate governance practices and NYSE corporate governance rules applicable to US In preparing each of the group and parent company financial statements, the directors are required to: companies.
This information is also provided on the companys website at www.
r TFMFDU TVJUBCMF BDDPVOUJOH QPMJDJFT BOE UIFO BQQMZ them consistently: r #BTJT PG SFHVMBUJPO 6, MJTUFE DPNQBOJFT BSF SFRVJSFE UP include in their annual report a narrative statement of i how r NBLF KVEHFNFOUT BOE FTUJNBUFT UIBU BSF SFBTPOBCMF and prudent: they have applied the principles of the Code and ii whether or not they have complied with the best practice provisions r GPS UIF HSPVQ OBODJBM TUBUFNFOUT TUBUF XIFUIFS UIFZ IBWF been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted for use of the Code.
NYSE listed companies must adopt and disclose their corporate governance guidelines.
Diageo complied in the EU and IFRS as issued by the IASB: r GPS UIF QBSFOU DPNQBOZ OBODJBM TUBUFNFOUT TUBUF XIFUIFS throughout the year with the best practice provisions of the Code.
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained r %JSFDUPS JOEFQFOEFODF UIF $PEF SFRVJSFT BU MFBTU IBMG UIF board excluding the chairman to be independent nonin the parent company financial statements: and r QSFQBSF UIF OBODJBM TUBUFNFOUT PO UIF HPJOH DPODFSO CBTJT executive directors, as determined by affirmatively concluding that a director is independent of management unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the parent company will continue in business.
and free from any relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of independent judgement.
NYSE rules The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting require a majority of independent directors, according to the records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent NYSEs own brightline tests and an affirmative determination companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at by the board that the director has no material relationship any time the financial position of the parent company and enable with the listed company.
Diageos board has determined that, them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the in its judgement and without taking into account the NYSE Companies Act 2006 and, with regard to group consolidated brightline tests, all of the non-executive directors are financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
As such, currently six of Diageos 10 directors general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably are independent.
open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent r $IBJSNBO BOE DIJFG FYFDVUJWF UIF $PEF SFRVJSFT UIFTF SPMFT and detect fraud and other irregularities.
There is no corresponding requirement for Under applicable UK and US law and regulations, the US companies.
Diageo has a separate chairman and directors are also responsible for preparing a directors report, chief executive.
a directors remuneration report and a corporate governance report that comply with that law and those regulations.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
112 Diageo Annual Report 2012 Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information r PO FYFDVUJWF EJSFDUPS NFFUJOHT :4& SVMFT SFRVJSF requirement.
In accordance with the requirements of the non-management directors to meet regularly without Code, Diageo discloses in its annual report the results and management and independent directors to meet separately means of evaluation of the board, its committees and at least once a year.
The Code requires non-executive the directors, and it provides extensive information directors to meet without the chairman present at least regarding directors compensation in the directors annually to appraise the chairmans performance.
year, Diageos chairman and non-executive directors met r $PEF PG FUIJDT :4& SVMFT SFRVJSF B DPEF PG CVTJOFTT DPOEVDU four times as a group without executive directors being and ethics to be adopted for directors, officers and employees present, and the independent directors met once without and disclosure of any waivers for executive directors or the chairman.
Diageo has adopted a code of business conduct for r #PBSE DPNNJUUFFT %JBHFP IBT B OVNCFS PG CPBSE all directors, officers and employees, as well as a code of ethics committees that are similar in purpose and constitution to for senior officers in accordance with the requirements of SOX.
those required by NYSE rules.
Diageos audit, remuneration Currently, no waivers have been granted to directors or and nomination committees consist entirely of independent executive officers.
non-executive directors save that the chairman of the r $PNQMJBODF DFSUJDBUJPO :4& SVMFT SFRVJSF $&0T UP DFSUJGZ UP nomination committee, Dr FB Humer, is not independent.
the NYSE their awareness of any NYSE corporate governance Under NYSE standards, companies are required to have a violations.
Diageo is exempt from this as a foreign private nominating corporate governance committee, which issuer but is required to notify the NYSE if any executive officer develops and recommends a set of corporate governance becomes aware of any non-compliance with NYSE corporate principles and is composed entirely of independent directors.
No such notification was necessary The terms of reference for Diageos nomination committee, during the period covered by this report.
which comply with the Code, do not contain such a Directors attendance record at the annual general meeting, board meetings and board committee meetings, for the year ended 30 June 2012 was as set out in the table below.
For board and board committee meetings, attendance is expressed as the number of meetings attended out of the number that each director was eligible to attend.
Attended by invitation, for part only.
