r Net sales in Greece declined 38% as Key highlights 2011 significant rises in excise duties on spirits r Volume in Europe declined 2%.
The and other austerity measures dramatically Europe challenging pricing environment and on reduced consumer spending and trade weakness across most of Europe confidence.
As consumers switched to coupled with the decline of scotch in at home consumption, Diageo increased Southern Europe led to negative price mix.
its focus on the off trade, growing volume r In Great Britain, VAT and duty increases and share of spirits in the off trade and this year the channel shift from the on to the off was rated number one supplier among trade were the main drivers in the beverage all beverage alcohol suppliers.
Within this context, Diageo spend was reduced broadly in line with spirits performed well and gained share net sales and activity was focused on while price increases on beer and wine supporting the launch of ready to serve resulted in small share losses.
Positive price cocktails and premix brands.
Overheads mix was primarily a result of the growth of were also reduced, but operating wine, where net sales grew 14%.
growth of wine had a negative impact on r In Russia and Eastern Europe, Diageo gross margin.
Marketing spend increased delivered double digit net sales growth and and the incremental investment was positive price mix due to price increases on focused on super premium brands and spirits and an improvement in brand mix as innovation.
Net sales of reserve brands many Russian consumers began to trade grew 30% driven by super deluxe scotch.
There was strong growth The launch of three new products and a on Johnnie Walker in all markets, while strong media campaign led to share gains Bells and White Horse also performed well in the fast growing premix segment and in Russia, appealing to those consumers Diageo finished the year with over 50% seeking a more affordable entry into the of the segment.
Marketing spend was r High levels of unemployment and personal focused on premium and super premium tax increases in Ireland continued to restrict scotch, the roll out of Captain Morgan consumer spending, particularly in the and driving new premium innovation on trade.
Guinness remained the best launches such as White Horse 1900. selling beer in Ireland, but net sales r Elsewhere in Europe, international spirits declined due to lower sales in the on trade, continued to gain momentum.
In while the volume of Diageos packaged Germany, Diageo grew net sales 13% and beer increased in the growing off trade.
gained share led by Johnnie Walker and the Marketing spend on the brand increased, continued success of the Captain Morgan reflecting the growing momentum of roll out.
Diageo resumed shipments to Arthurs Day and the Irish rugby Turkey in the second half having reached sponsorship.
Net sales of spirits grew 2% settlement in a dispute with Turkish and Diageo gained share led by the customs authorities for which there was continued success of Captain Morgan an exceptional charge of 92 million.
with investment behind on trade sampling and promotional activity.
r Net sales in Iberia declined 18%, a deterioration from the first half.
This was due to a further reduction in consumer spending in the on trade, which accounts for the majority of scotch and rum sales, as well as some destocking at both the wholesale and retail level.
Despite implementing a price increase on spirits in the second half, price mix remained flat, reflecting the higher proportion of sales through the off trade.
There was a strict control of costs resulting in an increase in operating margin for the year.
74 Diageo Annual Report 2012 Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Performance Acquisitions 2010 and Organic 2011 Reported Reported Exchange disposalsmovement Reported movement Key financials million million million million million % Net sales 2,848 32 25 88 2,703 5 Marketing spend 422 5 1 13 403 5 Operating profit before exceptional items 881 12 7 66 796 10 Exceptional items 53 157 Operating profit 828 639 23 Organic Reported Volume net sales net sales movement movement movement % % % Key countries and categories: Europe 2 3 5 Great Britain 2 2 Ireland 1 5 11 Iberia 18 18 20 Greece 33 38 39 Russia 9 21 22 Spirits 1 4 4 Beer 5 4 7 Wine 1 11 2 Ready to drink 5 8 10 The strategic brands: Johnnie Walker 3 5 5 Smirnoff 4 11 11 Baileys 1 3 3 J&B 5 8 9 Captain Morgan 38 37 38 Guinness 5 4 5 Restated for changes in reporting segments, see page 46.
Organic equals reported movement for volume, except for wine where reported movement was 5 % reflecting the disposal of the Gilbeys wine business and Barton & Guestier and in Ireland where reported movement was 2 % reflecting the disposal of Gilbeys.
Spirits brands excluding ready to drink.
