Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Board of directors and company secretary Lord Davies of Abersoch Laurence M Danon Philip G Scott 1,3, 4 1, 3,4 Senior non-executive Non-executive director Non-executive director 1,3, 4 director French 56 British 58 British 59 Appointed a non-executive Appointed a non-executive director of Diageo plc in director of Diageo plc and Appointed a non-executive Dr Franz B Humer Deirdre Mahlan January 2006.
She is chairman chairman of the Audit director of Diageo plc in Chairman, Chief financial officer, of the executive board of Committee in October 2007.
He September 2010 and senior 3 2 Non-executive director executive director Edmond fide Rothschild is the president of the Institute non-executive director and Corporate Finance and a and Faculty of Actuaries and is Swiss Austrian 66 American 50 chairman of the remuneration non-executive director of a non-executive director of the committee in October 2011.
Appointed chairman of Diageo Appointed chief financial Groupe BPCE and TF1, both in Royal Bank of Scotland Group Lord Davies is a partner of plc in July 2008, having been officer and a director of Diageo France.
He was previously chief Corsair Capital, non-executive a non-executive director since plc in October 2010, prior to with the French Ministry of financial officer of Aviva plc.
He is also chairman which she was deputy chief Industry and Energy, held a Investments Limited and chair of F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd financial officer and before that number of senior management of the advisory board of Moelis in Switzerland, chairman of head of tax and treasury.
She posts with Total Fina Elf and was & Co.
He is also a trustee of the INSEADs board of directors joined the company in 2001, chairman and chief executive Royal Academy of Arts and and a non-executive director of having held various senior officer of France Printemps.
chair of the Council, University CitiGroup Inc.
He was formerly finance positions in Joseph E She was also a non-executive of Wales Bangor.
Previously chief operating director of Seagram & Sons Inc since 1992 director of Experian Group he was a non-executive Glaxo Holdings plc and has and having formerly been Limited, Plastic Omnium SA director of Bharti Airtel Limited, held a number of other a senior manager with and Rhodia SA.
Minister for Trade, Investment non-executive directorships.
She was and Small Business for the UK appointed as a non-executive Government between January director of Experian plc with 2009 and May 2010 and prior effect from September 2012 H Todd Stitzer to this role, Lord Davies was and is also a member of the 1,3, 4 Non-executive director chairman of Standard Main Committee of the 100 Chartered PLC.
American 60 Group of Finance Directors.
Appointed a non-executive director of Diageo plc in June 2004.
He is chairman and a non-executive director of Signet Limited and a Betsy D Holden non-executive director of Paul S Walsh 1,3, 4 Massachusetts Mutual Life Non-executive director Chief executive officer, Insurance Company.
He is also 2 American 56 a member of the advisory executive director Appointed a non-executive board of Hamlin Capital British 57 director of Diageo in Management, LLC, a New York Appointed chief executive of September 2009.
She is a senior based investment advisory Peggy B Bruzelius Ivan Menezes Diageo plc in September 2000. adviser to McKinsey & Company firm, and a member of the 1,3, 4 Non-executive director He has served in a number Chief operating officer, and holds non-executive advisory committee of Virgin 2 of management roles since Swedish 62 executive director directorships of Tribune Group Holdings Limited.
He joining GrandMets brewing Company and Western Union was previously chief executive Appointed a non-executive American British 53 division in 1982, including Company, both in the United of Cadbury plc.
director of Diageo plc in April chief executive officer of The Appointed a director of Diageo States.
She is chairman of Pillsbury Company.
He was plc in July 2012 and appointed board of trustees at Duke Lancelot Asset Management in appointed to the GrandMet chief operating officer in March University and a member Sweden and sits on the boards board in October 1995 and 2012 having been president, of the Deans advisory board of Akzo Nobel NV in the to the Diageo plc board in North America since January at the Kellogg School of Netherlands, Syngenta AG in December 1997.
He is lead 2004, chairman, Diageo Asia Management.
She was formerly Switzerland, Axfood AB and non-executive and deputy Pacific since October 2008 president, global marketing Skandia Mutual Life Insurance chair of the board of the and chairman, Diageo Latin and category development AB, both in Sweden.
She was Department of Energy and America and Caribbean since and co-chief executive officer formerly managing director Climate Change, a nonJuly 2011.
Formerly he held of Kraft Foods, Inc. of ABB Financial Services AB, executive director of Avanti various senior management headed the asset management Communication Group plc, positions with Guinness and arm of Skandinaviska Enskilda Paul D Tunnacliffe then Diageo and worked across a non-executive director of Banken AB and a non-executive Unilever PLC and a nona variety of sales, marketing Company secretary director of Scania AB.
executive director of FedEx and strategy roles with Nestl British 50 Corporation in the United in Asia, Booz Allen Hamilton Appointed company secretary States.
He was appointed a Inc in the United States and of Diageo plc in January 2008. business ambassador on the Whirlpool in Europe.
He is also He was formerly company UK Governments Business a non-executive director of secretary of Hanson PLC.
Ambassador network on Coach Inc. in the United States.
9 August 2012 and is also a member of the UK Governments Business Key to committees Advisory Group and a member 1.
Audit of the Council of the Scotch 2.
Remuneration Chairman of committee Board of directors and executive committee 85
