Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information The amount of CO generated by Diageos to replace Kieselguhr, a filter aid in brewing, help disadvantaged people find employment, 2 production activities in the last three years which was previously diverted to landfill support high-impact social entrepreneurs ended 30 June 2012 is as in the table below.
Diageo uses the World Resources Complementing the companys focus The group also provides payments to Institute World Business Council for Sustainable on its own waste is its aim to design packaging the Thalidomide Trust in the UK and the Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol: that has the lowest possible environmental Thalidomide Foundation Ltd in Australia in A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, footprint while still fulfilling the functional support of a legacy commitment.
Diageos Revised Edition, as a basis for reporting its requirements to protect, deliver and present investment comes from its businesses emissions and includes the facilities over its products and brands.
This aspiration is set around the world in the form of cash, in-kind which it has operational control.
Additional out in the Sustainable Packaging Guidelines, donations and volunteer time, together with information on the calculations with respect published in the current financial year, which grants from the Diageo Foundation.
to Diageos greenhouse gas footprint is are used across all markets.
Among the Diageos largest community programme available on Diageos website at initiatives are light weighting, or reducing the is Water of Life, explained above.
weight of packaging: removing materials that significant programmes include Learning for In the year ended 30 June 2012, Diageos cannot be or are difficult to recycle, including Life, which provides education and vocational greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 9.4% PVC, foil, mixed plastics, ceramics and some training in Latin America and Caribbean to or 70,300 tonnes CO as compared to the prior laminates: and, where viable alternatives help enable people to find employment, 2 year.
This was achieved despite an increase exist, removing materials from the packaging, and support of social entrepreneurs, either in production over the same time period and such as inks and heavy metals that may pose through brand-sponsored community was driven by improvements in Diageos a risk to the environment.
initiatives such as the Arthur Guinness Fund operations such as process redesign, or Diageos Champions for Change project equipment improvements, investments, Local socio-economic development in Asia Pacific.
retrofitting, and cultural and behavioural Diageo recognises that its success in the In addition to community programmes, changes.
A key driver of performance was future will depend in part on the prosperity Diageo supports involvement by its Diageos Gimli site in Manitoba, Canada which of the communities in which it operates and employees to benefit local communities, implemented a range of activities including the strength of its relationships with those for example taking proactive measures to improving steam to fuel combustion, communities.
First and foremost, Diageos react rapidly to natural disasters affecting commercial performance can drive economic improving heat transfer from cooling systems, communities in the markets in which it and purchasing an increased amount of low development through increased local operates.
In the year ended 30 June 2012, employment, wages, taxes and investment.
Diageo is also investing in the Diageo employees supported victims of bio-energy potential of its breweries and Diageo is also committed to contributing natural disasters in Thailand, the Philippines to local communities by encouraging local distilleries.
For example the new bio-energy and Australia.
Through the employee-giving plant at the Glenlossie distillery, Scotland, sourcing of raw materials, engaging local programme Giving for Good, Diageo stakeholders and investing in initiatives that will harness the potential of burning draff to employees raised enough money to create steam for the distilling process, and is address local needs.
Diageo believes that complete last years water filter programme supporting long term sustainable initiatives projected to save approximately 6,000 tonnes in Africa, donating kits to schools and health of CO per year.
in the communities where it does business clinics in Ghana.
2 advances the development of those Another focus of Diageos environmental programme is reducing the amount of waste communities, engages employees, builds Suppliers Diageos reputation and enhances its Diageo sends to landfill.
In addition to Diageo buys a range of raw materials, minimising Diageos environmental footprint, relationships with governments and products and services from people and other stakeholders.
this has a cost benefit through diverting waste organisations all over the world, creating value distribution expenses and saving on material Community investment in the year for the communities and economies in which ended 30 June 2012 amounted to 0.9% of inputs.
Some examples of the solutions it operates, and gaining commercial value implemented in the year ended 30 June 2012 Diageos operating profit before exceptional in return.
How the company works with items.
Investment is focused on supporting suppliers is therefore fundamental to the included, in Nigeria, supplying spent grain to farmers for use as feedstock, and the projects that provide access to clean water sustainable management of the business.
for local communities, run skills training to introduction of innovative new technology 1, 2 Year ended 30 June 2012 2011 2010 Scope 1 Direct CO emissions thousand tonnes CO 597.6 648.1 675.0 2 2 Scope 2 Indirect CO emissions thousand tonnes CO 83.9 103.7 137.3 2 2 Total thousand tonnes CO 681.5 751.8 812.3 2 CO ratio gCO per litre of product packaged 190 215 234 2 2 Data included in this table in respect of the year ended 30 June 2012 is covered by KPMGs independent assurance report see Independent Assurance Report of KPMG Audit Plc to Diageo plc under Additional information for shareholders section.
1 GHG figures are calculated using the kWh CO conversion factor provided by energy suppliers, 2 the relevant factors to the country of operation or the International Energy Agency, as applicable.
2 2007 baseline data and data for the four years ended 30 June 2011 has been restated in accordance with WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Reporting Protocol and Diageo Environmental Reporting Guidelines.
Diageo Environmental Reporting Guidelines available at http: srrreport2012.
