Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Import and excise duties can have a significant on trade outlets for example, licensed bars Associates impact on the final pricing of Diageos and restaurants which prevails in much of the Diageos principal associate is Mot Hennessy.
These duties have western world for example, most US states It also owns shares in a number of other an impact on the competitive position as and the European Union.
In the year ended 30 June 2012, compared to other brands.
The group devotes of the states in the United States, price the share of profits of associates after tax was resources to encouraging the equitable changes must be filed or published 30 days 213 million 2011 176 million: 2010 142 taxation treatment of all beverage alcohol to three months, depending on the state, million, of which Mot Hennessy accounted categories and to reducing governmentbefore they become effective.
for 205 million 2011 179 million: 2010 imposed barriers to fair trading.
Labelling of beverage alcohol products 134 million.
Advertising, marketing and sales of is also regulated in many markets, varying Diageo owns 34% of Mot Hennessy, alcohol are subject to various restrictions in from health warning labels to importer the spirits and wine subsidiary of LVMH Mot markets around the world.
These range from identification, alcohol strength and other Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA LVMH.
LVMH is a complete prohibition of alcohol in certain consumer information.
As well as producer, based in France and is listed on the Paris Stock countries and cultures, through the importer or bottler identification, specific Exchange.
Mot Hennessy is also based in prohibition of the import of spirits, wine and warning statements related to the risks of France and is a producer and exporter of a beer, to restrictions on the advertising style, drinking beverage alcohol products are number of brands in its main business areas media and messages used.
In a number of required to be included on all beverage of champagne and cognac.
Its principal countries, television is a prohibited medium alcohol products sold in the United States champagne brands are Mot & Chandon for spirits brands and in other countries, and in other countries where Diageo operates.
including Dom Prignon, Veuve Clicquot television advertising, while permitted, is Expressions of political concern signify the and Mercier, all of which are included in the carefully regulated.
uncertain future of beverage alcohol products top 10 champagne brands worldwide by Spirits, beer and wine are also regulated advertising on network television in the volume.
Mot Hennessy also owns Hennessy, in distribution.
In many countries, alcohol may United States.
Any prohibitions on advertising which is the top cognac brand worldwide by only be sold through licensed outlets, both or marketing could have an adverse impact volume, and Glenmorangie, a malt whisky.
on and off trade, varying from government on sales of the group.
Since 1987, a number of joint distribution or state operated monopoly outlets for Regulatory decisions and changes in arrangements have been established with example, Canada, Norway and certain US the legal and regulatory environment could LVMH, principally covering distribution of states to the common system of licensed increase Diageos costs and liabilities or Diageos premium brands of Scotch whisky impact on its business activities.
and gin and Mot Hennessys premium champagne and cognac brands in the Asia Business services Pacific region and France.
Diageo and LVMH Diageo continues to standardise its key have each undertaken not to engage in any business activities with customers, champagne or cognac activities competing consumers, suppliers and the processes that with those of Mot Hennessy.
The summarise and report financial performance.
arrangements also contain certain provisions In that regard, global processes have been for the protection of Diageo as a minority designed, built and implemented across a shareholder in Mot Hennessy.
The number of markets and operational entities.
operations of Mot Hennessy in France are Diageo uses shared services operations conducted through a partnership in which to deliver transaction processing and certain Diageo has a 34% interest and, as a partner, central finance activities, using captive and Diageo pays any tax due on its share of outsourced centres.
A captive business service the results of the partnership to the centre in Budapest, Hungary, performs various tax authorities.
process tasks for markets and operational entities.
In the year ended 30 June 2012, Diageo announced the opening of new captive business service centres in Nairobi, Kenya and Bogota, Colombia.
Diageo also uses third party service centres in Manila, Shanghai and Bucharest to perform tasks for basic processes.
Certain central finance activities, including elements of group financial planning and reporting and treasury, are performed in the business service centre in Budapest.
Smirnoff returned to strong growth, driven by a marked acceleration in developed markets and double digit growth in Africa and Latin America.
