10 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Performance review Our business model Creating long-term value Hor our customers Our investment proposition: its all about lighting Dialight defines the current state of LED environmentally friendly thereby helping lighting technology with continuous innovations toreduce CO emissions, the dominant 2 inlight output, efcacy andreliability for our Greenhouse Gas contributor toglobal warming.
complete line ofhigh-specication lighting With our high-specication range ofproducts xtures specifically designed for industrial, we are uniquely positioned for a number commercial, hazardous location and oflong-term global growthtrends, many of transportation applications.
whichare driven by government regulations These results are directly related to ourongoing andenvironmental initiatives.
commitment to advancing SolidState Lighting products that vastly reduce maintenance, improvesafety, ease disposaland are more 3 Why Dialight LED xtures!
High-brightness LEDs and optics system 1 We apply the brightest LEDs from the worlds 1 most , which have third-party test data andanalysis to support Mechanical design ourlifetime claims and full performance thermal heatsinking warranty.
Paired with our proprietary optics, Our LED xtures are optimally designed weconcentrate light to the targeted area, 2 todissipate heat generated by LEDs and ratherthan waste iton walls, tops of shelves electrical components in order to meet orinto the night sky.
lifetimeexpectations set by our customers.
4 2 3 Highly durable and Electrical design eHcient lenses Highly efficient universal power supplies Dialight provides its customers with extremely arecustom built for eachluminaire, tailored durable lensoptions for a range of indoor tomeetspecic certications, extreme 4 andoutdoor applications.
Depending on our temperatures and rugged environments.
customers specic needs, we offer lenses made from glass, polycarbonate or acrylic.
com PerHormance review Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 11 Performance review With continuing improvements in LED technology The corner stones oH andour ability to turn these into even stronger value our business model propositions for our customers, we are seeing exciting opportunities forthe Group in new products, markets andsectors across the world.
Markets We focus on large niche markets, each with a barrier Markets Development toentry, offering compelling operational, environmental and 1 cost-efficiency benets using advances enabled by LED technology to expand our presence in new markets.
Delivering long-term value propositions Development Weuse our technological expertise in thermalmanagement, optics and electronic circuitry to innovate through the 2 development and improvement of newand existing products, Technology Acquisitions bringing further efficiencies through cost improvements andproduct design.
Technology We apply for intellectual property protection for all newly developed products and designs whenever possible.
3 Acquisitions Our expansion into key regions continues with the acquisition of the trade and assets in Airinet, the establishment of 4 DialightAsia, ajoint venture company in Singapore, and the establishment of a new manufacturing facility in Malaysia.
Delivering long-term value propositions www.
