14 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Performance review Regional review The Americas Home to the Groups largest manufacturing facility and the largest region by revenue.
As Dialight moves into 2013, the Americas will 93.0m seecontinued investment and expansion.
Revenue Summary Setting the standard Hor ha ardous location lighting Acquisition oH Airinet, controls company in Colorado Proximity to oil and gas multinationals The region includes a manufacturing facility The year also saw the acquisition of the Ariel Abam inRoxboro, NC, a salesofce in Houston, TX, assetsof Airinet.
Airinethas developed leading General Manager corporate headquarters inFarmingdale, NJ edge networked management systems for Dialight fide Mexico andDialights largest factory, located 75 miles Lighting, which deliver features such as dimming, south of the USA-Mexico borderin the city daylight harvesting, exible scheduling, tailored ofEnsenada, Baja California.
occupancy, diagnostics, power monitoring, In the last 12 months we and real timedata reporting.
These networks The Ensenada site has over 700 employees are basedon power line, wireless, or hybrid haveseen great results in andmore than 175,000 sq ft of production space communications to deliver two way capabilities.
theAmericas, delivering to in two large facilities.
The mild climate and strategic Among its existing patent applications is its newcustomers and driving position of Ensenada in the Pacic rimmake this Light Control Module which instantly upgrades location perfect for year roundmanufacturing and growth across the board an ordinary light to a smart light without distribution.
Ensenada has capabilities tobuild Solid modication to existing equipment.
Thissystem State Lighting, Trafc signals, Obstruction signals, will allow substantial energy savingson top of and panel mount LED indicators.
It is certied by those that are already available from switching ISO9001-2008, INMETRO, IECEX, ATEX, FAA, to Dialights LED lights.
Dialight is established as a leading supplier in Manufacturing processes in Ensenada range the Lighting market in North America.
Sales into from state-of-the-art Surface Mount Technology Mxico, Colombia and Venezuela grew in 2012 SMT to Computerized Numeric Control and are expected to continue to do so through CNC milling machines for machining 2013.
These emerging markets are adopting ofaluminium castings and electrical test LED industrial technology and Dialight has equipment for finished products.
The strong wonseveral projects in the industrial and growth of Lighting in 2012 required investment oiland gas sectors in 2012 withmajor clients.
in these types of machinery and equipment andwill continue through 2013. www.
com PerHormance review Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 15 Performance review Offshore Rig in Gulf Coast Case study Major oil renery Key Hacts: Market: Oil, Gas and Petrochemical Start date November 2012 A major US rig owner purchased over 1,200 Dialight LED lighting xtures to outt eight new land based drilling rigs in November End date Ongoing 2012.
The installation represents a small part of the potential market Cost 850,000 for thistype of application, and shows our customers awareness oftheadvantages our lights bring.
The Texas-based customer, who has in excess The decision to purchase Dialight of1,000 land rigs in its fleet including platform LEDlighting xtures was made to avoid and barge rigs, decided to move forward with installing uorescent and HID xtures which -19GWh theinstallation following a highly successful typically have frequent bulb failures due to Energy consumption reduction trialof Dialights LED light xtures.
Dialight was the severe shock and vibration of the rig, uniquely positioned to provide the lighting system costing the operator thousands per year as the only manufacturer of the specic types inmaintenance costs.
ofLED xtures with the hazardous location certications required for the application.
View this case study online www.
com 16 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Performance review Regional review continued Asia Pacic Australia Dialights presence in Asia has been signicantly strengthened through the establishment of Dialight Asia in Singapore and a new 10.8m manufacturing facility in Malaysia that will operate alongside our Revenue American and European facilities.
Dialight isalso signicantly investingand expanding in Australia.
Summary Increased sales capability in South East Asia ManuHacturing Hacilities closer to our customers 100% growth in sales and 150% increase in employees in Australia Maran Elangkathir During 2012 Dialight also expanded its reach Overview toNewZealand with the appointment of a Plant Manager, July 2012 saw Dialight take on a five year lease newdistributor.
In Australia, Dialight increased Dialight Penang Sdn Bhd for a new 40,000 square foot facility in Penang, itssmall base in Perth, Western Australia, with Malaysia Malaysia.
This allowedthe Group to improve thesuccessful recruitment of keystaff including itsspeed to market and reduce the level of a regional oil and gas sector manager and The addition of a manufacturing inventory held atother locations.
Whilst the business development managers in Adelaide, Malaysian facility will initially be involved inthe presence in Malaysia is in line Brisbane, Melbourne, Perth and Sydney.
manufacture of products for the largest electronics with Dialights strategy for global Thisrecruitment has continued into 2013.
OEMs it willbe producing LED lighting products expansion.
The facility wasestablished in The year also saw the appointment of a third toour growing customer base cooperation with a highly experienced local party warehousing company in Sydney to inAsia while strengthening management team, all of whom have been distribute stock on the east coast of Australia involved with similar projects before.
ourvalue proposition and the appointment of 16 electrical wholesaler stockists nationally.
In September 2012 Dialight entered into a jointventure arrangement which resulted in the Malcolm Lee establishment of a new Company, Dialight Asia, Managing Director that would bear responsibility forthe sale Dialight ILS Australia Pty Ltd andpromotion ofDialight Lighting products in South East Asia.
Dialight Asia will benefit from anumber of sales personnel that are currently employed by our new joint venture partner but 2012 has seen real growth in our will alsoseek to build up amuch larger sales capabilities through the addition organisation as time moves on so that Dialight Asia ofsales resource which allows is equipped to address key oil and gas markets in usto increase our reach the region.
Itis envisaged that ultimately all products throughoutAustralia sold by Dialight Asia will be supplied from the Companys new facility in Penang.
com PerHormance review Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 17 Performance review Lanxess Pte Ltd, Jurong Island, Singapore Case study Leading chemical plant Market: Chemical and Pharmaceutical Key Hacts: - Provision of 2,370 LED lighting xtures A leading specialty chemicals company announced the construction forindoor outdoor process areas and of a new, best in class, energy efficient and environmentally friendly internal roads butyl rubber plant.
The facility is located on a 200,000 square metre - Resulting 55% energy reduction plot of land on Jurong Island, Singapore andistted with Dialight - Annual power savings of 1,150,000kWh equivalent to SGD 241,500 applications throughout.
- 811 metric tons CO emissions 2 avoidedannually At the outset the key objectives for the plant apparent.
Dialight provided the lighting design - Return on investment in 1.5 years for were to be more energy and resource efficient, to convert the conventional lighting for indoors xtures operated 24 7 and also more environmentally friendly.
As part and outdoors areas to LED products for both of this the project team recognised that the non-hazardous and hazardous application.
lighting solution wouldplay an important role The decision to use LED lighting throughout inachieving these objectives.
the five major production areas of the facility The challenge was to nd suitable light xtures was made simple with the five-year performance that were certied for use in the hazardous warranty from Dialight which would result environment, would deliver reliable lighting ineliminating the burden of maintenance.
innormal and emergency mode operation, Byconverting to LED lighting, energy andwould meet the requirements for reduced consumption and carbon emissions reduced energy consumption and reduced maintenance.
The low operating temperature of The original design for the facility featured amix theLED xtures was also ahealth and safety of uorescent T8s and metal halide xtures, benefit, as it removed therisk of burn injury but Dialight were given the opportunity to propose common with metal halides for anyone who a new lighting design featuring its LED lighting might come into contact withthexture.
com technology and the benets immediately became www.
com 18 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Performance review Regional review continued Europe Middle East The last 12 months has seen on-going improvements in respect ofDialights EuropeanLighting products.
Planning and teamwork 25.9m were some ofthekey ingredients todelivering success in 2012.
Revenue Summary 17 direct sales personnel in the region Strong regional distributors in Abu Dhabi, UAE and 3atar ManuHacturing Hacility in Newmarket, UK Vertical integration oH supply chain Taken together, these developments mean Simon Scott Overview thatDialight nowhas control of the majority Operations Manager Dialight Europe Limited operates out of Newmarket, ofsignicant processes required to produce Dialight Europe Limited UK UK with facilities in Germany andDenmark and products such as the HighBay.
2012 was also possibly Europes busiest year 2012 presented many challenges as Dialight Were building on what weve sofarbut also one of the most organised as constantly kept up with changes, as more Dialight has made changes to working practices learntover the years and will andmore product variants as well as design inorder to deliver to customers.
Weve drastically improvements were introduced.
The number continue togrow by working increased the capacity of processes and assembly ofchanges and the rate of change accelerated closely together as a team.
This lines through a combination of investments and throughout the year.
means ensuring we understand byrunning key areas 24 7 as required.
Dialights vertical integration strategy setting the changing needs of our Sales in mainland Europe ended 2012with up key production processes in-house, has customers and developing new trialsand orders of products at key hazardous delivered great results over the last few years, reliable technologies so that we customers as well as increased penetration reducing costs and lead times, as well as ofthe industrial market with orders from large keep delivering what they want increasing exibility and responsiveness.
In the attheright price and time Thisshift began with significant investment Middle East we secured our first large Oil in:moulding equipment to support the Trafc andGas offshore project in Abu Dhabi and programme: new SMT and through hole ourincreasing sales presence now covers equipment that enabled us tobuild light SaudiArabia, Oman, Kuwait, Qatar, Bahrain enginesandpower supplies for allLED Lighting: andthe UAE, giving us the opportunity to a second machining centre tomachine High establish long-term concrete relations with Bay castings: a powder coating plant to paint keycustomersin the area.
them: and, cable processing equipment to produce the ever increasing variety of wiring harnesses that we now use.
com PerHormance review Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 19 Performance review Rexam, Milton Keynes, UK Case study Consumer packaging company Key Hacts: Market: Heavy industrial - Annual savings of 43,000 in energy costs As a leading consumer packaging company with 83 manufacturing - Replacement of 340 x 400w MV with sites across the globe, Rexam makes the packaging for many of 150wLED High Bays theworlds favourite brands, striving to produce it as efficiently - Over 60% reduction in energy needs andsustainably as possible.
- 460 tonnes annual reduction in CO emissions 2 - Expensive maintenance eliminated Producing 4.5 million cans a day for the bringing in specialist hired riggers at acost - Improved safety and productivity UKandNorthern Europe at its beverage of750 per day.
- Payback in just over two years canning plant in Milton Keynes UK, the Rexam looked at six alternative lighting solutions company took the decision to review its from a variety of manufacturers, trying out lighting at this facility inorder to reduce samples over athree month test period, energy consumption.
before choosing Dialights DuroSite Series The Milton Keynes production line and LED High Bays on the combined basis of warehouse are in constant use and the lighting price and performance.
The company previously had issues the plant, they replaced the 400w mercury in two other plants with mercury vapour lamps, vapours one-for-one with 150w LED High so had taken a decision to enclose them all Bays throughout the production orchange them out altogether.
looked at a new lightingsolution that would Rexam calculate that its lighting energy needs save energy aswellas meet safety standards.
forthe High Bays have reduced from1,100kWh With 340 x 400w mercury vapour high bays to433kWh per year, saving 43,000 annually throughout the facility, energy costs were high, atarate of 0.06 kWh, andestimates a butmaintenance was also a big consideration.
payback period of a little over two years when Themercury vapour high bay lamps were compared with the alternative solution of open averaging a23 year lifespan and being replaced rated lamps.
Further savings can be counted when they failed or looked ready to fail at a rate View this case study online from the reduced maintenance burden thanks www.
Thisoften involved to Dialights continuous performance warranty.
