4 Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Overview Our marketplace Spotlight on global expansion Europe Even in difficult economic conditions, we have North America increased sales throughout Europe and provide ourcustomers attractive payback periods and Our success across North America spans all returnon investment.
of our vertical markets, from oil and gas in the Gulf Coast to mining in the north-west.
Middle East With very low energy costs, the market is driven by maintenance cost reduction and safety improvements.
The Expanding Americas regions Throughout 2012, we were 93.0m committed to expanding our presence in many key G. S. Dunn Limited, Revenue Ontario, Canada geographical locations and markets.
From adding Overview direct employees, growing With momentum building in all target markets in the US, sales channels and adding 2012was the year that we also broke ground with some global certications to our largerinstallations in Canada and Mexico, while creating a product line, our reach has pipeline ofprojects in various South American countries as well.
Growth potential Dialight is becoming known As the number of individual facilities installing Dialights xtures worldwide as the leader in grows, we are starting to see installation successes shared technology advancements, internallyat larger companies.
reliability and longevity in lighting.
com Overview Dialight plc Annual report and accounts 2012 5 Overview Australia Quickly becoming recognised as the leading brand for LED lighting in Australia, wevemade great strides with key customers.
Asia Pacic With the formation of Dialight Asia Pte Ltd Dialight Asia in2012, Dialight recognised significant growth throughout the region especially within the oil andgasmarkets.
Asia Pacic Europe Australia Middle East 10.8m 25.9m Ribbon cutting ceremony, MMD Shipping Logistics, Revenue Dialight Penang, Malaysia Revenue Portsmouth, UK Overview Overview With some of the richest and most stable economies in the world, Major programs are in place to cut energy usage and CO 2 emissions in many countries such as Germany and the UK, Dialight continues to invest and expand in this region.
alongwitha growing energy deficit in Saudi Arabia forcing Growth potential lightingusers to consider efficient alternatives.
With massive mining operations in Australia and Indonesia and Growth potential growing oil and gas capacity throughout the entire region, the adoption of LED lighting will continue to grow and provide safer With significant heavy industry across the region including approximately 200 reneries and 500 platforms in the North Sea, and more efficient illumination for these environments.
there is a massive opportunity for our customers to improve safety and reduce maintenance with our certied LED lighting xtures.
