Our business Governance Financial statements Other information Directors report for the 52 week period ended 28 December 2012 The Directors present their report and the audited Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed consolidated financial statements for Dignity plc on page 32 and 33 of the Annual Report, confirm that, to the and its subsidiaries for the 52 week period ended best of their knowledge and belief: 28 December 2012.
The Group financial statements, which have been prepared The company registration number of Dignity plc is 4569346. in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and Statement of Directors responsibilities profit of the Group: and The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual The Directors report contained in the Annual Report Report, the Report on Directors Remuneration and the includes a fair review of the development and performance financial statements in accordance with applicable law of the business and the position of the Group, together with and regulations.
a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Principal activities and business review Directors have prepared the Group financial statements in The principal activity of the Group is the provision of funeral accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards services including funeral directing, crematoria operation and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and the parent the marketing and administration of pre-arranged funeral company financial statements in accordance with United plans.
The principal activity of the Company is that of a Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United holding company.
Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial The principal activities and key performance indicators of the statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true Group are also described on pages 16 to 19 of the Annual and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Report.
A review of the development of the business in 2012, Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that events affecting the Group since the end of the financial year period.
In preparing these financial statements, the and likely future developments are referred to in the Business Directors are required to: Review, which is incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: The review of business activities in the Business Review, Make judgements and accounting estimates that are Financial Review and the Directors Statement of Corporate reasonable and prudent: and Governance are in line with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
State whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, Principal risks and uncertainties subject to any material departures disclosed and explained Operational risks are considered on page 21. in the Group and parent Company financial statements respectively.
An assessment of the Groups exposure to financial risks and a description of how these risks are managed are included The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable Share capital accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company During the period, the Group issued 427 Ordinary Shares of and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial 10.5 pence each to satisfy options exercised under the Save statements and the Report on Directors Remuneration As You Earn Scheme SAYE.
The SAYE options were granted comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the in 2010.
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of The 2010 SAYE scheme does not vest until October 2013, the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable at which point option holders will have the ability to exercise steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other their options.
The issued share capital of Dignity plc at 28 December 2012 The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and consisted of 54,757,481 Ordinary Shares of 10.5 pence integrity of the Groups websites and legislation in the United each.
All the Ordinary Shares carry the same rights and Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of obligations.
There are no other class or type of share in issue.
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 51 | Directors report continued for the 52 week period ended 28 December 2012 A special resolution passed at the last Annual General career development of disabled persons, subject only to Meeting on 14 June 2012 gives Dignity plc the authority to their aptitudes and abilities.
The Group endeavours, as far as purchase up to 2,737,852 Ordinary Shares of 10.5 pence practicable, to treat disabled persons equally with others and each at not less than nominal value and not more than five will also endeavour to help and accommodate persons who per cent above the average middle market quotation for the become disabled whilst working for Dignity.
At the same meeting the Company was also given authority to allot Ordinary Shares Directors and their interests up to an aggregate nominal value of 1,916,496 of which Details of the Directors of the Company who were in up to 287,474 may be for cash on a non pre-emptive basis.
office during the period and up to the date of signing the These authorities will expire at the conclusion of the next financial statements are shown in the Report on Directors Annual General Meeting on 6 June 2013.
It is the intention Remuneration on pages 39 and 42.
In accordance with the of the Directors to seek renewal of these authorities at that Articles of Association and the UK Corporate Governance Annual General Meeting.
There are no restrictions at the Code 2010 Code, at the Annual General Meeting, all period end on the transfer of securities.
Directors will retire as Directors of the Company and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Results Meeting on 6 June 2013.
The results for the period are set out in the Consolidated income statement on page 55.
Group profit before tax During the period, the Company maintained liability amounted to 45.4 million 2011: 40.3 million.
insurance for its Directors and Officers.
The Directors of each of the Companys subsidiaries have the benefit of an Dividends indemnity provision in the Companys Articles of Association.
An interim dividend of 5.36 pence 2011: 4.87 pence per The indemnity provision, which is a qualifying third party share was paid on 26 October 2012.
The Board has proposed indemnity provision as defined by Section 234 of the a final dividend of 10.75 pence 2011: 9.77 pence per Companies Act 2006, was in force throughout the period share, which, subject to approval at the Annual General and is currently in force.
Meeting, will be paid on 28 June 2013 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 24 May 2013.
Health and safety policy The Groups operations are designed in such a way as to Payments policy ensure, so far as reasonably practical, the health, safety The Group or Company has no formal code or standard that and welfare of all of our employees and all other persons deals specifically with the payment of suppliers.
However, who may be attending our premises.
This is discussed in the Group or Company policy on the payment of all creditors the Corporate and Social Responsibility Report on pages is to ensure that the terms of payment as specified by, and 22 to 31. agreed with, the supplier are not exceeded, provided all trading terms and conditions have been complied with.
The Corporate Social Responsibility average creditor payment period for the Group was 36 days Maintaining the quality of the environment in which we all 2011: 40 days.
The Company has no trade creditors.
live is an important concern for the Group.
This is discussed in the Corporate and Social Responsibility Report on pages Key contractual arrangements 22 to 31 alongside other social and ethical considerations.
The Directors consider there to be one key contractual arrangement in relation to the supply and maintenance of Donations cremators.
This company is responsible for supplying and The Group made charitable donations amounting to maintaining cremators and their abatement equipment.
0.1 million 2011: 0.1 million during the period.
There If this company ceased to trade, the Group may have were no political donations.
Further information can be difficulties in maintaining such equipment.
Employment policies Going concern During the period, the Group has maintained its obligations The Directors receive and review regularly management to develop and improve arrangements aimed at involving accounts, cash balances, forecasts and the annual budget employees in its affairs.
Methods of communication used together with covenant reporting.
After careful consideration, include an in-house newsletter, an employee website, and mindful of the current market conditions, the Directors bulletins and management briefings.
This is discussed in confirm they are satisfied that the Group has adequate more detail in the Corporate and Social Responsibility Report resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis for preparing the financial statements.
The Directors Employment policies are designed to provide equal formally considered this matter at the Board meeting held opportunities irrespective of age, sexuality, colour, ethnic on 1 March 2013. or national origin, religion, nationality, sex or marital status.
Full consideration is given to the employment, training and Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 52 | Our business Governance Financial statements Other information Post balance sheet events Independent Auditors and disclosure Please refer to note 32 of the Notes to the Consolidated of information to Auditors Financial Statements for further details.
A resolution for the reappointment of  LLP will be proposed at the 25 January 2013 forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
On 25 January 2013, the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of Yew Holdings Limited for a consideration In the case of each of the persons who are Directors at the of 58.3 million.
Yew Holdings Limited owns and operates time when the report is approved, the following applies: 40 funeral locations and two crematoria in Northern England.
These businesses will be integrated into the Groups existing So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit operations and branch network.
information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and 2,283,019 Ordinary Shares were issued at a price of 10.60, generating proceeds of 24.2 million.
These Ordinary Shares The Directors have taken appropriate steps to make rank pari passu with all other Ordinary Shares.
themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that A further 5.8 million was drawn under the Groups information.
As a result, the 15.8 million facility is secured against seven crematoria held outside the Corporate Governance Statement Securitisation Group.
The information that fulfils the requirements of a corporate governance statement in accordance with rule 7.2 of the A new 34 million five year term loan with the Royal Bank of Disclosure and Transparency Rules can be found in this Scotland was then raised against the Yew assets and certain Directors Report and in the Directors Statement on other trading assets held outside the Securitisation Group.
Corporate Governance on pages 45 to 50, which is Approximately 2 million of principal is repayable annually incorporated by reference.
and the pre tax cost of the debt is fixed at approximately four per cent for the term of the loan.
The term loan has no undrawn amounts.
By order of the Board The acquisition of Yew was made outside the Securitisation Group.
Consequently, it does not adversely affect the timing Richard Portman or overall quantum of any potential future return of value.
Company Secretary 27 February 2013 6 March 2013 On 27 February 2013, the 15.8 million Crematoria Acquisition Facility was refinanced with the Royal Bank of Scotland.
The new facility is for a period of five years, with the principal repayable in one amount at the end of the term.
The cost of funds is fixed for the term of the loan at approximately 3.3 per cent.
This facility has no undrawn amounts.
Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 53 |
