Board of Directors n Peter Hindley 69 Mike McCollum 45 Chief Executive Non-Executive Chairman The role of our experienced Board Appointed to the Board: 2004 Appointed to the Board: 2004 is to lead the Group Background and experience: Background and experience: Peter has extensive experience of the Mike joined Dignitys former parent, with a view to the industry having been appointed Chief SCI, in 1995 from KPMG Corporate Executive of Plantsbrook Group plc Finance in London.
He was appointed creation of strong, in 1991.
Following the acquisition of Finance Director at the end of 2001 and Plantsbrook Group plc and Great became Chief Executive at the beginning sustainable performance Southern Group plc by SCI in 1994, of 2009.
He has a law degree from he was appointed CEO of SCI UK.
B, is and long-term He subsequently led a management a solicitor and also holds an MBA buy out of the Group from SCI in 2002. from Warwick University.
The Company was then floated on the Stock Exchange in 2004.
Peter became External appointments: Non-Executive Chairman in January Director of Funeral Planning 2009.
Before entering the funeral Authority Limited.
service industry, Peter spent 25 years in retailing, holding senior positions in Debenhams, Burtons and Harris Queensway.
Steve Whittern 38 Andrew Davies 51 Richard Portman 51 Finance Director Operations Director Corporate Services Director Appointed to the Board: 2009 Appointed to the Board: 2004 Appointed to the Board: 2006 Background and experience: Background and experience: Background and experience: Steve joined the Group in 1999 from Andrew joined his family owned business Richard joined SCI from HSBC as KPMG.
He was appointed Finance in 1979 and worked as a funeral director Chief Accountant in 1999.
Following Director at the beginning of 2009, having and embalmer until the business was the IPO, Richard was appointed as spent the previous two years as Financial sold to Great Southern Group in 1993.
Company Secretary and became Controller, being responsible for the He then held various management Corporate Services Director in 2006.
Steve led the positions within Great Southern Group Richard is an FCA, holds a geography further debt issue and Return of Value and following the acquisition by SCI in degree from Birmingham University in 2010.
Steve is an FCA and holds 1994, held senior operational positions and is a Member of the Chartered a mathematics degree from within SCI UK.
He became Operations Management Institute and of the Warwick University.
Director in 2001 and was a member of Investor Relations Society.
the management buy out team in 2002.
External appointments: External appointments: None.
Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 32 | Our business Governance Financial statements Other information a n r a n r Alan McWalter 59 Ishbel Macpherson 52 Board Committee Key Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director a Member of the Audit Committee n Member of the Nomination Committee Appointed to the Board: 2009 Appointed to the Board: 2009 r Member of the Remuneration Committee Background and experience: Background and experience: Alan is a Non-Executive Director Ishbel is a Non-Executive Director of Churchill China plc, Haygarth Group of Synthomer plc and Dechra Limited, Fabris Lane Limited and is Pharmaceuticals plc.
She is also Senior Non-Executive Chairman of Constantine Independent Non-Executive Director of Group plc and Kornicis Group Limited.
May Gurney Integrated Services plc and Prior to these roles Alan was Group Chairman of Speedy Hire plc.
Prior to Marketing Director of Marks and those roles she held senior positions with Spencer plc and before that held Barclays fide Zoete Wedd, Hoare Govett senior positions with Kingfisher plc and Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein.
a n r a n r Jane Ashcroft 46 Martin Pexton 56 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board: 2012 Appointed to the Board: 2012 Background and experience: Background and experience: Jane is Chief Executive of Anchor, a Martin was previously Managing leading provider of services to older Director of LMS Capital plc and prior people and has held a number of senior to that an Executive Director of London positions since joining them in 1999.
Merchant Securities plc and Personnel She is also Non-Executive Chair of the Director of the law firm Allen & Overy.
English Community Care Association and He has also in the past held a number was previously a Non-Executive Director of non-executive positions including of Stroud & Swindon Building Society.
roles with Minerva plc and Inflexion plc A graduate of Stirling University, she as well as a number with private is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered companies.
He has an MBA from the Secretaries & Administrators and a London Business School.
Member of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development.
Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 33 |
