Our consistent strategy for growth We are here to help people at one of the most difficult times in their lives.
We do this with compassion, respect, openness and care.
Our aim is to be the company everyone knows they can trust in their time of need.
In turn we believe this will also allow us to create value for shareholders and through our clear, consistent strategy and resilient business model, the Group is well positioned to continue to deliver long term sustainable growth.
Our strategy Continuing to control our operating costs: We plan to grow the profitability of our business by: Developing or acquiring additional funeral locations: Operating in a traditional market where people use our services based on our reputation and through Developing, managing or acquiring additional recommendations, where we believe our continued crematoria: and commitment to excellent service for our clients will generate a high level of referral and organic National marketing, principally through affinity partners, revenue growth: of pre-ar ranged funeral plans.
Our key priorities Ensuring the highest levels of client service excellence: Continued investment: High levels of client service demonstrably affect clients We invest heavily in our existing business to ensure it is willingness to recommend our services.
Recommendations of the best possible standard, both in client facing areas and our reputation generates approximately 75 per cent and behind the scenes.
We also seek to invest in new of our funeral business.
businesses that will help Dignity grow and create value for shareholders.
Attracting, developing and retaining the best people: Delivering long term shareholder returns: Our employees are central to the success of the business.
We seek to attract and retain the best people through Our business is driven by relatively predictable factors appropriate remuneration and ongoing training.
over long periods of time.
This allows us to operate and fund our business in a way that generates value over the long term.
Delivering on our strategy 98.2% 18 locations 98.2 per cent of clients would recommend us.
We have acquired 18 funeral locations in the period for an investment of 10.6 million.
2.0million 11.8million Discretionary bonuses totalling 2.0 million were We have invested 11.8 million maintaining our made to staff across the business.
properties and replacing our specialist vehicles.
Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 06 |
