DIPLOMA PLC 15 Sector Review Life Sciences Seals Controls 30% 38% 32% of revenues of revenues of revenues 1 1 1 Geography Geography Geography 75% Canada 76% North America 58% UK 17% Europe 12% Europe 35% Continental Europe 8% ROW 12% ROW 7% ROW Customers Customers Customers 82% Clinical 43% Industrial OEMs 29% Industrial 10% Utilities 38% Heavy Construction 28% Aerospace & Defence 5% Chemical & Petrochemical 10% Other Industrial 19% Food & Beverage 2% Life Sciences Research 4% Industrial Aftermarket 15% Motorsport 1% Other Life Sciences 4% Dump & Refuse trucks 6% Energy & Utilities 1% Logging & Agriculture 3% Medical & scientific Products Products Products 68% Consumables 62% Seals & Seal Kits 44% Wire & Cable 23% Instrumentation 12% O-rings 14% Connectors 9% Service 11% Attachment Kits 14% Control Devices 9% Gaskets 12% Equipment & Components 6% Cylinders & Other 10% Fasteners 6% Other Controls 270 employees worldwide 489 employees worldwide 292 employees worldwide 1 By destination.
1 Geography Europe North America Rest of World 39% 54% 7% 22% UK 27% US 17% Continental Europe 27% Canada 1 By destination.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 16 DIPLOMA PLC Sector Review continued Life Sciences Sector Denition and Scope The Canadian Healthcare industry is a proven, long term growth The Life Sciences sector businesses supply a range of environment for medical device distribution.
A growing, aging consumables, instrumentation and related services to the and well-educated population demands high standards of service healthcare and environmental industries.
delivery, helping to ensure ongoing growing demand: per capita healthcare spending in Canada is in the top 20% of OECD The Diploma Healthcare Group DHG in Canada comprises countries.
The Canadian Health Act the Act ensures universal three principal operating businesses which supply to the coverage for all insured persons for all medically necessary 500600 public hospitals across the country as well as to services provided by hospitals, physicians and other healthcare private clinics.
Somagen Diagnostics Somagen, based in providers.
The Provinces are responsible for the delivery of the Edmonton, Alberta supplies a range of consumables and healthcare services, but the Federal Government controls delivery instruments used in the diagnostic testing of blood, tissue through Federal-Provincial transfer payments, which represent and other samples in hospital pathology laboratories.
It is the largest source of revenues for the Provinces.
also a leading supplier to the growing, assisted reproductive technology ART market.
AMT Electrosurgery AMT, based The relative stability and consistency in funding by each of the in Kitchener, Ontario, supplies specialised electrosurgery Provinces, guaranteed through the Act, ensures that the market equipment and consumables for use in hospital operating remains well funded through the economic cycle.
AMT is also building a portfolio of specialised surgical years, healthcare expenditure has grown steadily with annual instruments and devices used in minimally invasive surgery.
variations mostly dependant on the periodic additional tranches Vantage Endoscopy Vantage combines the former AMT of funding provided by individual Provinces.
Endoscopy and CMI businesses and supplies medical devices and related consumables and services to GI Endoscopy suites The Healthcare market in Australia shares with Canada, many of in hospitals and private clinics.
the same attractive characteristics for specialised distribution.
While privately funded healthcare is more prevalent, public DHG also operates in Australia and New Zealand through Big sector healthcare funding is still large and supported by a stable, Green Surgical BGS, located near Sydney and Diagnostic resource based economy.
As with Canada, there is a large Solutions Pty Ltd, acquired in June 2012 and located in geography to be covered, low population density and Melbourne.
BGS and DSL are respectively smaller versions of purchasing processes that vary by State.
These characteristics the AMT and Somagen businesses in Canada and share a necessarily demand a significant investment by manufacturers number of common suppliers.
in technical sales and service resource which makes the specialised distribution model more attractive as an efficient The a1-group is a supplier to Environmental testing laboratories way to serve the market.
and to Health & Safety engineers.
The a1-envirosciences business is located in Dusseldorf, Germany and also has sales The a1-group supplies to customers in the Environmental and service resources in the UK, France and Benelux.
It supplies industry across Europe.
The market demand is largely driven by a range of specialised environmental analysers and a range of Environmental and Health & Safety regulations.
Growth in recent containment enclosures for potent powder handling.
The CBISS years has been driven by the need to be compliant with a range business, located in Tranmere in the UK, supplies equipment of EU regulations.
Since market demand is driven by regulation, and services for the monitoring and control of environmental this ensures reasonably steady demand for essential consumable emissions, as well as a range of gas detection devices.
products and service, though customers may defer capital expenditure during significant downturns in the economy.
Market Drivers The DHG businesses in Canada supply into the Healthcare Sector Performance sector which is mostly public sector funded.
The principal Life Sciences statistics 2012 2011 demand driver is therefore the level of healthcare spending by Revenue 78.4m 74.4m the Canadian Government.
Adjusted operating profit 18.0m 17.1m C$bn 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Operating margin 23.0% 23.0% Free cash ow 13.3m 11.6m Public sector healthcare Trading capital employed 68.2m 64.8m expenditure in Canada 112.5 121.4 129.1 136.9 141.0 ROTCE 27.4% 27.8% Total healthcare expenditure in Canada 161.6 171.8 182.1 192.9 200.5 The Life Sciences businesses increased revenues in 2012 by 5% Total health expenditure on a UK sterling basis to 78.4m 2011: 74.4m, with a similar as a % of GDP n. a.
10.7% 11.9% 11.9% 11.6% level of growth on a constant currency basis.
Sector revenues benefited with the contribution from the DSL business in Source: Canadian Institute for Health Information.
Australia, acquired in June 2012 and a full year contribution from Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 DIPLOMA PLC 17 the CMI business, acquired in December 2010.
After adjusting for to a new 16,300 square foot facility close to the existing facility in these acquisitions, for the divestment of a small Swiss business, Markham, Ontario.
Following a year of consolidation, Vantage is for minor currency effects and for the exceptional sale of face now well positioned to supply and technically support a complete shields in the prior year, underlying sector revenues increased range of products for the growing GI Endoscopy market.
Somagen increased revenues by 6%, with strong sales of capital Adjusted operating profits increased by 5% to 18.0m 2011: equipment adding to the steady growth in the contracted 17.1m, with operating margins stable at 23.0% of revenue 2011: supply of consumable products and service.
Capital expenditure in the sector was 2.3m, which recently introduced by each of Somagens core suppliers has included 1.6m invested in eld equipment for placement by the driven growth across a range of market segments, including Canadian and Australian Healthcare businesses, a further 0.3m electrophoresis, diabetes and allergy testing, cellular pathology invested in the new Vantage facility in Toronto and the balance in and microbiology.
Further progress has also been made in upgrades to the IT environment.
Free cash ow of 13.3m 2011: penetrating the target growth markets of assisted reproductive 11.6m increased by 1.7m with lower tax payments largely technology, fecal immunochemical testing to test for colorectal funding the increase in capital investment.
cancer and immunohistochemistry used in cancer diagnostics.
Healthcare In Australia and New Zealand, BGS increased revenues by more Revenues from the DHG businesses increased by 10% in UK than 20% following its investment in direct sales staff to replace sterling terms and by 9% in Canadian dollar terms.
There has also been a significant investment for the DSL and CMI acquisitions and for the face shield revenues in smoke evacuation trials at hospital groups and private health in the prior year, underlying revenues increased by 5%.
companies and the emphasis now is on developing these trials into full implementation programmes.
In June 2012, the acquisition AMT increased revenues in its electrosurgery and surgical was completed of 80% of DSL, which supplies in-vitro diagnostic products business by 8%, after adjusting for the one-off face products to hospitals and private laboratories.
DSL is a close shield revenues in the prior year.
In the core electrosurgery equivalent to Somagen in Canada and operates with 20 staff from a market, the focus remains on increasing the number of facility in Melbourne, Australia.
DSL shares several common suppliers hospitals using smoke evacuation and increasing utilisation rates with Somagen, including a major new supplier added shortly after in existing installations: the launch in October 2012 of the new acquisition which will add signicantly to DSLs growth potential.
Penevac 1 product combined electrode and smoke evacuation device will provide a boost to this initiative.
AMT is also Environmental successfully building a business supplying specialised surgical a1-envirosciences revenues increased marginally on an instruments and devices used in laparoscopic procedures and underlying basis, which is on a constant currency basis and after other minimally invasive surgical procedures.
Products range excluding the results of the small operation in Switzerland which from traditional surgical instruments, to leading edge was sold to its management in May 2012.
Continuing Eurozone interventional radiology and oncology products for use in the uncertainty, combined with the impact from a strong Japanese treatment of cancer and cancer related disorders.
AMT has Yen on imported analytical instruments, impacted sales of signed exclusive distribution agreements with a number of mid-priced analytical instruments to commercial laboratories.
leading suppliers in this area and is in the process of adding However, the sales of higher end analytical instruments supplied several new suppliers to the portfolio.
into the petrochemical industry remained robust and sales of the a1-safetech laboratory enclosures held up well.
A targeted The newly formed Vantage business, combining AMT Endoscopy campaign to encourage customers to sign-up to annual with CMI, has operated as an independent business within DHG maintenance contracts was successful and delivered strong from the beginning of the financial year.
Combined revenues for service income growth.
Vantage increased by 8% over the prior year, but this represented a relatively at performance on a like-for-like basis, after taking CBISS experienced another strong year of trading, with revenues account of CMIs pre-acquisition revenues.
The prior year had growing by 9%.
Orders for continuous emissions monitoring seen an exceptional level of capital equipment sales which gave systems CEMS were comparable with the prior year, although a very strong comparative.
In addition, Vantage is seeing a sales were marginally lower, with delays partly caused by a lack trend towards useage based contracts for its endoscopes, with of certainty in the UK Governments alternative energy policies.
revenues generated on a cost per procedure CPP basis, rather CBISSs success in recent years has increased the installed base than as a single large capital sale combined with a smaller of instruments which has given the opportunity to increase follow-on stream of consumable revenues.
One such major service revenues from both its own supplied CEMS equipment, contract awarded to Vantage during the year will generate as well as from that supplied by competitors.
CBISS also has seen nearly C$3m of CPP based revenues over a five year period, but good growth in selling its focused range of competitively priced required an up-front investment by Vantage of C$1.6m in capital instruments and consumables used to detect or measure gases equipment and contributed only C$0.5m to this years revenues.
infactories, offices, oil and gas plants, storage facilities and ships.
At the end of October 2012, Vantage relocated its operations Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 18 DIPLOMA PLC Sector Review continued Seals Sector Denition and Scope 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 The Seals sector businesses supply a range of hydraulic seals, 1 US real GDP growth 1.9% 0.0% -3.1% 2.4% 1.8% gaskets, cylinders, components and kits used in heavy mobile Annual US construction 2 machinery and specialised industrial equipment.
spending $bn 763 532 316 308 317 Purchasing Managers The Hercules Fluid Power Group HFPG supplies to the 3 Index 51.2 45.5 46.4 57.3 55.2 Aftermarket through the Hercules, Bulldog and HKX businesses and to Industrial OEMs Original Equipment Manufacturers Source: through the RT Dygert, All Seals and J Royal businesses.
1 Bureau of Economic Analysis US Department of Commerce.
2 Cyclecast Intercast 3 Institute for Supply Management.
Hercules is the core Aftermarket business based in Clearwater, Florida and provides a next day delivery service throughout the In the United States, total construction spending increased in US, for seals, seal kits and cylinders used in a range of heavy 2011 following four years of decline.
The infrastructure sector, mobile machinery applications.
The US business also services which includes road building and other Federal and State Central and South American and other selected markets initiatives, was positive as stimulus dollars began to feed through through in-country sub-distributors.
Hercules in Canada offers into actual projects.
The residential housing sector appeared to the same range of products from its two branch operations bottom-out in 2010 as new housing starts, although still located in the provinces of Ontario and Quebec.
In Europe, signicantly below their historic peak, returned to an upward Hercules has centred its operations in the Netherlands.
Bulldog, trend in 2011 which has accelerated in 2012. based in Reno, supplies a range of gasket and seal kits for heavy duty diesel engines, transmissions and hydraulic cylinders used In Canada, there was sustained economic growth in 2011 resulting in off road and marine applications.
HKX is based near Seattle in a 2.6% increase in GDP which is likely to be broadly maintained and supplies hydraulic kits used in the installation of throughout 2012.
In Europe in 2011, many governments have attachments on excavators.
implemented austerity programs, but are also looking at ways to stimulate the economies and the call for more substantial HFPG also has three Industrial OEM businesses in North America infrastructure projects is growing louder.
It is not yet clear how which supply seals, O-rings and custom moulded and machined these programs will impact on future construction spending.
parts to a range of Industrial OEM customers, cylinder manufacturers and sub-distributors.
RT Dygert has facilities in The customers of the Industrial OEM businesses are Minneapolis, Chicago and Seattle and All Seals is located in Lake manufacturers of a wide range of specialised industrial and Forest, California.
J Royal, acquired in December 2011, has facilities some consumer products.
The principal market driver in this in North Carolina, Rhode Island and Alabama.
In April 2012, HFPG sector is therefore general growth in the industrial economy.
also acquired 10% of J Royal Precision Products Inc. JRPP, a The markets served by the Industrial OEM businesses in the US related supplier to J Royal located near Shanghai in China.
turned positive in 2010 and continued to grow in 2011 and the FPE is based in the UK, with operations in Darlington and first quarter of 2012.
At that point, concerns over a potential fall Doncaster, and supplies a range of Aftermarket seals, seal kits, in global demand and growing uncertainty caused confidence cylinder parts and sealants to ram repairers, mobile and heavy to waver.
The US industrial sector, however, should continue plant operators, mechanical handling and process control to benefit from the relative weakness of the US dollar and the companies.
M Seals is a specialised distributor of O-rings, impetus to Re-shore or On-shore the US manufacturing moulded parts, PTFE products and shaft seals, supplied to a base.
The European industrial sector is likely to remain stagnant range of specialised Industrial OEM customers.
Products range until the Eurozone crisis is resolved or diminishes.
from the nest precision seals for hearing aids to large heavy duty seals for turbines.
M Seals has operations in Espergaerde in Sector Performance Denmark, Halmstad in Sweden and Tianjin in China.
Seals statistics 2012 2011 Market Drivers Revenue 99.9m 80.0m The Aftermarket businesses supply sealing products to support a Adjusted operating profit 20.4m 14.9m broad range of mobile machinery in applications including heavy Operating margin 20.4% 18.6% construction, logging, mining, agriculture, material handling lift Free cash ow 13.7m 6.9m trucks, fork lifts and dump trucks and refuse collection.
Products Trading capital employed 56.8m 46.8m are generally used in the repair and maintenance of equipment ROTCE 37.4% 31.8% after it has completed its initial warranty period or lease term, or has been sold on in the pre-used market.
The main customers The Seals sector revenues increased on a UK sterling basis by 25% are machinery and cylinder repair shops, engine and transmission to 99.9m 2011: 80.0m which included a contribution of 9.1m rebuilders and other heavy equipment parts distributors.
The from J Royal, acquired in December 2011.
After adjusting for this principal market driver is the growth in the general industrial acquisition and for modest currency translation effects, underlying economy and in particular, heavy construction.
sector revenues increased by 13%, reecting particularly strong Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 DIPLOMA PLC 19 growth in the North American Aftermarket businesses.
Adjusted In the UK, FPE, revenues increased by 15% with particularly operating profits increased by 37% to 20.4m 2011: 14.9m with strong demand for standard seals in the first half of the year.
adjusted operating margins increasing to 20.4% 2011: 18.6%, driven Sales of the expanded range of cylinder parts were very by operational leverage from the strong increase in revenues.
positive throughout 2012 and export sales were also strong as sub-distributors in mainland Europe and Saudi Arabia Capital expenditure in the sector was 0.6m with the major continued to purchase in larger quantities.
elements comprising a 0.2m investment in two facility relocations, a further 0.2m in new warehouse equipment and Industrial OEMs 0.2m in upgrading the IT infrastructure.
Free cash ow of The HFPG Industrial OEM businesses, after adjusting for the 13.7m was generated compared with 6.9m in 2011 and acquisition of J Royal, increased revenues by 9% in US dollar reected the strong growth in after tax profits and tight control terms.
RT Dygert and All Seals both delivered robust over working capital.
performances, although margins came under pressure as it proved harder to pass on product cost increases to customers.
Aftermarket In the first half of 2012, the revenue momentum of the prior The HFPG Aftermarket businesses continued to benefit from year was maintained but by the spring, manufacturing output in investments made in earlier years and grew revenues by 14% in the US appeared to soften, before stabilising again by the year US dollar terms.
In the US, against a background of robust growth end.
RT Dygert also benefited from the diversity of its customer in heavy Construction and Infrastructure projects, Hercules base, with demand from OEM cylinder manufacturers delivered strong revenue growth of 18% and increased its market increasing, as growth in its general industrial customer base share.
The increase in revenues has been driven by continuing slowed.
Investment of 0.3m was made by RT Dygert in strength in the core cylinder repair sector, growing demand for consolidating its Minneapolis and Chicago warehousing the Hercules products from larger sub-distributors and the operations into a single, modern facility in Minneapolis, while introduction of new seal kit products.
Revenues have also retaining a sales office in Chicago.
All Seals also continued benefited from further product line extension in particular metric to grow as it developed further its sales reach, upgraded its seals and the continued success of the Seals-on-Demand supplier base and invested in signicantly improved quality service, offering same day service for custom machined seals.
In September 2012, All Seals moved into Hercules also implemented price increases in response to a more appropriate modern facility and is now well positioned supplier cost increases, following a period of raw material to further build its business.
shortages in 2011: this has now stabilised in 2012.
Exports to South America and to other countries grew by 13% as Hercules J Royal was acquired in December 2011 and delivered good sales continued to increase its penetration through in-country product growth in 2012 as new projects from existing customers began to representatives and expansion of the sub-distributor base.
J Royal has built its business on supplying a broad range of related products to a number of key customers.
This is Hercules Canada and Hercules Europe together increased based on the general concept that if a seal is part of an assembly, revenues by 16%, while Bulldog revenues fell by 19% against J Royal will seek to supply the metal parts as well as the rubber a strong comparative in 2011.
Hercules Canada had another or plastic parts, and in some cases, deliver the whole assembly excellent year and delivered sales growth in both the resource to the customer.
J Royal also invested in additional resources rich western Provinces and in the more industrial central toexpand its customer base and ensure wider geographical Provinces.
Hercules Europe, based in the Netherlands, penetration of the Eastern United States: further development continued to build its domestic business servicing local repair plans will be rolled out in 2013.
Related to this acquisition a 10% shops and added to its network of sub-distributors, which shareholding in JRPP was acquired in April 2012.
JRPP based in extended its reach into mainland European countries.
Bulldog Kunshan, near Shanghai in China is a key supplier to J Royal and has faced tougher market conditions with its traditional strong manufactures a range of metal and glass components and markets in the Middle East and North Africa suffering from assemblies that complement J Royals traditional rubber and sharply lower demand following the Arab Spring, with only plastic sealing range.
Saudi Arabia continuing to purchase larger quantities of product.
HKX had another exceptional year, growing revenues by 34%.
In Europe, M Seals increased revenues by 14% as sales in HKXs traditional customers are the North American franchised Sweden moved strongly ahead throughout the period due to dealers of the leading excavator manufacturers.
Sales of new acombination of new business and the general strength of the excavators have steadily recovered since 2010 and grew again Swedish economy.
In China, the wholly owned foreign entity in 2012.
HKX also benefited from excavator manufacturers established in 2011 to serve the developing Chinese wind power having to focus their engineering resource on the urgent need market, delivered a robust first year.
Revenues in Denmark saw to comply with the new Tier 4i emissions legislation.
As a result, some strength in the first half of the year, before its traditional the manufacturers delivered fewer excavators with factory-tted industrial customer base became more cautious in the second attachment kits to the dealers.
Further progress was also made half of the year.
in penetrating international markets with good sales to South America and Saudi Arabia.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 20 DIPLOMA PLC Sector Review continued Controls Sector Denition and Scope In the UK, manufacturing demand remained relatively stable The Controls sector businesses supply specialised wiring, through 2011 and into the first half of 2012 but has since weakened.
connectors, fasteners and control devices used in a range of In Germany, there was a sharp recovery in 2010 which was broadly technically demanding applications.
sustained in 2011, but the continuing Eurozone crisis continues to hold back business confidence during 2012.
The IS-Group and Filcon businesses supply high performance wiring, interconnect, electro-mechanical and fastener products Although influenced by the general industrial economic cycles, for use in industries including Defence & Aerospace, there are also more specic drivers within individual market Motorsport, Energy, Medical and Industrial.
In the Aerospace & Defence segment, the main adding activities enhances the customer offering, including drivers are defence budgets and civil aviation growth: marking of protective sleeves, cut-to-length tubing, kitting, connector assembly and prototype quantities of customised 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 multi-core cables.
The IS-Group also supplies a range of its own Defence equipment budgets: 1 manufactured products, including exible braided products for UK bn 7.2 7.9 8.7 9.0 9.3 2 earthing and lightning protection, power shunt connectors, and Germany bn 8.6 9.5 10.3 10.4 10.4 3 multi-core cables.
Civil aviation growth 8.2% 2.0% -1.1% 8.0% 6.5% The IS-Rayfast, Cabletec, Clarendon and Amfast businesses are Sources: 1 MOD UK Defence Statistics.
located in the UK in Swindon, Weston-Super-Mare, Leicester and 2 Federal Ministry of Finance Germany.
3 International Civil Aviation Organization revenue passenger kilometres Harpenden, respectively.
These businesses serve customers direct in the UK market, as well as supplying to sub-distributors In Defence markets, the IS-Group businesses focus primarily across Continental Europe.
In Germany, the Sommer business is on refurbishment, upgrade and maintenance programmes, as located in Stuttgart and Filcon is located in Munich.
IS-Connect well as supplying to Tier 2 electronics suppliers.
The businesses is located in Indianapolis to serve the Motorsport market in typically only supply to OEMs and the Tier 1 suppliers when the US, as well as other specialised technical applications.
ex-stock availability and responsiveness are important: A representative office has also been established in Beijing, they have therefore been less exposed to cutbacks and China with an initial focus on Aftermarket requirements in the postponements in major defence programmes.
Filcon has Commercial Aerospace and Industrial sectors.
a greater involvement in the major capital projects, but its products are designed-in to a broad range of air, sea and land The Hawco Group businesses, with operations in Guildford, applications and it is therefore not overexposed to individual Bolton and Faringdon in the UK, supply equipment and projects.
Although defence spending remained high in 2011, components into the Food & Beverage and Industrial markets in defence budget reviews in the UK and Germany are expected to the UK, Continental Europe and the US.
Hawco supplies a range gradually reduce real levels of spend by 2015.
In Civil Aerospace, of control devices used in the sensing, measurement and control the businesses supply products principally for the initial t-out of temperature and pressure: applications range from chilled of aircraft interiors and their subsequent upgrade and cabinets for supermarkets, bars and restaurants to re detection refurbishment.
The market has recovered quickly from the systems.
Abbeychart supplies a broad range of specialised 2009downturn and long term growth of ca.
5% p. a. continues components into a number of related applications such as hot to be forecast.
drinks brewing, vending machines, pure water and water cooling systems, soft drinks dispensing and general catering equipment.
In Motorsport, activity in the US increased sharply due to Market Drivers technology changes in the Nascar series and a chassis change The Controls sector businesses focus on specialised, technical in the IndyCar racing series.
The F1 grid remained competitive applications in a range of industries, with over 90% of sector whilst the German DTM series benefited from the return of revenues generated in the UK and Continental Europe BMW and regulation changes.
The Medical Equipment market principally Germany.
The background market drivers are remained relatively stable and, in Germany, the Energy market therefore the growth of the industrial economies in the major benefited from increased spending on the repair and upgrade markets served by the Controls sector businesses.
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 The Hawco Group revenues are dependent on activity in the 1 UK real GDP growth 2.7% -0.1% -4.9% 1.8% 0.9% Food and Beverage sector and in particular the pace at which 2 UK production index 113 110 100 103 106 the major food retailers invest in opening new stores and 1 Germany real GDP growth 2.8% 0.8% -5.1% 3.6% 3.1% refurbishing existing outlets.
In 2010 and 2011, the investment innew, conventional stores was high but in 2012, the focus Sources: 1 Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development OECD.
moved to smaller convenience store openings with a 2 The Office of National Statistics Index of Production for Manufacturing, n. b. the ONS has re-calibrated the base year index to 2009. subsequent fall in the volume of equipment required.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 DIPLOMA PLC 21 Sector Performance continued growth of fastener sales to F1 teams based in Controls statistics mainland Europe.
In Germany, Filcon had another good year 2012 2011 supplying its specialised connectors to the Motorsport sector, Revenue 81.9m 76.2m where the buoyant F1, DTM and Le Mans racing series ensured Adjusted operating profit 14.4m 13.2m strong revenues throughout the year.
Sommers revenues also Operating margin 17.6% 17.3% moved ahead in Motorsport as the key players invested in new Free cash ow 10.0m 9.8m engines and cars.
Trading capital employed 35.7m 30.0m ROTCE 44.2% 44.0% Energy and Industrial The Energy sector delivered revenue growth of 10% over the The Controls businesses increased revenues in 2012 by 7% to prior year.
In the UK, a slowdown in sales to portable generator 81.9m 2011: 76.2m on a UK sterling basis.
After adjusting manufacturers was more than offset by strong demand for for currency effects and for the acquisitions of Amfast and sub-sea cables from oil and gas service providers.
The demand for Abbeychart, underlying growth was 2%.
Adjusted operating Cabletecs cables, power shunts and components for batteries profits increased by 9% to 14.4m 2011: 13.2m, with adjusted used in Uninterruptible Power Supply UPS applications was operating margins remaining stable at 17.6% 2011: 17.3%.
In Germany, Sommer consolidated its position in the buoyant Energy market by leveraging a strong relationship Capital expenditure in the sector was 0.6m, the largest part with key suppliers combined with excellent customer service.
being 0.4m of initial investment in the new IS-Rayfast facility in Swindon.
Free cash ow of 10.0m 2011: 9.8m remained The Industrial sector delivered revenue growth of 1% over the broadly unchanged, with the increase in after tax cash ow prior year.
In the UK, revenue growth was strong as additional being invested in the new facility.
value added services were taken up by key customers: there was also positive demand across multiple sub-sectors including The principal markets for the IS-Group and Filcon businesses rail, specialist automotive, leisure marine, mining equipment are Aerospace & Defence, Motorsport, Energy, Medical and and lighting.
However, in Germany, revenues to the Industrial Industrial.
Revenues increased by 7% in UK sterling terms: segment were negatively affected by a slowing in the pace of underlying revenues increased by 6% after adjusting for project enquires, reecting a general softening in business currency effects and the acquisition of Amfast.
confidence across the broad commercial electronics and industrial customer base.
Aerospace, Defence and Motorsport In the UK, the IS-Groups revenues from the Aerospace & Food and Beverage Defence sector were up 10% on the prior year, boosted by the The Hawco Group supplies products principally to the Food & introduction of new products, with specialist relays leading the Beverage industry including equipment and components way.
Defence sales recovered to 2010 levels through continued supplied to major food retailers and this sector accounts for ca.
supply to a wide range of customers that build or repair ground 70% of Hawco Group revenues.
The balance of revenues comes vehicles, large eld guns and military systems: the military from a range of specialised temperature and pressure control marine sector also benefited from the sale of cables for applications in the Industrial sector.
Civil Aerospace sales in the UK were positive and were boosted by the acquisition in Hawcos revenues fell by 9% against a strong prior year May 2012 of Amfast, a specialist distributor of fasteners primarily comparative, as the major food retailers reduced the number of used in aircraft seating, galleys and other interior systems.
larger store openings in favour of the local convenience store Amfast is now managed by our Clarendon fastener business model.
However, the energy efficiency product package and has performed well since acquisition.
supplied by Hawco remains the solution of choice to many of the main food retailers and during the year the company In Germany, Sommers sales to the Defence sector were also introduced a low prole, high efficiency condenser pack for ahead of the prior year and Aerospace sales held up reasonably convenience stores.
The maintenance and repair of existing well, with good demand from the satellite sector.
Filcons sales products was a major focus in 2012 and Hawco enjoyed good were comparable to the prior year, even though spending on growth from the supply of components through its quick-pick some Defence equipment supply programmes has been delayed service offering.
and demand from the Euroghter programme continued to weaken, as expected.
Filcons resilient performance was achieved The acquisition of Abbeychart in March 2012 extended the Hawco by supplying across a range of individual helicopter, tank, missile, Group into other segments of the Food and Beverage market, radio and engine projects.
including hot drinks and vending machines, pure water and cooling systems, soft drinks dispensing and catering equipment.
Since In the Motorsport sector in the UK and the US, the IS-Group had acquisition, Abbeychart has performed well against expectations another exceptionally strong year with revenues up over 20%, and there are already significant cross selling opportunities within partly reecting increased sales to the two key US racing series, the extended Hawco Group to supply a fuller range of products to IndyCar and Nascar, where changes were made to the chassis both equipment manufacturers and service organisations in the and engine technology.
Revenues also benefited from UK, Europe and the US.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
