26 DIPLOMA PLC Board of Directors and Advisors 1, 3 2 John Rennocks 67 Bruce Thompson 57 Marie-Louise Clayton 52 Nigel Lingwood 53 Group Finance Director Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Non-Executive Director Appointed: Joined the Appointed: Joined the Board Appointed: Joined the Board Appointed: Joined the Company in June 2001 and in July 2002 and appointed in 1994 as a Group Director Boardin November 2012. appointed Group Finance Chairman in January 2004. and appointed Chief Executive Director in July 2001.
Skills and experience: Skills and experience: John is Marie-Louise is a Chartered a Chartered Accountant with Certied Accountant who has Skills and experience: Prior to Skills and experience: Bruce over 40 years of experience in held senior positions in Alstom joining the Company, Nigel started his career in the commerce and industry, automotive industry, first as a formerly, Alsthom GEC and was the Group Financial including nearly 20 years as design engineer and then in was previously Group Finance Controller at Unigate PLC the Finance Director of FTSE product marketing.
He then Director of Venture where he gained experience 100 companies.
He has been spent three years in Production PLC.
She has also of working in a large a Non-Executive Director of international marketing with a been aNon-Executive multi-national environment many companies in the past construction materials Director of Forth Ports PLC and on a number of large 17 years, including as company, developing new and Ocean Rig ASA.
Nigel Chairman of six other public markets in Europe, the Middle qualied as a Chartered or private companies across East and North Africa.
Prior to External appointments: Accountant with Price several industrial or support joining Diploma, he was a Marie-Louise is a Waterhouse, London.
Director with Arthur D Little Non-Executive Director of Inc. the technology and Zotefoams plc and of two External appointments: External appointments: John management consulting rm, private companies.
is currently a Non-Executive initially in the UK and then as Director of Intelligent Energy Director of the rms PLC and Deputy Chairman Technology Management ofInmarsat PLC.
Practice based in Cambridge, Massachusetts.
Member of: 1 the Remuneration Committee 2 the Audit Committee 3 the Nomination Committee Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 DIPLOMA PLC 27 Auditor Deloitte LLP 2 New Street Square London EC4A 3BZ Solicitors Ashurst Broadwalk House 5 Appold Street London EC2A 2HA Bankers 1,2, 3 1,2, 3 John Matthews 68 Ian Grice 59 Iain Henderson 56 Barclays Bank PLC Chief Operating Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director 1 Churchill Place London E14 5HP Appointed: Joined the Board Appointed: Joined the Board Appointed: Joined the Board as a Director in 1998 and in January 2007. in 2003.
HSBC Bank plc appointed Chief Operating City Corporate Officer in 2005.
Skills and experience: A Skills and experience: John is BankingCentre Chartered Engineer with over a Chartered Accountant and a 60 Queen Victoria Street 35 years experience in the Skills and experience: Iain former Managing Director and London EC4N 4TR Support Services and qualied as a Chartered Head of Corporate Finance at Construction sectors, in the Management Accountant and County NatWest.
Subsequent Investment Bankers UK and International markets.
began his career in the food to this he was Deputy Lazard Ian held senior roles in several industry, progressing to be an Chairman and Deputy Chief 50 Stratton Street industrial groups before operations general manager Executive at Beazer plc, an London W1J 8LL joining the board of Alfred with H J Heinz.
Since 1988, international civil engineering, McAlpine plc in 1995 where Iain has specialised in the construction, house building Corporate Stockbrokers he was Chief Executive Officer acquisition and development and aggregates group.
He has Numis Securities from 2003 to 2008. of small to medium sized also been Chairman of Crest 10 Paternoster Square enterprises within group Nicholson plc and Regus plc London EC4M 7LT External appointments: Ian is structures.
This was rstly and a non-Executive Director currently a member of the within the privately owned of a number of listed and Supervisory Board of Arcadis Bricom MBO, where he ran private companies.
NV, and a Non-Executive ANC Holdings and from 1994 Director of three private in a public company External appointments: John companies.
environment as a Director of is currently a member of the Glenchewton plc.
Board of Aurelian Oil & Gas plc and an advisor to the Board of External appointments: SDL plc and Chairman of two None.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
