44 DIPLOMA PLC Other Statutory Information This section contains additional information which the Directors are required by law and regulation to include within the Annual Report & Accounts.
Shareholders with regard to control of the Company.
The Companys Articles Incorporation and principal activity of Association may be amended by special resolution of the Diploma PLC is domiciled in England and registered in England Companys shareholders.
At the date of this Report there were 113,239,555 ordinary shares of 5p each in In accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services issue, all of which are fully paid up and quoted on the London Authority, all employees are required to seek approval of the Stock Exchange.
Company before dealing in its shares.
The principal activity of the Group is the supply of specialised Restrictions on transfer of shares technical products and services.
A description and review of the The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a certicated activities of the Group during the financial year and an indication share that is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not of future developments is set out on pages 4 to 25: the Review prevent dealings in shares in the Company from taking place on of Group Performance incorporates the requirements of the an open and proper basis, or where the Company has a lien Companies Act 2006 the Act.
The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer of a certicated share, unless the instrument of transfer Annual General Meeting is: i lodged, duly stamped if necessary, at the registered office The Annual General Meeting will be held at midday on of the Company or any other place as the Board may decide 16January 2013 in the Brewers Hall, Aldermanbury Square, accompanied by the certicate for the share s to be transferred London EC2V 7HR.
A Circular setting out the proposed and or such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably resolutions, including a resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: the auditor, will be set out in the Notice of the Annual General ii in respect of only one class of shares: iii in favour of a person Meeting which is a separate document which will be sent to all who is not a minor, infant, bankrupt or a person of unsound shareholders and published on the Groups website.
mind: or iv in favour of not more than four persons jointly.
Substantial shareholdings Transfers of uncerticated shares must be carried out using At 16 November 2012 the Company had been notied of the CREST and the Directors can refuse to register a transfer of an following interests amounting to 3% or more of the voting rights uncertied share in accordance with the regulations governing in its ordinary share capital: the operation of CREST.
Percentage of ordinary Participants in the Companys Share Matching Plan pledge share capital investment shares to a nominee for a period of three years, Mondrian Investment Partners Limited 7.51 during which period these shares cannot be transferred.
There F&C Asset Management plc 7.48 are no other restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Ameriprise Financial Inc 5.54 Company except certain restrictions which may from time to Power Financial Corporation 5.09 time be imposed by laws and regulations for example insider Legal & General Investment Management Limited 3.33 trading laws : or where a shareholder with at least a 0.25% Schroders PLC 3.28 Invesco PLC 3.25 interest in the Companys certied shares has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company with As far as the Directors are aware there were no other notiable information concerning interests in those shares.
shares held by participants of the Companys Share Matching Plan, the Directors are not aware of any agreements between Share capital holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions The rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, as well on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
as the powers of the Companys Directors, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be Shares held by the Diploma Employee benefit Trust obtained from the Group Company Secretary and are available Whilst ordinary shares are held within the Diploma Employee on the Companys website at www.
benefit Trust, the voting rights in respect of those shares are exercisable by the Trustees in accordance with their duciary The Company is not aware of any agreements between duties.
The Trustees of the Diploma Employee benefit Trust also shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfers of waives dividends on all shares held for the purposes of the securities and or voting rights, other than those relating to the Companys long term incentive arrangements.
Companys Share Matching Plan, described further below.
No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 DIPLOMA PLC 45 Share allotment Both employment policy and practice in the Group are based on A general allotment power and a limited power to allot shares in non-discrimination and equal opportunities.
Ability and aptitude specic circumstances for cash, otherwise than pro rata to are the determining factors in the selection, training, career existing shareholders, were given to the Directors by resolutions development and promotion of all employees.
The Group approved at the Annual General Meeting of the Company held remains supportive of the employment and advancement of on 18 January 2012.
In the year ended 30 September 2012, the disabled persons.
Applications for employment by disabled Company has not allotted any shares.
These powers will expire at persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the the conclusion of the 2013 Annual General Meeting and respective aptitudes and abilities of the applicants concerned.
If resolutions to renew the Directors powers are therefore included an employee is, or becomes disabled during their period of within the Notice of the Annual General Meeting in 2013. employment, the Group will, if necessary and to the extent possible, adapt the work environment to enable the employee to Authority to make market purchases of own shares continue in their current position or retrain the employee for An authority to make market purchases of shares was given to duties suited to their abilities following disablement.
At 30 the Directors by a special resolution at the Annual General September 2012 the Groups employees included two who were Meeting of the Company held on 18January 2012.
In the year disabled and one who was on long term sick leave.
to 30 September 2012 the Company has not acquired any of its own shares.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the Employment policies throughout the Group have been 2013 Annual General Meeting and a resolution to renew the established to comply with relevant legislation and codes of authority is therefore included within the Notice of the Annual practice relating to employment, health and safety and equal General Meeting in 2013. opportunities.
The Group provides good quality working environments and facilities for employees, and training and Employees development appropriate to each of their roles.
Employees Building and developing the skills, competencies, motivation Health and Safety and teamwork of employees is recognised by the Board as The Group places a great deal of importance on the provision of being key to achieving the Groups business objectives.
The clean, healthy and safe working conditions.
In addition to stability and commitment of the employees is demonstrated by compliance with all local regulations, the Group promotes the average length of service which has remained stable at working practices which protect the health and safety of its sixyears as shown in the chart below.
In addition the number of employees.
Health and Safety matters are kept under regular working days lost to sickness is less than 1% a year.
These review by local management who report on such matters to the measures remain consistent across each of the Groups sectors.
During 2012, 21 employees 2011: 16 were reported as having suffered minor injuries at work: none of Key employee statistics these injuries resulted in absence from work for more than three 2012 2011 2010 days.
There were two employees 2011: one who suffered a Average number of employees serious injury during the year and were absent from work for in year 1,062 910 814 more than three days, but both have since returned to work with Females as % of total 33% 32% 34% their respective businesses.
Length of service years 6.0 6.3 6.4 Average staff turnover 16.7% 16.3% 15.0% Health and Safety training is part of the induction process for Sick days lost per person 0.9 1.9 2.8 new employees.
Specic training is given where relevant, for example regarding forklift truck operation and chemical The Group values the commitment of its employees and handling, as well as general re safety and first aid matters.
recognises the importance of communication to good working relationships.
The Group keeps employees informed on matters Environmental relating to their employment, on business developments and on The Group regards compliance with relevant environmental financial and economic factors affecting the Group.
This is laws as an important part of its responsible approach to the achieved through management briengs, internal environment and is committed to good environmental announcements, the Groups website and by the distribution of management practices throughout its operations.
The Preliminary and Interim Announcements and press releases.
Managing Directors, appointed by the Board, have responsibility Copies of the Annual Review and Annual Report & Accounts are for the environmental performance of their operating also made available in the operating businesses.
This businesses and each subsidiary is required to implement communication programme enables employees to gain a better initiatives to meet their responsibilities.
understanding of the Groups business objectives and their roles in achieving them.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 46 DIPLOMA PLC Other Statutory Information continued Community Directors and officers liability insurance and indemnity Relationships with suppliers, customers and other The Company has purchased insurance to cover its Directors stakeholders and Officers against the costs of defending themselves in legal The Group recognises the obligation it has towards the parties with proceedings taken against them in that capacity and in respect whom it has business dealings including customers, shareholders, of any damages resulting from those proceedings.
Dealings with these groups depend upon the honesty and integrity of the Groups employees The Company also indemnifies its Directors and Officers to the and every effort is made to ensure that a high standard of expertise extent permitted by law.
Neither the insurance nor the and business principles is maintained in such dealings.
Where indemnity provides cover where the Director or Officer has appropriate, training is given to maintain and to raise standards.
The Groups policy towards suppliers is that each operating Statement of disclosure of information to the auditor company is responsible for negotiating the terms and Each of the Directors has reviewed this Annual Report & conditions under which they trade with their suppliers.
Accounts and confirmed that so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is The Group does not have a formal code that it follows with unaware and that he has taken all the steps that he ought to regard to payments to suppliers.
Group companies agree have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any payment terms with their suppliers when they enter into binding relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys purchasing contracts for the supply of goods and services.
auditor is aware of that information.
Suppliers are, in that way, made aware of these terms.
Group Financial companies seek to abide by these payment terms when they Results and dividends are satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods or services The profit for the financial year attributable to shareholders was in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
The Directors recommend a final 30September 2012 the amount of trade creditors shown in the dividend of 10.2p per ordinary share 2011: 8.5p, to be paid, if Group balance sheet represents 46 days 2011: 51 days of approved, on 23 January 2013.
This, together with the interim average purchases.
dividend of 4.2p per ordinary share paid on 20 June 2012, amounts to 14.4p for the year 2011: 12.0p.
Community impact and involvement The Group contributes to local worthwhile causes and charities The results are shown more fully in the consolidated financial and ensures that the Groups operations cause minimal negative statements on pages 48 to 74 and summarised in the Finance impact within the community.
The Group made donations for charitable purposes during the Directors assessment of going concern year which amounted to 28,285 2011: 26,050.
No political The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely donations were made.
to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the section of the Report that deals with Group Directors Performance on pages 4 to 25.
The financial position of the Conicts of interest Group, its cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities From 1 October 2008, the Directors became subject to a are described in the Finance Review on pages 12 to 14.
In statutory duty under the Act to avoid a situation where they addition pages 60 to 62 of the Annual Report & Accounts have, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conicts, or include the Groups objectives, policies and processes for possibly could conict, with the Companys interests.
The Act managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: allows directors of public companies to authorise conicts and details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and potential conicts where appropriate, where the Articles of itsexposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Association contain a provision to this effect.
The Act also allows the Articles to contain other provisions for dealing with The Group has considerable financial resources, together with a directors conicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
At the broad spread of customers and suppliers across different 2009 AGM, revised Articles that contained such provisions were geographic areas and sectors, often secured with longer term adopted.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully, Procedures adopted to deal with conicts of interest continue despite the continuing uncertain economic outlook.
to operate effectively and the Boards authorisation powers are being exercised properly in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 DIPLOMA PLC 47 The Group also has a committed revolving bank facility of 20m The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting which expires on 18 November 2013.
The Directors are records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the confident that this facility will be successfully renegotiated prior financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to to expiry on 18 November 2013.
At 30 September 2012, the ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Group had net cash funds of 7.9m.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the of the corporate and financial information included on the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report & Accounts.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ Statement of Directors responsibilities for preparing the from legislation in other jurisdictions.
financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report & Directors Responsibility Statement Accounts, including the Group and Parent Company financial The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: statements, in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the Groups consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and the Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent Company financial statements, prepared in Parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
accordance with UK Accounting Standards, give a true Under that law the Directors are required to prepare Group and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the and profit of the Group and Parent Company and the European Union EU and Article 4 of the IAS Regulations and undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial whole: and statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally the Annual Report & Accounts includes a fair review of Accepted Accounting Standards UK Accounting Standards.
the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and the undertakings included The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a adopted by the EU, to present fairly the financial position and description of the principal risks and uncertainties faced the performance of the Group: the Companies Act 2006 by the Group.
provides in relation to such financial statements, that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a This responsibility statement was approved by the Board true and fair view, are references to their achieving a fair ofDirectors on 19 November 2012 and is signed on its presentation.
behalf by: In preparing each of the Group and Company financial BM Thompson statements, the Directors are required to: Chief Executive Officer Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
NP Lingwood Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and Group Finance Director prudent.
For the Group financial statements, state whether they have Registered office: been prepared in accordance with IFRSs, as adopted by the 12 Charterhouse Square EU.
London For the Parent Company financial statements, state whether EC1M 6AX applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Company financial statements.
Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will continue in business.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
