04 DIPLOMA PLC Our Business Model The Group comprises a number of high quality, specialised businesses which design their individual business models to make them essential to their customers.
Essential Essential Essential Products Solutions Values recurring income and sustainable and agility and stable revenue growth attractive margins responsiveness Our businesses focus on supplying Our businesses design their individual We encourage an entrepreneurial essential products and services funded by business models to provide solutions cultureacross our businesses, through customers operating rather than capital which closely meet the requirements adecentralised management structure.
budgets and supplied across a range of oftheir customers.
We want the managers to feel that they Thesolutions can be in the form of: have the freedom to run their own The majority of the Groups revenues are businesses, while being able to draw generated from consumable products.
In Highly responsive customer service, upon the support and resources of a many cases, the products will be used in such as the next day delivery from larger group where this is beneficial.
repair and maintenance applications and stock of essential, but low value items: refurbishment and upgrade programmes, Within our businesses we have strong, rather than supplied to original equipment Deep technical support, where we self-standing management teams manufacturers.
work closely with our customers in whoare committed to and rewarded designing our products into their according to the success of their businesses.
This ensures that decisions These characteristics all contribute to the specic applications: are made close to the customer and that Groups record of stable revenue growth the businesses are agile and responsive over the business cycle.
Added value services which, if we did tochanges in the market and the not provide these services, customers competitive environment.
would have to pay others to provide them or would require them to invest in additional resources of their own.
By supplying solutions, not just products, we build strong long term relationships with our customers and suppliers, supporting sustainable and attractive margins.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012
