Performance Review UK & Ireland Profit growth of 15% Significant progress made in multi-channel business Opened Harrods technology store Underlying sales We have analysed the store estate as we increasingly integrate million online and stores and currently believe that in the UK we need 400 to 420 stores to provide the right level of service and convenience for 2011 12 3,833.9 customers.
This includes approximately 40 High Street stores similar 2010 11 3,925.3 to our CurrysPCWorld Black store in the Westeld centre, Stratford with the remainder large out of town stores Megastores and Superstores, predominantly in the 2-in-1 format.
Underlying operating profit million TM In May this year Knowhow celebrated its first anniversary after a successful first year growing by 40%.
The added value services 2011 12 78.8 market is very fragmented and we are confident that we can continue 2010 11 68.7 TM to grow in this market.
During the year Knowhow launched a number of new services including Fault & Fix, Cloud back up & share and Movies.
Total sales in the UK & Ireland division were down 2% to 3,833.9 million 2010 11 3,925.3 million and like for like sales were down 4%.
In March we opened a store in Harrods which has had an Like for like sales in the second half were at, showing an improving encouraging first three months.
This is an exciting opportunity trend with the final quarter up 8%.
Underlying operating profits which provides us with some useful learnings for store design, increased to 78.8 million 2010 11 68.7 million.
product display, high end-high value ranges as well as extending TM our Knowhow services.
The UK & Ireland division has performed strongly against a toughmarket.
The benets of the work under the Renewal and The launch of the new iPad helped grow the overall computing Transformation plan increasingly benefitted the business through market.
With Ultrabooks now being released into the market and theyear with a particularly strong performance in the final quarter.
further developments in operating systems, in particular the launch Thisenabled the division to grow operating profits by 15% in the of Windows 8 later in the year, there is the potential for this category yearputting the business on track towards a sustainable return.
White goods showed modest growth, but are predominantly driven by the housing cycle.
Technical innovation and We have made significant progress with our multi-channel business energy efficiency is increasingly giving customers reasons to replace during the year, particularly in the second half which saw growth of or upgrade.
The consumer electronics market was weak through 48%.
Improvements to availability and processes have improved the the year, however in televisions we believe we traded ahead of the experience for customers.
We are planning further improvements in market, particularly in the fourth quarter with sales of large at TVs the year ahead as we deliver a seamless experience for our customers.
We now have 269 refurbished stores which continue to deliver Dixons Travel continues to perform well.
The new format now rolled average gross profit uplifts of over 20% in the first year and out across all of Dixons Travels stores delivers a better range and maintained in the second and third years.
A further 63 stores store experience for customers, including a focus on portable items areexpected tobereformatted in the year ahead, predominantly and accessories.
in the 2-in-1 CurrysPCWorld format, resulting in three quarters of sales going through new format stores by Christmas Peak this year.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 Dixons Retail plc 33
