Directors Report Strategic Summary Looking Forward The Group can look forward with Outpacing the competition confidence and continues to innovate the offer for customers.
Sebastian James, Group Chief Executive The Group has made significant changes over the last four years.
easy toshop with great customer service is exactly what customers Fundamental to this has been the absolute focus on doing what is are looking for when buying technology.
We are continuing to apply right for the customer.
During this time the basics have been xed, ourlearnings from Black to our mainstream stores.
During the year the rubble has been cleared and the business streamlined, making ahead we will be rolling this format out to other High Street locations the business better for our customers, easier to operate for our and trialling a Megastore using the same principles.
Our unique in-house award winning design team will continue to innovate colleagues and cheaper to run.
Decision making driven by rigorous this format for customers including how we showcase the latest use of customer insight is becoming easier and quicker to execute.
The Group can look forward with confidence.
However, we cannot sit still and our offer for customers must continually improve.
We have opened a new technology department with Harrods in their Innovations within the business will enable us to remain one step iconic agship store in London.
Our in-house design team delivered ahead of the competition and rmly focused on customer needs a high quality retail space in keeping with the Harrods ethos and inevery market in which we operate.
demonstrating how we are able to push the boundaries for electrical Across Europe, we will continue to roll out our Megastore, retailing.
The new department required us to explore merchandising Superstore and High Street transformation programme, which of very high value product and Knowhow service offerings to meet iscontinuing to delight customers and deliver signicantly higher the requirements of the Harrods customer demographic.
These are average gross profits.
useful learnings we can apply to our remaining stores and as we develop Knowhow further.
We have developed our award-winning Black concept store further with the opening of CurrysPCWorld Stratford next to the Olympic Knowhow has had a fantastic first year as our new customer-focused Park in London.
Building on the Black concept, first opened in services brand in the UK.
It has helped drive customer satisfaction and Birmingham last year, this store puts more products on playtables, advocacy scores considerably.
New products such as Cloud back-up further improves accessory ranges, with easier navigation and high and share, Movies and Fault & Fix for laptops have resonated well levels ofservice all within an appealing environment.
The success with customers as we deliver the sort of services and support they of this store demonstrates that an exciting retail environment that is have been looking for.
We believe this provides us with a differentiated nationwide advantage over our competitors.
In the year ahead Knowhow will continue to improve its current offering and the standards to which it delivers as well as innovate its product range.
As part of our programme of improvements and streamlining of our own brand ranges, we launched Sandstrm cables during the year.
These enable us to deliver a clear good, better, best range of high quality cables at good value for money for customers.
Our Goji brand has teamed up with British pop rapper, Tinchy Stryder, to launch a range of headphones and other audio products.
We now have a strong range of own brands Currys & PCWorld Essentials, Logik, Advent, iWantit, Goji and Sandstrm each with a clear brand identity coupled with dedicated design, sourcing and commercial teams.
We will develop these brands and ranges for our business outside the UK & Ireland as webuild the Groups overall share in own brand products.
Our customers do not distinguish between our stores and our websites when choosing to shop with us and we are becoming a truly multi-channel retailer.
We led the way with reserve&collect options many years ago and we are now innovating in the ways our store colleagues can help customers utilise the power of our online offering in store, for example accessing our wider product offering inany store for delivery to home or collection later.
This year we will launch a pay&collect option for customers to buy whatever they seein our online range and collect it instore.
These are just some of the examples of how we are improving ourbusiness for customers and shareholders.
By innovating and leadingin our markets we will remain ahead of our competitors and deliver a sustainable business in a world where consumer shopping behaviours are constantly evolving.
26 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12
