Strategic Summary Business Model and Strategy Building a sustainable business in an ever changing world Technology and the digitised world increasingly embed themselves into peace of mind through product support and after sales services, our customers lives, whether it be keeping up with friends and family as well as accessories and recycling.
The conversations our through social media, online gaming, watching movies on the move, colleagues have in store with customers gives us an opportunity TM sharing pictures with others or across different technologies in the to explain the benets of these solutions.
Our Knowhow brand home, backing up precious memories in the cloud or through energy in the UK offers customers one cohesive services brand.
The latest technology allows our customers to do all this confident that there are increasing opportunities emerging in the and more with tablets, Smart TVs and apps.
The ecosystems behind added value services market as customers become more reliant the current digital revolution, are simplifying our customers lives.
on content, Cloud, services and technical support that enable Customers come to us not just for the enabling technology, but to them to get the most out of the products they buy.
Drive our service proposition: We need to ensure that customers recognise Dixons Retail for great service.
We need to be able to stand shoulder to shoulder with our customers and they Strategy need to know they can come to our stores and get knowledgeable The Renewal and Transformation plan continues to make significant advice to help them buy the right product.
They need to be improvements to our business.
We have set out three strategic confident that we will solve their problem for them quickly and priorities that will build on that work and improve our business efficiently.
If we get this right we believe that customers will be for customers.
This will, we believe, deliver improving returnsfor prepared to pay us for this service.
shareholders through a focus on improving Free Cash Flow iv.
Reduce costs: The scale of our operations across stores, ranges, generation and EBITmargins of the Group: logistics, distribution, repairs and services means that we can continually improve processes to reduce costs.
Drive a successful and sustainable business model financial years the Group has removed a total of 285 million of in a multi-channel world costs and we are targeting a further 90 million of costs to be 2.
Be a leader in each of the markets removed over the next two financial years.
in which the Group operates 2.
Be a leader in each of the markets in which 3.
Align the Group to leverage consistently the Group operates pan-European scale and knowhow We have strong market positions in the UK & Ireland, Northern Europe and in Greece.
In each of these markets we have seen 1.
Drive a successful and sustainable business model consolidation amongst competitors and we see opportunities to in a multi-channel world improve these positions further as we implement the initiatives The way in which a customer shops is fundamentally changing.
Across the Southern European division and Our customers tell us that they want advice, to experience in PIXmania we need to set these businesses on paths that will products and to ensure they are making the right choices, make them strategically strong and profitable, and drive solutions particularly as these are often major purchases that they will own that will put them on rmer footings.
The internet empowers customers with lots of While the economic environment in Greece is very tough, information including product knowledge and price transparency.
Kotsovolos is a strong brand and has a leading market share.
Single channel internet operators have structurally lower costs We believe that this business will be able to continue to leverage to sell products and have historically been able to offer highly its position to grow its share and manage costs aggressively.
competitive prices versus store based operators.
We have closed Our Italian business has continued to make progress against the price and cost gap dramatically in recent years and we will economic headwinds and in the short term we will continue to now increase our focus on four distinct activities that we believe take aggressive action on costs as well as improve the stock are the key strengths of our multi-channel service based model and cash position.
and will support our competitive advantage going forward: i.
Work closely with suppliers to harness benets available to PIXmania has one of the largest non-food pure play platforms our business model: Suppliers want to ensure that customers in Europe and represents a valuable source of insight and not only choose their brands, but also experience the benets of information on this segment of the market.
It has expanded its the latest products they have developed to meet customers ranges, offering both directly and through PIXplace and it has needs.
As a multi-channel operator we work with our suppliers exploited its E-merchant platform by offering hosting services to ensure we can explain the benets of these products and to third parties, most notably Carrefour.
However, its recent demonstrate them to customers in our stores and our suppliers performance has been disappointing.
In the light of the changing support us in this work in a number of ways.
business model facing internet operators we are reviewing much of PIXmanias activities to focus on those that deliver a competitive ii.
Focus on complete solutions for customers: Customers buy advantage going forward, such as product diversication, products in order to achieve something, such as watching movies, multi-channel offering as an e-commerce provider for third or to entertain the children.
This does not just mean buying the parties.
Together with cost reductions we are confident that we hardware, but increasingly includes delivery, explanation and can reduce the losses experienced in the year just nished.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 Dixons Retail plc 21 Directors Report Strategic Summary Business Model and Strategy continued 3.
Align the Group to leverage consistently pan-European Business Model scale and knowhow Our business model enables us to offer our customers a truly The Group has many best practices in each of its business multi-channel integrated service based electrical retailing experience divisions.
Some work has taken place to align these and share that delivers a sustainable business.
Taking each of the component them across the Group, such as the new store formats, supplier parts in turn, it can be described as follows: relationships and to a limited degree own brands.
However, there remain many opportunities to share knowledge, expertise and best Customer Insight practice across the Group.
Some of these will take time, but we In order to ensure we understand what products and services our must exploit further the benets of being a pan-European operator.
customers want, how they use the products they buy from us, and what they think of the service they get from us we use extensive Delivering on these priorities will build on the improvements already customer insight.
This includes discussions at customer panels, delivered by the Renewal and Transformation plan and enable the interviews, home visits and detailed surveys.
We use this information Group to improve its EBIT margin going forward as well as to build our ranges, improve our stores and services and other strengthen our focus on cash generation.
This is supported by mystery shops in our own and competitor stores, exit surveys and customer feedback.
Our UK & Ireland and Northern Europe divisions together delivered During the year our UK businesses made considerable progress in a 2.7% EBIT return after associated central costs in the 2011 12 customer satisfaction metrics as we continue to improve the business.
We believe that a 3-4% EBIT return for these businesses, is certainly achievable.
In the other businesses, returns Multi-channel have been disappointing and we need to focus on reducing the The shopping trip for customers is constantly evolving.
Our objective losses to support an improvement in the Groups EBIT return.
is to provide our customers with a seamless experience where Cash is an important part of this and the Group has been cash convenience, ease of navigation and simplicity are key in attracting generative in each of the last two financial years which has enabled customers to shop with us whether it is online, in-store or a us to more than halve our net debt position to 104 million.
We are improving our stores making them Group we need to make the right choices as to how each of our easier to shop with, for example, improved navigation, better divisions utilise or preserve cash, whether it be determining ranges signage, playtables to allow customers to interact with products and stock held in store, managing returns and related processes, before they buy, as well as good advice on features and benets improving working capital and stock turn.
We are also combining our PC World and CUSTOMER INSIGHT AFTER SALES MULTI-CHANNEL PRODUCTS SERVICE & SUPPORT Sales advice Great brands Delivery & installation Easy to shop Wide range Set up & upgrade Playtables Exclusivity Help & support 2-in-1 store offering Own brand product Repair & protect reserve&collect and collect@store Seamless online in-store experience Specialist VALUE CHOICE SERVICE LOW COST OPERATING MODEL 22 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 Strategic Summary Currys stores into 2-in-1 stores, which often feature a mezzanine After-Sales Services and Support level, give our customers greater access to our specialist computing Our customers need help with their products, whether it be delivery offer, combined with our market leading mixed electrical offering.
and installation, help keeping their products up and running or This enables us to improve our sales densities and rent to space repair when things go wrong.
Our business in the UK & Ireland sets mix.
As mentioned above our websites are an integral part of the the benchmark for our services infrastructure.
In May 2012 our way in which customers choose products and we have carried out a Knowhow services brand celebrated a very successful first year.
wide range of improvements to them during the year.
In recognition of how customer trends are evolving we have made it easier for our We operate the largest network of two man deliveries in the colleagues to access products and extended ranges in store.
For UK with an average of 50,000 deliveries per week enabling us example, our store colleagues are rewarded for all sales in their to provide customers with the convenience of next day delivery catchment, whether it be online or in store.
We are also introducing in a three hour time slot or the value of a free delivery later.
pay&collect, alongside our existing collect@store service, where Our Knowhow teams in stores, in our call centre and eld customers can buy products not immediately available in their local technicians can provide set up and upgrade services as well store for collection later.
as online x and back up services.
Our market leading range of Our training programmes combined with our Product Learning help and support services ensure a customer has the backing of Centres provide our colleagues with the right tools to really expertise and support that keeps their technology up and running.
understand customers needs and to provide them with the In the event that a customer has a problem with their product we complete solution to properly meet those needs.
For example, our state of the art repair facility in Newark, to improve the training of our colleagues and the ways in which now repairs 800,000 televisions, desktop PCs and laptops each we can really make them experts in the products we sell.
year and is able to repair and return a laptop in seven days.
We provide customers with a choice of support agreements such as Products Premier services which provide customers with a loan TV, for Combining our customer insight with our market strength across example, if theirs needs to be taken away for repair.
Europe we can make sure we have the right range of products in our stores to suit customers needs.
Our scale and relationships with Through ownership of the service infrastructure we can ensure the suppliers means that we can work with them to showcase the latest quality of service delivered to customers.
This, we believe, provides technology and products in our stores with areas dedicated to key us with a significant competitive advantage in meeting the needs of suppliers products.
our customers, as well as a revenue stream not readily available to single channel online and mass market competitors.
Own brand products enable us to offer customers greater choice and access to a range of products at competitive prices.
We have While much of the improvement work has been focused on the dened a clear good, better, best brand range of: Currys and UK, core elements of the business model exist in our businesses PC World Essentials: Logik: iWantit, Advent: Goji: and Sandstrm in the Northern and Southern European divisions and we see more brands.
We see particular opportunities in the area of accessories potential to develop this area.
and essentials and during the year launched our very successful Sandstrm cable range and Goji headphones.
These factors combined ensure that we can offer our customers value, choice and service.
Market leading delivery Personalised hassle Help me understand it Peace of mind if & installation free set up something goes wrong Remove the frustration Flexible, reliable and Make it easy for of technology Always there to help get unbeatable value the customer it xed Telephone, online and Choices to suit the customer Range of upgrades in-home support designed to maximise the performance of the products for customers Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 Dixons Retail plc 23
