Directors Report Strategic Summary In 2009, in the UK, we launched a comprehensive Customer Plan Resources in collaboration with our colleagues.
The Customer Plan involves improving every possible aspect of the shopping trip for customers, whether that be in our exciting new stores, better ranges at great value, untangling the shopping trip for customers, helping them get their products up and working, or keeping them working as technology gets more and more embedded into daily lives.
We made huge progress last year across every aspect that we measured in the Shopping Trip.
However, we must never be satisfied and we can and must make further improvements to delight customers and to outpace the competition.
This year, the Customer Plan will remain our vehicle for demonstrating to the team what Our resources needs to be delivered, building on last years successes, introducing new work-streams and sharing our practices across Europe.
Q Customers We are focusing on building a career development framework that Q People rewards customer centric behaviour and instils a sense of pride Q Suppliers in our colleagues.
We now provide tailor-made development programmes and support further education qualications for our Q Distribution and Logistics colleagues throughout the business.
Our development programmes Q Store Portfolio use modules, training workshops and a dedicated e-learning intranet Q Intellectual Property service that helps provide the skills colleagues need to succeed at Q Cash every level and career stage.
Q Energy We operate sophisticated tracking and measuring processes, including regular mystery shops and exit surveys, to measure Customers individuals and stores performance, and to ensure we reward To deliver on our strategies and to evolve them according to appropriate behaviours.
Each region within the Group defines its own current requirements, we must listen effectively to customers and reward system as is appropriate to local customers expectations understand their needs.
As a company, since 2008 we have invested and colleague behaviours.
However, all these systems incentivise in comprehensive customer research programmes spanning a a combination of good customer service and contribution to a store variety of tools including exit surveys, mystery shops, focus groups or teams performance.
Suppliers Through this research, managed by our in-house Customer Insight As we build our market-leading reputation and become known not team, we have developed a clear and detailed understanding of what just for Value, Choice and Service, but also as the go to location we are doing well and more importantly of where we can target further for all the latest technology, our relationship with suppliers becomes improvements.
Customers tell us that they need us to deliver a strong ever more important.
Product sourcing ofces for each of the UK & combination of Value, Choice and Service across all our shopping Ireland division, Northern Europe, Italy, Greece, Turkey and PIXmania channels, and it is clear from their feedback that more and more they continually monitor current and future product cycles with existing recognise that we are doing this consistently, and moreover that we and potential suppliers.
We will continue to deliver easier, more exciting places to shop for customers whether that be in-store, In a complex multi-channel environment, suppliers trust us with their online or a multi-channel combination of both.
new product releases and stock allocations, as they appreciate the superior service and advice offered by our stores and indeed our Listening to customers extends into how we approach the sales websites, as well as the exciting environments offered by our process in-store.
Our FIVES training programme, designed to transformed stores.
ensure customers leave our stores with a complete solution that is right for them, is now embedded in our colleagues training We work closely with suppliers of all sizes to help them deliver the programme, and this year was adapted to support the launch of our right product for customers, through the forecasting and planning end-to-end service brand Knowhow and its 4,000 team members.
stages to ensure we deliver the right levels of stock for customers at the right time.
The electrical and computing industry is characterised By maintaining our absolute focus on the customer and delivering by a number of large global manufacturers, who account for a large what they want in a retail environment that is constantly evolving, proportion of our sales.
However, we also source product from we will continue to attract new customers and retain existing ones.
a large number of smaller suppliers.
We seek to maintain strong relationships with all of these suppliers, not just to source the right People product for customers, but also to ensure the Group can purchase Dixons Retail is an organisation spanning most of Europe, with nearly the appropriate level of stock on favourable terms.
While we leverage 37,000 colleagues in over 1,200 stores, ofces, call centres and the Groups scale and buying power through an International Buying distribution centres.
For our colleagues, we believe there are four team, we also maintain strong relationships at a local level.
core values that constitute who we are, as individuals and as a team: Q We love to make our customers happy Our in-house design team continues to work closely with suppliers to develop exciting environments in-store for colleagues Q We know our stuff to demonstrate brands and products and ensure customers leave Q We love to work here with the right products for them.
Q We deliver 24 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 Strategic Summary Alongside this, we continue to rene our own-brand ranges to suit These and its other brands such as Unieuro in Italy, Electroworld all budgets and taste.
Our most notable successes this year have in Turkey and Central Europe are extremely well-established and been the launch of our own Sandstrm cables brand and the respected in their markets.
The Group is also building a strong unveiling of a Goji headphone range fronted by Tinchy Stryder.
service business branded Knowhow in the UK, aiming to delight We also continue to embed our Currys and PC World Essentials customers while generating significant new business opportunities ranges as key entry level products in our good, better, best line-up.
These products are designed and sourced by the Groups teams As well as our retail and service brands outlined above, we also based in the UK and Hong Kong in collaboration with manufacturers sell a range of own brand products such as Sandstrm, Goji, in, for example, Asia.
Each of these brands have specic target markets dened in conjunction with our customer research findings.
Distribution and Logistics Previously, Dixons Retail had operated a much wider range of own The Group sees distribution as one of the keys to the success of brands but many of these had become irrelevant to the Group in maintaining highly competitive margins and delivering modern customer needs or to business requirements.
outstanding, market-beating service to customers.
We operate a centralised system of distribution centres in all the countries in Cash which we operate.
This delivers significant competitive advantages, It remains the Groups policy to maintain a strong capital base so as including reduced operating costs, reduced supplier delivery costs, to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain the reduced stock volumes in store, increased exibility as to where to future development of the business.
This approach has never been deliver and when, and easier home deliveries.
more important than during the current downturn, with reducing While continuing to reduce costs, we are also constantly raising costs having been one of the five key corporate priorities highlighted the bar, both in terms of successful delivery and installation rates, at thelaunch of the Renewal & Transformation plan in 2008. but also the range and quality of services we offer customers As we move forward under a new Group Chief Executive, our targets nationwide.
The launch of our Knowhow brand was in part in theshort term for the Group have been clearly laid out: we will be recognition of the huge strides we have made in this area.
focusing on delivering a suitable and sustainable return on EBIT In our Nordic operations, Jnkping, Sweden and the UK, Newark, aswell as generating cash.
we operate two of the largest distribution centres of their kind in The Group has been cash generative in each of the last two Europe.
In the UK alone we now make some 2.5 million deliveries, financial years.
As a Group we need to make the right choices including some 500,000 installations per year.
as to how each division utilises or preserves cash whether it bein determining ranges and stock held in store or managing Store portfolio returns and related processes.
We operate a wide variety of stores to suit the local customer demographics.
We operate small, very popular outlets in airport Over the last five financial years the Group has removed a total locations up to Megastores in out-of-town locations, up to 70,000 of 285 million of costs.
The company is also targeting a further square feet.
further 90 million to be removed over the next two financial years and we have a cautious programme to reduce costs every year.
We constantly review our store portfolio to ensure we have the right store for customers in the most competitive location.
As part of this ongoing review in the UK, we are currently reducing our exposure to Energy the High Street, only maintaining a presence in the most profitable Saving energy is good for the business, good for customers and locations.
We are also transitioning a number of stores, where of course good for the environment.
We take energy efficiency appropriate to a 2-in-1 format.
These stores allow us to offer the best extremely seriously and whilst we have already made progress in of both worlds to customers, attracting new footfall and often at a number of areas, we are investing in a wider range of initiatives a lower cost.
to signicantly reduce our consumption going forward.
Throughout Europe, we have replicated the success of the store Over the past two years we have developed an ongoing programme rets first trialled in the UK and Nordics, delivering exciting, easy to to reduce energy consumption throughout our estate.
To give some shop stores offering the latest technology to customers.
We also simple examples, in the last two years in the UK alone we have: rene our Group portfolio strategy to suit local market conditions.
Q Established a dedicated energy function within the company to In the Nordics for example, we have opened a number of Elkjp deliver our energy programme: Express High Street shops, clearly establishing ourselves as the Q Installed low-energy lighting at nearly 200 stores within our portfolio: Norwegian market leader in mobile communication sales.
Q Installed energy-efficient building controls at a similar number of stores: and In the Nordic region, Italy, Greece and Turkey we also operate a Q Trained over 11,000 colleagues in good energy saving practice.
number of franchise agreement stores.
This arrangement allows our brands to be present in a wider range of catchments, while As a result of our various efficiency works last year we saved over increasing the volume of purchases and therefore buying power 6% in the UK on our electricity consumption, with the expectation of the Group.
we can make further improvements this year.
Intellectual Property Dixons Retail is one of the largest electrical and computing specialist groups in Europe, and leads the market in a number of its operations, in the UK and Ireland through Currys and PC World, in the Nordics through its Elkjp brands, in Greece through Kotsovolos, and in a number of countries online through PIXmania.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 Dixons Retail plc 25
