Directors Report Corporate Governance Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 At 21 June 2012 Committee Membership Audit Nominations Remuneration John Allan 9 9 Rita Clifton 999 Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 999 Tim How 99 9 Jock Lennox 9 99 Dharmash Mistry 999 Denotes the chair of the committee 44 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 Corporate Governance 1 John Allan CBE, Chairman 6 Jock Lennox, Independent Non-Executive Director John Allan 63 joined the Board on 23 June 2009 and was appointed Jock Lennox 55 joined the Board on 10 January 2012.
He is chairman Chairman on 2 September 2009.
He is chairman of the Nominations of the Audit Committee and is also a member of the Nominations and Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
He is also the Remuneration Committees.
Jock is a Chartered Accountant and has chairman of WorldPay Limited and Care UK Health & Social Care Holdings extensive accounting and finance experience having worked for over Limited and senior advisor to Deutsche Bank UK and Alix Partners.
He is 30 years for Ernst & Young 20years as a partner where he led a number a non-executive member of the Home Office Supervisory Board, chairman of relationships withinternational clients and held a number of leadership of the DHL UK Foundation and a regent of the University of Edinburgh.
positions inthe UK and globally.
Jock retired from Ernst & Young in 2009 He was previously chief executive of Exel plc and, following its acquisition by andsubsequently has acted as a non-executive director of a number of Deutsche Post, a member of its management board and subsequently chief companies and was until recently a council member of the Institute of financial officer of Deutsche Post.
Prior to this, he was a director of BET Plc.
He is currently a trustee of the Tall Ships His early career was with Lever Brothers, Bristol-Myers Company Ltd and Youth Trust and non-executive director and chairman of the Audit Committee Fine Fare Ltd.
He has extensive board experience having been chairman of A&J Mucklow Group plc, Enquest plc, Hill and Smith Holdingsplc and of Samsonite Corporation and a non-executive director of PHS Group plc, Oxford Instruments plc.
ISS A S, National Grid plc, Wolseley plc, Hamleys plc, 3i plc and Connell plc.
He has also served on the supervisory boards of both Lufthansa AG and 7 Rita Clifton, Independent Non-Executive Director Deutsche Postbank.
Rita Clifton 54 joined the Board on 1 September 2003.
She is a member of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
She is chairman 2 Sebastian James, Group Chief Executive of Interbrand UK Limited, Populus Limited and TCV social enterprise group, Sebastian James 46 joined the Board on 20 February 2012.
Sebastian non-executive director of Bupa, president of the Market Research Society, joined the Group in April 2008 and held various roles before his appointment director of Henley Festival Limited, visiting professor at Henley Management to the Board including Group Operations Director.
He is chairman of INK College, trustee of the WWF and member of the Assurance and Advisory Publishing Holdings Limited.
Prior to joining the Group he was chief Board of BPs carbon offset programme.
She was formerly vice chairman and executive of Synergy Insurance Services Limited, a private equity backed executive planning director at Saatchi and Saatchi.
She has had a successful insurance company.
He has wide retail experience and was strategy director 18year advertising career with both Saatchi and Saatchi and JWalter responsible for developing and implementing the turnaround strategy at Thompson.
She was previously a non-executive director of Emapplc and Mothercare plc in 2003.
He started his career at The Boston Consulting a member of the Governments Sustainable Development Commission.
Group having completed an MBA at INSEAD and an MA at Oxford University.
8 Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen, Independent Non-Executive Director 3 Humphrey Singer, Group Finance Director Utho Creusen 56 joined the Board on 1 February 2010.
He is a member Humphrey Singer 46 joined the Board on 1 July 2011.
Humphrey joined of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
He is owner Dixons Retail in2007.
He has held various finance roles since then, including of Positive Leadership a management consultancy andco-owner of finance director of Currys, group financial controller and finance director Grid-International, non-executive director of M. Video theleading Russian ofthe UK & Ireland division.
Prior to joining Dixons Retail, Humphrey was electronic retailer, chairman of the Jury of the European Retail Institute, finance director of Coca Cola Enterprises UK Ltd and prior tothat also held vice-president of Modern Market-Methods Association in Germany, advisor a number of finance roles at Coca Cola Enterprises UK Ltd and Cadbury to Boston Consulting Group, andhonorary professor at both Westflische Schweppes plc.
Wilhelms-Universitt Mnster and the Catholic University, Eichsttt-Ingolstadt.
He has extensive international retail experience and was previously human 4 Katie Bickerstaffe, Chief Executive UK & Ireland resources director of Media-Saturn Holding GmbH an electronics retail chain Katie Bickerstaffe 45 joined the Board on 20 February 2012.
She joined the and co-owner of Alpha tecc the German consumer electronics chain.
Group as director of marketing, people and property in June 2008.
In addition He spent 22 years with OBI AG, a leading European DIY retailer, where to her executive position she is also a non-executive director of Scottish he rose to become a member of its executive board and chairman of OBI and Southern Energy plc.
Previously, Katie was managing director of Kwik Franchise GmbH.
Save Ltd and group retail director and group HR director at Somerfield plc.
Her earlier career included roles at Dyson Ltd, PepsiCo Inc. and Unilever PLC.
9 Dharmash Mistry, Independent Non-Executive Director Dharmash Mistry 41 joined the Board on 27 September 2010.
He is a 5 Tim How, Senior Independent Director member of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
He is Tim How 61 joined the Board on 8 September 2009.
He took on therole a partner at Balderton Capital Management UK LLP, investor director and of Senior Independent Director on 9 May 2012 and he is chairman of the board member of MOG, eWise, KupiVIP.
ru, Achica Limited and non-executive Remuneration Committee and a member of both the Audit and Nominations director of Hargreaves Landsdown plc.
He was formerly investor director Committees.
He is chairman of Rayner and Keeler Limited and Woburn and board member of Sulake Habbo Hotel, my-wardrobe.
com and a board Enterprises Limited, non-executive director of Henderson Group plc, Downing director of Lovefilm.
Prior to joining Balderton Capital, he was part of the Income VCT 4 plc and Peabody Capital plc, director of Enotria Group Ltd, executive team at Emap plc, as group managing director of Emap Consumer Wine and Spirit Education Trust and a governor of the Peabody Trust.
He was Media and Emap Performance.
Prior to this, he was at Boston Consulting formerly chief executive of Majestic Wine plc, where he led the management Group and started his career as a brand manager at Procter & Gamble.
buy-out of the business and subsequent Alternative Investment Market AIM flotation.
Prior to this, Tim How was managing director of Bejam Group plc.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 Dixons Retail plc 45
