Directors Report Strategic Summary Our Markets Specialist electrical retailers are the predominant destination Innovation brings new products and products with improved for customers in the European market.
Buying groups, general functionality, such as 3D and Smart TVs, Ultrabooks and Apples iPad, in turn driving sales growth.
New content, such associal merchants and independents also have a retail presence in most media, apps, digital media and cloud computing, also help to European markets.
The market is served by a relatively small number drive hardware innovation and replacement.
Product sales are also of global manufacturers supplying goods to local, regional, national driven by structural shifts such as analogue to digital and standard and international electrical retailers.
In addition, innovation drives new service The electrical retail market can be split between specialist electrical requirements such as TV installation and data backup.
In this retailers, such as Dixons Retail, and general retailers which sell increasingly complex world we believe our assisted sales modelis certain electrical goods as part of a wider offering, such as best placed to help customers navigate the products available and catalogue retailers, department stores, large supermarket chains to help them choose a complete solution that best meets theirneeds.
and single channel internet retailers.
The market can also be broken down into two distinct distribution channels: assisted and Electrical products, and in particular brown goods, are predominantly unassisted.
In the assisted channel, specialist retailers such as us, discretionary purchases.
However, increasing penetration of digital help customers through the buying process in the form of product technology in the home drives replacement cycles as these products advice, add-on services, delivery and installation.
The unassisted become less discretionary.
The economic backdrop also determines channel, which includes single channel internet retailers as well whether customers buy up or down price points.
Accordingly, as general retailers, tend not to offer all of these services.
the electrical market tends to grow at a rate which is at or exceeding the economy during boom years.
While the opposite can be true We are one of the largest specialist electrical retailing and services during a downturn, this may be influenced by new innovation companies in Europe and with leading market shares in the UK, and products.
Ireland, the Nordic region and Greece we benefit from longestablished and widely recognised brands.
In each of our markets The current economic backdrop has led to a number of electrical there are varying numbers of specialist retailers who compete in retail operations, both store and internet based, exiting the market, the assisted market.
While we do compete against general retailers, helping us gain market shares.
This underpins our view that a strong this is generally limited to certain lower unit price product categories service led multi-channel operation satisfies both customer and as these operators do not offer the full range of products, assisted supplier needs while delivering a sustainable business as customer sale or associated ancillary services we are able to provide.
shopping habits continue to evolve.
The rapid innovation cycle leads to price deation in brown goods We do maintain a presence in the unassisted channel through and computing but also drives volume as products become more our pure play internet businesses of PIXmania and Dixons.
affordable and replacement cycles accelerate.
For larger ticket items, This enables us to compete directly with a large number of internet the low frequency of purchases limits the impact of price deation retailers across Europe, it also provides useful insight into the on total market sales as consumers typically tradeup.
dynamics of this part of the market.
The internet delivers enhanced product information and facilitates The sale of white goods is underpinned by the replacement cycle.
Whilst this creates new Due to higher costs of repair, it often makes better economic challenges, it also provides a significant opportunity.
We believe that, sense for consumers to replace white goods outright rather than to over time, internet demand will polarise towards the larger retailers arrange for their repair.
The sale of white goods is also driven by the with scalable distribution and systems, together with proven after dynamics of the housing market, as new construction, house sales sales service and support.
In particular customers are showing an and refurbishment trigger new purchases.
increasing propensity to combine the internet with stores as they The UK and Nordic markets have high broadband penetration and consider their purchase with, for example, collect@store proving to a maturing online sales platform.
The increase in online penetration be increasingly popular where customers can order on the internet provides us with the opportunity to increase both the range of goods and collect from a convenient store at a time to suit them.
on offer and the availability of product information.
Our multi-channel approach is well placed to exploit synergies between our internet sites and stores.
20 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12
