11 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Strategy Strategies Long-term customer relationships through unparalleled expertise 1 Globally aligned teams.
Ensuring a skilled and industry experienced workforce.
Developing a culture of collaboration with our customers.
Product leadership through superior innovation Consistent high level investment in development.
Ongoing innovation of full solution portfolio, relevant to technology trends.
2 Tailored developments for focus market sectors and regions.
Expertise in fluids, consumables and aftermarket products.
Product portfolio consistency and simplicity.
Service excellence and customer satisfaction Integrated global service network.
Committed and effective service teams.
3 Fast response and resolution of issues.
Brand recognition underpinned by service and support excellence.
Strategic investment that capitalises on future market drivers Acquisitions and strategic investment in new growth areas, in key technologies, markets and geographies.
4 Business sustainability Environmentally friendly product portfolio.
Focus on waste, energy and overall carbon footprint reduction.
Supply chain total life cycle improvement.
12 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 During 2012, Tetra Pak has included Dominos coding technology within its latest innovative iLine XT fully integrated packaging solution Case study: Tetra Pak Tetra Pak is the worlds Domino has developed a leading company for food long-term business relationship processing and packaging with Tetra Pak as a leading solutions.
Working closely supply partner for coding with their customers and and marking equipment for suppliers, they provide safe, their food and beverage innovative and environmentally packaging systems, reflected sound products.
in Dominos high rating against Tetra Paks stringent vendor assessment criteria.
13 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Strategy performance 1.
Long-term customer relationships through unparalleled expertise Central to Dominos business model is the development of longrequirements creating challenges for the industry and significant new term customer relationships, benefiting both Domino as a supplier, opportunity for coding.
One of the most significant is the European as well as our customers.
For our customers, this means the ability Falsified Medicines Directive FMD which requires pharmaceutical to capitalise on Dominos willingness to tailor our solutions to meet manufacturers to identify and authenticate features on outer packaging a set of specific needs, adding value based upon accumulated and of medicines, including a unique, non-predictive number and tampershared experience.
Equally, customers benefit from Dominos evident labelling.
long-term commitment to security of ongoing supply for spares and consumables, maintaining business continuity.
During 2012, Domino formed a European group dedicated to helping pharmaceutical manufacturers comply with these new stringent For Domino, it provides the opportunity, through a complete solutions regulations.
Consequently we have developed the functionality of portfolio, to progressively satisfy the broader coding and marking our printers specific to the needs of the FMD legislation in order to needs of our customers from coding the primary pack bottles, cans address serialisation capability, ease of integration and capability to etc to secondary outer case and end of line packaging solutions.
Importantly, it offers the opportunity to develop a sustained revenue stream long after a capital equipment sale through the provision We are seeing convergence of the requirements of serialisation and of consumables, ancillaries, spare parts and services.
machine readable codes among legislative bodies and the work Domino is currently undertaking in this area puts us in an excellent Domino offers a complete coding and marking solution for our position to capitalise on the opportunities created within Europe customers, aiming to build customer loyalty and a sustained and and across other regions of the world.
Key elements which add value for our customers include: Leveraging our expertise in the beverage sector In 2012, Domino exploited its new i-Tech product range across Industry and technology expertise in order to offer the right manyof its core markets including the beverage sector.
Central to solutions for individual customers needs, anticipating and supporting oursuccess has been a focus on high growth regions, such as Asia, and customers through legislative and manufacturing changes.
sub-sectors such as bottled water and energy drinks.
A more globally A full portfolio of solutions to simplify overall training, service, focused approach to the important multinational producers has support and management of consumables.
helped to better leverage Dominos position in the sector, recognising Local and rapid response for installations, service and the growing needs for production line efficiency combined aftermarket supply.
Commitment to initial and ongoing operator training by a highly qualified service team.
Partnership focus financing solutions In the more difficult economic climate of 2012, Domino responded to During 2012, we have continued to cement our commitment to the needs of key customers by providing a range of flexible financial long-term customer relationships through a number of initiatives, solutions.
By offering lease and our unique Relax financing product, it highlights as follows: has enabled customers to continue to invest in new coding solutions while matching their costs more closely with local output.
Adding value in life sciences The life sciences business continues to remain a key sector within Domino where there are a number of emerging legislative 14 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 The N600i has certainly lived up to our expectations of high resolution, high quality output at significantly higher operational speeds Marc Reynders, Chief Executive Officer, Reynders Case study: Domino N600i digital printing press Reynders is one of the leading to enter into a collaborative label specialists in Europe: beta site programme.
headquartered in Belgium with significant operations Following an extensive throughout Europe and evaluation programme, Chief Asia.
Increasingly, the label Executive Officer, Marc printing industry faces new Reynders commented, The challenges with customers N600i has certainly lived demanding ever tighter delivery up to our expectations of deadlines, shorter average run high resolution, high quality lengths, more personalised output at significantly higher data: but still the highest operational speeds.
The quality of end product.
operation has been reliable and we are able to run much longer Whilst Reynders currently production jobs than we would operate a range of digital normally print with digital printing technologies, the technology, in this respect it productivity capabilities is more targeted at replacing offered by Dominos latest what we would normally Digital Printing press run on flexo machines.
technology encouraged them 15 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Strategy performance 2.
Product leadership through superiorinnovation It is a long held belief in Domino that product performance is a key Developing inks to meet the demands of new packaging materials differentiator for our customers.
Demanding operating conditions Our focus on materials research and development has led to the coupled with ever increasing targets for operational effectiveness launch of two new inks during 2012 designed to address the growth means customers are constantly testing our product performance in use of plastic packaging: BK107, a TIJ ink providing customers with against their own manufacturing process goals.
Whilst reliability in a reliable and durable high resolution coding solution targeted to operation remains the number one priority for our customers, meet the increasing demand of high quality codes such as 2D data throughput rates, code quality, code application across an increasing matrix codes: and 299BK, a CIJ ink that has demonstrated excellent range of substrates, automation of coding and data management are performance in the field whilst providing class leading adhesion all areas where customers continue to demand innovation and for lightweight plastic packaging, typically used in food and enhanced product performance.
Our aim is to anticipate customer requirements through regular Technology platform development improvements to our products and through the introduction of new We remain committed to our strategy of developing key components capabilities and functionality.
Our approach to product leadership is of our printers as platforms such that they can then be deployed based on leveraging our significant industry experience and global across the range of printing technologies and products, enabling network to identify target markets and applications and developing or standardisation of those components.
Once in place, these will acquiring products that can excel in meeting the demands of both significantly reduce development timescales and drive complexity out manufacturing process and printed substrate.
We place a high priority of all areas of the business from the supply chain right through to sales on investment in Research and Development and, where necessary or and service.
Our first platform, the QuickStep user interface, which appropriate, on acquiring new products, technology or know how.
has been extensively rolled out in 2012, has been well received with further deployments of platform components imminent.
We have made progress in a number of important areas with our products in 2012: highlights are as follows: Digital label press During 2012, our new K600i single colour digital printing product exceeded sales expectations by providing enhanced printing solutions in applications such as labels, tickets and commercial security applications to customers, primarily in Europe and North America.
Our N600i full colour digital label press has proven itself in exhaustive beta testing and following an initial order in 2012, will be available for full commercial release throughout 2013.
We expect that our combination of high print throughput rates and outstanding print quality will provide us with market share gain in the label sector.
16 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Domino has significantly invested in virtual training, allowing a greater flexibility and reach of knowledge transfer Case study: Domino Group Training Academies Gaining and retaining our global operations, are knowledge is a key element in well equipped to deliver high providing service excellence quality and effective training.
Additionally, Domino operates Dominos Group Training a global network of highly Academies have adapted qualified trainers that support traditional learning methods the development needs of our to support the ever increasing customers both at point of demand from engineers and installation and throughout importantly, our customers.
the life of the equipment.
Tailored programmes are Dominos Global Training offered across our customers Academies based at its UK workforce from operator headquarters and throughout level to skilled engineers.
17 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Strategy performance 3.
Service excellence and customersatisfaction Failure to place a code on products can be very costly for Highlighted areas of improvement in 2012 include: customers.
Production downtime or spoiled product is an expensive waste of resource.
In Domino a central part of our business model is New service options the ability to meet the service and support needs of our customers During 2012, the revolutionary A-Series i-Tech ink system has enabled wherever they may be in the world and at a consistently high many ink jet users to experience service free ink jet for the first time.
Whether that be in the supply of printers and consumables This has reduced planned annual maintenance activities from three or the delivery of services, our strategy of service excellence is hours to less than 10 minutes per printer hence freeing up resources aimed at keeping customers operational while reinforcing the to be used on value adding activities, increasing the availability of important role we play in their business.
Our manufacturing strategy is based on lean principles, with flexible Sharing knowledge and managing support supply chains supporting our highly responsive and short lead time, In 2012, we started to roll out an enhanced service system within our make to order, ship to customer philosophy for all products.
This key sales channels to support our service workforce.
This will enable responsiveness benefits our customers and benefits Domino, helping further improvements to service levels and start to build a strong to deliver more efficient processes and reduce total cost.
cloud based platform of knowledge to share printer performance information with customers.
The increase in cross border trade and emergence of global supply strategies in many industries we serve means our customers must Training our people meet the highest coding standards on their products irrespective of Throughout the year, Dominos Group Training Academies have where they are manufactured.
In addition to striving for product significantly increased their delivery of engineer training through a leadership, Domino seeks to differentiate itself through the provision variety of approaches including face to face classrooms, webinars, of support services and simplified product maintenance, responding virtual training and e-learning.
Our focus has been to ensure training to customers demanding time schedules and helping to maximise both internally and externally for our core and new technologies production uptime and coding performance.
including CIJ, TTO, TIJ, Laser and Drop on Demand ink jet.
Virtual classrooms and webinars have allowed a greater reach of knowledge The Domino Service Standard determines the level of performance transfer, especially with product enhancements specific to our core expected of any Domino sales business and sets expectations for growth markets.
service expertise, coverage and response that is second to none.
Field service engineers represent the largest body of employees within the Group and our management systems and training programmes ensure we develop our competence and maintain a strong global capability.
We measure customer satisfaction both formally and informally and at both the local level in our sales channels and centrally in our manufacturing operations: this feedback helps focus our process of continuous improvement upon those things customers value highest.
18 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 In 2012, Domino has been developing its marking technology as a key part of a complete egg handling solution in conjunction with TEN Media for market deployment Case study: TEN Media In 2011, Domino Printing for recording vital egg Sciences plc announced that production data and marking it had made a $50 million it, in the form of consumer investment in TEN Media, friendly codes, directly on a business established with the shells of table eggs.
NewMarket Impressions LLC to provide the global In 2012, Domino has been egg industry with compliance developing its marking verification, traceability and technology for the egg on-egg printing solutions.
market working with farms TEN Media owns know across the USA to optimise how and specific intellectual coding methods and integrate property rights that places equipment into a complete it in a unique position to egg handling machine supply such solutions, developed with TEN Media including the deployment for market deployment.
of its patented technology 19 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Strategy performance 4.
Strategic investment that capitalises onfuture market drivers Our mission tightly defines our purpose and enables us to focus on Graph-Tech the wealth of opportunities there are to develop or enhance the Graph-Tech is an industry leader in the development and integration information applied to products or packaging, informing, attracting of digital printing technologies, and supplies key OEMs and end users and protecting consumers.
Legislation plays a key role in defining in the commercial printing industry.
A key partner to Domino since the data that manufacturers or service providers must make 1999, Graph-Tech joined the Domino Group in June 2012 through available to consumers but operational imperatives driving efficiency acquisition and forms the basis of our future plans for growth in our and eliminating waste also play their part in creating opportunities core digital printing markets, and in particular the new and growing for coding, marking or printing of variable data.
For digital printing, market for short run, digital label printing.
the growing need for faster and short run production of high resolution print also necessitates innovation to address the need Mikrojet for improved productivity.
In March 2012, Domino entered into partnership with Mikrojet Systems AG through acquisition of certain assets to provide increased Dominos strategy is to identify and anticipate those requirements and focus and an established customer base in the printing and mailing to find new markets or new opportunities to deliver growth.
Often markets, primarily in Germany.
Having established a significant these opportunities will require us to acquire or develop new skills and market share in mail addressing applications, Mikrojets presence and competencies through partnerships and collaboration with others.
Dominos product range and infrastructure provides the Group with Finding the right partners and building new business opportunities, opportunities to increase sales of newer digital printing technologies often through acquisition, is an important part of our growth plan.
and solutions into the German market.
By selecting our targets carefully and developing plans that are based TEN Media on delivering specific value to customers our strategic investments The Group holds an investment in TEN Media, a business established enhance our ability to respond to specific customer need and help to provide the US egg industry with compliance verification, traceability promote our solution provider approach.
TEN Media owns know how and specific intellectual property rights that places it in a unique position to supply Investments made in 2012 include: such solutions, including the deployment of its patented technology for recording vital egg production data and creating marks, in the form of PostJet consumer friendly codes, directly on the shells of table eggs.
In excess PostJet Systems was acquired in June 2012 to provide increased focus of six billion dozen eggs are produced in the US each year.
and market share in applications within the postal distribution industry, where postal authorities and private mail providers are looking to Domino has the exclusive rights to build and supply marking and implement ever increasing levels of automation and efficiency.
coding systems to TEN Media.
We have conducted successful field Formed in 2006, PostJet has established key relationships with OEMs trials of our equipment in 2012 in preparation for commencement of operating within the industry, as well as postal authorities and the validation programme of the full compliance system.
Dominos private mail service providers.
Deploying digital technology, they investment in TEN Media represents an exciting opportunity for the have gained market share in postal applications such as barcoding, Group to play a key role in bringing to market the first automated, stamp cancellation, and readdressing.
Partnership with PostJet will web-based disease prevention and traceability system for eggs.
expand Dominos core postal business with the Royal Mail in the UK, and with access to Dominos global network of sales and service channels we expect to develop business in a number of larger postal markets worldwide.
The A320i was designed with low energy consumption requirements and uses up to 40 per cent less make up fluid Case study: A320i and sustainability Dominos commitment and its predecessor for easier investment in best practice transportation and related means we frequently carbon footprint reduction.
exceed demanding Consumables usage has been governmental, industry and reduced by up to 40 per cent regulatory standards.
for make up fluid and waste materials have been cut by In the development of 90 per cent.
Furthermore, Dominos latest CIJ printer, the printer was designed the A320i, these principles with low energy consumption were a fundamental part of the requirements and is fully design process.
The machine RoHS and WEEE compliant.
is 40 per cent lighter than 21 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Strategy performance 5. Business sustainability The increasing focus on the worlds finite natural resources is now a New product development priority for all companies across all industries.
As a key supplier to Safety, Health and Environmental considerations have always been many of the worlds largest and most influential manufacturers, and important in the design of our products, both inks and printers.
with a concern for the environment and communities in which we All materials used meet current regulations, and through our operate, we in Domino have made sustainability an imperative for engagement with the legislative bodies we proactively work to ensure our business.
compliance with forthcoming standards as early as possible.
Being first to market with halogen and heavy metal free inks is an example Our approach extends from the products we develop to help of our approach.
During 2012, we introduced life cycle analysis into customers respond to changes they must make in their use of our development process such that the environmental impact of packaging or in their processes through to working with our own the evolving design is considered throughout.
We have sought suppliers covering both working standards and environmental external advice and support to ensure we introduce a robust awareness.
This enables early anticipation of, and response to, and effective process.
legislative trends and design of effective business processes for sustainable supply chains.
Human resources and social responsibility We continue to recognise the importance of social, environmental and Domino is a strongly ethical company: we operate strict standards ethical matters and during 2012 we reviewed our compliance with in our business and pay particular attention to confirming compliance social responsibility in line with the GRI guidelines.
We have employed and acting upon new requirements or regulations.
dedicated resources to focus on corporate responsibility and we are making tangible improvements in the way we do business, contribute Examples of our progress in this area in 2012: to our community and fulfil our responsibilities to all our stakeholders.
The long established Domino values are integral to our approach, Supply chain management including promoting the safety and wellbeing of our employees, Activity in 2012 has focused on verifying compliance to the Domino andminimising our impact on the environment.
All Group suppliers in high risk regions have improvement plans in place following third party audits carried out in 2011.
Progress has been measured and reviewed to reinforce the required standards, including the need to extend the verification process through the extended supply chain.
There has been a marked improvement in working standards and environmental awareness in all audited suppliers as a result of the actions taken.
The selection process for new suppliers and manufacturing sources includes mandatory sustainability assessment and evidence of compliance is presented prior to supplier approval.
