08 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Market context Introduction Changing market needs The demands on and importance of coding, marking and variable Consumer requirements are more sophisticated as people become printing for both consumer and industrial products have significantly more time poor and discerning: this has accelerated the demand for increased over the last decade, to the point that today industry greater convenience.
This need applies across the whole value chain requires more sophisticated solutions, capable of providing value including manufacturers, retailers and end consumers.
Manufacturers beyond traditional product codes.
The requirement has moved from are looking for coding equipment which is simple to use, support legislative driven mandates for sell by or best before dates to coding and integrate into their production facilities.
Retailers have sought to solutions capable of satisfying a diverse range of needs of many simplify logistics through automated barcoding systems and shelf-ready stakeholders in the value chain.
Typical examples of increasing market packaging, whilst consumers are seeking convenience through single demands include: portion products and easy to use packaging.
All these demands have created greater challenges for coding and marking solutions.
Governments and brand owners, driving traceability and product and brand protection from counterfeiting and product diversion.
As a consequence, Domino has progressively developed a full Manufacturers maximising productivity from existing production technology portfolio, capable of offering simplicity in use, the flexibility equipment and retailers accelerating innovation of shelf-ready to print new code formats such as QR codes and barcodes, and packaging and efficient warehousing and supply chains.
compatibility with the diversity of packaging available.
For example, Rising consumer demand for more choice and increasingly more Dominos latest V-Series TTO range, is typically used within form fill product information.
and seal flexible packaging applications: a key growth area both in Brand owners using packaging to differentiate their products from developed and emerging markets.
the competition, including exploiting the promotional potential ofcoding.
Improved productivity and performance In an increasingly competitive environment, FMCG producers are Key supply and demand driven factors becoming more demanding on the needs of coding and marking.
Globalisation Total cost effectiveness, covering capital equipment purchase as Many of the markets served by Domino such as food, beverage and well as aftermarket costs, has become a key requirement in the pharmaceutical sectors are driving globalisation, with sizeable addition to the critical need for maximum production line uptime.
multinational corporations seeking to leverage their global footprint Domino has recognised this increased emphasis and developed through simplified and consistent manufacturing platforms.
Domino Dominos i-Tech service free technology solutions, capable of has been responding to this challenge by deploying common reducing total cost, maximising production uptime and simplifying technology platforms, available on a worldwide basis.
Dominos new product developments have sought to provide greater levels of manufacturing connectivity within and across plants in order Increased product traceability to address the needs of ERP systems such as SAP.
This approach is The ability to track and identify products throughout the value chain enabling Domino to better leverage relationships with key has significantly increased over recent years as regional and global multinational producers on a global scale.
producers wish to maintain the integrity of their supply while protecting their brands and products from counterfeiting.
Emerging market growth As consumer wealth and desire for choice has increased, the emerging Domino has been working closely with brand owners and relevant markets in Eastern Europe, North East Asia, the Indian subcontinent legislative bodies to develop coding systems capable of producing and South America have experienced double digit growth across serialised and other security based solutions.
In the European many consumer and industrial products.
Dominos strong direct pharmaceutical sector, Domino is leading the market in providing representation and distribution network has facilitated rapid full portfolio solutions directly suited to the needs of the EU Falsified penetration and growth within these regions.
Importantly, this Medicines Directive and leveraging strong industry partnerships to provides the opportunity to capitalise on the aftermarket facilitate simplified and accelerated legislative compliance.
requirements, with consequential ongoing revenue streams.
09 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 13% In India the Beverage sector has grown in volume consumption by over 13% annually, for the last 5 years 5.4% Source: Euromonitor Oct 2012 Flexible packaging is one of the fastest growing packaging substrates with a projected growth rate of 5.4% CAGR 2011 2016 Source: PIRA Packaging Summit Oct 2011 Sustainability Domino North America is working hard to Growing consumer and investor pressure for environmentally friendly support local and multinational customers with products and packaging has resulted in strong efforts by manufacturers increased value in tough marketconditions.
to eliminate waste and manufacture products using more efficient systems, both in the interests of corporate sustainability and longer-term competitive advantage.
In response, Domino has for a number of years strived to improve its business sustainability During 2012, we have invested in a high calibre account performance through Green Teams, community interaction and management team, flexible financing options and importantly an careful supply chain management, together with reporting data against increased commitment to leveraging Dominos global engineering the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP, registered with Sedex.
and technical support in the pursuit of a globally aligned resource Equally, Dominos latest coding and marking solutions increasingly for our international customers.
offer equipment energy savings, fluids with reduced wastage and ink systems compatible with lightweighted plastic packaging.
Our customers have acknowledged our efforts and have Furthermore, we are applying Life Cycle Analysis LCA in provided feedback on the benefits realised.
A major customer development programmes as an impetus to ensure future products commented: We were able to leverage the relationship with are even more sustainable.
Domino North America to successfully implement laser solutions across Asia, Europe and the Americas.
Domino provided The rise of digital printing excellent support and expertise and was fully committed to The market trend for the printing of packaging and labels is moving helping us meet our production printing goals.
Dominos cross towards shorter print production runs.
This trend has led to increased channel support appears seamless.
Another key multinational demand for digital print over alternative conventional print technology reflected on our technical teams commitment to their such as flexography due to the ability of digital printing to offer production challenges: Domino acts like an quicker job changes and lower job set up costs.
Furthermore, extension of our engineering team working ink jet is a new digital technology entrant and offers key productivity closely with both our engineering and plant advantages over the existing toner based digital systems, which support to minimise the time required to makes it suitable for a wider range of production.
We expect plan and implement large scale process ink jet to achieve strong growth over the next 10 years.
Im thrilled about the hard work and testing that we did together Domino has capitalised on its considerable ink jet experience to to make the massive multi-lane develop a range of systems using the very latest ink jet printing pouching project come together.
technology for both monochrome Domino K600i printing as well as full colour Domino N600i digital label printing.
The K600i We continue to invest in our monochrome product was launched at the end of 2011 and has commercial and technical surpassed sales expectations in 2012 with an increasing project list capabilities aimed at both major for 2013.
The productivity of the N600i digital label press makes North American and global end it suitable for both short run digital printing, but also the longer customers and seek to provide production runs normally printed with conventional technology.
improvements that add value Having recently launched the N600i, following a highly successful beta to our customers business.
trial, we have recorded our first sales and have high expectations of achieving strong sales growth in 2013.
Garry Havens President, North America and Group Executive Director
