61 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Report of the Directors For the year ended 31 October 2012 The Directors present their annual report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 October 2012.
Principal activities The principal activities of the Group continue to be research and development, manufacture and sale of industrial printing equipment, controllers and consumables for the high-speed printing of variable information.
Business review The Directors are required to provide a business review.
The information the review is required to contain is set out in this report and on pages 6 to 7 and 28 to 32 which are incorporated by reference.
Research and development The Group remains firmly committed to research and development to maintain its position as a market leader in high-speed industrial coding, marking and printing systems.
During the year, the Group spent 16.7 million 2011: 15.3 million on research and development.
Results and dividends The results of the Group are set out on page 66.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 13.39 pence per share for the year ended 31 October 2012.
This, together with the interim dividend of 7.24 pence per share paid on 17 August 2012, amounts to 20.63 pence per share 2011: 18.75 pence.
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 9 April 2013 to Richard Pryn shareholders appearing on the register at the close of business on Company Secretary 8March 2013.
Directors The Directors who were in office at the end of the year and their interests in the shares of the Company are shown in note 6 to the financial statements.
All the Directors listed in note 6 held office throughout the financial year.
All the Directors will retire at the next Annual General Meeting and offer themselves for re-election.
All the Executive Directors have service contracts with the Company that are terminable on 12 months notice.
The Chairman and NonExecutive Directors do not have service contracts with the Company.
The appointments of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are terminable on six months notice.
No Director was interested during or at the end of the year in any contract that was significant in relation to the Groups business.
Creditor payment policy It is the policy of the Group to settle the terms of payment with all suppliers when agreeing a transaction, to ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms, and to abide by such terms.
The number of trade creditor days outstanding on 31 October 2012 was 34 2011: 32 days.
62 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Report of the Directors continued Substantial shareholdings Amendment to articles of association As at 31 October 2012, the Company had been notified, in accordance The Articles of Association the Articles may be amended by special with chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the resolution of the shareholders.
following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares: Appointment of Directors Percentage The Articles give the Directors the power to appoint additional or of voting Number of voting Name rights held rights in shares Nature of Holding replacement Directors.
The Articles also require Directors to retire and submit themselves for election at the first Annual General Schroders PLC 9.7 10,842,799 Indirect Meeting following appointment and for one third of the Directors to Blackrock Inc 8.6 9,560,385 Indirect retire by rotation at each Annual General Meeting.
The Board has Ameriprise Financial Inc 5.3 5,861,969 Direct & Indirect decided that each Director will retire at each Annual General Meeting.
Mondrian Investment 5.1 5,640,561 Direct & Indirect Partners Ltd Montanaro Asset 5.0 5,575,899 Direct The Non-Executive Directors were appointed for specific terms Management subject to re-election and to the Companies Act provisions relating Legal & General 5.0 5,588,501 Direct & Indirect to the removal of a Director.
The terms of appointment of the Groupplc Non-Executive Directors are available on the Companys website Artemis Investment 5.0 5,527,162 Direct or can be obtained from the Company Secretary.
Management Blackrock UK Special 3.8 4,271,777 Direct Power of Directors Situations Fund The Directors may exercise all powers of the Company subject to relevant statutes, any directions given by shareholder resolution and During the period commencing on 1 November 2012 and ending 10 the Memorandum and Articles.
The Articles, for example, contain December 2012 the Company had been notified, in accordance with specific provisions relating to the Companys power to borrow money.
chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following The Articles also contain powers relating to the issue of shares and the significant holdings of voting rights in its shares.
purchase of the Companys own shares.
Percentage of voting Independent legal advice rights and There is a procedure in place for Directors to take independent issued share Number of Name of holder capital ordinary shares Nature of Holding professional advice at the Companys expense if this is necessary in connection with their duties.
Legal & General Group 5.02 5,597,459 Direct & Indirect plc Directors insurance and indemnity arrangements Blackrock UK Special Below The Company has purchased and maintained throughout the year Situations Fund 3% Directors and Officers liability insurance.
The Directors also have the Authority of the Directors to issue shares benefit of the indemnity provision contained in the Companys Articles At the last Annual General Meeting on 15 March 2012, the Directors of Association.
The Company has made qualifying third party were given authority to allot up to 1,666,479 in nominal value of indemnity provisions for the benefit of its Directors.
This figure represented approximately 30 per cent of the Companys total issued ordinary share capital at that time.
Significant agreements and other arrangements The Company has various contractual arrangements for the supply Also at the last Annual General Meeting the Directors were given of materials, components and equipment.
It also has contractual authority to allot shares in the Company for cash without regard to arrangements in place for the distribution of its products by third the pre-emption provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This party distributors and also for the distribution of third party products authority expires on the date of the Annual General Meeting to be by the Domino Group.
held on 19 March 2013 and the Directors will seek to renew this authority for the following year under the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has a borrowing facility agreement which includes change of control provisions.
On a change in control of the Company Purchase of own shares this facility could be withdrawn or renegotiated.
At the last Annual General Meeting, shareholders authorised the Company to make market purchases on the London Stock Exchange There are a number of other agreements that may be terminated of up to 16,109,301 ordinary shares, representing approximately 14.5 on a change in control.
None is considered to be significant in terms per cent of its issued share capital at that time.
This authority will of the potential impact on the Group.
expire at the end of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company unless renewed at that meeting.
63 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Capital structure Employee involvement Details of share capital are shown in note 24.
The Company has Employee communication is organised both centrally and locally.
one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
Centrally organised communication deals with the affairs of the Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of Group as a whole and the media used for this purpose include the the Company.
annual report and accounts, information circulars and meetings.
Operating units organise local presentations by Directors or managers There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the and hold briefings to pass on information to employees and to transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions ascertain their views.
of the Articles and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may Corporate governance result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Reports on corporate governance are set out on pages 40 to 63 and incorporated into this report by reference.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Going concern The Groups business activities together with the factors likely to affect Share schemes waiver of dividends its future development, performance and position are described within The trustees of the Companys employee benefit trusts and the the Group Managing Directors Review and the Operating and Financial qualifying employee share trust the Trusts have agreed to waive Review on pages 6 to 7 and 28 to 32 respectively.
The financial position dividends payable on the Companys shares held by the Trusts, except of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities for the shares relating to the Long-Term Incentive Plan 1997, which are also described within the Operating and Financial Review.
In have vested and are held in trust for a further three years.
As at 31 addition, note 29 to the financial statements includes the Groups October 2012 the Trust held 507,408 shares on which dividends objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital and risk payable had been waived.
This represents 0.46 per cent of the issued along with details of exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
share capital at the year end.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with a broad Share schemes voting rights regarding control of the Company spread of customers across different geographic areas and industries.
The trustees of the qualifying employee share trust have the discretion As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to sell the shares held in the trust or to consent to the acquisition of to manage its business risks successfully.
The Directors have also control of the Company by another party.
The trustees of the Share considered the Groups forecasts and projections.
After making Incentive Plan have the discretion to seek direction from participants enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the as to how to exercise the voting rights attaching to the shares held in Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in the trust.
If no direction is given the trustees are prohibited from operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they exercising the voting rights.
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
For shares held in trust under the Long-Term Incentive Plan, the trustee has discretion as to the exercise of voting rights in respect Auditor of shares held in trust.
A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys auditor will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Environmental, social and ethical issues The Board takes account of the significance of environmental, social Disclosure of information to the auditor and ethical matters to the business of the Group and a separate The following applies to each of those persons who were Directors Corporate Responsibility Report is set out on pages 33 to 37.
Nigel at the time this report was approved: Bond is the Director responsible for environmental, social and ethical issues.
so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and Charitable and political donations he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Contributions by the Group during the year to UK charities and other Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit worthy causes amounted to 24,100 2011: 30,350.
No political information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware donation was made 2011: nil.
People with disabilities This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance Applications for employment made by disabled persons are given full with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. and fair consideration, having regard to the abilities and aptitudes of the candidates.
If existing employees become disabled, every effort Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on behalf of is made to accommodate them within their existing jobs or, if this the Board.
proves to be impossible, to find them suitable alternative employment.
Opportunities for development and promotion are open to all employees.
Richard Pryn Company Secretary 10 December 2012 Registered Office: Bar Hill, Cambridge, CB23 8TU Registered Number: 1363137
