06 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 I am pleased with the continued strong growth of our Thermal Transfer Overprinters, Laser and Thermal Ink Jet products 312.1m Sales Aftermarket businesshascontinued to perform robustly Our strategies of productleadershipand  attheheart of all we do 17.2% Underlying operating return 07 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Group Managing Directors review Trading review new digital press product range.
Further to success with the K600i, we We entered our financial year 2012 with a backdrop of uncertainty successfully completed field trials with the full colour N600i, a product in world economies, in particular instability within the eurozone and that was formally launched into the market in October 2012 and for slowing economic growth in China, both major markets for the Group.
which we have already received first orders.
Our results for the year reflect these more challenging economic conditions with reported sales of 312.1 million, 1 per cent below last The Group has an investment in TEN Media LLC TEN, a company year.
There was a small benefit from acquisitions made during the year, established to provide compliance and traceability systems to the offset by the impact of movements in exchange rates.
Sales grew by US egg market.
TEN has made progress with the development of the 1 per cent in local currency.
full supply chain systems which will exclusively use Domino products for all coding requirements.
Timing of the roll-out programme Comparing results by geography our progress has been mixed.
pleased with performance in the USA, where local revenues grew by 18 per cent, and by the sustained growth we have seen in most of We have invested 16.7 million in Research and Development in the Asia, the Middle East and Africa.
Our sales in parts of Europe and in year, delivering new products and making good progress with the China were below last year.
Market conditions have been more development of a common technology platform for our next difficult and we continue to see extended sales cycles, in particular for generation product range.
In China this year we identified a third party manufacturer passing off equipment, spare parts and consumables as Underlying profit before tax was 53.7 million in the year, 10 per cent Domino branded products.
We have been successful in stopping the below that reported last year.
Underlying return on sales is 17.2 per illegitimate supply.
Economic conditions are not as good as we expected when investing in front line capacity during the recovery of 20102011, but Total equipment volumes shipped in 2012 were at the same level we have decided to retain capability and capacity in the business and as last year: a combination of growth in new products offsetting to continue to invest in areas of growth and opportunity for the a reduction in volumes of traditional technology products.
This impacts short-term profit but means the Group remains pleased with the continued strong growth of our Thermal Transfer well placed to deliver sustained growth, even in more difficult markets.
Overprinters TTO, Laser and Thermal Ink Jet TIJ products, and sales volumes of the K600i monochrome digital press product Last year we announced an intention to invest in new factories in India introduced this year have exceeded our expectations.
Approximately and China and to build new space to increase capacity at our main 60 per cent of our revenues are earned from the sale of consumables, factory near Cambridge in the UK.
Land has been acquired in India spare parts and services to the extensive installed base of equipment and we will commence building work shortly.
In both China and the operated by our customers worldwide.
This aftermarket business UK our expansion projects have been placed on hold.
has continued to perform robustly and has grown in line with our expectations.
Our strategies of product leadership and service excellence remain at the heart of all we do and while market conditions have meant We continue to see an opportunity for growth in digital printing progress has been slower than we would have liked this year, I remain through the use of ink jet technology in a broader printing market.
confident in the long-term prospects and outlook for the Group.
During the year we increased our strength and capability in this business through the acquisitions of Graph-Tech AG Graph-Tech, PostJet Systems Limited PostJet and the purchase of the customer base and certain product designs from Mikrojet, a company based in Germany.
Graph-Tech has been our development partner in digital Nigel Bond printing for a number of years and completing the acquisition of the Group Managing Director business was a natural consequence of the commercialisation of the 10 December 2012
