Directors report Details of the Groups policy on addressing financial risks is given in The Directors have pleasure in presenting the OFR and details about financial instruments are shown in note their report for the 53 weeks ended 30 to the financial statements at page 105.
Pages 32 to 36 inclusive together with sections of the Annual Report incorporated by reference consist of a Directors report Principal Activity that has been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in Dominos Pizza Group plc the Company and its subsidiary reliance upon applicable English company law and the liabilities of companies together the Group hold three master franchise the directors in connection with that report shall be subject to the agreements in relation to Dominos Pizza, one of the worlds leading limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
Pursuant to these three master Results and Dividends franchise agreements, the Group has the exclusive right to operate Group results and franchise the Dominos Pizza brand in the UK this includes the The Group profit for the period after taxation was 30,307,000 Channel Islands and the Isle of Man, Republic of Ireland, Germany, 2011: 26,466,000.
This is after a taxation charge of 12,062,000 Switzerland, Luxembourg and Liechtenstein each a Territory and 2011: 12,323,000 representing an effective tax rate of 28.5% together the Territories.
The Company is proud to report that it 2011: 31.8%.
The financial statements setting out the results of the operates the leading home delivery pizza brand in the UK and the Group for the period ended 30 December 2012 are shown on pages Republic of Ireland and its goal is to operate the leading home 68 to 112. delivery pizza brand in Germany, Switzerland, Luxembourg and Liechtenstein.
The Company believes its entry into the Swiss and Dividends German markets offer exceptional opportunities to grow the The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 7.9p Dominos brand in Europe.
per ordinary share, to be paid on 12 April 2013 to members on the Register at the close of business on 15 March 2013, subject to As at 30 December 2012, the Group had the following franchised shareholder approval.
Together with the interim dividend of 6.6p per and corporate owned stores in the Territories: ordinary share paid on 6 September 2012, the total dividend for the Corporate Corporate year will be 14.5p compared with 12.3p for the previous year, an Franchised Franchised Owned Owned increase of 17.9%.
Dividends are recognised in the accounts in the as at 30 Dec as at 25 Dec as at 30 Dec as at 25 Dec 2012 2011 2012 2011 year in which they are paid, or, in the case of the final dividend, when approved by shareholders, such that the amount recognised UK & Ireland 775 720 0 5 in the 2012 accounts, as described in note 13, comprises last years Germany 7 1 11 0 final dividend and this years interim dividend.
Switzerland 0 0 12 0 Share capital As at 30 December 2012, the Group did not have any stores in the Share capital Channel Islands, Luxembourg and or Liechtenstein.
As at 30 December 2012, the Companys authorised share capital was 4,000,000 divided into a single class of 256,000,000 ordinary Business review shares of 1.5625 pence each and there were 163,672,741 ordinary The Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act requires the Company shares in issue.
The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock to set out in this Annual Report a fair review of the business of the Exchange and can be held in certificated or uncertificated form.
Group during the financial year ended 30 December 2012, including Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and speak at an analysis of the position of the Group at the end of the financial general meetings of the Company, to appoint one or more proxies year and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing and, if they are corporations, corporate representatives are entitled the Group, which is known as a business review.
to attend general meetings and to exercise voting rights.
All issued The information that fulfils the business review requirements can ordinary shares are fully paid up.
be found in the following sections: On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every Chairmans statement on pages 4 to 5 holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote unless the proxy is appointed by more Chief Executive Officers report on pages 6 to 16 than one shareholder and has been instructed by one or more Chief Financial Officers report on pages 22 to 25 shareholders to vote for the resolution and by one or more shareholders to vote against the resolution, in which case the proxy Corporate Governance report on pages 37 to 51 has one vote for and one vote against.
This is to reflect the Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 46 to 51 Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 which have amended the 2006 Act.
On a poll, every member present in person or by proxy OFR on pages 6 to 31 and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
Together, this information is intended to provide a balanced and None of the ordinary shares carry any special voting rights with comprehensive analysis of the development and performance regard to control of the Company.
The Notice of annual general of the Groups business, its performance during the year, likely meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights and developments and any principal risks and uncertainties associated appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be with the Groups business.
passed at the annual general meeting.
The relevant proxy votes are counted and the number for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at the annual general meeting and published on the Companys website after the meeting.
32 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Financial statements There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Purchase of own shares Company other than certain restrictions that may be imposed from At the 2012 annual general meeting 2012 AGM, a special time to time by laws and regulations and pursuant to the Listing resolution was passed to authorise the Company to make purchases Rules of the Financial Services Authority whereby certain Directors, on the London Stock Exchange of up to 10% of its ordinary shares.
officers and employees of the Group require the approval of the 750,000 ordinary shares with a nominal value of 1.5625 pence each Group to deal in ordinary shares of the Group.
The Group is not had been bought back and cancelled under this authority at a total aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may cost of 3,260,000, representing 0.5% of the Companys called up result in restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares.
share capital as at 30 December 2012.
The Company engages in share buybacks to create value for shareholders when cash flows Shares held by Employee Share Trusts permit and there is no immediate alternative investment use for the The Group has an employee benefit trust EBT, the trustee of which funds.
Taking into account all of the buybacks since 2004, 16.6% of is Ogier Employee Benefit Trust Limited.
As at 30 December 2012, the Companys issued ordinary share capital has been purchased.
the EBT held 505,370 shares, which are used to satisfy awards Shareholders will be requested to renew this authority at the made under the Companys share plans.
The voting rights in relation forthcoming annual general meeting of shareholders, to be held to these shares are exercisable by the trustee, however in accordance on 26 March 2013 2013 AGM.
It is the Companys present policy with investor protection guidelines, the trustee abstains from voting.
to cancel any ordinary shares it buys back, rather than hold them Acquisition Switzerland in treasury.
On 24 September 2012, the Company acquired certain of the Substantial shareholdings business and assets of Dominos Pizza Switzerland AG Dominos As at 30 December 2012, the Company has been notified of the Switzerland.
These assets included the master franchise agreement following interests in 3% or more of the issued share capital of for the territory which provides the Company with the exclusive right the Company: to operate and franchise Dominos Pizza stores in Switzerland, % of share Liechtenstein and Luxembourg.
capital MFS Investment Management 9.54 Under the terms of the acquisition, the Company purchased the business of Dominos Switzerland for a maximum consideration of Oppenheimer Funds 6.82 CHF 7 million 4.7 million in cash plus an amount for the stock, Vontobel Asset Management 6.50 cash in tills and rent deposits for CHF 0.4 million 0.2 million.
This Standard Life Investments 4.67 consideration is being paid in two tranches.
The first tranche of CHF Montanaro Investment Managers 4.26 5 million 3.3 million was payable on completion and the second Old Mutual Asset Managers 3.09 tranche of up to CHF 2 million 1.3 million is payable two years Using the total voting rights figure announced to the London Stock Exchange on 31 December from the date of completion and will be dependent upon the sales 2012 of 163,672,741.
The percentage of share capital in relation to MFS Investment Management is correct as at performance of the twelve Dominos Pizza stores in Switzerland 6 February 2013 which were originally acquired.
For futher details please refer to note 19 on page 95.
Nigel Wray, a Non-Executive Director of the Company, has an interest of 3% or more in the issued share capital of the Company.
Option to acquire Austria Please see the Directors remuneration report on page 64 for the The Company has obtained from Dominos Pizza International full details of all of the Directors shareholdings.
Franchising Inc. an option to acquire the master franchise rights for Dominos Pizza in Austria.
The option expires on 31 December Except for the above, the Group is not aware of any ordinary 2014 and provides a further opportunity for the Group to grow in shareholders with interests of 3% or more in the issued share central Europe.
The Company has not been notified of any other changes to the notifiable voting rights in its shares up Post acquisition update Germany to 22 February 2013.
Following the acquisition on 26 April 2011 of a 75 per cent.
shareholding interest in the master franchise for Dominos Pizza in Directors and their interests Germany, the Group has continued to build and strengthen its team The Directors who served during the year were: Stephen Hemsley, in Germany whilst focusing on increasing store sales and continuing Lance Batchelor, Lee Ginsberg, Colin Halpern, Nigel Wray, Michael to increase brand awareness by opening 12 new stores during Shallow, John Hodson, Syl Saller and Helen Keays.
The biographical the financial year ended 30 December 2012.
The Group, as at details of the present Directors are set out on pages 26 and 27 of 30 December 2012, now has a total of 18 stores in Germany this Annual Report.
During the year the German business relocated The appointment and replacement of directors is governed by the its Head Office from Berlin to Dsseldorf to focus its continued Companys articles of association, the UK Corporate Governance growth in the west of Germany.
Code, the 2006 Act and related legislation.
Subject to the articles of association, the 2006 Act and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 33 Directors report continued The interests of Directors and their immediate families in the shares Switzerland of the Company, along with details of the long term incentives In Switzerland, the Group employed an average of 229 people awarded to Executive Directors are contained in the Directors from 24 September 2012 up to and including 30 December 2012 remuneration report set out on pages 52 to 64.
2011: 0 the acquisition of Dominos Pizza Switzerland took place on 24 September 2012.
No Directors have a beneficial interest in the shares of any Swiss Head Office 9 subsidiary.
Should any ordinary shares be requested to satisfy awards of reversionary interests, these may be provided by the EBT.
Swiss Corporate Stores 220 Further details relating to the rewards of reversionary interests, the For further details please refer to note 8 on page 85.
EBT and the current LTIP can be found on pages 62 to 64 of this Annual Report.
Employment policies At no time during the year did any of the Directors have a material The Group is committed to the principle of equal opportunity interest in any significant contract with the Company or any of its in employment.
The Group recruits and selects applicants for subsidiaries.
There are procedures in place to deal with any employment based solely on a persons qualifications and suitability Directors conflicts of interest arising under section 175 of the 2006 for the position, whilst bearing in mind equality and diversity.
It is the Act and such procedures have operated effectively since 1 October Groups policy to recruit the most capable person available for each 2008.
Directors have a continuing duty to update any changes to position.
The Group recognises the need to treat all employees these conflicts.
The Group is committed to ensuring that its employees feel respected, valued and are able to fulfill their potential There have been no changes in the interests of the Directors, and recognises that the success of the business relies on their skill including share options and reversionary interest awards, in the and dedication.
share capital of the Company as at 22 February 2013.
The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for Directors indemnities employment from disabled persons, with regard to their particular The Directors have the benefit of an indemnity provision contained aptitudes and abilities.
Efforts are made to continue the employment in the Companys articles of association.
The provision, which is a of those who become disabled during their employment.
qualifying third party indemnity provision as defined by section 234 of the 2006 Act, was in force during the year ended 30 December Procedures, diversity and inclusivity 2012 and remains in force and relates to certain losses and liabilities Group human resource practices and procedures, including those which the Directors may incur to third parties in the course of acting relating to pay, benefits, promotions, terminations, training and as Directors or employees of the Company.
self-development opportunities, comply with relevant legislation, without discrimination regardless of gender, race, colour, ethnic or The Group maintained a directors and officers liability insurance national origin, religious belief, political opinion, or affiliation, sex, policy throughout the financial year, although no cover exists in the marital status, sexual orientation, gender reassignment, age or event directors or officers are found to have acted fraudulently or disability.
The Group does not tolerate harassment of any employee.
No indemnity is provided for the Groups auditors.
Training Employees To ensure the very highest brand standards and to maximise the United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland abilities of the Groups employees, the Group offers a comprehensive In the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland, the Group training and development programme for all its employees and employed an average of 495 people in 2012 up to and including franchisees.
The Groups dedicated training centre provides the ideal 30 December 2012 2011: 425. environment for franchisees to participate in the Groups franchise development programme and numerous other training programmes Head Office United Kingdom 245 for franchisees and their staff offered by the Group.
Corporate staff Milton Keynes Commissary 164 are encouraged to participate in both internally held and externally Penrith Commissary 57 provided training courses.
Naas Commissary 29 Following a successful mentoring pilot project delivered last year, the Group has developed specialist mentors for corporate staff across Germany the business to share valuable expertise, knowledge and skills.
In Germany, the Group employed an average of 160 in 2012 up to These experts provide development opportunities to other and including 30 December 2012 2011: 88. employees in a meaningful and effective way.
In addition, to German Head Office 9 continually drive performance, performance management workshops have been held to enhance the performance review German Commissary 3 process within the Group.
The Group has launched key skills pilots German Corporate Stores 148 including Team Leading, Managing People and Managing Remotely.
To support the Groups international expansion, business German language courses are also provided.
The Group is currently developing a Retail Management degree which is based on the Dominos franchise model and will be available to both employees and franchisees.
34 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Financial statements A cross functional employee team manages and implements Performance Evaluation DOMcard, the Groups performance scorecard.
This team work Like all organisations, the Group wants to ensure strong performance closely with the senior management and the Executive Directors to from all its employees.
During 2012, a competency framework was identify and communicate the key strategic priorities for the Group developed to communicate and reinforce the qualities and and the results are cascaded to all employees via the Groups behaviours which are valued, encouraged and rewarded by the intranet and the monthly staff briefing sessions.
Working with external specialists, the Group has identified the competencies that represent the Groups Employees are actively encouraged to become shareholders of the aspirations and both current and future needs.
This framework will Group through a variety of schemes, principally the Company Share encourage and reward good performance and motivate and develop Option Plan CSOP and the Share Save Scheme.
employees to meet the Groups aspired standards, whilst detailing General information the core competencies that all employees are expected to Annual General Meeting demonstrate to varying degrees in carrying out their job.
The Notice convening the 2013 AGM to be held at 1 p. m. on Whistleblowing Tuesday 26 March 2013 at Dominos Pizza Head Office, The A whistleblowing policy and procedure is in place and has Commissary, 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes MK6 4BB been notified by the Group to all employees.
The policy enables is contained in a circular sent to all shareholders with this report.
employees to report any concerns on matters affecting the Group Full details of all resolutions to be proposed are provided in this or their employment, without fear of recrimination.
The Directors consider that all of the resolutions set out in the notice of 2013 AGM are in the best interests of the Employee engagement and wellbeing Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The Directors will be We believe that there is a close correlation between levels of voting in favour of them and unanimously recommend that employee motivation, organisational performance and the provision shareholders vote in favour of each of them.
of a safe and healthy workplace.
The Group aims to continue to provide a high quality work environment for all its employees to Significant agreements and change of control provisions ensure they feel supported and valued.
Most importantly, the Group The most significant agreements to the Groups business are as seeks to make its employees feel proud to be a part of Dominos follows: UK and ROI Master Franchise Agreement UK MFA : Know Pizza and to recognise that they contribute significantly to the How Licence Agreement: German Master Franchise Agreement Groups success.
German MFA : and Swiss, Luxembourg and Liechtenstein Master During 2012, the Company signed up to an interactive well-being Franchise Agreement Swiss MFA, pursuant to which certain of website, called Vitality, provided by Pru Health, the Companys the Groups companies are granted the right to franchise stores private medical provider.
Vitality provides the opportunity for and operate commissaries in the Territories by Dominos Pizza employees to have access to a wealth of information, help and International Franchising Inc. support, from healthy eating and exercise to help in achieving a The Groups most significant agreements listed above do not positive work-life balance.
terminate on a change of control.
The Group does not have agreements with any Director or employee that would provide The Company also partnered with the iOpener Institute for People compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a and Performance during 2012 and carried out an employee survey takeover except that provisions of the Groups share schemes and questionnaire on UK corporate staff iPPQ.
The iPPQ is based on plans may cause options and awards granted to employees and the science of happiness at work which was developed to help Directors under such schemes and plans to vest on a takeover.
individuals, teams and organisations analyse what adds to or The Groups banking arrangements do contain change of control subtracts from their happiness and performance at work.
Following provisions which, if triggered, could limit future utilisations, require successful completion of the iPPQ, each employee received his her the repayment of existing utilisations or lead to a renegotiation of own confidential personal report which revealed what helps and terms.
The Company renewed its multicurrency Revolving Credit hinders them in the workplace.
It allowed employees to identify how Facility up to the total commitment value of 30,000,000 with they can maximise how happy they are at work.
The results have Barclays Bank plc on 1 August 2012. been extremely positive from the Companys perspective in a number of areas, for example many employees would recommend Articles of Association Dominos as a great place to work and take great pride in working The Companys Articles remain unchanged during the 2012 financial for the Dominos brand.
The results also show that significant year and may only be amended by special resolution at a general proportions of employees enjoy their job, like their colleagues and meeting of the shareholders.
trust in the Groups strategic vision.
The Group will work to build Branches on these strengths and will carry out the survey again at the end Domino s Pizza Germany Limited a subsidiary company of the of 2013.
Company operated via a branch in Germany with effect from The Group remains committed to employee engagement throughout 23January 2012. the business and internal communications are designed to ensure that employees are well informed about the business of the Group.
Environmental and social responsibility Employees are kept well informed of the performance and strategy The Group acknowledges that it is part of a wider community and of the Group through monthly staff briefings hosted by the Chief recognises that it has a responsibility to act in ways that respect the Executive Officer, which all Milton Keynes based staff are invited to.
environment and the social well-being of others.
Details of the At each monthly meeting there is a departmental update presented Groups approach to these issues are set out in the Corporate Social by a department within the business.
The monthly staff briefing is Responsibility report at pages 28 to 31. supplemented by regular employee and franchisee meetings and publications including an internal magazine called Slice.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 35 Directors report continued Political and charitable donations Auditors Financial donations to a range of charities and good causes Ernst & Young LLP have signified their willingness to continue amounted to 38,000 2011: 41,000.
Principally this comprised in office as auditors to the Company and the Group is satisfied a donation to Special Olympics Great Britain and a donation to that Ernst & Young LLP is independent and there are adequate Barretstown, a specially-designed camp in Ireland that provides safeguards in place to safeguard its objectivity.
A resolution to therapeutic recreation programmes for children with serious re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys auditors will illnesses, and their families.
The Company makes no political donations 2011: nil.
Directors statement of disclosure of information to auditors Having made the requisite enquiries, the Directors in office at the Key Performance Indicators KPIs date of this Annual Report and Accounts have each confirmed that, Details of the Groups KPIs can be found in the OFR on so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of pages 20 to 21. which the Groups auditors are unaware and each Director has Payments to suppliers taken all the steps he she ought to have taken as a Director to The Group understands the benefits to be derived from maintaining make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and good relationships with its suppliers and, where possible, payment to establish that the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
terms and conditions are agreed with suppliers in advance based Going concern on the Groups standard terms and conditions for the supply of The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to goods and services.
Where such terms have not been agreed, it is affect its future development, performance and position are set out the Groups policy to pay its creditors on a pay on time basis which in the OFR on pages 6 to 31.
The financial position of the Company, varies according to the type of product and service provided by the its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described supplier but is typically between 7 and 28 days and is agreed with in the Chief Financial Officers Review on pages 22 to 25.
In addition, suppliers in advance.
notes 29 and 30 to the financial statements include the Companys The average number of days of payments outstanding for the Group objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its at the financial period end was 26 2011: 24.
The Company has financial risk management objectives, details of its financial no trade creditors as these are assumed and settled by another instruments and hedging activities and its exposures to credit risk Group company.
Change of name The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company At the 2012 AGM, a special resolution was passed changing the has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for name of the Company from Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc to the foreseeable future and have therefore continued to adopt the Dominos Pizza Group plc with effect from 1 May 2012.
Following going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
the acquisition in April 2011 of a seventy five per cent.
interest in Events after the Balance Sheet date the entity that holds the master franchise rights for Dominos Pizza There have been no significant events since the balance sheet date in Germany, the Directors considered it appropriate to change which would have a material effect on the financial statements.
the name of the Company to Dominos Pizza Group plc to more accurately reflect the fact that the Group now operates in a number Cautionary statement of different territories.
This Annual Report contains forward looking statements.
These forward looking statements are not guarantees of future As a result of the change of name of the Company, the main trading performance, rather they are based on current views and entity of the Group in the United Kingdom and Ireland, previously assumptions as at the date of this Annual Report and are made known as Dominos Pizza Group Limited a subsidiary company of by the Directors in good faith based on the information available the Company, changed its name with effect from 1 May 2012 from to them at the time of their approval of this report.
These statements Dominos Pizza Group Limited to Dominos Pizza UK & Ireland should be treated with caution due to the inherent risks and Limited, to correctly reflect that it is the Master Franchisor of the uncertainties underlying any such forward looking information.
United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland only.
Other subsidiary The Group undertakes no obligation to update these forward companies have been incorporated by the Group to deal with the looking statements.
franchising and operational activities in Germany, Switzerland, Liechtenstein and Luxembourg.
36 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
