Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Financial statements Our business model Dominos Pizza International Franchising Inc. Licence of rights, Royalties Royalties Royalties IP and knowhow UK & Ireland Switzerland Germany Master Franchise Master Franchise Master Franchise Agreement Agreement Agreement 1993 2012 2011 The Groups Main Operating Subsidiary Companies for each territory License of rights and Payment for transfer of knowhow third party Advertising levy, products royalties, training, IT support costs Standard Landlord Commissaries Third Party Suppliers Franchise ingredients, supplies, products Agreement SFA Headlease entered into between the Group and Rent Franchisees buy the Landlord food, dough, equipment and supplies from Each franchisee commissaries enters into a SFA for each store territory Dedicated Group Property Companies The Group enters Franchisees Rent into a sublease with the franchisee Stores Each store sells pizza and Income associated products to from sales customers in its territory KEY Movement of monies Customers Contractual relationships The Group has no franchisees in Switzerland as at 30 December 2012 and all stores in Switzerland are corporately run.
Similarly, Germany comprises a mix of franchised and corporate stores.
Full details can be found in the Directors report on pages 32 to 36 www.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 17 Our business model continued Dominos Pizza International Franchising Inc. DPIF licences to us the right to own, operate and franchise Dominos Pizza stores and commissaries in the UK this includes the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man, Ireland, Germany, Switzerland, Luxembourg and Liechtenstein.
We then via the main operating subsidiary company in each territory franchise or corporately run Dominos Pizza stores in each country.
All stores operate in accordance with our standard franchise agreement.
We offer support to all of our stores in a variety of ways, from local store marketing support, the provision of IT systems and services, right through to dedicated business partners that work with each franchisee to target growth opportunities.
We typically take a headlease with the landlord for a store and grant a sub-lease to the franchisee.
Each Dominos Pizza store buys its supplies directly from our commissaries or, in some cases, through approved suppliers pursuant to our standard franchise agreement in place with franchisees.
Our commissaries offer stores everything from dough and ingredients through to uniforms and equipment.
Stores then sell directly to customers, paying us royalties and contributions to the national advertising fund based on a percentage ofsales.
Dominos Pizza International Franchising Inc. One of the Groups key relationships is with DPIF, the master franchisor of Dominos Pizza across the globe.
We have three master franchise agreements each a MFA in place with DPIF, relating to the territories which the Group sub-franchises in.
The first MFA was entered into on 29 December 1993 and relates to the UK and Republic of Ireland.
The second was entered into on 26 April 2011 and relates to Germany and the third MFA was entered into on 24 September 2012 and relates to Switzerland, Liechtenstein and Luxembourg.
The Company has also purchased from DPIF the option to acquire the master franchise rights in relation to Austria, which expires on 31 December 2014.
Franchisees The Group has a committed and entrepreneurial group of franchisees and actively seeks to recruit new franchisees to the business.
The growth of existing franchisees is critical to the continued growth of the Group.
Whilst all of the stores in the UK and ROI are franchised, the Group operates some corporate stores in Germany and all of the stores in Switzerland are corporate stores.
Currently, the Group has 805 stores in total across all territories.
Each store enters into a standard franchise agreement with the Groups main operating subsidiary for the territory in which the store operates.
Each standard franchise agreement has an initial term of ten years with an option to renew for a further ten years.
The franchisee must comply with the standard franchise agreement and any other operating and compliance policies at all times.
All standard franchise agreements in each territory are identical, subject only to any changes that have been required to be made from a legal and compliance perspective in each particular country.
Third party suppliers and distribution We have an extensive network of trusted third party suppliers.
In the UK and Ireland we operate our own distribution but in Germany and Switzerland this is outsourced to local logistics providers.
Store deliveries occur up to three times a week.
Where the Group purchases from third party suppliers, it builds long-term relationships and endeavours to get the best commercial terms possible.
18 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Financial statements 4.
Customers Our goal is to be the leading provider of freshly made home delivery pizza in each territory we operate in.
Customers can order online, by phone or in store.
Stores continually endeavour to deliver piping hot, fresh pizza to customers as soon as possible and, to widen the product offering at the point of placing an order, online customers can now take advantage of not only ordering food and beverage products online but also have the opportunity to purchase and stream a movie at the point of purchase.
Customers in the UK can order online at www.
co. uk, in the Republic of Ireland at www.
fide and in Switzerland at www.
In addition, mobile customers can order by downloading Dominos iPhone, iPad and Androidapps.
People Most of the employees that work for Dominos Pizza stores are employees of the franchisee that owns and operates that store.
The Group employs staff at its head office and commissaries in the United Kingdom, Ireland, Germany and Switzerland.
We place significant emphasis on these people, particularly with regard to how we recruit and how we develop them.
We recognise the importance of a happy workplace and believe our employees are one of the main champions of the brand.
We therefore do our utmost to ensure our workforce is a happy one.
In addition, we put safeguards in place to ensure our franchisees treat their staff with respect and in accordance with brand standards.
It is our franchisees staff that interface with our customers and we recognise the importance of giving a customer great service.
We have a Team Member Helpline which instore staff can telephone, should they have any concerns or issues at their local store with their employer and we continuously strive to update and train all staff on a regular basis.
Revenue & cash flow We generate most of our revenues from three main streams, as follows: i Royalties and sales to franchisees This includes revenue from pizza sales in our corporate stores as well as revenue from sales of commissary food, equipment and delivery charges to our franchisees.
It also includes royalties generated from store sales to customers referred to as system sales which our franchisees pay to us.
ii Rental income This arises from leasehold properties that the Group holds the headlease for and sub-leases to franchisees.
iii Finance lease income Interest income from financing provided to franchisees or finance leases.
These revenue streams generate cash for the Group which is collected on a regular basis from franchisees.
The cash received is used to pay for the main costs to the Group which are food supplies, salary costs, rental payments to landlords and royalty payments required by DPIF in accordance with the various master franchise agreements.
Other significant cash outflows arise from investing activities such as purchasing plant, property and equipment as well as other non-current assets such as investment in IT systems.
The Company also offers finance to franchisees, its associates and joint ventures in the form of loans and finance leases for assets in new stores.
Shareholder remuneration The cash generated by the Group allows us to sustain a generous shareholder return in the form of a progressive dividend policy as well as share buybacks, whilst also investing in the future of the business.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 19
