Board of Directors 3 4 5 2 1 1 Lance Batchelor 49 2 Stephen Hemsley 55 4 Michael Shallow 58 Chief Executive Officer Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive Director Lance became Chief Executive Officer on Stephen joined the Company as Finance Michael was appointed to the Board in 26 December 2011, having previously Director in 1998.
He is Chair of the Audit Committee been the Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Chief Executive.
Stephen was appointed and Senior Independent Director of the the Company since June 2011.
He originally Executive Chairman of the Group at the Company.
Michael is also a member of joined the Board as a Non-Executive beginning of 2008 and became Nonthe Companys Remuneration Committee Director in July 2010 whilst the Chief Executive Chairman with effect from the and Nomination Committee.
Michael is a Executive Officer of Tesco Mobile, part of close of the 2010 AGM.
Stephen is also non-executive director of Britvic plc and Tesco plc.
Lance previously held senior roles Chairman of Franchise Brands Worldwide has worked in the food and drinks sector at Vodafone Group plc, Amazon.
com and Limited and its subsidiary companies.
He was previously Procter & Gamble.
He began his career in Stephen is a chartered accountant the Finance Director for Greene King plc.
The Royal Navy where he served as an byprofession.
5 Syl Saller 55 officer in the submarines.
Lance holds an 3 Lee Ginsberg 55 Non-Executive Director MBA from Harvard Business School.
He Chief Financial Officer Syl was appointed to the Board in September is a trustee of The National Gallery.
Lee joined the Company in 2004 as Finance 2011, she is a committee member of the Director and Company Secretary.
He Companys Remuneration Committee and previously held the post of Group Finance Chair of the Nomination Committee.
Syl is Director for Health Club Holdings Limited, currently the Global Innovation Director for formerly Holmes Place plc, where he also Diageo plc.
Prior to this she held senior served for 18 months as Deputy Chief marketing and general management roles Executive.
Lee is a non-executive director within Allied Domecq, the Holson Burnes of Mothercare plc and Oriole Restaurants Group and Gillette and has an MBA from Limited.
Lee is a chartered accountant Harvard Business School.
26 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview O Op pe er ra at ti in ng a g an nd fi d fin na an nc ci ia al r l re ev vi ie ew w Directors report Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Financial statements 6 7 8 9 10 1 6 Colin Halpern 76 8 John Hodson 66 10 Adam Batty 40 Non-Executive Vice Chairman Non-Executive Director General Counsel & Company Secretary Colin acquired the Dominos Pizza Master John joined the Board in 2005 having Adam joined the Company in 2008 from Franchise Agreement for the UK and previously been Chairman and Chief leading pub company Mitchells & Butlers Republic of Ireland in 1993 through Executive Officer of Singer and Friedlander plc where he was the Director of Legal International Franchise Systems Inc.
He is currently Chairman of Strategic Affairs.
He is a qualified solicitor and has November 1999, with Colin as Chairman, Equity Capital plc and a director of Prestbury previously held the position of Corporate the Company was taken public and listed Residual Limited.
John is a member of the Lawyer at Six Continents plc and Norton on AIM.
Colin is the Managing Director Companys Audit Committee and Nomination Rose LLP.
Adam is a trustee of the charity of HS Real Company LLC, Chairman of Committee and Chair of the Remuneration Born Free.
Calumet Holdings LLC and Dayenn Limited Committee.
and non-executive director of several other 9 Nigel Wray 64 companies.
Colin is a member of the Key to Committees Non-Executive Director Companys Nomination Committee.
Member of the Audit Committee Nigel was appointed to the Board in Member of the Nomination Committee 7 Helen Keays 48 1999.
He is Chairman of Saracens Rugby Member of the Remuneration Committee Non-Executive Director Club and non-executive director of several Indicates Chair of Committee Helen was appointed to the Board in public and private companies.
Ages of Directors are as at 22 February 2013 September 2011, she is a committee member of the Audit Committee.
Helen is also a non-executive director of Majestic 1 Adam Batty leaves the Company with effect from 17 February Wine plc and Mattioli Woods plc and a 2013.
Mark Millar 43 has been appointed as General trustee of The Shakespeare Birthplace Trust.
Counsel and Company Secretary with effect from 18 February 2013 when he takes over from Adam.
Mark is a qualified Helen has previously been a Director of solicitor and joins from Future plc where he was General Chrysalis plc and The Britannia Building Counsel and Company Secretary for over ten years.
Mark brings with him a wealth of commercial and legal expertise Society and held senior roles within including more than a decade as a City solicitor, having joined Vodafone Group plc and GE Capital.
Future plc from Allen & Overy.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 27
