Drax Group plc Annual report and 46 accounts 2012 The Board of directors The Board of directors As at 18 February 2013, the Board consisted of the non-executive Chairman, five independent non-executive directors and four executive directors.
The current directors are Tim Barker, Charles Berry, Tim Cobbold, Peter Emery, Melanie Gee, David Lindsell, Tony Quinlan, Paul Taylor, Dorothy Thompson and Tony Thorne.
Biographical notes of the directors appear below.
Appointment to the Board: 15 December 2005 and was appointed Chairman on 17 April 2008.
Committee membership: Nominations Chairman and Remuneration.
External appointments: A non-executive director and Chairman of Senior plc, a non-executive director of The Weir Group PLC, Securities Trust of Scotland plc and of Impax Environmental Markets plc.
Previous experience: Charles Berry Charles has extensive experience within the UK power sector.
He joined Chairman ScottishPower in 1991 and was appointed to the Board in 1999.
From 2000 to 2005, Charles was Chief Executive of the companys UK operations, As Chairman, Charles is responsible for the leadership of an effective with responsibility for over 6,200MW of generating capacity as well as Board ensuring cohesion between the executive and non-executive the trading business, energy retailing and strategic transactions, such as directors.
He liaises closely with the Chief Executive in order to fully renewables development.
Charles is also a former non-executive Chairman understand the business challenges facing the executive directors of Eaga plc and of THUS Group plc.
and the senior management team and in turn he ensures that matters Qualications: laid before the non-executive directors are challenged and tested in a BSc Hons in Electrical Engineering and MSc in Management.
Appointment to the Board: 20 October 2005, having joined Drax in September 2005.
External appointments: A non-executive director of Johnson Matthey plc.
Previous experience: Dorothy was previously the head of the European business of InterGen NV, the power generation subsidiary of Shell NV and Bechtel Inc. responsible Dorothy Thompson for the management and operation of four gas-red power plants, totalling Chief Executive some 3,160MW of capacity across the UK and the Netherlands.
Prior to joining InterGen NV in 1998, Dorothy was initially in banking and subsequently was As Chief Executive, Dorothy is responsible for all aspects of the assistant group treasurer for Powergen plc.
stewardship of the Group and its business, including developing an Qualications: appropriate business strategy for Board approval and securing its timely BSc Hons and MSc in Economics.
She provides leadership to the executive team and takes responsibility for the important external relationships with customers, suppliers, regulatory agencies and Government bodies.
Appointment to the Board: 1 September 2008.
Tony is also Chairman of the Groups US subsidiary, Drax Biomass International Inc.
External appointments: A non-executive director of the Port of London Authority.
Previous experience: Tony qualied as a Chartered Accountant with Coopers & Lybrand and Tony Quinlan subsequently joined Marks & Spencer where he went on to hold a number of senior positions within Internal Audit, Corporate Finance, Investor Relations Finance Director and Financial Control.
From 2005, he was Director of Finance, the deputy to As Finance Director, Tony is responsible for the financial management the Group Finance Director.
of the Group, and for relationships with the Groups bankers.
In addition, Qualications: he has the Investor Relations, Risk Management, IT, Facilities, and BSc Hons in Chemistry with Business Studies and an Associate of the Institute Procurement functions reporting to him.
of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales ACA.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 47 Appointment to the Board: 20 October 2005, having joined Drax in June 2004.
External appointments: A non-executive director of NG Bailey Limited.
A member of The Energy Research Partnership.
Previous experience: Peter joined Esso Petroleum upon leaving university and held a number Peter Emery of analyst and managerial roles in the UK before moving to Essos parent, Exxon in the US to co-ordinate its downstream marketing and distribution Production Director investments outside North America and Canada.
Peter returned to Essos As Production Director, Peter is responsible for the operation of Fawley Oil Renery in 1992 as plant technical services manager.
In 1997, the Groups plant and equipment.
This includes all aspects of safety he became renery maintenance manager and in 2002, he was appointed management, plant integrity, plant operations, engineering support, operations manager with full management and operational responsibility maintenance and plant design.
Peter also has responsibility for leading for Fawley Oil Renery, the UKs largest renery.
He was also a member the Companys carbon capture and storage activity.
of ExxonMobils European leadership team for rening.
Qualications: BSc Hons in Mining Engineering, Fellow of the Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining FMIMM and completed the Advanced Management Programme at INSEAD in 2007.
Appointment to the Board: 1 September 2011, having joined Drax in July 2004.
Paul is also Chairman of the Groups retail subsidiary, Haven Power Limited.
Previous experience: Paul has more than 15 years experience in energy trading previously working Paul Taylor for TXU Europe and Powergen E. ON UK.
At TXU Europe Paul led the UK electricity trading function responsible for trading a combined portfolio of over Retail and Trading Director 7GW of power plant and a retail position of more than 50TWh.
Before energy As Retail and Trading Director, Paul has responsibility for the trading trading Paul worked in operational research.
of power and other associated commodities.
He is also responsible for Qualications: the retail division, Haven Power, which sells electricity to customers in the BSc Hons in Business Operation and Control.
industrial and commercial and small and medium enterprises markets.
Appointment to the Board: 20 October 2005, having joined Drax in June 2004 and was appointed as the Senior Independent Director on 15 December 2005.
Committee membership: Remuneration Chairman, Audit and Nominations.
External appointments: A non-executive director of several other companies including the European subsidiary of the Investment Bank Jeffries Group Inc. and Chairman of an early stage company developing a new energy storage technology.
Tim Barker Previous experience: Senior independent non-executive director From 1993, Tim was Vice Chairman of Kleinwort Benson Group plc and from 1998, until his retirement in 2000, he was Vice Chairman of Dresdner Kleinwort As the Senior Independent Director, Tims counsel is of great importance Benson.
Notably, he was involved with a number of clients in the energy sector to the Board and its Committees.
His knowledge and experience of financial and was an adviser to the UK Government on the privatisation of the electricity markets provides the Board with added insight.
In the mid-1980s, Tim was Director General of the City Panel on Takeovers and Mergers.
He is a former Chairman of Robert Walters plc and was the senior independent non-executive director of Electrocomponents plc.
Qualications: MA Hons in Economics.
Each of the independent non-executive directors detailed in this section served the Group throughout the year ended 31 December 2012, with the exception of Melanie Gee who was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2013.
No person, other than those mentioned above, served as a director or as an alternate director at any time during the year.
Financials Governance Corporate and social responsibility Marketplace, performance and risk Overview Drax Group plc Annual report and 48 accounts 2012 The Board of directors Appointment to the Board: 27 September 2010.
Committee membership: Audit, Nominations and Remuneration.
External appointments: Chief Executive and an executive director of fide La Rue Plc.
Previous experience: Tim was previously the Chief Executive Officer of Chloride Group plc, the leading international provider of secure power solutions having joined them in 2007 as Tim Cobbold Chief Operating Officer.
Following Emerson Electrics takeover of Chloride he held a senior position in Emerson, responsible for the Chloride Group of companies.
Independent non-executive director He trained as a Mechanical Engineer and qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 1987 Tims blend of financial and engineering experience means that he is well and joined Smiths Group plc formerly TI Group plc in 1989 where he held a number placed to contribute signicantly to the Board and its Committees.
His role as of senior financial and operational management positions over an 18 year period.
an active chief executive in a different sector adds an alternative dimension Qualications: to his contribution.
BSc Hons in Mechanical Engineering and a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales FCA.
Appointment to the Board: 1 January 2013.
External appointments: A senior advisor to Lazard & Co. Limited and a non-executive director of The Weir Group PLC.
Previous experience: Melanie joined Lazard & Co. Limited in 2008 as a Managing Director and Melanie Gee became a Senior Advisor at the end of 2012.
Prior to that, she was at UBS Independent non-executive director Investment Bank 1982 to 2007, where she held a number of senior positions in Corporate Finance.
Melanies blend of financial and corporate experience means that she Qualications: is well placed to contribute signicantly to the Board and its Committees.
Her advisory role in a City rm brings added insight to the Board.
Appointment to the Board: 1 December 2008.
Committee membership: Audit Chairman, Nominations and Remuneration.
External appointments: A non-executive director of Premier Oil plc.
Previous experience: David was a partner at Ernst & Young for nearly 30 years.
He specialised in audit and assurance services and has extensive experience across a range of David Lindsell industry sectors.
He was Deputy Chairman of the Financial Reporting Review Panel from 2008 to 2012 and has served on a number of professional Independent non-executive director bodies relating to financial reporting, including the IFRS Advisory Council, Davids recent and relevant experience in the areas of finance and audit the Auditing Practices Board, the Turnbull Committee and the European are a significant asset to the Board and his role as Chairman of the Financial Reporting Advisory Group.
David is a former non-executive Audit Committee.
director of Gartmore Group Limited.
Qualications: Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales FCA.
Appointment to the Board: 29 June 2010.
External appointments: Chairman of the South East Coast Ambulance Service.
Previous experience: Tony was Chief Executive of DS Smith plc, the international packaging and ofce products group, from 2001 until his retirement from the Board in May Tony Thorne 2010.
Previously he was President of SCAs corrugated packaging business.
Prior to this he spent 20 years with Shell International, working throughout the Independent non-executive director world in senior management roles, including strategic planning and President Tonys experience of operating in different geographical territories is of of the Shell companies in Mexico.
great importance as Drax considers expansion into global markets.
Qualications: BSc Hons in Agricultural Economics.
