Drax Group plc Annual report and 02 accounts 2012 Our business today Scale, efficiency and service Drax is principally a power generation business responsible for meeting around 7% of the UKs electricity demand.
Owning and operating the largest power station in the UK, we are committed to reducing our carbon footprint.
Through transforming the business into a predominantly biomass-fuelled generator, we aim to provide low carbon, low cost and reliable renewable power well into the future.
At the other end of the supply chain, through our retail business, Haven Power, we serve the electricity needs of businesses of all sizes.
Our intention is to grow a significant retail presence in the business sector providing us with a direct route to market for an increasing proportion of our power.
Fuel We make use of a range of fuels, including coal, sustainable biomass and others, for example, petcoke and pond fines, which are economically advantageous.
As our business transformation takes shape we will burn predominantly sustainable biomass.
Key facts for 2012 9.6 million tonnes 0.7 million tonnes o of f c co oa all burn bur t of biomass burnt commercial plus R&D burn 0.7 million tonnes of economically advantageous fuel burnt Environment We work hard towards reducing our impact on the environment with a policy of regarding compliance with legislation as a minimum level of achievement.
As we convert three of our generating units to biomass our carbon footprint will reduce dramatically.
We sell the by-products of our operations to the construction industry.
1 1.1 1 2 5 5 5 millio millio millio nn n t t t o tonn o o nn nn nn es e es es 1.
1.0 0 0 0 millio millio million n n t t to onne onn nnes es s of CO2 saved through burning of ash sold of o of C CO O2 2 s save aved th d thro rou ug gh b h b burnin u ur rn ni in ng g g o of a f as sh s h so ol ld d s s su us ustainable stainable tainable biomass biomass biomass in in in n p plac plac plac lace e e e o o o of f f c c co o oal al al 0.
0 0.8 8 8 8 millio millio million n n n t t t to on o onn nn nn fines es es o o o of f f gyps gyps gypsum um um sold sold sold Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 03 Generation Drax Power Station is the largest, cleanest and most efficient coal-red power station in the UK, almost twice the size of the next largest power station.
Through strong operational performance we are able to deliver high availability and reliability.
Key facts for 2012 3,960 MW 4.8 % connected capacity forced outage rate at Drax Power Station 86 % 9.6 % plant availability planned outage rate Trading Through keeping a constant eye on the commodity markets within which we operate we are able to optimise the commercial despatch of our power.
The growth of sales through our retail business, Haven Power, is becoming increasingly important to our trading strategy.
Key facts for 2012 27.1 TWh 0.8 million net sales of power generated Renewables Obligation Certicates sold from renewable power generated 13.1 million tonnes of CO2 emissions allowances purchased Retail Our retail business, Haven Power, is focused on providing businesses of all sizes with electricity contracts that are simple, exible and designed to meet their specic requirements.
Importantly, these contracts are backed by an excellent standard of customer service.
Key facts for 2012 5.1 TWh 55 % net power supplied sales growth by volume c. 30 % proportion of total forward sales of generation output through Haven Power Financials Governance Corporate and social responsibility Marketplace, performance and risk Overview
