Drax Group plc Annual report and 04 accounts 2012 Our business model Maximising value Our overriding objective is to maximise the value of the Drax business whilst increasing our electricity generation from sustainable biomass, thereby reducing our carbon footprint.
Our profitability is determined by both the difference between the price at which we sell our power and the cost of coal and carbon, known as the dark green spread, and increasingly by the bark spread, which is the difference between the power price and the cost of biomass plus renewable support.
From this starting point there are several steps in the Drax value chain, with each one providing incremental value to the business and ultimately maximising the value of our business and delivering our gross margin.
Fuel How we maximise value For the last ten years we have burnt sustainable Environment biomass in place of some of our coal, when economic to do so.
Beyond biomass, we also How we maximise value have the ability to burn other fuels, such as We strive to be at the forefront of environmental petcoke and pond fines, which can be performance in order to maintain our commercial economically advantageous.
By diversifying and environmental leadership position in the our fuel sources not only are we less reliant on coal-red sector.
Through burning sustainable a single fuel type, we are also able to capture biomass and our efficiency improvements we value from commodity market cycles, and in are able to reduce the amount of coal we burn, the case of biomass avoid the cost of carbon.
save on carbon costs and reduce emissions of CO2.
We generate revenue through sales of our by-products.
We aim to maximise sales of ash produced from burning coal, which not only saves on landll costs, but creates its own Trading revenue stream.
By reducing emissions of SO2, How we maximise value through our ue gas desulphurisation process, As the largest power station in the UK we we produce gypsum which, like ash, is sold to are able to utilise economies of scale through, the construction industry.
for example, procuring fuel at competitive prices.
We are always looking to increase the trading options available to us, for example, through our retail business.
We benefit from having a physical asset to trade around and through a seamless interface with the operations side of the business we derive value from our power stations high availability and exibility, enabling us to extract value even when market conditions are poor.
Generation How we maximise value Through the completion of the 100 million turbine upgrade project we have secured our position as the most efficient coal-red power station in the UK, and with it we are delivering coal and CO2 savings.
With leading operational performances across all aspects of the generation business, from safety to maintenance, we are able to deliver high availability and reliability.
Retail In addition, the exibility of our despatch allows How we maximise value us to respond quickly to changes in demand.
We have already achieved significant growth Together these characteristics mean we are in a competitive marketplace and have become consistently there when needed, both to meet established as a recognised supplier by businesses our contractual positions and to provide support across the UK.
We have plans to grow further services critical to security of supply.
and deliver our tailor-made supply contracts to even more business customers.
Our retail business increases the trading options available for our power output, providing an important, credit-efficient and direct route to market.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 05 Delivering strong performance Our business is influenced by a number of factors, which we manage to the very best of our ability.
Through focusing on our six key priorities we aim to achieve our vision and maximise shareholder value.
Our vision for Drax is to be a bold, customer oriented power Our vision generation and retail business, driven by biomass innovation.
our strategy Our project to convert Our programme for Drax Power Station into a the expansion of our retail We have two key strategic initiatives to enable predominantly biomass-fuelled business, Haven Power.
us to achieve our vision, namely: generating asset.
in uenc uence ed b d by y a n a nu um mber o ber of f f fa ac ct tor ors s k Commodity market price risk k Biomass market risk There are many external factors with the potential k Counterparty risk k Plant operating risk to have an impact on our business.
We aim to be k Power and renewables market k Regulatory and political risk alert to and manage all the identied principal risks liquidity risk and uncertainties: More on: 32 Principal risks and uncertainties delivered through our six key priorities In order to achieve our vision and our overriding objective to maximise the value of the Drax business, Maint aintain ain op oper erat ation ional Gr Gro ow w our our Deli Deliv five er r our our excellence retail business biomass strategy we focus our efforts on the following key priorities: Maximise profitability Maintain an Deliver excellent from our coal optimal supporting people leadership across generation capacity capital structure our operations which hich in in t tu urn rn is is d fide eliv live erin ring g T To ota tal re l reve venu nue e Gr Gros oss s p pr ro ot t consistent, strong performance: 1,780 million 511 million More on: 20 2011: 1,836 million 2011: 501 million Operational and financial performance 1 EBITDA Underlying basic earnings More on: 14 Principal performance indicators 298 million 52 pence per share 2011: 334 million 2011: 56 pence per share 2 Net cash Load factor 311 million 82 % 2011: 225 million 2011: 80% Carbon dioxide emissions Total recordable injury rate 1 EBITDA is dened as profit before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and unrealised gains and losses on derivative contracts.
784 t GWh 0.17 2 Comprising cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, less borrowings net of deferred finance costs.
2011: 760t GWh 2011: 0.10 Financials Governance Corporate and social responsibility Marketplace, performance and risk Overview
