Directors and Company Secretary An experienced and dedicated team Gareth Davis Miles Roberts Steve Dryden Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Committee membership Nomination Committee General Purposes Committee General Purposes Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Skills and experience Appointed to the Board on Appointed to the Board on Appointed to the Board on 1 June 2010 as a non-Executive 4 May 2010 as Group Chief 1 April 2008 as Group Finance Director.
He is a non-Executive of the Board on 4 January Chief Executive of McBride Plc Director of Fiberweb Plc.
He 2012 and is Chairman of the from July 2005 until April 2010, previously held the position of Nomination Committee.
He having originally joined as its Finance Director of Filtrona Plc was previously Chairman of the Group Finance Director in January following its demerger from Remuneration Committee.
He was a non-Executive Bunzl Plc in 2005.
Prior to that he Chairman of both William Hill Director of Care UK Plc until was divisional Finance Director of PLC and Wolseley Plc.
Age 48. the Filtrona businesses and held previously Group Chief Executive other senior finance positions within of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC.
He began his career Age 62. at Price Waterhouse and has also held various finance roles within Rolls-Royce Plc.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2012 34 Governance Christopher Bunker Philippe Mellier Jonathan Nicholls Matt Jowett Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Group General Counsel and Company Secretary Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee Appointed to the Board on Appointed to the Board on Appointed to the Board on Appointed Group General 9 December 2003 as a non- 7 September 2006 as a non- 1 December 2009 as a Counsel and Company Secretary Executive Director.
He is the Executive Director.
He is Group non-Executive Director and is the on 1 July 2011.
He was previously Senior Independent Director and Chief Executive officer of Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Group General Counsel and is Chairman of the Remuneration fide Beers Group.
He was He was previously Group Finance Company Secretary of VT Group Committee.
He was previously President of Alstom Transport and Director of Hanson Plc and, most Plc and prior to that he was Group Group Finance Director of Thames an Executive Vice-President of recently, Group Finance Director General Counsel of RMC Group Water Plc, Tarmac Plc and Alstom Group, was previously of Old Mutual Plc.
He began his career at law Westland Group Plc.
He is a Chairman and CEO of Renault non-Executive Director and rm Linklaters.
Age 44. non-Executive Director of Travis Trucks and a Member of the Chairman of the Audit Committees Perkins Plc and was a nonExecutive Committee of AB Volvo, of Great Portland Estates Plc and Executive Director of Mowlem Plc, and prior to that held senior SIG Plc and was a non-Executive Baltimore Technologies Plc and management positions with Director of Man Group Plc.
Renault S. A. and Ford Motor Age 54.
Board nationalities Board tenure British 5 1 3 years 3 French 1 4 6 years 2 7 9 years 1 DS Smith Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 35
