Dunelm Group plc Dunelm Group plc 4 Annual report and accounts 2012 Annual report and accounts 2012 5 Our strategic priorities Our current focus Enhance Continuously evolve product ranges Develop knowledge-based customer our specialist service as a point of differentiation proposition Develop value-added services such as made to measure and Dunelm At Home We must continue to evolve our offer so that we maintain and grow our competitive advantage in choice and price, supported by quality, service and availability.
Increasing awareness of the Dunelm brand is a clear priority.
G r ow multi-channel Our current focus Extend the range on-line www.
com accounts for c. 3% of revenue.
We plan to increase customer Improve delivery proposition engagement, develop new customer touch points Develop collect in-store service and grow our multi-channel participation further.
Trial catalogue Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Dunelm Group plc Dunelm Group plc 4 Annual report and accounts 2012 Annual report and accounts 2012 5 Our current focus Continue new store opening Expand programme Consider freehold property deals the store portfolio as appropriate Target payback of 36 months for larger catchments and 48 months for smaller catchments We aim to grow market share and reach more customers by opening more superstores across the UK.
We expect to grow our portfolio to 200superstores in the medium term.
Existing stores are continually improved with our refit programme covering 15 stores during the year.
Develop and exploit our infrastructure Our current focus We have a well-invested infrastructure.
Our aim Exploit IT systems to release time is to ensure that we continue to develop this for customer service ahead of our growth curve, so that it is an Enhance IT infrastructure to enabler and never a constraint.
support further growth Dun Dune ellm m G Gr ro oup up p pllc c 6 6 A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po or rt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 12 2 Dunelm has posted good revenue growth in the latest financial year, accompanied by further improvements in profitability and cash generation.
Our key strengths UKs largest specialist On-line store featuring 20,000 homewares retailer products Portfolio of established Owner of Dorma brand out-of-town superstores, Robust, scalable infrastructure average sales area Experienced management approximately 30,000 team, entrepreneurial culture square feet Highly cash generative Simply Value for Money Strong balance sheet proposition: Good quality products Great prices Industry leading choice Deep availability Friendly knowledgeable service
