Dunelm Group plc Dunelm Group plc 38 Annual report and accounts 2012 Annual report and accounts 2012 39 Letter from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder, In the year to 30 June 2012, Dunelm performed well in a difficult retail market.
The management team performed strongly and exceeded budget.
I hope shareholders will appreciate their efforts under Nick Wharton who was in his first full year as Chief Executive.
We exceeded budget EPS by 6.7% and accordingly the Executive Directors will receive an annual bonus equivalent to 100% of the maximum opportunity.
The compound annual growth rate in EPS over the last three years has exceeded RPI by more than 12%, therefore the LTIP award made to Will Adderley and David Stead in 2009 will vest in full.
Nick Wharton participates in the LTIP but was not in the 2009 scheme as he became an executive in 2010.
In accordance with best practice and a desire to be fully transparent we are publishing what has become known as the Single Number for each of the Executive Directors and this can be found in the Remuneration Report, together with an explanation of the assumptions we have made in calculating this.
We have communicated more than ever with institutional shareholders this year and much of the discussion has focused on remuneration.
We held a meeting for corporate governance analysts which we intend to repeat annually, we had meetings with voting advisory services, we held a number of one-to-one meetings between independent Directors and shareholders and, as usual, the independent Directors attended a selection of post-results shareholder meetings together with the executive team.
We have noted the feedback, predominantly about base salaries, and been pleased with the recognition of our simple, transparent and straightforward remuneration policy.
Looking forward, in 2012 13 the Executive Directors will receive a 2% increase in base salary, in line with the company average.
Will Adderley has declined this increase and will be paid the same base salary as last year.
As a major shareholder, Will has also declined any future grants under the LTIP scheme so we will not be seeking a rule 9 waiver for this purpose at this years AGM.
We have consciously sought to leave the remuneration structure unchanged this year following changes to the bonus and LTIP in 2010 and 2011 respectively.
However, we have included a new claw back provision which covers unvested pay and details can be found in the Remuneration Report.
We are aware of an emerging issue that if Dunelm continues to grow as the market expects, inflation-linked base salaries will mean that our executive team reward will increasingly lag behind those of our peer group as our peer group changes.
While we have a stated policy that fixed pay is median-or-below and that variable pay is upper quartile, we do not wish to fall too far out of line.
We will continue to monitor this and consider ways to ensure our executives are motivated and, most importantly, aligned with shareholders for long term value creation.
We will not introduce any new elements of remuneration structure without consultation.
I look forward to meeting shareholders at the AGM in November.
Yours sincerely, Marion Sears Chair of the Remuneration Committee 13 September 2012
