Directors Report our BuSineSS ModelS Aggreko is organised around two different with a customer is described in terms of renting business models.
specified items of equipment for a period of time, most of the contracts that Power Projects performs are for providing a defined amount of electrical power, local BuSineSS for which a customer pays a fixed monthly capacity charge: they then pay, in addition, a variable charge Our Local business runs with high volumes of generally for each MW-hour they take.
Under the terms of quite low value transactions, providing power or these contracts, Aggreko is responsible for installing temperature control equipment when they need it and operating the equipment and the invoice to the either in a hurry or for a short period of time.
Aside customer is for power generation capacity not equipment from major events such as the Olympics where rented.
Most projects in this business are worth over contracts can be worth tens of millions of pounds, 1 million a year and some can be worth very much the average contract size is around 17,000, but the more than that: in 2012, we invoiced our largest utility range is from 200 to over 1,000,000.
Although most customer around 95 million.
A typical contract in of this business is planned in advance, about 25% of this business would be for the rental of 20-50MW for its revenues come from responding to emergencies.
an initial period of 6-12 months, which will often be It is therefore essential to have the capability to deploy extended.
Our power-plants are highly modular, and equipment and people to the customers site within a their capacity can be flexed in 1MW increments using matter of hours.
This business operates from 194 service standard containerised units of our own proprietary centres and offices in North and Latin America, design, designed and built in our factory in Scotland: Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia and Australasia.
importantly, these generators are also in widespread use These service centres look after customers who are in the Local business, so fleet can be shared between normally within a radius of 200 miles, and they offer the two businesses.
They use either diesel or gas as fuel the complete range of our products and services.
and are designed to be easily transportable, reliable and robust: in 2013 we also announced the availability of Our Local business serves any customer who uses power generators that can run on Heavy Fuel Oil, which is and temperature control: butchers, bakers and candlesignificantly cheaper than diesel.
Power projects can arise stick makers: banks, TV manufacturers and film studios: anywhere in the world and the required response time farmers, wineries, utilities and oil companies: miners, is generally weeks rather than the hours or days needed armies, navies, air forces and telecoms companies: in the Local business.
To support these projects, we hairdressers, party planners and major sporting events.
concentrate our fleet in a number of hubs in Central Anyone who uses power or temperature control in America, Europe, the Middle East and Asia.
From each their business is a potential customer.
This makes our hub, large amounts of equipment can be shipped or customer-base diverse both in terms of geography and flown rapidly to wherever it is needed.
market segment, which is a great advantage as it gives us some protection against the vagaries of any one Power Projects customers are almost all in emerging particular market.
And we can quickly move resources markets and over 84% of our revenues come from to sectors and countries which are growing.
utilities but we also serve governments, armed forces, as well as oil & gas and mining companies.
In 2012, the Local business had revenues of 905 million which is 59% of Aggrekos total revenue excluding 1 In 2012, our Power Projects business generated pass-through fuel.
revenues of 638 million, or 41% of Aggrekos 1 total revenue excluding pass-through fuel.
poWer projectS coMpetitive environMent The Power Projects business sells power which we deliver using power plants built, owned and operated When customers need power or temperature control by ourselves.
Whereas in the Local business a contract equipment, they have the choice to buy, lease or rent, and therefore the biggest competitors for our customers money are not rental companies but equipment 1 Pass-through fuel revenue relates to three contracts in our Power Projects business.
The vast majority of chillers and Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 11 our BuSineSS ModelS CONTINUED particular part of a country.
In their own territory they Aggreko revenue by customer segment are very effective, but they find it difficult to operate Excluding pass-through fuel revenue outside their home market.
So in most areas in which 11 we operate, competition in the Local business is fierce: 1 Utilities 41% 12 but the names with whom we do battle will tend to be 10 2 Oil and gas 12% different country by country, or even county by county.
9 3 Military 4% 8 1 4 Petrochemical and refining 6% 7 For Power Projects, in some regions notably South 5 Manufacturing 5% 6 America and Asia there are a number of companies 6 Events 8% that compete with us in their home territory, but 5 7 Construction 4% they find it hard to operate outside their regional 4 3 2 8 Contracting 3% base.
There are about 10-15 Caterpillar dealers who 9 Services 4% compete vigorously for power projects but, again, Source: Aggreko internal reports 10 Quarrying and mining 7% they tend to stick to neighborhoods they know.
These 11 Shipping 2% companies find it hard to organise themselves globally, 12 Other 4% however, and it is difficult to operate efficiently in the Power Projects business without a large homogenous fleet and the infrastructure to market, sell and operate it in a consistent manner around the world.
There is Aggreko revenue by geography only one other company that has the proven ability Excluding pass-through fuel revenue to operate globally, which is APR Energy plc, based in Jacksonville, Florida, and we have been competing 1 North America 20% 6 with them, on and off, for about eight years.
Analysts 1 2 Europe 17% consensus is that their 2012 revenues will be around 3 Middle East 12% $270 million, which is about 10% of Aggrekos.
4 Africa 13% 5 5 Asia and Australasia 24% 2 In both the Local business and Power Projects, valuable 6 Latin America 14% economies of scale accrue to those who can operate on a global basis.
However, to gain these benefits of global 3 4 scale requires a very long-term commitment to building distribution, deep technical expertise across a number of Source: Aggreko internal reports disciplines, and a well developed supply-chain: it also requires hundreds of millions of pounds of capital to fund fleet investment.
Some people have the misconception generators supplied to end-users each year are bought or that Aggreko has grown from nothing over a short period leased, and only a few are rented.
So, in terms of pricing of time: to the contrary, Aggreko was founded some fifty and service, we always have to be focused on the fact that years ago, and it has taken us five decades, several billion customers have a choice, not only of using other rental pounds of cumulative investment in fleet and a global companies, but also to buy from manufacturers.
The network of service centres to get to the point where we questions in the choice between buying and renting tend are big enough to enjoy the benefits of global scale.
Over to be speed how quickly do you need it?
and duration the last ten years, some very large and powerful companies how long do you need it for?
Urgency, and or short who have global scale in other markets have tried to duration, is the need that we, as a rental business, serve.
emulate Aggreko but none has yet succeeded in building a global integrated power and temperature control Within the Local business, barriers to entry are business of the same scale.
Aggreko is currently the only relatively low: many companies, small and large, drift business in the market which has grown large enough to in and out of rental, and competition in each market is capture the economies of global scale and, in turn, these fierce.
Typically, competitors in the Local business are efficiencies have enabled us to fund rates of investment either privately-owned specialist rental businesses, or far ahead of any competitor.
As a consequence of this divisions of large plant-hire companies.
Their common rate of investment, we have grown to be significantly characteristic is that they are local: most of them larger than any other company operating in our market.
operate in a single country and, often, in just a 12 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
