What We do and Where We do it our BuSineSS Aggreko provides power and temperature control The distinguishing features of our business are: solutions to customers who need them either very quickly, or for a short length of time.
We have two The products and services we provide are missionbusiness models.
In the Local business, we hire our critical.
Power and temperature control are utility equipment to customers who operate it for themselves, services without which our customers cannot although we retain responsibility for servicing and operate.
Most customers use our services only maintenance.
In the Power Projects business, we occasionally but, when they do, they rely on operate as a power producer: we install and operate us to keep their business or even whole cities and power plants and our customers pay us for having the countries functioning and safe.
They are therefore generating capacity available, as well as the electricity likely to be more interested in quality of service we deliver to them.
We do all of this on a global basis and, in 2012, we We are not exposed to the fortunes of any single endserved customers in about 100 countries: we run our user market.
All businesses use power, and many use business from 194 service centres and offices, located temperature control.
Our equipment and services in 47 countries.
The solutions we provide range from are transferable between end-user segments, so the the very large and complex to the very simple.
generator used today in a petrochemical plant may be on a film set tomorrow and a building site the day after.
Large and complex would include: We operate globally.
This means that we can keeping the lights on in entire countries when their respond to events as they happen anywhere around existing grid cannot cope with demand by delivering the world and can move our equipment to wherever hundreds of megawatts MW of additional power: it can deliver the best returns.
helping oil refineries to maintain production in We are organised to address all types of opportunity, hot weather by providing additional cooling and from the rental of a single generator for a weekend, power: and to managing huge projects, worth tens of millions of pounds, delivering hundreds of MW anywhere designing and providing critical power infrastructure in the world.
for broadcasting, security and field-of-play lighting for major sporting events such as the Olympic We are experts.
We are focused on a very narrow Games and the FIFA World Cup.
range of products power and temperature control and that means we have technical expertise, Simple would include: equipment, skills and experience on a scale, and to a depth, that we believe nobody else can rival.
providing temperature control in an office building after the air-conditioning has broken down: We design and manufacture our own fleet, which means that we are able to optimise it for installing chillers to make ice for temporary the specific requirements of our customers and skating-rinks: and of the rental business.
providing a generator for a few days to a power utility while it carries out improvements to transmission lines.
6 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report our locationS We keep our equipment for its useful life, so the Aggreko has global reach through an international better we build and maintain the equipment, the network of service centres and offices spanning North longer its life will be and the more money we make and Latin America, Europe, the Middle East, Asia, for our shareholders.
We therefore take enormous Africa and Australasia.
Our 194 service centres and care to build and maintain our equipment to the offices in 47 countries enable us to combine local highest standards and this, in turn, means that our knowledge, strong customer relationships and efficient customers see high quality and reliable equipment.
logistics to provide excellent service and speed of response, while our commitment to managing the By developing these competitive advantages, business and assets on a homogenous and global basis Aggreko has grown over the last 50 years to be means that each local service centre can draw on huge the world market leader with outstanding people, resources to support its customers.
strong customer relationships, a powerful brand and an excellent reputation.
We have also developed a This is a key competitive advantage: being close to our business large enough to enjoy economies of scale, customers means we can be there in an emergency, able which has enabled us to deliver highly attractive to respond quickly to their needs.
At the same time, as returns to shareholders while delivering outstanding a global business, we can use our resources strategically, value and service to our customers.
moving staff and equipment around the world to wherever our customers need them.
A list of our locations is shown on pages 8 to 9.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 7
