ROBERT MACLEOD USA and has an MBA from the IMD Business School 1. ken hanna in Switzerland.
He is also a Non-executive Director of Chairman, Chairman of Nomination Committee GKN plc and Howden Joinery Group Plc and former and Ethics Committee chairman of the Group of Scottish Finance Directors.
Ken Hanna was appointed to the Board in October 2010 and appointed as Chairman on 25 April 2012.
4. deBajit daS He is currently Chairman of Inchcape plc and a Nonexecutive Director of Tesco plc.
Ken is also Chairman Regional Director APAC Asia Pacific of Shooting Star CHASE a South West London charity Debajit Das joined the Board in January 2013 as the supporting families with children and teenagers who Regional Director for Aggrekos Asia Pacific APAC have life limiting conditions.
Until early 2009, Ken was business which includes Australia, Pacific and Asia.
Chief Financial Officer of Cadbury plc.
He has also held He was previously the Managing Director of the Asia positions as Operating Partner in Compass Partners, a business and prior to that he was responsible for European Private Equity firm: Group Chief Executive at Aggrekos Major Event business.
Before joining Aggreko Dalgety plc: Group Finance Director of United Distillers in 2006, Debajit worked for General Electric in a variety plc and Group Finance Director of Avis Europe plc.
of leadership positions across its Energy business.
He has He is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
and is a Six-Sigma Master Black Belt.
2. rupert SoaMeS oBe 5. aSterioS SatraZeMiS Chief Executive Regional Director The Americas Rupert Soames joined the Board as Group Chief Asterios Satrazemis joined the Board in January 2013.
He was formerly with Misys Prior to his appointment as Regional Director for the PLC, where he was Chief Executive of the Banking and Americas, he was Aggreko North Americas North Securities Division.
Before joining Misys, Rupert was Business Unit Vice-President from 2008 to 2010, with GEC plc for 15 years, working in a number of their responsible for the Northeast, Great Lakes, Central and subsidiaries: in the last four years of his service with West.
In 2010 he moved to Melbourne, Australia to GEC he was responsible for the UK, African and Asian take on the role of Managing Director Australia Pacific.
He is Senior Independent Prior to Aggreko, he spent 10 years with United Director of Electrocomponents plc.
Rentals in various senior roles with responsibilities including mergers and acquisitions as well as operations.
3. anguS cockBurn A graduate of the University of Connecticut he worked for Deloitte upon completion of his degree.
Chief Financial Officer Angus Cockburn, a Chartered Accountant, joined 6. david taylor-SMith MBe Aggreko in May 2000 as Finance Director.
He was previously Managing Director of Pringle of Scotland, Regional Director EMEA Europe, Middle East and Africa a division of Dawson International PLC, having joined David Taylor-Smith joins the Board in March 2013 that company in 1997 from PepsiCo Inc. At PepsiCo he as Regional Director, Europe, Middle East and Africa.
spent five years in various positions, latterly as Regional Prior to this he worked for G4S plc for fourteen Finance Director for Central Europe based in Budapest.
years where his last appointment was Group Chief He has worked with KPMG both in the UK and in the Operating Officer and Regional CEO UK, Ireland and 54 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report 9. diana layField Non-executive Director Diana Layfield was appointed to the Board in May 2012.
Diana is Chief Executive Officer, Africa Region for Standard Chartered Plc.
Roles she has held over the past nine years at Standard Chartered include Chief Operating Officer of the Wholesale Bank, Group Head of Strategy and Corporate Development and Group 5.
DAVID TAYLOR-SMITH Head of Global Corporate Clients.
Prior to Standard Chartered, Diana was CEO of a technology venture and spent 5 years as a consultant at McKinsey & Company.
10. roBert Macleod Non-executive Director, Chairman of Audit Committee Robert MacLeod was appointed to the Board in September 2007.
He is a Chartered Accountant and is Group Finance Director of Johnson Matthey plc.
From June 2004 until June 2009 he was Group 11.
PETER KENNERLEY Finance Director of WS Atkins plc.
He joined the Atkins Group as Group Financial Controller in March 2003 having previously worked in a variety of senior Africa.
Prior to joining G4S, David held senior roles financial roles at Enterprise Oil plc.
A graduate of with Securicor Plc and Jardine Matheson in Hong Cambridge University, he trained at KPMG.
Before this he was a British army officer and served in Northern Ireland, Germany, England and 11. reBecca Mcdonald in Cyprus with the United Nations.
David has a degree Non-executive Director from the University of Southampton and is a Fellow Rebecca McDonald was appointed to the Board of the Royal Geographical Society.
He has sat on the in October 2012.
Rebecca was until recently Chief board of several charities and on the Public Services Executive Officer of Laurus Energy Inc. an energy Board of the CBI.
In 2003 he was awarded the MBE technology company based in Houston.
Her past in recognition of his charitable activities overseas.
executive appointments include President, Gas and Power, BHP Billiton: Chairman and Chief Executive 7. david haMill Officer, Enron Global Assets: and President and Chief Non-executive Director, Senior Independent Director Executive Officer, Amoco Energy Development David Hamill was appointed to the Board in May Company.
She is a Non-executive Director of Veresen 2007.
He was appointed Chairman of Ideal Standard Inc, an Alberta-based energy infrastructure company International in February 2011 having been with the and of Granite Construction Company in the US.
He was until December She was formerly a Director of BOC Group plc.
2007 Chairman and Chief Executive of ICI Paints and a main board director of ICI.
In January 2008 ICI was Company Secretary acquired by Akzo Nobel and for the calendar year of 12. peter kennerley 2008, Mr Hamill led the integration process, forming Peter Kennerley was appointed Group Legal Director & the worlds largest decorative paints business.
During Company Secretary in October 2008.
He was formerly 2009, he was appointed as Senior Advisor to Bain Company Secretary and General Counsel of Scottish Capital and has developed personal business interests.
& Newcastle plc and before that a partner at Simmons & Simmons specialising in corporate law.
He also spent 8. ruSSell king two years as Secretary to the Takeover Panel.
Non-executive Director, Chairman of Remuneration Committee Russell King joined the Board in February 2009.
Directors resigned in the year: He was appointed Non-executive Director of Spectris Philip Rogerson plc in October 2010.
He is Non-executive Chairman Bill Caplan of GeoProMining Ltd, a privately-owned mining Kash Pandya company operating in the CIS.
He is senior advisor to George Walker RBC Capital Markets and Heidrick & Struggles and the founder of Sorrett Advisors.
Until October 2009 Board committees Membership he was Chief Strategy Officer of Anglo American Audit PLC, having joined Anglo American as Group Head Remuneration of Human Resources, Business Development and Nomination Sustainable Development in 2001.
Previously, he Ethics spent over 20 years at ICI, with experience in its fertiliser, petrochemical and paint businesses.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 55
