Directors Report our Strategy Our current strategy was developed following an in-depth review of Aggrekos business in 2003, and has been consistently applied with the occasional tweak of the tiller and which we have worked relentlessly to implement for the last nine years.
We believe that this consistency of purpose has been a major contributor to our success and that the result 19% compound growth in revenues and 28% compound growth in trading profit is the proof of the strategys success.
Aggreko Group excluding pass-through fuel RUPERT SOAMES Chief Executive 2012 2003 CAGR Revenue m 1,543 324 19% 1 Trading profit m 382 42 28% 1 Trading margin 25% 13% Diluted earnings per 1 share pence 100.40 10.14 29% Return on capital 1,2 employed ROCE 24% 13% Enterprise value at 3 year end m 5,263 514 30% 1 Pre-exceptional items.
2 Calculated by dividing operating profit for a period by the average net operating assets as at 1 January, 30 June and 31 December.
3 Enterprise value is defined as market value plus net debt.
ANGUS COCKBURN Chief Financial Officer Whilst it is tempting particularly to current management to ascribe this success to our own group Strategy brilliance, the fact is that we know we stand on the The objective of our strategy is to deliver long-term shoulders of giants.
Aggrekos success over the last value to shareholders, excellent service to customers ten years has been made possible by the skilful and and rewarding careers to our employees by being the patient investment made over the previous forty years leading global provider of temporary power and by our predecessors.
It was they who built a network temperature control.
Our strategy is founded on of service centres in North America, Europe and the belief that, in our market sector, it is possible Australia: understood that designing and building our to create competitive advantage by building a truly own equipment had major advantages: created a hardglobal business i. e. one which operates in the same working, entrepreneurial and customer-focused culture: way around the world and can use the same fleet and built a brand.
The lesson we see every day is that it everywhere, the same processes, the same skills and takes decades to achieve the sort of global scale which the same infrastructure.
This homogeneity means that Aggreko now enjoys, and there are no short cuts.
significant operating advantages and efficiencies accrue to those who have global scale: the focus of our efforts, is therefore directed towards building global scale and securing these advantages and efficiencies for ourselves.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 17 our Strategy CONTINUED We have a policy of thoroughly reviewing our strategy We have now completed the 2012 Strategy Review every five years, with interim updates every two years: which has incorporated a significant amount of since the first strategy review in 2003, we completed proprietary research, as well as detailed input from many major reviews in 2007 and, most recently, in 2012. of the senior managers in the business.
The process took Aggrekos strategy is developed by the senior management around 14 months and included regular updates to the team, led by the Chief Executive, and involves internal Board: the principal conclusions of the review are: and external research, much of it proprietary.
We seek to develop a deep understanding of the drivers of The strategic initiatives of the last 5 years have demand, changing customer requirements, and the generally worked well, and Aggreko is a much stronger competitive environment as well as developments business now than it was in 2007.
Set out below is our in technology and regulation.
We look at our own assessment of our scorecard against our stated targets.
strengths and weaknesses, and at the opportunities and threats that are likely to face us.
From this analysis, we Achievements against 2007 objectives: develop a list of investment and operational options We said: we would grow revenues over 5 years and analyse their relative risks and rewards, bearing at double-digit rates in mind the capabilities and resources of the Group.
Revenues up 2.4x, CAGR 20% At the time of the 2007 review we set ourselves a We said: we expected there would be some target of growing the business at over 10% during the margin dilution five years to 2012, subject to the vagaries of the world Trading margin 4pp to 25%: trading profit economy.
We did not anticipate that there would be up 2.9x, CAGR 24% a financial crisis and global recession in that period, but it is a tribute to the structural drivers of growth We said: focus on expanding Local business in in our business that we have bettered our targets by emerging markets to grow faster than underlying a significant margin, as shown in the table below.
market growth of GDP 2-3% Local Revenues 13% CAGR ex Events, Aggreko Group excluding pass-through fuel 15% incl Events 2012 2007 CAGR We said: Power Projects market MW on hire Revenue m 1,543 634 20% would grow at around 20% per annum, and 1 Trading profit m 382 131 24% that our growth rate would be market 5% 1 Trading margin 25% 21% Power Projects MW on hire: 20% CAGR Diluted earnings per 1 share pence 100.40 30.02 27% We said: we would spend around 1 billion on Return on capital new fleet and fund our growth without recourse 1,2 employed ROCE 24% 27% to shareholders Enterprise value at Fleet capital expenditure 1.5 billion 3 year end m 5,263 1,647 26% 350 million cash paid to shareholders through dividends and return of value: dividend per Both our Power Projects and Local businesses have share CAGR 24% contributed to the growth we achieved: Power Projects grew trading profit at a 34% CAGR, whilst the Local We said: we would create further value for business which was hit harder by the recession grew shareholders at a 16% CAGR.
Total Shareholder Return: 247% FTSE 100 11% Average Return on Equity over last 5 years of 30%: 7pp on previous strategy cycle 18 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report There have been some disappointments.
In 2007 that the shortfall between supply and demand will we said we would grow our temperature control grow at about 13% CAGR for the next five years.
business, but revenues from this product line have We think this will translate into an increase in market barely moved over the period.
We also said that demand for temporary power in the range of 10-15% we thought there would be an opportunity to use per annum.
In terms of our expectation of the rates our technology to provide smoothing of power of growth the Power Projects business will deliver generation in developed countries as wind became over the next five years, we would expect underlying a larger proportion of capacity.
So far, we have revenue growth of between 10% and 15%: margins singularly failed in this endeavour, although we of between 27% and 32%: and a return on capital have found a parallel market supporting wind farm employed of between 25% and 30%.
As with the construction and commissioning.
Local business, it should be emphasised that these are the averages we would expect over a five year Looking ahead to the next 5 years, we believe that: period, and there will be years when we may be outside one of these ranges.
Our reference to Our Local business will continue to offer attractive underlying growth above means the growth we opportunities for growth, particularly in emerging would expect to achieve once we have adjusted for markets.
We believe that the underlying market our contracts in Japan and with the US Military, for power and temperature control rental grows which we expect to largely disappear over the at around 2 times GDP.
The reason why emerging course of 2013 and 2014. markets are so attractive is that their GDP is growing faster, and 2 x 6% is better than 2 x 1%.
We have Product innovation will continue to be an important invested in opening or acquiring some 64 new source of growth.
Aggreko is unique amongst locations in emerging markets since 2006: many operators in the market in designing, developing of them have yet to achieve the $5 million annual and manufacturing its own equipment, and we use revenues we would expect of a mature depot, so we this to drive down the capital cost of our rental fleet expect to get the benefit as they grow to scale in the and to develop new products.
In 2006 we launched next five years.
We will also take the opportunity a range of gas-powered generators which, because of through our new organisation structure to exploit the lower price of gas, allows customers to generate the synergies that exist between the Local and Power power at much lower cost per kWh than they can Projects businesses: as we open Local businesses in new with diesel.
Over the last five years, revenues from countries, contracts which previously might have been this product have grown by 63% CAGR to over done by Power Projects can be executed at lower cost $250 million, and we expect gas to account for by depots.
In terms of our expectation of the rates of around 40% of Power Projects revenues in 2013. growth the Local business will deliver over the next Encouraged by the success of our gas development, five years, we would expect revenue growth of between in 2009 we launched a 6 million development 8% and 12%: margins of between 17% and 20%: and programme with Ricardo plc to develop an engine a return on capital employed of between 18% and which would both be able to run on Heavy Fuel 21%.
It should be emphasised that these are the Oil, a much cheaper fuel than diesel, and would averages we would expect over a five year period, also improve on the performance of our existing and there will be years when we may be outside diesel engines.
Our new engine was launched in one of these ranges.
early 2013 and we have high hopes for it.
Our Power Projects business is focused on emerging Longer term, we believe that the key to expanding the markets and the growth in its markets are driven by market for Power Projects is to be able to deliver a cost structural issues.
Growth in demand for electricity in per kWh which makes temporary power competitive emerging markets is growing faster than GDP, and with permanent power.
If we can marry the few countries have been able to finance the additional advantages of speed of deployment and flexibility of permanent generating and transmission capacity temporary power with the costs of permanent power, needed to keep up with demand.
Our review has we should be able to greatly expand the market.
confirmed that these structural issues are likely to remain in place for the foreseeable future: we believe Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 19 our Strategy CONTINUED In all our businesses, there are opportunities Aggreko Local business % of Group to improve the efficiency of operations, whilst 2012 2003 CAGR 2012 2003 maintaining our prized agility.
There are plenty of things we can do better and we will continue Revenue m 905 258 15% 59% 80% 1 to develop our capability to improve the way we Trading profit m 170 27 23% 45% 64% 1 do things in the business: following the launch of Trading margin 19% 10% 1,2 our 2008 Orange Excellence programme, we have ROCE 20% 11% now trained over 900 people in continuous improvement techniques.
The table below shows our progress since the last major strategy review five years ago: At a Group level, our expectation is that over the next five years we should achieve, on average and Aggreko Local business % of Group subject to year-on-year variation, double-digit rates 2012 2007 CAGR 2012 2007 of growth in revenues, with margins and returns on capital in excess of 20%.
Revenue m 905 453 15% 59% 71% 1 Trading profit m 170 81 16% 45% 62% 1 Our strategy for each of the business lines is set out in Trading margin 19% 18% 1,2 more detail below.
ROCE 20% 23% There are three elements to our strategy for the BuSineSS line operational Strategy Local business: Supporting the Group strategy, Aggreko has developed operational strategies for our two 1.
Maintain a clear differentiation between our offering different lines of business: and that of our competitors through superior service.
The Local business rents power and temperature 2.
Use the benefits of global scale to be extremely control systems, ranging from small generators up efficient.
This should enable us to make attractive to large industrial cooling towers, to customers who returns whilst delivering a superior service at are typically within a few hours driving time of our competitive prices.
Offering superior service at competitive prices The Power Projects business builds and then operates will allow us to increase market share and extend temporary power plants, selling their capacity and our global reach, delivering growing revenues at electricity to utilities, the military and major mining attractive margins.
In terms of markets we serve, we and oil companies, mainly in emerging markets.
have been very focussed on expanding our presence in countries that have high rates of GDP growth, The Local business particularly emerging markets.
This enables us to The Local business serves customers from 194 service obtain higher levels of growth, and increase our centres in 47 countries in North, Central & South scale and global reach.
America, Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia and Australasia.
This is a business with high transaction Against the first objective to maintain a clear volumes: average contracts excluding major events differentiation between our offering and that of our have a value of around 17,000 and last a handful competitors third-party research shows that Aggreko of weeks.
The Local business represents 59% of is one of the worlds best-performing companies in Aggrekos revenues, excluding pass-through fuel, and terms of customer satisfaction.
We are determined to 45% of trading profit.
Since our first strategy review in maintain this reputation for premium service and we 2003, revenues and trading profit have increased at a do this through the attitude and expertise of our staff, compound growth rate of 15% and 23% respectively: the geographic reach of our operations, the design, availability and reliability of our equipment, and the ability to respond to our customers 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
20 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report The claim to be one of the worlds best-performing of utilisation: between 2004 and 2012, sales gross companies in terms of customer satisfaction is a big one, rental assets in the Local business increased from but we think we have good reason to make it.
Building our own equipment allows us of the last three years we have been asking about 20,000 to stock our fleet with premium-quality equipment customers what they think of the service they have at competitive cost.
Global reach allows us to deliver received from us, and we measure our Net Promoter service to customers such as major events customers Score.
This is an objective measure of customer wherever they go.
Global processes allow us to satisfaction which reflects the balance between those disseminate best practice quickly.
The benefits who think we are wonderful and those who think we of our global scale accrue to both customers and are dreadful.
Happily, the former greatly outnumber shareholders.
Our Net Promoter Scores tell us that the latter.
Over the last seven years our score has the model works well for customers and, for our improved by twelve percentage points and Satmetrix, shareholders, the benefit has been a compound growth a global leader in customer experience programmes in trading profit of 23% over the last 9 years and a who manage over 11 million customer responses return on capital employed that has improved from annually including Aggrekos, have confirmed that 11% to 20% over the same period.
Some people ask our Net Promoter Score in 2012 was amongst the us why the return on capital in the Local business is top five highest of all their customers benchmarked lower than in Power Projects: the main answer to this worldwide in the business-to-business segment.
is that, inherently, the risks political, economic and people-related we run in the Local business are far The second objective of our strategy for the Local lower than in Power Projects and, therefore, the business is to be extremely efficient in the way we run rewards are consequently and properly lower.
This is essential if we are to provide superior customer service at a competitive price and, The third objective of our strategy for the Local at the same time, deliver to our shareholders an business is to deliver growth in revenues by increasing attractive return on capital.
In a business in which market share and global reach.
In our more mature lead-times are short, logistics are complex and we markets, such as North America and Europe, we know process a large number of low-value transactions, that the most profitable businesses are those where a pre-condition of efficiency is having high-quality we have dense networks of service centres which systems and robust processes.
can share equipment, staff and customers, and benefit from the low transport costs that come from being The operation of our Local businesses in most areas physically close to customers.
So, in these markets, is based on a hub-and-spoke model which has two we focus on adding new service centres and upgrading types of service centre: hubs hold our larger items existing centres to make them more capable.
In the of equipment as well as providing service and repair last 5 years, in our mature markets in Australia New facilities: spokes are smaller and act as logistics points Zealand, North America and Europe, we have opened from which equipment can be delivered quickly to or upgraded service centres and offices, including a customers site.
The hubs and spokes have been those acquired as part of an acquisition in: organised into areas in which a manager has responsibility for the revenues, profitability and North America: Edmonton, Fort McMurray, the return on capital employed within that area.
Ft St John, Gillette, Indianapolis, In this model, most administrative and call handling Long Island, Minneapolis St Paul, functions are carried out in central rental centres.
Minot, Odessa, Pittsburgh, Roosevelt, Seattle, Three Rivers Our Local business enjoys numerous advantages as Europe: Heinenoord, Padova a result of its global scale.
Standardised operating Australia processes and the investment in a single global IT New Zealand: Christchurch, Geraldton, Gladstone, platform bring visibility and homogeneity.
Global Muswellbrook, New Plymouth, utilisation statistics allow us to spot where equipment Suart Basin, Tauranga, Wellington, is under-utilised, and where it can be moved to for Wollongong the best return, and this is reflected in the increase in sales gross rental assets which is a financial measure Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 21 our Strategy CONTINUED However, we know that our businesses grow fastest capacity.
As a result, many of our customers face where there is strong growth in GDP.
So a core part chronic power shortages which damage their ability of our strategy has been expanding our Local business to support economic growth and increased prosperity.
in the faster-growing economies of South America, These shortages are often caused or exacerbated by the Middle East, Africa and Asia.
The acquisition of the variability of supply arising from the use of hydroGE Energy Rentals in 2006 helped us to expand our electric power plants whose output is cyclical and footprint in Brazil, Chile and Mexico and, in the last dependent on rainfall.
5 years, we have opened or upgraded service centres and offices in: Power Projects now represents 41% of Group revenues and 55% of trading profit, excluding passAfrica: Cape Town, Durban, Johannesburg, through fuel.
Since 2003, Power Projects revenue Walvis Bay, Nairobi, Port Elizabeth excluding pass-through fuel and trading profit have Middle East: Baku, Riyadh grown at a compound annual growth rate of 29% Central & and 34% respectively: South America: Ciudad del Carmen, Monterrey, Panama, Tampico, Villahermosa, Power Projects excl pass-through fuel % of Group Bahia, Belo Horizonte, Boa Vista, 2012 2003 CAGR 2012 2003 Bogota, Brasilia, Buenos Aires, Camacari, Campo Grande, Revenue m 638 66 29% 41% 20% 1 Concepcion, Copiapo, Cordoba, Trading profit m 212 15 34% 55% 36% 1 Cuiaba, Florianopolis, Goiania, Lima, Trading margin 33% 23% 1,2 Neuquen, Parapuebas, Porto Alegre, ROCE 31% 25% Recife, Sao Bernardo, Sao Luiz, Sao Matteus, Tucuman The table below shows our progress since the last major Asia: Bangkok, Beijing, Bengaiuru, Dalian, strategy review five years ago: Foshan, Guangzhou, Hyderabab, Kitanomaru, Kolkata, New Delhi, Power Projects excl pass-through fuel % of Group Pune, Seoul 2012 2007 CAGR 2012 2007 Russia & Developing Revenue m 638 181 29% 41% 29% 1 Europe: Istanbul, Moscow, Warsaw Trading profit m 212 50 34% 55% 38% 1 Trading margin 33% 27% 1,2 Power Projects ROCE 31% 34% This business serves the requirements of power utilities, Note: Pass-through fuel refers to revenues we generate from three governments, armed forces and major industrial users customers for whom we have agreed to manage the provision of fuel for utility-quality, temporary power generation.
This revenue stream fluctuates with the cost Whereas in the Local business we rent equipment of fuel and the volumes taken, while having an immaterial impact on to customers who operate it for themselves, in the our profitability.
We therefore exclude pass-through fuel from most discussions of our business.
Power Projects business we contract to provide power generated by plants financed, built, commissioned and The strategy for this business is straightforward: grow operated by our own staff.
The power plants can range as fast as we prudently can, to secure for ourselves in size from 10MW to 200MW on a single site.
the operating efficiencies and competitive advantages which come from being the largest global operator.
So Most often, the business operates in areas where far, we have been successful in executing this strategy we do not have a large Local business.
The majority and our Power Projects business is now many times of the customers are power utilities in Africa, Asia, larger than its next largest competitor.
As described in the What we do section, the driver of demand in these The reason why it is advantageous to be a global markets is that our customers economies are growing, operator in Power Projects is because demand can shift with consequent increases in demand for additional rapidly between continents.
In 2003, South America power which cannot be met by the current generating 22 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report and Asia were probably the largest markets, and Africa The management of risk is a critical part of our was only a small proportion of global demand.
In 2009, business: we place tens of millions of pounds worth the market in Africa was larger than South America of capital assets in countries where the operational, and Asia combined.
In the last couple of years, the political and payment risks are high sometimes position as measured by our fleet-on-rent reversed very high.
While we take great care to mitigate these with South America and Asia representing around 50% risks, it is probable that sooner or later we will have of our average fleet on rent.
These shifts in demand a loss of either receivables or equipment, or both.
were driven in part by rainfall patterns, in part by the However, because of our scale, such a loss would not relationship between economic growth and investment imperil the Group as a whole.
We treat our risks in in permanent power generation and, in part, by geothe same way investors do: we minimise the risk of political issues.
To be successful in the long-term, losses doing material damage to the business by therefore, requires the ability to serve demand globally, having a broad portfolio of exposures, none of them and that requires sales, marketing and operational correlated.
For smaller companies, their portfolio of infrastructure to be present in all major markets.
country risk is inevitably much more concentrated: the probability of loss in any one country for smaller The reason we want to be big and bigger than any companies is no less than it is for us, but their ability of our competitors is because we believe that, as in to withstand the consequences of a large loss is.
Scale the Local business, scale brings significant competitive therefore allows us to deal in markets where others advantages in Power Projects.
There are numerous might, with good reason, fear to tread.
reasons for this: Returns from rental businesses are heavily Being able to address demand on a worldwide basis dependent upon the underlying capital cost of the means higher utilisation.
When fleet returns from rental fleet.
Clearly, large buyers should get better a customer at the end of a contract, the speed with terms than small buyers and, since we are by far which it can be put back on contract again is a the largest purchaser of power generation for rental major determinant of profitability and returns on applications in the world, we believe that we are capital.
Fleet will find new work far more quickly advantaged in this area, and we estimate that our if it can address the total pool of world demand capital cost MW is typically 20-40% lower than than if it is only able to operate in a single region.
The fact that we have the scale to justify having our own manufacturing and design By the time customers have decided they really do facilities also means that we can source equipment have to spend money on temporary power, they which is better suited to our precise requirements, generally want it as fast as possible.
Being able to and more cheaply, than smaller operators.
offer very fast delivery of large amounts of generating capacity is a significant competitive advantage.
Small In summary, a large operator will have lower volatility operators cannot afford to keep 250-300MW of of demand, better lifetime utilisation of equipment, capacity say, 30-40 million of capital sitting idle be better able to respond to customer requirements, waiting for the next job.
Because the equipment used and will have a lower capital cost per MW of fleet.
In in Power Projects is also used in the Local business Power Projects, bigger is better and Aggreko is now fleet, we manage our large generators as a common much larger than any other competitor in this market.
Between the Local business and Power Projects, we currently have a fleet of over 6,000 of these large generators, and can deploy hundreds of MW of capacity from our various businesses around the world on very short notice.
A good example of our speed of delivery would be the power contract in Japan where, in response to the Fukushima disaster, we were able to deliver and commission 200MW across 2 sites within 70 days of the contract signature: most of our competitors would find it difficult to deploy that amount of fleet in that lead time.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 23
