Statutory diScloSureS either personally or by proxy or by a corporate penSionS representative at any general meeting of the The assets of the UK defined-benefit pension fund are Company or at any separate general meeting of the controlled by the Directors of Aggreko Pension Scheme holders of any class of shares in the Company if any Trustee Limited: they are held separately from the calls or other sums presently payable by him in respect assets of the Company and invested by independent of that share remain unpaid or if he is a person with fund managers.
These segregated funds cannot be a 0.25 per cent interest as defined in the Articles invested directly in the Company.
Four trustees have and he has been served with a restriction notice been appointed by the Company and, in addition, one as defined in the Articles after failure to provide member-nominated trustee has been appointed.
This the Company with information concerning interests fund was closed to new employees joining the Group in those shares required to be provided under the after 1 April 2002: new UK employees are now offered Companies Acts.
membership of a Group Personal Pension Plan.
The Company is not aware of any agreement between Share capital holders of securities that may result in restrictions on On 31 December 2012 the Company had in issue voting rights.
549 268,366,083 ordinary shares of 13 775p each ordinary shares, 18,352,057,648 deferred shares Dividends and other distributions 1 of 775 pence each and 182,700,915 deferred shares Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, 18 of 6 25 pence each Deferred Shares comprising the Company may by ordinary resolution from time 74.62%, 0.48% and 24.90% respectively of the to time declare dividends in accordance with the Companys issued share capital.
Details of the changes respective rights of the members, but no dividend in issued share capital during the year are shown in can exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, rightS and oBligationS the Board may pay such interim dividends as appear attached to ShareS to the Board to be justified by the financial position of Subject to applicable statutes in this section the Company and may also pay any dividend payable at referred to as the Companies Acts and to any a fixed rate at intervals settled by the Board whenever rights conferred on the holders of any other shares, the financial position of the Company, in the opinion any share may be issued with or have attached to it of the Board, justifies its payment.
If the Board acts such rights and restrictions as the Company may by in good faith, it shall not incur any liability to the ordinary resolution decide or, if no such resolution holders of any shares for any loss they may suffer in has been passed or so far as the resolution does not consequence of the payment of an interim or fixed make specific provision, as the Board may decide.
dividend on any other class of shares ranking pari passu with or after those shares.
Voting Subject to any special terms as to voting upon which The Deferred Shares confer no right to participate any shares may be issued or may for the time being be in the profits of the Company.
held and to any other provisions of the Articles, on a show of hands every member who is present in person On a return of capital on a winding-up excluding any or by proxy or represented by a corporate representative intra-Group reorganisation on a solvent basis, holders at a general meeting of the Company has one vote.
of Deferred Shares are entitled to be paid the nominal On a poll every member who is present in person or capital paid up or credited as paid up on such Deferred by proxy or represented by a corporate representative Shares after paying to the holders of the ordinary has one vote for every share of which he is the holder.
shares the nominal capital paid up or credited as paid In the case of joint holders of a share the vote of the up on the ordinary shares held by them respectively, senior who tenders a vote, whether in person or by together with the sum of 100,000,000 on each proxy, is accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the ordinary share.
other joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority is determined by the order in which the names stand The Board may deduct from any dividend or other in the register in respect of the joint holding.
moneys payable to a member by the Company on or in respect of any shares all sums of money if any The holders of the Deferred Shares are not entitled to presently payable by him to the Company on account receive notice of any general meeting of the Company of calls or otherwise in respect of shares of the or to attend, speak or vote at any such meeting.
The Board may also withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends or other moneys Restrictions on voting payable in respect of the Companys shares from No member is, unless the Board otherwise decides, a person with a 0.25 per cent interest as defined entitled in respect of any share held by him to vote 88 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report in the Articles if such a person has been served with appointMent and replaceMent a restriction notice as defined in the Articles after oF directorS failure to provide the Company with information Unless otherwise determined by ordinary resolution of concerning interests in those shares required to be the Company, the number of Directors disregarding provided under the Companies Acts.
alternate Directors is not less than two nor more than fifteen.
No shareholding qualification for Variation of rights Directors is required.
The Company or the Board may Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, appoint any person to be a Director.
Any Director so rights attached to any class of shares may be varied appointed by the Board shall hold office only until the either with the consent in writing of the holders of next general meeting and shall then be eligible for not less than three-fourths in nominal value of the election.
The Board or any committee authorised by issued shares of that class excluding any shares of that the Board may appoint one or more Directors to hold class held as treasury shares or with the sanction of a employment or executive office with the Company special resolution passed at a separate general meeting for such period subject to the Companies Acts and of the holders of those shares.
The necessary quorum on such other terms as the Board or Committee may applying to any such separate general meeting is two in its discretion decide and may revoke or terminate persons holding or representing by proxy not less any appointment so made.
than one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class excluding any shares of that class held The Articles state that each Director must retire from as treasury shares, but at any adjourned meeting office at the third Annual General Meeting after the one holder present in person or by proxy whatever Annual General Meeting at which he was last elected.
the number of shares held by him will constitute a However, it is a requirement of the UK Corporate quorum : every holder of shares of the class present in Governance Code that all Directors should be subject person or by proxy excluding any shares of that class to annual election by shareholders.
In addition to any held as treasury shares is entitled on a poll to one power of removal conferred by the Companies Acts, vote for every share of the class held by him subject the Company may by special resolution remove any to any rights or restrictions attached to any class of Director before the expiration of his period of office.
shares and any holder of shares of the class present The office of a Director must be vacated if: i he resigns in person or by proxy may demand a poll.
his office by notice in writing delivered to the office or tendered at a meeting of the Board: or ii by notice in reStrictionS on tranSFer oF writing he offers to resign and the Board resolves to SecuritieS in the coMpany accept such offer: or iii his resignation is requested by There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities all of the other Directors and all of the other Directors in the Company, except that: are not less than three in number: or iv a registered medical practitioner who is treating that Director gives certain restrictions may from time to time be a written opinion to the Company stating that that imposed by laws and regulations for example, Director has become physically or mentally incapable insider trading laws : of acting as a Director and may remain so for more than three months: or v by reason of a Directors mental pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services health, a court makes an order which wholly or partly Authority certain employees and Directors of the prevents that Director from personally exercising any Company require the approval of the Company powers or rights which that Director would otherwise to deal in the Companys ordinary shares: and have: or vi he is absent without the permission of the Board from meetings of the Board whether or not an the Deferred Shares are not transferable except in alternate Director appointed by him attends for six accordance with the paragraph headed Powers in consecutive months and the Board resolves that his relation to the Company issuing or buying back its office is vacated: or vii he becomes bankrupt or own shares below or with the written consent of compounds with his creditors generally: or viii he the Directors.
is prohibited by law from being a Director: or ix he ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Companies Acts The Company is not aware of any agreements between or is removed from office pursuant to the Articles.
holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities.
poWerS oF the directorS Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, aMendMent oF articleS the Companys Articles and to any directions given by oF aSSociation the Company in general meeting by special resolution, Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the the business of the Company is managed by the Board, Articles of the Company, the Articles may be amended which may exercise all the powers of the Company by a special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
whether relating to the management of the business Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 89 Statutory diScloSureS CONTINUED of the Company or not.
In particular, the Board may SecuritieS carrying Special rightS exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow No person holds securities in the Company carrying money and to mortgage or charge all or any part of special rights with regard to control of the Company.
the undertaking, property and assets present and future and uncalled capital of the Company and to rightS under the eMployee issue debentures and other securities, whether outright Share ScheMe or as collateral security for any debt, liability or Appleby Trust Jersey Limited, as Trustee of the obligation of the Company or any third party.
Aggreko Employees Benefit Trust, holds 0.81% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 7 March 2013 poWerS in relation to the on trust for the benefit of the employees and former coMpany iSSuing or Buying employees of the Group and their dependents.
The Back itS oWn ShareS voting rights in relation to these shares are exercised The Directors were granted authority at the last Annual by the Trustee and there are no restrictions on the General Meeting held in 2012 to allot relevant securities exercise of the voting of, or the acceptance of any i up to a nominal amount of 12,206,454 and ii offer relating to, the shares.
The Trustee is obliged comprising equity securities up to a nominal amount of to waive all dividends on the shares unless requested 24,412,909 including within any such limit any shares to do otherwise by the Company in writing.
and rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares allotted under i, in connection with an offer going concern by way of a rights issue.
That authority will apply until The Directors, having made all the relevant enquiries, the earlier of 30 June 2013 and the conclusion of the consider that the Group and the Company have Annual General Meeting for 2013.
At this years Annual adequate resources at their disposal to continue their General Meeting shareholders will be asked to grant operations for the foreseeable future, and that it is an authority to allot relevant securities up to a nominal therefore appropriate to prepare the accounts on amount of 12,271,057, such authority to apply until a going concern basis.
the end of next years Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, until the close of business on 30 June 2014. change oF control The Company has in place a number of agreements A special resolution will also be proposed to renew the with advisers, financial institutions and customers which Directors power to make non-pre-emptive issues for contain certain termination rights which would have cash in connection with rights issues and otherwise effect on a change of control.
The Directors believe up to a nominal amount of 1,840,843. these agreements to be commercially sensitive and that their disclosure would be seriously prejudicial to the The Company was also authorised at the Annual Company: accordingly they do not intend disclosing General Meeting held in 2012 to make market specific details of these.
In addition, all of the Companys purchases of up to 26,713,863 ordinary shares.
share schemes contain provisions which in the event of This authorisation will expire on the earlier of a change of control, would result in outstanding options the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting and awards becoming exercisable, subject to the rules of the Company for 2013 and 30 June 2013. of the relevant schemes.
A special resolution will also be proposed at this years There are no agreements between the Company and Annual General Meeting to renew the Directors its Directors or employees providing for compensation authority to repurchase the Companys ordinary for loss of office or employment that occurs because shares in the market.
The authority will be limited to of a takeover bid.
a maximum of 26,857,931 ordinary shares and sets the minimum and maximum prices which may be paid.
diScloSure oF inForMation to the coMpanyS auditor The Company may at any time, without obtaining In accordance with section 418 of the Companies the sanction of the holders of the Deferred Shares: Act 2006 the Directors who held office at the date a appoint any person to execute on behalf of any of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, holder of Deferred Shares a transfer of all or any of so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant the Deferred Shares and or an agreement to transfer audit information as defined by section 418 3 of the same to the Company or to such person as the the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys Directors may determine, in any case for not more Auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all than 1 penny for all the Deferred Shares then being the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to purchased from him: and b cancel all or any of the make himself aware of any relevant audit information Deferred Shares so purchased by the Company in and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware accordance with the Companies Acts.
90 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report indeMnity oF oFFicerS Material Share intereStS Under Article 154 of the Articles, the Company may As at 31 December 2012 the Company had received indemnify any Director or other officer against any notifications of the following major shareholdings, liability, subject to the provisions of the Companies representing 3% or more of the voting rights attached Acts, and the Articles grant an indemnity to the to the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: Directors against any liability for the costs of legal Number % of total proceedings where judgement is given in their favour.
Name of shareholder of shares voting rights Capital Group Under the authority conferred by Article 154, the 1 Companies Inc 27,197,764 10.14 Company has granted indemnities to Directors and 1 Prudential PLC 15,860,093 5.94 officers of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The 1 Baillie Gifford & Co 13,518,442 5.04 indemnities do not apply to any claim which arises 2 A E H Salvesen 9,995,283 3.73 out of fraud, default, negligence or breach of fiduciary Legal & General Below duty or trust by the indemnified person.
Investment Management 3.00 1 Including direct and indirect subsidiary company interests.
In addition, the Company may purchase and maintain 2 Including immediate family and trustee interests.
for any Director or other officer, insurance against any liability.
The Company maintains appropriate Between 31 December 2012 and 7 March 2013, insurance cover against legal action brought against the Company received the following notifications its Directors and officers and the Directors and officers of major shareholdings: of its subsidiaries.
Number % of total Supplier payMent policy Name of shareholder Date of shares voting rights It is the Companys policy to settle the terms and 1 BlackRock Inc 04 01 2013 13,447,349 5.01 conditions of payment with suppliers when agreeing Capital Group each transaction, to ensure that suppliers are made 1 Companies Inc 04 01 2013 29,834,313 11.12 aware of these terms and, in practice, provided the Capital Group supplier meets its contractual obligations, to abide by 1 Companies Inc 11 01 2013 26,682,717 9.94 them.
In overall terms, the Company had approximately Capital Group 10 days credit outstanding as at the balance sheet date 1 Companies Inc 30 01 2013 23,581,779 8.79 2011: 11 days.
Capital Group 1 Companies Inc 01 02 2013 16,671,097 6.21 eSSential contractual Capital Group 1 arrangeMentS Companies Inc 05 02 2013 16,021,549 5.97 The Company buys the majority of its generator Capital Group 1 engines from Cummins Limited, a subsidiary of Companies Inc 12 02 2013 12,091,039 4.50 Cummins Inc based in Columbus, Indiana, USA.
1 Including direct and indirect subsidiary company interests.
The Company also relies upon their global service and support network for the supply of spare parts.
The The Directors are not aware of any other material Companys relationship with Cummins is governed interests amounting to 3% or more in the share by a supply agreement which is regularly reviewed.
annual general Meeting peter kennerley The Companys Annual General Meeting will be Group Legal Director & Company Secretary held at 11.00 a. m. 25 April 2013 at the Radisson 7 March 2013 BLU Hotel, 301 Argyle Street, Glasgow G2 8DL.
The Notice of Meeting is given together with explanatory notes, in the booklet which accompanies this report.
auditor Resolutions re-appointing  LLP as the Companys and Groups auditor and authorising the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 91 StateMent oF directorS reSponSiBilitieS The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the accounting records that are sufficient to show and Group and the Parent Company financial statements explain the Companys and Groups transactions in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and Company law requires the Directors to prepare to enable them to ensure that the financial statements financial statements for each financial year.
Under and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with that law the Directors have prepared the Group the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements in accordance with International financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets by the European Union, and the Parent Company of the Company and the Group and hence for taking financial statements in accordance with United reasonable steps for the prevention and detection Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice of fraud and other irregularities.
United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under Company law the Directors Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are must not approve the financial statements unless listed on pages 54 and 55 confirms that, to the best they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of their knowledge: of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the In preparing those financial statements, the Directors EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, are required to: financial position and profit of the Group: and select suitable accounting policies and then apply the Directors Report includes a fair review of the them consistently: development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of make judgements and estimates that are reasonable the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
and prudent: The Directors are responsible for the maintenance state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European and integrity of the Group website www.
Union and applicable UK Accounting Standards Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and have been followed, subject to any material departures dissemination of financial statements may differ from disclosed and explained in the Group and Parent legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company financial statements respectively: and prepare the Group and Parent Company financial By order of the Board statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
rupert Soames angus cockburn Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer 7 March 2013 92 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report Accounts Shareholders accountS Group Statement of Changes in Equity 99 Independent Auditors Report Group 94 Notes to the Group Accounts 101 Group Income Statement 96 Independent Auditors Report Company 136 Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 96 Group Balance Sheet 97 Company Balance Sheet 137 Group Cash Flow Statement 98 Company Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses 138 Reconciliation of net cash ow to movement Notes to the Company Accounts 139 in net debt 98
