Directors Report the Market our Market hoW Big iS the Market, and What iS our Share?
Demand for Aggrekos services is created by events: our customers generally turn to us when something Because we operate in very specific niches of the happens which means they need power or temperature rental market power, temperature control and, in control quickly, or for a short period of time.
Events North America only, oil-free compressed air and that stimulate demand range from the very large and across a very broad geography, it is very difficult to infrequent to the small and recurrent.
determine with any accuracy the size of our market.
A complicating fact is that our own activities serve Examples of high-value, infrequent events or situations to create market demand Bangladesh and Indonesia we have worked on include: did not figure highly in our estimates of market size a few years ago, but they are now important customers Large-scale power shortage Japan, Bangladesh, as a result of our sales efforts.
is event driven, and major events such as hurricanes in North America, the Olympic Games, or major Major sporting occasions Olympic Games, droughts in Africa can influence local market size FIFA World Cup, Asian Games.
Entertainment and broadcasting Glastonbury, We have tried all sorts of ways to size the market for Ryder Cup.
In large and mature markets this is difficult, but not impossible.
We can seek to track Natural disasters Hurricane Sandy in North down every competitor and guess how much they America in 2012, Brisbane floods 2011. have on rent as opposed to us.
In emerging markets, where we are growing fastest, estimating market size Post-conflict re-construction Congo, Iraq is not difficult, it is impossible, as we are often the and Afghanistan.
only major player in the market and the job we do is one of demand creation.
Until we arrived in, say, Examples of lower-value, more frequent events South Africa, there was no market for industrial-scale on which we might work are: temperature-control rental, because nobody offered it.
Now there is one, because we do.
So our approach is An oil refinery needs additional cooling during what expensive and therefore, presumably, clever the summer to maintain production throughput.
consultants tell us is called market potential estimation, which works as follows: A glass manufacturer suffers a breakdown in its plant and needs power while its own equipment Step One: in a market say, oil-refining in the is being repaired.
US in which we are well-established and have high market share, calculate our rental revenues A city centre needs chillers to create an ice-rink a known number in the sector as a proportion for the Christmas period.
of the total economic output of oil refineries in the US another known number.
This produces a very small number, like 0.00001.
Step Two: make the bold assumption that if we can achieve, say, 0.00001 of the economic output of refineries in the US as revenues, we should, in theory, be able to achieve the same in oil refineries everywhere else.
Therefore if we take the total economic output of oil refineries in, say China, and then apply the same multiple to that which we achieve in the US, that tells us how big the Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 the Market CONTINUED hoW Big iS the Market, What driveS groWth and What iS our Share?
CONTINUED in the local BuSineSS?
potential market is, and how little we have, so far, Growth in Aggrekos Local business is driven by three achieved in our attempts to penetrate Chinese main factors: oil-refineries.
GDP as an economy grows, so does demand Step Three: take this same technique, and apply for energy in general, and rental equipment in it to about 20 segments in 30 countries, and, heyparticular.
When economies are growing fast, presto, we have a number for the market potential businesses tend to be busy, and they are therefore a dodgy number and a number for our revenues more likely to rent power equipment for a weekend in the sector a known number, and therefore to do necessary maintenance, rather than lose an estimate of our share of market potential.
In slow-growing economies where there is excess capacity, the reverse is true.
This is all a bit flimsy but, absent spending a fortune of our shareholders money on consultants, it is the Propensity to rent how inclined people are to best that we can come up with and, actually, and most rent rather than buy.
This is driven by issues such as importantly, it is a useful technique for our salespeople the tax treatment of capital assets and the growing because it tells us pretty accurately which markets and awareness and acceptance of outsourcing.
In emerging sectors we should be concentrating our efforts on.
markets, financing is hard to come by and often exorbitantly expensive, and they are therefore From this process, we have come to the following more likely to be prepared to rent.
conclusions: Events high-value low-frequency events change The Local market potential is estimated to the size of a market, although only temporarily.
be about 4 billion: against our Local business For example, Hurricane Sandy in 2012 led to a revenues of 905 million, that would imply we have short-term surge in temporary power demand in the a share of the market potential of about 20%.
Since areas affected by the disaster: likewise, the London a significant proportion of that market potential is Olympics in 2012 vastly increased the market for not actually translated into demand, we guess that power rental in the UK, but for six months only.
our worldwide market share is around 25%.
In the last five years, real global GDP has grown by In almost every country we operate in, we are the around 1.7%: so we would assume that the market number one or number two player, and we are the potential grew by around 3.4% in real terms.
During only competitor that operates in all major regions the period, our revenues in the Local business grew of the world.
by 15% in nominal terms, and by 10% in constant currency terms.
So we believe our market share grew The Local business market is growing at about twice during the period.
the rate of GDP, and probably faster than that in some emerging countries where the market barely existed before we turned up.
Estimating market size is easier in the Power Projects business because there are few competitors, and we get reasonable intelligence about their activities.
We keep a database of all known power projects, and estimate that the total market for Power Projects was about 8,400MW 10%.
Our average MW on hire in 2012 was 3,794MW, which says that our market share is around 45%.
14 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report What driveS groWth in the poWer projectS BuSineSS?
The factors which drive the growth of our Power and by the growing number of consumers having access Projects business are different.
The main trigger of to devices which consume electricity, such as fridges, demand is power cuts: when the lights go out in a televisions and mobile phones.
Between 2000 and 2010, country, people want power restored as quickly as the number of people whose power consumption per possible.
It is a perverse fact that people value power capita was growing faster than per capita GDP increased most when they are without it.
We believe that in by nearly 1 billion to over 3 billion souls source Oxford many parts of the world, and most particularly in Economics.
And, according to the International Energy many developing countries, there will be increasing Agency, there are still over 1.3 billion people with no numbers of power cuts, caused by a combination of access to electricity.
This is not through lack of wanting.
burgeoning demand for power, ageing existing plant and inadequate investment in new capacity.
To make this situation worse, by 2015, 20%-25% of the worlds installed power-generating capacity will be over Our core market for Power Projects is in emerging 40 years old, which we believe is a reasonable proxy markets where GDP is growing fast, and demand for for the average life of a permanent power plant.
The power is growing faster than GDP.
Working with a coming years will see the beginning of a replacement leading group of professional economists at Oxford cycle during which a large part of existing power-plant Economics, we have built a model which takes data on construction capacity will be dedicated to replacing GDP and population growth, power consumption and existing plants in North America and Europe, rather power generation capacity for 170 countries over the than building replacement or additional capacity last 10 years.
Using this historical data, it then projects in developing countries.
The sums which need to future power demand based on forecasts of population be mobilised over the next 10 years to re-build the and GDP growth.
Our model predicts that worldwide power distribution and generation capacity in North demand for power will grow by around 4% per annum America and Europe are huge: in the UK alone, the between 2010 and 2020, comprising around 6% in regulator estimates that up to 200 billion will be non-OECD countries and 2% in OECD countries.
This means that developing countries will model reflects the sharp divergence between the growth have to compete for funds with developed countries, in power consumption between OECD and non-OECD where investment risk is perceived to be far lower.
countries in recent years, as shown in the graph below.
We have recently updated our current models of the gap The rapid growth in power consumption in developing between supply and demand, and we now believe that countries is driven by industrialisation, urbanisation the combination of these demand-side and supply-side factors will increase the worldwide shortfall of power generating capacity to around 230 gigawatts GW by Electricity consumption growth rates 2020 which is a nearly 4-fold increase from 2005 when it 3-year rolling average to 2010 was about 53GW.
In our core market, which we define 10 as non-OECD countries excluding China, we estimate 8 that in the same period the shortfall will increase 9-fold, from 22GW to 195GW.
The ultimate size of the shortfall 6 will depend on both the rate of increase in demand and 4 the net additional generation and transmission capacity 2 brought into production during the period.
Even if the shortfall is lower than our current forecasts, it will still 0 represent a level of global power shortage significantly -2 larger than todays.
We are confident that such a level 1995 2000 2005 2010 of power shortage will drive powerful growth over the Non-OECD World OECD medium and long term in demand for temporary power Source: International Energy Agency 2010 being the latest data available as countries struggle to keep the lights on.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 15 the Market CONTINUED health WarningS Our Power Projects business has delivered fantastic It is also important to remember that Power Projects returns over the last two strategy cycles: a compound specialises in providing energy infrastructure in growth of 34% in trading profit and an average return countries where political and commercial risk is high on capital of 31%.
Because the structural drivers of sometimes very high and the fact is that we do growth are so strong, it is easy to be seduced into the business where others fear to tread.
To date, we have belief that progress has always been smooth.
This is never had a material loss of equipment or receivables not the case: not only has order intake been volatile, but it is likely, that sooner or later, one of our but we have also seen large variations in quarterly customers will misbehave.
Our assets are at much onand off-hire rates see graph below.
In a business greater risk of loss or impairment than they would be where customers pay a premium for the ability to take if they were sitting in the suburbs of London or New on or get rid of capacity at short notice, we should York or Singapore.
We have extensive risk-mitigation not be surprised if they exercise their rights for their procedures and techniques, and we are currently convenience rather than ours, and it therefore the carrying over $80 million of bad-debt provisions, case that growth in our Power Projects is subject to but investors should remember that the returns fits and starts rather than one of smooth progression.
we report are fundamentally risk-unadjusted rates The structural growth drivers will ensure that, over of return because nobody has yet behaved badly time, the direction will be onwards and upwards but, enough to adjust them.
from quarter to quarter and from year to year, it will not be a smooth ride.
