ManageMent oF reSourceS This section describes how we manage our key The Companys remuneration policy, which is resources to deliver the strategy outlined above.
described on pages 70 to 87, is aligned with the key objectives of growing earnings and delivering strong people returns on capital.
To underline this point, the Groups long-term incentive scheme and many senior managers Aggreko has 5,685 permanent employees working annual bonuses are based on targets set against both around the world and they are united by a unique earnings per share and returns on capital employed.
Phrases such as customer focused, can-do, We have a policy of encouraging employees at all levels completely dependable capture part of the ethos of to own shares in the Company, and over 2,100 people Aggreko employees.
We have captured our culture in participate in the Sharesave programme: around 160 three words: performance, passion and pace.
This culture participate in the Long-term Incentive Plan.
has developed through the years and derives from the fact that, very often, Aggreko is helping people and phySical aSSetS businesses to recover from, or to avoid, emergencies or disruption.
Customers are often dependent on Aggreko Many rental businesses provide standard products people to keep things running, sometimes under very to their customers.
The car or hammer-drill you difficult circumstances.
Our people are highly skilled, and rent is the same as the one you can buy.
Aggrekos many of them have years of experience.
They are used equipment is different: manufacturers of generators to reacting quickly, getting the job done professionally and temperature control equipment generally design and safely, and they respond well in a crisis.
their product to be installed and stay in the same location for its working life.
For our business, however, Taking into account the environment in which we this equipment has to be lifted and transported hundreds operate, it is essential that our people are properly of times during its working life.
It must be able to work trained, given the correct level of responsibility and in extreme conditions the same generator might be accountability to make decisions on a timely basis, and working in 40C on an oil rig in Russia one week, are remunerated and incentivised appropriately.
Each and in 50C in the Saudi Arabian desert the next.
part of the business has training programmes in place Designing and building equipment that can do this, to ensure that our employees have the necessary skills while remaining safe, quiet, reliable and compliant to perform their roles to a high level.
This training with environmental and safety regulations, is a key is a combination of on-the-job learning and specific skill of Aggreko.
Unusually for a rental company, we skill development through training courses.
A major design and manufacture most of our equipment and component of this training is related to Environmental our specialist in-house teams based in Dumbarton, Health and Safety EH&S issues.
More detail of our Scotland understand intimately the requirements of EH&S policies is given on pages 47 to 53. the environment in which the fleet operates.
Not only do we have industry-leading equipment, we also have Aggreko continues to improve the capability of its a great deal of it 2,331 million worth at original people in line with the growth of the Company.
The cost as at 31 December 2012. talent management system and succession planning, which was introduced five years ago now covers around Unlike most other rental businesses, we have a policy 300 managers.
This includes individual assessments of of keeping equipment for its useful life.
This gives us our key staff resulting in individual development plans a powerful incentive to maintain it well, which gives to increase our internal talent.
We have started to it both longer life and better reliability.
We have a large implement a Learning Management Solution which number of skilled engineers, well-equipped workshops will help us to improve, manage and monitor training and rigorous servicing regimes to ensure that our globally.
Since 2008, we have trained over 900 people equipment is maintained to the highest standards.
24 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report Taking well-judged fleet investment decisions is a key part of Aggrekos management task.
All material investments are judged by reference to internal rates of return, and we monitor utilisation daily.
Fleet is frequently moved between countries to optimise utilisation, and our ERP system gives us the ability to manage our fleet on a real time basis across the world which, in turn, will enable us to optimise its deployment and returns.
One measure of how we are doing in terms of managing our physical assets is the return on average capital employed.
This measure is one of the key performance indicators shown on pages 26 to 28.
Financial reSourceS The Group maintains sufficient facilities to meet its normal funding requirements over the medium term.
These facilities are in the form of committed bank facilities arranged on a bilateral basis with a number of international banks and private placement notes.
The financial covenants attached to these facilities are that EBITDA should be no less than 4 times interest, and net debt should be no more than 3 times EBITDA.
The Group does not consider that these covenants are restrictive to its operations.
Supply chain During 2012, Aggrekos capital expenditure totalled 440 million.
Of this, over 70% was assembled by our manufacturing facility which is based in Dumbarton, Scotland.
The remainder of the capital expenditure was sourced direct from third party manufacturers to Aggreko specification and managed by our supply chain team in Dumbarton.
Aggrekos supply chain capability in managing suppliers of both finished product and components for assembly is a key part of our business capability.
We have long-standing relationships with many of our suppliers, notably Cummins which supplies a number of engine ranges and alternators.
We also have sourcing relationships in countries such as China and India where we work very closely with suppliers to ensure that the components produced comply with Aggrekos strict quality standards.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 25
