our Fleet Aggreko is unique amongst large equipment rental Most rental businesses have a model of buying assets and companies in that we design and build the majority then selling them on at a relatively early stage in their of our fleet in our own, purpose-built manufacturing useful life.
This minimises maintenance costs and enables facility in Scotland.
We believe that this is an important them to use income from used fleet sales to help finance competitive advantage, for a number of reasons: new equipment purchases.
Because we build longevity into our equipment, and failure rates in generators and First, it means that we can optimise the equipment chillers are more related to how well they are maintained to meet our particular operational requirements.
rather than how old they are, we opt for a policy of A generator or chiller is normally designed to be rigorously maintaining our assets and running them for permanently installed and rarely, if ever, moved: its as long as possible.
This also has the important benefit performance will also be adapted for the regulations that our business model is not exposed to the vagaries and ambient conditions of the country in which it of prices achievable in the used equipment market, is sold.
An Aggreko generator will be picked up and which tend to fluctuate with the economic cycle.
put down hundreds of times during its working life, and may be required to work faultlessly at 50C Our power fleet is, by our estimates, about 7 times in the Saudi Arabian desert and a few weeks later larger than our nearest competitor: at the end of 2012, at 40C in Siberia.
This is not a capability that is it comprises around 18,000 generators ranging in size available in off-the-shelf equipment.
We also design from 10KW to 2MW which, in aggregate, amount our equipment with the knowledge that we will to over 9,100MW of generating capacity.
To put this own it for its operating life and the more reliable into perspective, out of 233 countries in the world it is, and the longer it lasts, the higher the returns we have more generating capacity than 170 of them.
Given the choice of 6mm steel for In aggregate, the net asset value of our power fleet is a bed-plate, or 8mm, we choose 10mm.
1,005 million, and the original cost carried in our balance sheet is 1,909 million.
This value includes Second, the volume in which we purchase the key large inventories of transformers, switchgear, cable components is significant in terms of the overall and distribution equipment which are essential in market.
In some sizes of equipment, we are probably providing our customers with power they can use the largest buyer in the world.
By designing and rather than a just a large humming box.
manufacturing our own equipment, we can capture for ourselves the benefits of being a volume This fleet includes around 600 one MW generators purchaser.
On a like-for-like basis, we think we that have undergone at least one refurbishment.
have a cost advantage over our competitors and, This refurbishment capability, most important for in a capital-intensive business, that is important.
our Power Projects business, is a major competitive advantage in that it delivers as good as new Third, having our own design and manufacturing generators, modified to the latest specifications, capability means that we can react extremely for around two-thirds of the original cost.
We only have to convince ourselves of the desirability of a particular Our chiller fleet is also much larger than any of design feature, not a third party manufacturer.
our competitors, with over 2,250 units with a total capacity of 1,080MW.
The net asset value of our chiller fleet is 47 million, and the original cost carried in our balance sheet is 118 million.
The rest of our fleet mainly comprises air-conditioners, oil-free air compressors, cooling towers and other ancillary equipment with an aggregate net asset value of 144 million, and the original cost carried in our balance sheet is 304 million.
10 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
