key perForMance indicatorS The Group uses a large number of performance However, behind the numbers lies the fact that 2012 indicators to measure day to day operational and has been a traumatic year for us from a safety point of financial activity in the business.
For the first time in fifty years, an employee was studied on a daily, weekly or monthly basis.
A wellkilled on one of our job sites: this was an avoidable developed management accounts pack, including accident and was caused when a third party contractor profit and loss statements as well as key ratios related was lifting a piece of our equipment.
Our employee to capital productivity and customer satisfaction was killed when a chain snapped during a lifting scores, are prepared for each profit centre monthly.
In the Yemen, two contractors working In addition, every general manager in the business on one of our sites were shot dead when the site was receives a weekly and monthly pack of indicators attacked by insurgents.
Our thoughts and condolences which is the basis of regular operational meetings.
go out to their families, and we are committed to increasing the rigour with which we implement our There are five Key Performance Indicators KPIs safety regimes which have delivered a safe working which we use as measures of the longer-term health environment for our employees and contractors for of the business and which we use to monitor progress many years.
in implementing the Groups strategic objectives.
They are: Further discussion of Health & Safety matters can be found in this report in the Principal Risks and Safety Uncertainties section pages 29 to 33.
Earnings per share Return on average capital employed FAR was as follows: Customer loyalty Staff turnover Frequency Accident Rating SaFety 2012 0.94 Our business involves the frequent movement of 2011 0.98 heavy equipment which, in its operation, produces 2010 0.71 lethal voltages and contains thousands of litres of fuel.
Rigorous safety processes are absolutely essential if we 2009 0.76 are to avoid accidents which could cause injury to 2008 0.46 people and damage to property and reputation.
Safety processes are also a basic benchmark of operational earningS per Share discipline and there is, in our view, a close correlation between a well-run business and a safe business.
Measuring the creation or destruction of shareholder value is a complex and much-debated topic.
We believe The main KPI we use to measure safety performance that EPS, while not perfect, is an accessible measure is the internationally recognised Frequency Accident of the returns we are generating as a Group for our Rating FAR which is calculated as the number of shareholders, and also has the merit of being auditable lost time accidents multiplied by 200,000 being the and well understood.
So, for the Group as a whole, base for 100 employees working 40 hours per week, the key measure of short-term financial performance 50 weeks per year divided by the total hours worked.
is diluted earnings per share pre-exceptional items A lost time accident is a work related injury illness Adjusted EPS.
Adjusted EPS is calculated based that results in an employees inability to work the on profit attributable to equity shareholders adjusted day after the initial injury illness.
to exclude exceptional items divided by the diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares ranking for The Groups FAR for 2012 was 0.94.
This compares dividend during the relevant period.
EPS for the year favourably to the benchmark of 1.4 reported for was 16% ahead of the previous year and continues US rental and leasing industries published by the the significant growth in this measure since 2007.
US Department of Labor in 2011, and was an improvement on the 0.98 achieved in 2011.
26 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report Adjusted EPS was as follows: The importance of ROCE as a measure for Aggreko is illustrated by the fact that it is included along with earnings per share as the basis for the Companys Adjusted EPS Long-term Incentive Plan details can be found pence on pages 81 to 83.
2012 100.40 cuStoMer loyalty 2011 86.76 The Group deals every year with thousands of 2010 78.98 customers and we have developed a process by which we can objectively measure the performance of our 2009 62.42 business units, not only in financial terms but also 2008 45.56 the extent to which they are making customers feel inclined to return to us the next time they need the return on average capital eMployed services we provide.
We believe that near real-time measurement of our performance, as seen by our In a business as capital intensive as Aggrekos, customers, gives us visibility of operational issues profitability alone is a poor measure of performance: which might otherwise take months to emerge through it is perfectly possible to be generating good margins, the profit and loss account.
Accordingly, we use the but poor value for shareholders, if assets and in Satmetrix system whereby we send customers an email particular, fleet are being allocated incorrectly.
immediately after a contract closes asking them to fill We believe that, by focusing on return on average out a detailed questionnaire about how they thought capital employed ROCE, we measure both margin we performed.
This data is then collated to conform to performance and capital productivity, and we make the same management structure as our profit and loss sure that business unit managers are tending their accounts so that, in monthly management accounts, we balance sheets as well as their profit and loss accounts.
see not only a teams financial performance but also their We calculate ROCE by dividing operating profit for operational performance as measured by how well their a period by the average of the net operating assets customers think they have done for the same period.
as at 1 January, 30 June and 31 December.
These questionnaires generate enormous amounts ROCE was as follows: of data about how customers view our processes and performance and, in order to distil this down into Return on average capital employed a single usable indicator, we track a ratio called the % Net Promoter Score NPS.
Broadly speaking, the NPS measures the proportion of our customers who 2012 24.4 think we do an excellent job against those who think 2011 28.0 we are average or worse.
In 2012, approximately 21,000 2010 32.4 questionnaires were sent out and we received around 5,000 replies: we believe that the scale of the response 2009 29.0 we get enables us to have confidence in this KPI.
2008 28.5 ROCE in 2012 was four percentage points lower than 2011 at 24.4% with this reduction mainly being due to lower trading margins and increased levels of working capital in our Power Projects business, related to slower paying customers and the resultant increase in debtors and the provision for doubtful debtors.
In addition the ROCE was impacted by the year one impact of the Poit acquisition.
At 24.4%, ROCE is still at a high and, in our view, very attractive level.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 27 key perForMance indicatorS CONTINUED Across the Group, our NPS over the last five years was: As well as measuring staff turnover, the Group carries out a regular global opinion survey, conducted by an independent third party, in which every employee is Net Promoter Score invited to say what they think about Aggreko.
The 2012 62 results from the last global opinion survey conducted in 2011 put Aggreko in the top quartile of employee 2011 60 satisfaction when compared with peer-group 2010 60 companies.
Despite over 1,000 new people coming into the business, the feedback from 3,600 responses 2009 60 received was overwhelmingly positive and an 2008 58 improvement in most areas on the previous survey.
Aggreko continues to have a strong culture with Satmetrix, a global leader in customer experience highly committed people, demonstrated by: programmes who manages over 11 million customer responses annually including Aggrekos, has confirmed 91% of the respondents said they enjoyed their work: that our Net Promoter Score in 2012 was amongst the top five highest companies benchmarked worldwide 90% were proud to work for Aggreko: and in the business-to-business segment.
84% found Aggreko an exciting place to work.
StaFF turnover In a service business such as Aggreko, it is the attitude, skill and motivation of our staff which makes the difference between mediocre and excellent performance.
Staff retention therefore is a reasonable proxy for how employees feel about our Company.
We monitor staff turnover which is measured as the number of employees who left the Group other than through redundancy during the period as a proportion of the total average employees during the period.
Staff turnover has decreased this year and is at its lowest over the past five years, analysed as follows: Staff turnover % 2012 11.5 2011 14.2 2010 13.4 2009 12.2 2008 15.1 28 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
