easyJet plc 12 Annual report and accounts 2012 Business review Chief Executives introduction continued Market overview Competitive landscape There are 3,000 short-haul aircraft in operation in Europe and around half of overall capacity is own by the top five carriers: Ryanair, IAG, Lufthansa, AF-KLM and easyJet.
In recent years, thesustained high price of aviation fuel combined with restricted European economic growth and consumer spending, rising aviation taxes and scarcity of nancing has led to a difficult operating environment for all airlines.
In the past year, several carriers have exited and other carriers have changed ownership or required renancing: the charter operators are seeing their market share and profitability diminishing further: and the losses incurred from legacy operators short-haul operations are well publicised.
Consequently, overall capacity in the European short-haul aviation market remained at, and declined slightly on 4 easyJets routes.
Overall demand for European point-to-point leisure and business travel in the medium term is expected to grow slightly ahead ofGDP and this, combined with the capacity restraint in the European aviation market, means that there are structural growth opportunities for carriers such as easyJet with robust business models and strong competitive positions.
Competitive position easyJet is one of the very few pan-European low-cost carriers in theEuropean short-haul passenger aviation market and is focused on making travel easy and affordable for its customers.
easyJet isthe fourth largest short-haul carrier in Europe with a market 4 shareof8% and derives its competitive advantages from the followingattributes: A leading short-haul network with the highest number of market pairs within Europes top 100 market pairs and strong market shares in valuable markets such as London, Paris, Milan, Amsterdam and Geneva: A low cost, efficient and exible business model derived from scale and cost advantage, high asset utilisation, a young efficient fleet with low cost ownership, a leading online and digital offering and industry-leading load factors: and A efficient and robust capital structure.
Regulatory environment The regulatory environment continues to have a significant impact on easyJet and over the last year monopoly infrastructure providers have pushed through unreasonable increases in charges.
However, there are EU proposals on slot and ground handling frameworks which could improve competition across Europe and allow better access to congested airports.
easyJet has devoted significant effort to the European Commissions proposals as these have the potential to improve competition at airports.
In particular, easyJet is advocating the legalisation of secondary slot trading at airports across Europe and an increase in competition within the ground handling market which would lead to lower costs and an improved service.
This is particularly important in Germany and Portugal, where anti-competitive restrictions on the number of ground handlers at an airport have led to excessive costs.
