Performance and risk easyJet plc 25 Annual report and accounts 2012 Aeroporti Di Milano Newcastle Airport Going concern Geneva International Airport AENA easyJets business activities, together with factors likely to affect its London Southend Airport future development and performance, are described in the business Aeroporti di Roma Company review on pages 8 to 17.
Principal risks and uncertainties are described on pages 26 to 30.
Note 22 to the accounts sets out the Groups Aeroport Toulouse Blagnac Aeroport fide la Cote DAzur objectives, policies and procedures for managing its capital and gives ANA Aeroportos fide Portugal details of the risks related to financial instruments held by the Group.
At these airports our ground handling was carried out by: The Group holds cash and cash equivalents of 645 million as at 2012.
Total debt of 957 million is free from financial covenants, with Menzies Aviation Servisair 129 million due for repayment in the year to 30 September 2013.
Group Europe Handling Aviapartner The business is exposed to uctuations in fuel prices and US dollar Swissport SEA Handling and euro exchange rates.
The Groups policy is to hedge between Swissport Menzies 65% and 85% of estimated exposures 12 months in advance, and Globeground Berlin Gate Aviation 45% and 65% of estimated exposures from 13 up to 24 months in London Southend Airport advance.
The Group was compliant with this policy at the date of Aviation Service Company this Annual report and accounts.
Portway After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group will be able to operate within the Our main ancillary partners are Gate Gourmet, who provide our level of available facilities and cash for the foreseeable future.
in-ight merchandise, Europcar, who provide car rental services, Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in booking.
com who broker hotels, Low Cost Holidays who provide preparing the accounts.
accommodation and transfers for easyJet UK Holidays and Alvia who, through the Mondial brand, provide travel insurance.
Significant contracts and creditor policy Our credit card acquirers are Elavon, Lloyds TSB, Barclays Merchant Services and American Express.
Our payment service providers significant contracts areCyberSource.
easyJet operates a single Airbus fleet with the last two Boeings having been returned to lessors in the year to 30 September 2012.
The Company is regulated in the UK by the CAA and easyJet Engines are provided by CFM International.
Maintenance is Switzerland is regulated by FOCA.
We have important relationships undertaken by SR Technics, Virgin Atlantic Engineering, Monarch with NATS and Eurocontrol in relation to air trafc services.
Aircraft Engineering, General Electric, BF Goodrich, ATIS, Storm, The main employee unions we deal with in the UK are BALPA, UNITE Nayak, Honeywell, Dublin Aerospace and Lufthansa Technik.
and Prospect: in France they are SNPL and UNAC SNPNC CFTC: Themajor lessors of aircraft to easyJet are Amentum Capital, inSpain they are SEPLA, STAVLA and CCOO: in Italy IPA, FIT-CISL AWAS, GECAS, Nomura Babcock & Brown, SMBC Aviation and FILT-CGIL: in Germany Ver.
di: and in Switzerland SSP VPOD.
The major lenders to easyJet for aircraft purchase are Alliance & Leicester, Bank of TokyoWe use contract pilots from Airline Recruitment Limited and CAE Parc Mitsubishi, BNP Paribas, Calyon, Commerz, HSH Nordbank, Aviation and ight simulation services from CAE and SIM Aerotraining.
KfW, Natixis, PK AirFinance, SMBC Aviation Capital, Sumitomo We have a key relationship with easyGroup IP Licensing, who own Mitsui Banking Corporation and WestLB.
the easyJet brand, through the Amended Brand Licence, and with 1 Our main insurers are Global Aerospace, Allianz, AXA, Canada Life, Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou through the Comfort Letter.
QBE Houston Casualty Company Europe and Generali.
These contracts contain provisions giving the other party the right to terminate if there is a change in control in easyJet.
One of our biggest costs is fuel and our main suppliers are Shell, Air 1 See Note 26 to the accounts on Related Party Transactions.
Our IT systems include agreements with AIMS, who provide crew, aircraft and ight management control Policy and practice on payment of creditors and operation software: SAVVIS who provide data centre hosting easyJet aims to have partnership agreements with suppliers, which facilities and our data network: Lufthansa Systems who provide stresses the importance of strong suppliers aligned to the success ight planning systems: SOPRA who develop and support our of easyJet as a business.
Many of our supply agreements are unique reservations system and other areas of system development: AD and tailored to the needs of the business, to make sure that OPT Technologies who provide our pairings and roster optimiser: suppliers are rewarded appropriately for delivering services which and Unit 4 who provide our accounting system, Agresso.
meet pre-agreed performance targets and align with easyJets own As at 30 September 2012 easyJet had 23 bases and they were internal performance goals.
Our practice is to: operated by: A Agree the terms of payment at the start of business with BAA Global Infrastructure Partners thesupplier EuroAirport Basel-MulhouseA Ensure that those suppliers are made aware of the terms of AdP Freiburg thepayments Manchester Airports Group South West Airports A Pay in accordance with contractual and other legal obligations Abertis Peel Holdings At 30 September 2012, the number of creditors days outstanding Aeroports fide Lyon Flughafen Berlin-Schoenefeld forthe Group was 10 days 2011: 8 days, and for the Company was nil days 2011: nil days.
