easyJet plc 32 Annual report and accounts 2012 Corporate responsibility No compromise on safety Introduction The Safety Management System SMS, Fatigue Risk Management easyJet aims to achieve its ambition of becoming Europes System FRMS and SafetyNet are all at the forefront of technology.
preferred short-haul airline by making travel easy and affordable Our reporting process is very rigorous.
All reported safety-related andin order to do so we continually look at safer, more sustainable incidents are assessed and categorised, with risk values assigned and innovative ways of running the airline.
and aggregated to form our Composite Risk Value CRV index.
This Our foremost responsibility is SAFETY.
past year, the index has shown a steady improvement, continuing a long-term trend of reducing risk to well within the assigned We take our responsibility to our customers and our people boundary level.
Over the last year we have worked hard to make it easy for our customers and our people.
The Safety Management System SMS launched in 2009 has continued to extend its influence across the organisation to ensure Aviation makes a positive contribution to the economies of Europe.
that the highest standards of risk management and oversight are At easyJet we believe in connecting people as efficiently as possible, embedded in everything that we do.
We have now successfully in the air and on the ground.
This is integral to the ongoing success embedded the concept of Operational Readiness and this process and sustainable development of the business.
now applies to all our major operational initiatives such as our ground There is little doubt that by continuing to act in a responsible fide-icing programme.
manner this will help us to achieve our ambition of becoming During 2012 we continued to develop our SMS capability and Europes preferred short-haul airline by making travel easy and carried out a range of activities designed to enhance our data affordable and ensuring we generate market leading returns.
We are in the process of integrating ourbespoke safety data system into our operations.
easyJet has Safety first developed the capability to generate risk based oversight through the use of intelligent systems.
These new initiatives will deliver The safety of our customers and staff comes first and this is one further cost efficiencies whilst maintaining high levels of safety.
ofour guiding principles and a core part of our DNA.
Safety informs everything we do and is the starting point for every decision.
As an acknowledged leader in the eld of Fatigue Risk Management Systems FRMS, easyJet continues to work with other world class The evolution of our just culture continues with easyJet being at the entities to ensure maximum benefit is gained in terms of cost forefront of promoting open reporting of all safety-related incidents.
In 2012 we continued our We maintain processes and structures to monitor and manage commitment to further understand rostering practices by carrying safety related risk throughout the airline.
out Human Factors studies with our research partners at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA and Imperial Our Chief Executive, Carolyn McCall OBE, and Chief Operations College London.
Given that easyJet has led the eld in FRMS officer, Warwick Brady, are responsible for all aspects of safety development, it is well placed to achieve EASA Sub Part Q as soon delivery, including our compliance obligations under the Air as it becomes available.
The AOC Accountable Manager is Carolyn McCall OBE and she chairs our Safety Review Board which Safety innovators meets monthly to assess reports from the Safety Action Groups easyJet has continued to work closely with UK, EU and European across the airline.
This review and assessment process delivers governments and authorities to ensure a coordinated response to monthly reports to both the UK Civil Aviation Authority UK CAA large scale air trafc disruption caused by extreme weather and the easyJet plc Board.
In addition to our internal safety and conditions or other unexpected events.
In 2012 easyJet continued compliance oversight, our Director of Safety and Security, Captain todevelop the on-board ash detection radar AVOID Airborne David Prior delivers an independent safety report to the Board each Volcanic Object Identier and Detector technology, which it month.
Captain David Prior has a direct line through to the Chairman helped pioneer in 2010 in collaboration with the Norwegian Institute which reinforces the independence of safety oversight.
for Air Research and its inventor Dr Fred Prata.
This technology is a system which uses infrared technology built on the aircraft, similar to weather detectors currently used, to enable pilots and ight control to see an ash cloud up to 100km ahead and at altitudes between 5,000ft and 50,000ft, and to amend their course to miss areas of ash cloud, and in effect open up a larger area of airspace than might be available using existing data methods alone.
