Corporate responsibility easyJet plc 37 Annual report and accounts 2012 Long-term sustainability of the industry New technologies and design Aviation emissions have increased steadily over time, despite In 2012 easyJet announced a trial of an electronic ground taxi significant improvement in environmental efficiency the growth in motor, which will allow easyJet to save fuel by reducing the need air trafc has outweighed the efficiency gains.
Over the last ten for engines to be run during ground taxi.
years global aviation trafc has grown by over 5% a year, while Entry into ETS efficiency gains have been about 2%.
This has led to concerns that Aviation entered ETS in 2010.
For easyJets emissions in 2012 aviation emissions will continue to grow in the future, and that this itisrequired to surrender permits to cover its CO2 emissions.
will be inconsistent with the overall reductions in greenhouse gas ETScompliance is overseen by our finance team.
easyJet has put emissions that are needed to limit the impact of climate change.
inplace the appropriate mechanisms to monitor and report the This is clearly unsustainable and needs to change going forward.
required data and to manage its exposure to the carbon market.
We believe that the main environmental key challenge facing the Changing the industry framework industry is to ensure that emissions are put on a downwards path.
Achieving step change in the environmental efficiency of aviation There is a real risk that if the industry does not achieve this on its will require significant progress in the development of nextown, it will have growth constraints placed on it.
We have already generation aircraft.
Without significant improvements in fuel seen suggestions of this in the UK, where the Committee on efficiency it will not be possible to increase the rate of environmental Climate, in its December 2009 report on aviation emissions, efficiency improvement.
suggested the growth of the industry would need to be limited to60% over the next 40 years to control UK emissions.
While there has been some progress in the short-haul market, with the development of the Airbus A320 NEO and Boeing B737 MAX, To ensure the industry does not face any articial constraints easyJet remains concerned that the current effective duopoly weneed to signicantly improve the efficiency of ying, through intheproduction of large commercial aircraft is restricting the step-changes in technology, and the right incentives to ensure development of next-generation aircraft.
There has been limited thatairlines and passengers y as efficiently as possible.
progress on the development of a next-generation short-haul Delivering our environmental promises aircraft and it is clear that it will be many years before there is a new Our promises revolve around actions we can take in the short-term short-haul aircraft.
easyJet will continue to push the manufacturers to directly improve the environmental efficiency of our business, to develop a next-generation short-haul aircraft.
andat the same time working to deliver a sustainable long-term It is also vital that the policy framework set out by governments outcome for the industry.
The latter involves changing the supports the objective of increasing the environmental efficiency framework within which the industry operates to ensure it delivers ofaviation.
easyJet believes there are three parts to this, only one sustainable outcomes.
Governance A Aviation in ETS Many people within easyJet help deliver our environmental aims.
Oversight of our environment policy is carried out by a manager Aviation entered the EU Emissions Trading Scheme EU ETS in inour regulatory team, and the AMB receives regular updates on 2010, and airlines will have to surrender permits to cover their 2012 environmental policy as part of our reporting on regulatory issues.
easyJet was a strong supporter of aviations entry and continues to believe that this is the best way to ensure aviation makes its fair contribution to tackling climate change.
easyJet actions A Ensuring any taxes support environmental objectives How we y our aircraft has an effect on the environment and easyJet does not support the imposition of aviation specic taxes.
nding new innovative ways of doing so continues to drive us.
Furthermore the entry of aviation into ETS removes any We are continually working to improve the environmental impact environmental justication for such taxes.
Where these taxes are of our current operations by increasing fuel efficiency.
We have a inplace such as the UK easyJet believes they must be designed fuel efficiency programme which is continually monitored, with toprovide incentives for more environmentally efficient ying.
new measures being regularly implemented.
While some of these Thismeans the tax base must be ights, not passengers.
measures save relatively small amounts of CO2 per ight, as we A Minimum standards for aircraft have an average of over 1,000 ights a day the total savings can be very large.
International minimum standards are needed to drive the development of new technology aircraft.
Governance Chairmans statement on corporate governance 39 Board of Directors 40 Executive Management Team 42 Corporate governance 44 Shareholder information 49 Directors remuneration report 50 Statement of Directors responsibilities 62
