02 Elementis is highly cash generative, operates on OPPORTUNITIES a resilient and sustainable business model and FOR GROWTH has multiple opportunities for significant growth.
GLOBAL COATINGS MARKET Global industrial coatings market: $53bn additives segment: $1.8bn.
Global decorative coatings Livingston, UK market: $36bn additives segment: $1.6bn.
Cologne, Germany Source: Kusumgar, Nerl & Growney, Global coatings and ink additives, March 2010 East Windsor, New Martinsville, New Jersey West Virginia LATIN AMERICA UK AND EUROPE Specialty Products completed its acquisition of Brazilian coatings NORTH Research & development additives company, focus and strengthened Watercryl, on 28 September AMERICA leadership team in the 2012.
The manufacturing personal care business has and technical facilities led to good progress being based in Palmital, So A $7.4m investment in a made to grow this high Paulo will provide the state of the art research & margin business, through platform to accelerate development centre of a combination of a new growth in this region.
excellence comprising range of eco-certied process development products and geographic 2013 GDP growth forecast and laboratory facilities expansion into high for Brazil: 3.95%.
and management and growth markets in Asia administration ofces.
Source: IMF, World Economic This new 65,000 sq.
ft. Outlook Database, October 2012 facility in East Windsor, New Jersey was commissioned in April 2012.
In addition, Specialty Products is investing $20m So Paulo, Brazil to expand manufacturing through a new 44,000 sq.
ft. facility in North America to support specialty rheology additives and dispersants for the decorative coatings market.
Production at the New Martinsville site in West Virginia commenced in early 2013.
ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 03 ASIA PACIFIC INDIA Our Asia business, based mainly in China and Taiwan and headquartered in Shanghai, is strongly positioned to exploit and New technical services benefit from the increasing centre based in Mumbai sophistication of the fast will be fully operational growing Chinese and during the early half of Asian markets.
Shanghai, China Taiwan Mumbai, India ASIA PACIFIC MARKET IMF 2013 GDP growth forecasts in a selection of Elementis markets: GLOBAL SHALE GAS & OIL China 8.23% India 5.97% MARKET ASEAN avg.
5.32% Taiwan 3.87% 33 countries identied as South Korea 3.63% having shale gas reserves.
3.03% A total of 6,600 trillion cubic Japan 1.23% feet of technically Source: IMF, World Economic recoverable shale gas Outlook Database, October 2012 reserves identied.
Equivalent to 40% of the total world technically recoverable natural gas reserves.
Summary breakdown of the largest reserves cubic feet in trillions : North America 1,931 China 1,275 Latin America 1,225 Europe 639 Source: US EIA, World Shale Gas Resources: An Initial Assessment, April 2011 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 ELEMENTIS PLC SHAREHOLDER 106 108 FINANCIAL 62 105 CORPORATE 36 61 BUSINESS 04 35 COMPANY IFC 03 INFORMATION STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE REVIEW OVERVIEW 04 SUMMARY OF STRATEGIC PROGRESS Elementis Group OUR STRATEGY EXECUTING PERFORMANCE AGAINST OUR STRATEGY STRATEGY IN 2012 A B C See sections on Specialty Products, Chromium See Box B1.
Grow the Specialty Products and Surfactants on pages 6 and 7. business profitably, utilising cash 1 ow from the Chromium and Surfactants businesses.
Managing the businesses to deliver financial Operating cash ow of $117.2 million Improve the quality of the Groups t t performance that generates strong operating generated.
balance sheet by generating strong 2 cash ow.
$37.4 million of capital expenditure and t free cash ow and reducing the Managing the capital base effectively.
$24.0 million spent acquiring Watercryl t proportion of non-business items, Managing legal and financial risks to the in Brazil.
t such as legacy pension funds.
Company including UK pension fund.
Special dividend programme announced t in 2012.
Agreed UK pension fund triennial valuation t and funding plan.
Robust new product pipeline to meet New products and applications developed for Maintain our global leadership t market needs.
the decorative and industrial coatings, personal position in rheology.
care and oileld drilling markets.
t Delivering operating plans that meet Diluted EPS before exceptional items of Generate and preserve value over t t consensus earnings forecasts.
23.3 cents reported in 2012. the longer term to create sustainable 4 Maintaining a strong balance sheet to reinvest Total shareholder return TSR over the t t shareholder value.
in growth and finance returns to shareholders.
last three years was 375 per cent Managing business and corporate risks.
compared to 45 per cent for the FTSE 250 t Proactive investor relations programme.
t Active programme of formal and ad hoc t meetings including investor conferences with investors and potential investors in the UK, US and Europe.
Appropriate engagement with financial t press and analyst community.
Proper identication, assessment and See Box E5 and E6.
Manage significant business and t mitigation of risks.
5 Effective risk management policies, t communication and training.
Setting high standards and fostering Business conduct and ethics compliance Maintain high standards of business t t appropriate culture through leadership, programme in place, including policies, conduct, ethics and corporate 6 policies, communication and training.
responsibility e. g. health, safety & Maintaining membership of No major HSE incident or litigation t t environment HSE.
t ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 05 PRIORITIES FOR 2013 KPIs 2012 Denitions are shown in the KPI section of the Finance report D E See Box B1.
Ensure funding is available to invest in further organic and Operating cash ow of $117.2 million generated.
Average working capital AWC to sales ratio of 19.1 per cent reects t Renew Group revolving credit facility.
strategic holding of key raw materials.
t Maintain progressive dividend policy and special dividend Return on operating capital employed ROCE before tax and excluding t t programme.
goodwill decreased slightly to 49.0 per cent.
See sections on Specialty Products on pages 6 and 7.
Operating profit on a constant currency basis increased by 7 per cent.
t t Operating and contribution margins improved to 19 per cent and Maintain investor relations activity.
Total dividend for 2012 of 12.56 cents per share, including special dividend t of 4.79 cents per share, represents an increase of 79.4 per cent.
before exceptional items, all of which relate to 2011 Continue to manage significant business and corporate risks.
t t See also Risk management report on page 25.
Continue to maintain high standards of business conduct, ethics Two Lost time accidents.
No Tier 2 or 3 environmental incidents.
t Continue to meet criteria for FTSE4Good membership.
See also Corporate social responsibility CSR report on page 29.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 ELEMENTIS PLC SHAREHOLDER 106 108 FINANCIAL 62 105 CORPORATE 36 61 BUSINESS 04 35 COMPANY IFC 03 INFORMATION STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE REVIEW OVERVIEW 06 SUMMARY OF STRATEGIC PROGRESS CONTINUED Our businesses OUR STRATEGY EXECUTING PERFORMANCE AGAINST OUR STRATEGY STRATEGY IN 2012 A B C Organic growth from new products, Market share gains and robust new product Specialty Products t t markets, applications or geographies.
To be the fastest growing and most 7 Selective acquisitions in rheology or Capacity expansion projects to support t t competitive supplier of specialty complementary additives.
growth in the coatings and oileld drilling chemicals additives in the world.
Excellent customer service and understanding.
t Technical expertise and support, and Acquisition of Watercryl in Brazil gives the Growing the business, revenue and t t product innovation.
business a significant platform to grow in market share, while maintaining Operational excellence to maintain margins the Latin American markets.
and improve procurement and supply New R&D centre of excellence in New t chain efficiencies.
Jersey commissioned in April 2012 and a new technical service centre established in Mumbai that will be commissioned in early 2013.
O perating margin of approximately 20 per cent t is consistent with that of a true specialty chemicals company and AWC metrics show that this aspect of the business is managed well.
Maintain high capacity utilisation and Business delivered strong operating profit t t Chromium optimising operational performance by and cash ow results despite challenging Consistently deliver a relatively stable 8 exing our low cost manufacturing footprint economic conditions and shifts in market and sustainable level of earnings and to respond to changes in demand.
Operational discipline to maintain price and Operating margin being maintained within t t cost competitiveness and margins.
Improve cost base by securing supply of Contracts secured to deliver stable energy t t raw materials and energy.
prices and consistent and reliable supplies Serve higher margin markets and customers of key raw materials.
t with value added products and just in time service via custom designed delivery systems.
Focus on higher margin markets to balance Operating profit of $4.8 million reects a Surfactants t t the base load activity in high volume decrease in sales, as the business continues Steadily upgrading the product 9 commodity applications.
to transition its product portfolio mix away portfolio in Surfactants by focusing Offer innovative products to the market and from lower margin surfactants to higher t on higher margin applications, while to customers.
Target growth in higher margin segments to Revenue split approximately 50:50 between at the same time transitioning the t t improve profitability.
additives and surfactants, while volume split manufacturing facility to produce Improve productivity, operational efficiencies is 40:60 respectively.
t more higher margin coatings and sales focus.
AWC to sales ratio continues to show t solid performance.
ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 07 PRIORITIES KPIs 2012 Denitions are shown in the FOR 2013 KPI section of the Finance report D E Achieve 2013 operating plan.
Financial t Maintain operating margins at around 20 per cent and AWC levels Constant currency sales increased by 4.2 per cent.
Operating profit on a constant currency basis increased by 3.8 per cent.
t Win new customers and work with existing customers to help them Operating margin remained at c. 20 per cent.
t t solve their formulary problems and to provide a level of performance ROCE before tax and excluding goodwill decreased to 40.2 per cent.
t that improves the effectiveness or efficiency of their products, AWC to sales ratio maintained at 18.8 per cent.
Using the Watercryl acquisition as a platform for growing sales in Non-financial t Latin America.
t Continue to develop new products for the decorative and industrial No Tier 2 or 3 environmental incidents.
t t coatings, personal care and oileld drilling markets.
Commission the technical service centre in Mumbai to support See CSR report.
Maintain current level of operating and financial performance: Financial t Constant currency sales increased by 3.9 per cent.
t Deliver consistent level of earnings and operating cash ow.
Operating profit on a constant currency basis increased by 11.9 per cent.
t Flex the business model to adjust to changes in customer demand.
Operating margin improved to 26.2 per cent.
t Continue to provide value added products in unique delivery ROCE before tax and excluding goodwill decreased to 64.5 per cent.
t systems that enable customers to improve efficiency, reduce AWC to sales ratio excluding chrome ore improved to 16.2 per cent.
t working capital and meet regulatory standards.
Non-financial Optimise supply chain and secure supplies of key raw materials.
t No Tier 2 or 3 environmental incidents.
Financial Constant currency sales decreased by 17.
t Operating profit on a constant currency basis decreased by 4.0 per cent.
t Operating margin improved to 6.6 per cent.
t ROCE before tax and excluding goodwill increased to 25.1 per cent.
t AWC to sales ratio improved to 9.6 per cent.
t Non-financial No Lost time accidents.
before exceptional items, all of which relate to 2011 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 ELEMENTIS PLC SHAREHOLDER 106 108 FINANCIAL 62 105 CORPORATE 36 61 BUSINESS 04 35 COMPANY IFC 03 INFORMATION STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE REVIEW OVERVIEW 08 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Robert Beeston Chairman I am pleased to report another year of excellent progress at Balance sheet Elementis.
As has been widely documented, the economic The Group continues to be in a robust financial position and has environment remained challenging in 2012 and continues to a balance sheet that provides a strong platform to fund future test the resilience of our strategy and business model.
During the year a new funding plan was agreed with therefore gratifying to report that we have yet again delivered the trustees of the Groups UK pension plan that will finance the improvements in earnings and operating margin in the year.
agreed funding deficit over the next six years.
Under the new plan the Group will make affordable contributions that strike the right The well invested and cash generative nature of our businesses balance between meeting our commitments under the plan, means that we have been able to make further value added while supporting our growth, and providing appropriate returns investments and yet still increase the amount of net cash on our to our shareholders and other stakeholders.
Under IAS 19 the total balance sheet in 2012 by $17.8 million, to a total of $44.0 million deficit in the Groups retirement plans at the end of 2012 was at the end of the year.
As a result the Board is recommending $136.0 million, compared to $94.8 million in the previous year.
the first distribution under the recently announced special This increase is largely due to decreases in real bond yields during dividend programme.
The Group has continued to benefit from its strategy of investing Ordinary dividend in Specialty Products, where opportunities are plentiful and The Board is recommending a final dividend of 5.32 cents prospective returns are high, funding this investment through 2011: 4.66 cents per share which will be paid on 31 May 2013 in the positive cash ow generated by this business and the stable pounds sterling at an exchange rate of 1 $1.5266 equivalent to earnings and cash ow from the Chromium business.
The period a sterling amount of 3.4849 pence per share, to shareholders on has seen several exciting investments in Specialty Products, and the register on 3 May 2013.
This brings the total ordinary dividend already in 2013 we have announced the acquisition of Hi-Mar, to shareholders for the year to 7.77 cents 2011: 7.00 cents, further expanding our product offering and technical service in representing an increase of 11 per cent over the previous year.
These investments will further enhance the Going forward the Board intends to maintain a progressive ordinary growth prospects and resilience of both Specialty Products and dividend policy as the Groups dollar earnings and cash ow permit.
Special dividend Group revenues in 2012 were $757.0 million compared to Following a review of the Groups capital in the year the Board $760.5 million in the previous year, with Specialty Products and announced that it intended to institute a special dividend Chromium both showing revenue growth, while the Surfactants programme to provide shareholders with an enhanced return, business continued to reduce revenue in low margin activities in recognition of the strong cash generative nature of the Group.
in line with its strategy.
Group operating profit increased by Under this programme, at any year end when the Group is in a 5 per cent to $143.9 million, or 7 per cent on a constant currency net cash position and there are no immediate investment plans basis, and operating margin increased from 18.0 per cent in 2011 for that cash, the Board will recommend an additional special to 19.0 per cent in the year.
Diluted earnings per share improved dividend of up to 50 per cent of the net cash amount.
The Board by 12 per cent to 23.3 cents per share.
is confident in the Groups ability to continue to fund growth investments, similar to those made in 2012, from internally generated cash ow.
The Board has therefore concluded that it would be appropriate to distribute the full 50 per cent of the net cash balance at the end of 2012 as a special dividend.
The amount of this special dividend will therefore be $22 million, or 4.79 cents per share equivalent to a sterling amount of 3.1377 pence per share, and will be paid under the same terms and exchange rate as the ordinary dividend, bringing the combined dividend for the full year to 12.56 cents per share.
before exceptional items, all of which relate to 2011 ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 09 Health, safety and the environment People Our performance in this important area of our business continues Our progress and successes are only possible through the to be of a high industry standard and showed an improvement significant efforts and dedication of our employees around the over the previous year.
Nevertheless, we remain extremely vigilant world.
I would therefore like to thank and congratulate them on in monitoring and continuously improving our processes and behalf of the Board for yet another year of notable achievements.
activities that impact upon the safety of our employees and the environment.
Outlook The resilient performance demonstrated by the Group in 2012, Corporate governance combined with new investments in Specialty Products, are further Your Board remains committed to maintaining high standards evidence that Elementis is adopting the right strategy to drive of corporate governance and is satisfied that the Company has profitable growth and create value for shareholders and other complied fully with all of the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate stakeholders.
The Board is therefore confident that the Group Governance Code June 2010 version CGC throughout the can continue to make progress in the medium term.
In my introduction to the Corporate governance report for 2012, I set out how your Board has applied the main principles in the CGC relating to the role and effectiveness of the Board.
The Board welcomes the changes that have been made to the UK Corporate Governance Code September 2012 version and is Robert Beeston confident that the Company will comply fully with these new Chairman provisions during 2013.
26 February 2013 As previously reported, a recruitment process is underway that should lead to changes being made to the Board during the course of 2013.
Two additional directors will be appointed to replace Chris Girling and Kevin Matthews, who will be retiring towards the end of the year.
Both individuals have served as non-executive directors since 2005.
Chris Girling is Chairman of the Audit Committee and it is planned that this role will be taken over by one of the two new appointees after a period of induction and handover.
Kevin Matthews is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and he will be succeeded in this role by current Board member Andrew Christie.
The Board is mindful of the benets of gender diversity on boards and has taken these factors into consideration in the recruitment process.
All Board changes will be announced at the appropriate time.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 ELEMENTIS PLC SHAREHOLDER 106 108 FINANCIAL 62 105 CORPORATE 36 61 BUSINESS 04 35 COMPANY IFC 03 INFORMATION STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE REVIEW OVERVIEW 10 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES OVERVIEW David Dutro Group Chief Executive Dear Shareholders, On-going investment in new capacity to support both the t current high demands and future growth of our coatings, It is my pleasure to report another excellent year for Elementis, personal care and oileld customers.
with 2012 marking a new level of achievement for our Company.
An ofce and technical service lab being opened in t Collectively our businesses delivered the highest EPS level in the Mumbai, India.
Even more remarkably, this strong performance was achieved in the face of a global economy and market These investments will contribute signicantly to our continued environment that grew more uncertain as the year progressed.
growth and further strengthen our product innovation model These results further validate the resilience and inherent quality and technological leadership.
We are in the enviable position of of our businesses.
This record performance is especially notable having manufacturing facilities that are extremely well invested, when viewed as a continuation of the striking improvements in thus requiring only modest levels of maintenance capital, performance we have achieved over the past three years, during resulting in the majority of our capital spend being invested in which we increased EPS by more than 440 per cent.
shareholder return of 375 per cent over this period puts the The Specialty Products business provides a robust growth Group in the top percentile of all FTSE All Share companies.
We are platform, with our balanced geographic exposure across mature resolute in our commitment to deliver profitable growth across and emerging economies, strong technology base and strategic all stages of the economic cycle and our internal performance market diversication.
In addition to an impressive proprietary targets continue to be independent of improvements in product offering, we also own and operate a high purity hectorite market conditions.
Hectorite clay is highly valued by coatings and personal The Board recently announced that, in addition to its current care, and increasingly by our oileld, customers for its unique progressive dividend policy, a special dividend programme rheology characteristics and colour purity, which create a distinct has been instituted that will provide an additional return to long term competitive advantage for both Specialty Products shareholders of up to 50 per cent of year end net cash on the and our customers.
Specialty Products has a significant technical balance sheet.
This programme reects the Boards high level of service and application support presence in our market segments, confidence in the Companys financial strength and our ability to which has been built on long term relationships of trust, continue to deliver strong cash ows.
With a positive outlook for collaboration and technical expertise.
Our differentiated the future and ample cash to fund bolt on acquisitions and growth technological innovation is supported by best in class process investments, we are sure that our new dividend programme will technology and tightly held manufacturing know-how.
enhance our ability to provide strong returns to our shareholders.
The Specialty Products growth strategy is two pronged: internally Elementis Specialty Products generated growth through innovative new products, geographic Consistent with our strategic focus on growth in 2012, Specialty expansion and gains in market share, along with value adding Products introduced new products, expanded our geographic acquisitions that are consistent with our business model.
presence and made investments to serve our customers growing On the acquisition front, Specialty Products acquired Watercryl, demand.
These investments included: a Brazilian based specialty additives manufacturer.
Through this The acquisition of Watercryl in Brazil, strengthening acquisition, we enhanced our penetration of the very important, t Specialty Productss position in Latin America.
high growth Latin American region and obtained a portfolio of Completion of a new Specialty Products North American innovative products that complements our own.
While our global t additives plant supporting the sale of recently introduced presence enables us to develop and leverage solutions for our products in decorative coatings.
customers around the world, a strong local presence is critical in A new world class US based technology centre and pilot allowing us to truly understand our customers and their specic t plant to better support our innovation model and needs, and to respond proactively to address them.
integration of Watercryl, which is expected to be accretive to earnings in 2013, is well underway and delivering a number of before exceptional items ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 11 exciting growth opportunities in the fast growing Latin America Elementis Surfactants markets.
The announcement on 20 February 2013 that we have We continue to improve the quality of the product portfolio and acquired Hi-Mar, a leading supplier of defoamers, demonstrates margins in our Surfactants business.
This business, located in our continued commitment to targeting bolt on acquisitions that Delden, the Netherlands, shares its production facility with the extend our product range into adjacent, high growth markets and Specialty Products business.
The goal remains to utilise more that are synergistic with our current technologies, product of the facilitys capacity over time to support the higher margin portfolio, customer base and margin expectations.
product range in the Specialty Products business.
The Delden facility is a large and well maintained site and we are pleased to At the heart of nearly every investment we make in this business have the available capacity to support the Specialty Products is innovation.
Innovation at Elementis is about leveraging our growth strategy.
expertise, market knowledge and deep customer relationships to develop and commercialise value added solutions for our Summary customers and markets.
This concept is captured in the Specialty I am proud of Elementiss accomplishments in 2012, which are a Products tagline your one-stop solution provider.
Our R&D direct reection of the hard work and dedication of our global pipeline is stronger than ever and, more importantly, our new team and performance driven culture.
products are delivering real value to our customers and to the bottom line.
Our ability to consistently deliver innovative products Regardless of the overall economic conditions, Elementis will has been a critical component of our growth strategy and continue to execute our well dened growth strategy of performance improvement to date, and it will drive our next focusing on market share gains, introducing new products and level of success as well.
strengthening our position in new geographies and technologies with complementary bolt on acquisitions.
Elementis Chromium Elementis Chromium reported its best year ever in terms of As we embark on a new financial year we have excellent earnings, further conrming the businesss ability to adjust to momentum.
Whats more, I believe we are only now beginning to rapidly changing market dynamics.
In 2012 this business delivered see the full earnings and cash generating ability of the businesses.
operating margins of 26.2 per cent and a return on capital We will continue to provide value for our customers, which will employed before tax and excluding goodwill of 65 per cent.
deliver results for you our shareholders.
We have established goals The Chromium businesss strategy is primarily focused on and plans to make 2013 another exceptional year for our Company.
reducing cyclical uctuations and consistently delivering more We continue to be positive about the future at Elementis and our predictable and therefore higher quality earnings and cash ow.
ability to continue to make progress in this outstanding company The business provides products that serve a diverse range of for our stakeholders.
In closing, we would like to sincerely thank customers, geographies and applications, allowing it to quickly our shareholders and customers for their continued confidence shift products and resources away from sluggish areas to those and support.
As the only North American based manufacturer of chromium chemicals, the business is able to provide North American customers with a differentiated and highly valued closed loop delivery model, providing a long term competitive advantage to Elementis.
The business has a significant share of North American chromium chemicals sales and 58 per David Dutro cent of its sales were into this region in 2012.
In addition, on the Group Chief Executive manufacturing side, the business completed its alternative energy 26 February 2013 project, which allows the Castle Hayne, North Carolina facility to operate on natural gas as well as fuel oil.
This investment gives the business far greater exibility to procure energy in a more cost effective manner going forward.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 ELEMENTIS PLC SHAREHOLDER 106 108 FINANCIAL 62 105 CORPORATE 36 61 BUSINESS 04 33 COMPANY IFC 03 INFORMATION STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE REVIEW OVERVIEW 12 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES OVERVIEW CONTINUED GROUP OPERATING PROFIT AND MARGIN NET CASH DEBT $m % $m 19.0% 200 60 20 18.0% 180 40 18 44.0 14.7% 160 16 20 26.2 140 14 0 143.9 137.1 120 12 -20 100 10 -40 102.3 80 8 -60 79.3 60 6 -80 40 4 -100 2010 2011 2012 20 2 0 0 Net cash debt $m 2010 2011 2012 Group operating profit $m Operating margin % before exceptional items, all of which relate to 2010 and 2011 EARNINGS PER SHARE Cents 24 22 23.3 20 20.8 18 16 14 15.2 12 10 8 6 4 2 0 2010 2011 2012 Diluted earnings per share before exceptional items, all of which relate to 2010 and 2011 cents ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 13 OUR BUSINESSES REVENUE OPERATING PROFIT Effect of Increase Operating Effect of Increase Operating Revenue exchange decrease Revenue profit exchange decrease profit 2011 rates 2012 2012 2011 rates 2012 2012 $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Specialty Products 449.9 9.6 18.4 458.7 Specialty Products 89.7 2.9 3.3 90.1 Chromium 231.0 9.1 240.1 Chromium 56.1 6.7 62.8 Surfactants 94.3 6.4 15.4 72.5 Surfactants 5.4 0.4 0.2 4.8 Inter-segment 14.7 0.4 14.3 Central costs 14.1 0.3 13.8 760.5 16.0 12.5 757.0 137.1 3.0 9.8 143.9 before exceptional items KEY FACTS ELEMENTIS SPECIALTY ELEMENTIS CHROMIUM ELEMENTIS SURFACTANTS PRODUCTS We are the Groups largest business, We are a leading producer and We provide surfactant based accounting for 61 per cent of Group global supplier of chromium chemical solutions for industrial sales and 63 per cent of Group chemicals, and the only processes and products involving operating profit in 2012. domestic producer in the US.
We are based in 27 locations Our business accounts for We share a manufacturing plant around the world, in North and 32 per cent of Group sales and in Delden, the Netherlands, with Latin America, Europe and Asia, 44 per cent of Group operating Elementis Specialty Products and our sales are approximately profit in 2012. and the plant is in the process of split equally between the Americas, transitioning its product portfolio Europe and Asia.
We operate from two major facilities to producing more higher margin in Castle Hayne, North Carolina specialty additives.
We have over 900 employees and Corpus Christi, Texas, and globally, 12 manufacturing facilities, three smaller processing facilities We employ over 150 employees 3 research centres of excellence supplying local tanneries.
com facility based in North America, We have over 250 employees, most Europe and Asia, 6 technical of whom are located in the US.
service centres and 11 dedicated www.
com ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 ELEMENTIS PLC SHAREHOLDER 106 108 FINANCIAL 62 105 CORPORATE 36 61 BUSINESS 04 35 COMPANY IFC 03 INFORMATION STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE REVIEW OVERVIEW 14 OUR BUSINESSES CONTINUED Elementis Specialty Products 2012 2011 Greg McClatchy President of Elementis Specialty Sales $458.7m $449.9m Products and Elementis Surfactants Operating profit $90.1m $89.7m Operating margin 19.6% 19.9% ROCE 40.2% 42.6% before exceptional items before tax and excluding goodwill WHAT WE DO HOW WE DO IT Proven leadership team with solid track record in the management of the t We provide high value functional business including risk, working capital, HSE and supply chain matters.
additives to the decorative and World class R&D leadership, focused on product innovation and a robust t industrial coatings, personal care new product pipeline.
and oileld drilling markets that Balanced geographic growth platform, spread across developed and t improve the ow characteristics emerging markets.
and performance of our customers products or production processes.
Specialty Products worldwide We have significant expertise in the science of rheology, which, in its simplest form, means our technology imparts thickness and viscosity control.
For example, paint without rheological additives would have the consistency of water, but paint with our additives is smooth, homogeneous and has a controlled, even spread on a surface.
The same requirements for Tightly held manufacturing know-how, best in class process technology t rheological additives exist in and manufacturing and operational excellence.
personal care products, such as Diversied portfolio of proprietary technology.
t creams and lotions, and in oileld Aligned with global market leaders in coatings, personal care and t drilling applications, providing oileld drilling markets: opportunities to leverage relationships to viscosity control to thicken and cross-sell into different markets or sectors.
suspend solids in drilling Strong reputation for customer service, technical support and long term t formulations and to stabilise relationships of trust, collaboration and technical expertise.
stimulation packages used in the Product portfolio has many end users and a wide range of applications t drilling process.
in multiple high growth markets and sectors.
Commercial teams sales and marketing work with R&D function to t develop new products to give customers an alternative or to address Our patent-protected technology a specic market or customer need.
addresses the performance needs of our customers through our SciPark, East Windsor, New Jersey rheological modiers for aqueous and solvent systems, wetting and dispersing agents, colourants and tinting systems, defoamers, waxes and slip aids, adhesion promoters and other performance enhancing or surface active additives.
ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 15 WHERE WE DO IT INDUSTRY STRUCTURE AND SUPPLY CHAIN Key segments served Other segments served: Our coatings customers are the global, regional and local coatings Decorative paints and coatings Adhesives and sealants companies.
Elementis has a unique global position, providing t t Industrial paints and coatings Asphalt and bitumen technical service and a broad product offering to both multinational t t Oileld drilling Construction and regional coatings companies.
The rheology solutions of t t Personal care Inks t t Elementis are critical to the performance of our coatings customers Lubrication t products.
In personal care, Elementis is a significant player in Plastics t additives for cosmetic products based on its expertise in hectorite Refractory and ceramics t rheology and other complementary technologies.
In oileld drilling, Water treatment t Elementis is the preferred supplier to oil service companies for high performance rheological additives.
Its unique technologies and Key products strong alignment with key industry players have allowed the business Rheological additives modiers Defoamers and t t to benefit from the recent increase in drilling activity for shale gas in High performance coalescing agents t dispersing agents Wetting and slip agents North America, as well as the continuing global trend of exploiting t Flow and levelling additives Lanolin and other natural oil and gas reserves in more extreme environments, both of which t t Other specialty additives oil derivatives require greater and more sophisticated rheological solutions.
t and resins Organoclays t The top ten customers account for less than 30 per cent of total sales.
Colourants and pigments t In each key segment, the business has many competitors from Key applications multinationals to smaller, privately owned businesses.
Personal care: antiperspirants, Decorative coatings: homes, t t nail polish, mascara, make-up, ofces and similar environments The business has long term agreements in place to secure supplies eye shadow, lipsticks, Industrial coatings: protective t creams, lotions and suncare of key raw materials, such as clays, quaternary amines and other applications in automotive, products containers, furniture, ooring, chemical intermediates.
The business owns and operates the only Construction: concrete, plasters, marine, plastics and construction rheology grade hectorite mine in the world in a sustainable way.
t mortars, renderings, stuccos, Oileld: drilling and fracturing Hectorite clay is a key ingredient in many of our products and t ooring systems and building uids utilised in oil and gas formulations across our market segments.
adhesives extraction activities SPLIT OF SALES REVENUE 2012 % GEOGRAPHIC SEGMENT 9 9 32 14 29 55 22 30 North America Industrial coatings Asia Pacific Decorative coatings Europe Oilfield Rest of the world Personal care ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 ELEMENTIS PLC SHAREHOLDER 106 108 FINANCIAL 62 105 CORPORATE 36 61 BUSINESS 04 35 COMPANY IFC 03 INFORMATION STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE REVIEW OVERVIEW 16 OUR BUSINESSES CONTINUED Elementis Specialty Products continued Where we add value OUR BUSINESS MODEL Coatings is the largest segment of our business and the performance Our growth strategy is shaped by our unique requirements for decorative and industrial coatings are very different commercial advantage and can vary depending on the exact application or regional factors Elementis Specialty Products displays all the characteristics of a true and preferences.
In decorative coatings, the reason for such a wide specialty chemicals company: highly segmented markets: balanced range of brands and paints is partly down to providing a better exposure to mature and emerging markets: differentiation through choice to the end consumer, be it value, colour or performance 1 customer service and technical support: long term relationships of with additives for environmentally friendly coatings systems.
trust, collaboration and technical expertise: high operating margins The paint required for all the different surfaces in the home are and return on operating capital: ability to pass on raw material formulated specifically for each room.
For example, paint should inationary price increases: and products that are critical ingredients be water resistant in the bathroom, stain and scrub resistant in the in customers formulations and essential to their performance.
kitchen and scuff resistant in the hallway.
In addition, it is the owner of the only rheology grade hectorite mine in the world.
The performance requirements of industrial coatings are higher still, for example, ships, bridges or cargo containers.
A coating may have How our business is organised to be resistant to hot and cold weather, be rust and mould proof and 2 The Specialty Products business is organised into five business units durable against rough handling.
Just about every object that has that reect the four principal strategic segments served industrial a surface will have a coating, from laptops and washing machines, and decorative coatings, personal care and oileld drilling : to commercial aircraft and luxury cars.
Growth of our coatings business is linked to GDP factors, as well as 1.
Personal Care product innovation and customer service, so a strong, vibrant global economy will mean more house building, construction and other 2.
Oileld Drilling infrastructure projects, as well as consumption of luxury goods, 3.
Coatings Asia all of which provide a significant boost to economic activity.
However, our business has a very balanced geographic footprint, providing a natural hedge against differing economic conditions Each of our five business units has the following reporting structure: depending on geographic region.
This has helped to ensure our business is more sustainable, can maintain margins and generate Business President value for our shareholders.
In addition to servicing a wide base of customers existing and new, the business responds to the changing needs of customers and Business Unit Director actively seeks to identify gaps in the market, and these drive our R&D programmes.
For example, we have helped a motorcycle and a ship manufacturer overcome the rheology challenges of applying just a single coating on their surfaces, without compromising on quality The five business units are supported by business and corporate and performance, which saved them both time and cost helping 3 support functions: them to service their customers.
Other examples include a customer who needed better spatter control or higher efficiency Business Finance including Product Stewardship & when spraying a coating on oor covering products.
shared service centres, credit Regulatory Affairs, HSE and control, accounts payable Quality An example of targeting a niche market with a new product is from receivable our personal care business.
We launched a natural oil based rheology modier for colour cosmetics and skin care in the form of a gel, using our eco-certied ingredients.
This was a new product innovation that Procurement & Supply Group Finance including 4 was introduced into the market with good results.
Chain, Commercial Sales & Treasury, HR, IT, Legal & Marketing, Technical Service Compliance and Governance Watercryl, Brazil and R&D & Risk Management ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 17 1 2 3 4 In oileld drilling, there is a strong underlying demand for rheology 2012 PERFORMANCE additives in North American shale drilling as well as drilling for oil Sales in Specialty Products for 2012 were $458.7 million compared and gas in extreme environments, such as deep water and high to $449.9 million in the previous year, an increase of 2 per cent, or temperature and pressure.
However, customer inventory adjustments 4 per cent on a constant currency basis.
The increase was primarily in the North American market during the second half of the year had a due to higher sales volumes as the business experienced good significant impact on sales in that period.
As a result, the strong sales growth in most of its key markets and geographies.
growth seen throughout 2011 and into the first half of 2012, with sales 28 per cent ahead of the previous year, were offset in the second half In the coatings market, additives sales in North America increased by of the year, such that overall sales for the year were 6 per cent lower 7 per cent as the business continued to benefit from market share than the previous year.
gains and new product launches.
A particular feature was the growth in decorative paints where several new NiSAT products were launched In personal care, sales for the year were 8 per cent higher than the and a new US plant producing these products began production in previous year, or 13 per cent on a constant currency basis, as the early 2013.
Marine and ink coatings applications also showed robust business continued to experience good demand for rheology growth, while a slowdown in some construction markets impacted additives, particularly for applications such as aerosol antiperspirants sales in the second half of the year, such that first half sales were 14 per and colour cosmetics.
Organisational changes in the business during cent ahead of the same period last year, while second half sales were the year provided greater focus and helped drive higher growth in similar to the previous year.
the second half, where sales grew by 18 per cent excluding currency, compared to 9 per cent in the first half.
In Europe, sales increased by 2 per cent, after adjusting for currency movements, due to market share gains in a number of end applications, Operating profit in 2012 was $90.1 million compared to $89.7 million including wood coatings and construction.
Year on year constant in the previous year, which is an increase of 4 per cent excluding currency sales were 3 per cent lower in the first six months of the year currency movements.
Operating margin remained resilient, at just and 8 per cent higher than the previous year in the second half.
under 20 per cent, despite changes in the sales mix, while raw material ination was less evident due to the diverse nature of the In Asia Pacic, coatings sales have continued to show good growth materials utilised by the business.
Selective price increases during as a result of our strong presence in China and our ability to leverage the year had a positive impact on operating profit and xed costs a differentiated customer offering and technical service into other increased by 6 per cent, partly to support a number of growth high growth markets, such as India.
Comparisons with the previous investments made during the year.
year are somewhat impacted by a portfolio optimisation strategy, implemented during the first half of 2011 to improve margins.
before exceptional items, all of which relate to 2011 This strategy offset the underlying growth that the business was experiencing, such that first half sales in 2012 were 1 per cent higher than the same period last year.
However, this programme did not impact the second half and sales in that period were 15 per cent higher than the previous year.
For the year as a whole, coatings sales in Asia Pacic increased by 7 per cent.
In Latin America, coatings sales benefited from the acquisition of Watercryl in Brazil, which completed on 28 September 2012.
The acquisition added $2.5 million to sales in the fourth quarter of 2012 and contributed to the full year regional sales increase of 17 per cent.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 ELEMENTIS PLC SHAREHOLDER 106 108 FINANCIAL 62 105 CORPORATE 36 61 BUSINESS 04 35 COMPANY IFC 03 INFORMATION STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE REVIEW OVERVIEW 18 OUR BUSINESSES CONTINUED Elementis Chromium 2012 2011 Dennis Valentino President of Elementis Chromium Sales $240.1m $231.0m Operating profit $62.8m $56.1m Operating margin 26.2% 24.3% ROCE 64.5% 67.0% before tax and excluding goodwill WHAT WE DO WHERE WE DO IT Key segments served We provide chromium chemicals Metal nishing Pigments ceramics to our customers that make their t t Timber treatment Refractory products more durable and are t t Leather tanning Chrome metal super alloys used in a wide range of sectors t t and applications.
Key products and applications Chromic oxide: as a pigment in paints, decorative coatings, plastics, t roong tiles and ceramic tiles: in the construction of high temperature and abrasion resistant refractory brick for glass and breglass: and in the production of super alloy metals for use in aeroplane and land based turbines.
Chromic acid: in plating metal and plastic to produce a strong, tarnish Our reputation for quality and t resistant chrome nish for appliances, automobiles and many other operational excellence, and our applications: and as a wood preservative for marine pilings, telegraph high levels of customer service poles, landscape timbers and other industrial wood applications.
and technical support are key Chrome sulphate: in tanning to produce high quality leathers for a differentiating factors for us that t wide range of end uses.
enable us to develop long term, Sodium dichromate: as an intermediate chemical to produce mutually advantageous t pigment for industrial coatings and trafc paint.
SPLIT OF SALES REVENUE 2012 % The key products in our broad product portfolio include: GEOGRAPHIC SEGMENT chromic acid, chromic oxide, 8 sodium dichromate and chrome 10 sulphate.
These products are used 16 33 12 in very diverse end markets around the world.
15 58 18 30 North America Metal finishing Asia Pacific Other Europe Timber treatment HOW WE DO IT Rest of the world Pigmentary Leather tanning The business is structured to benefit from a exible and cost competitive t operating footprint capable of delivering stable earnings and cash ow over a broad range of economic conditions.
INDUSTRY STRUCTURE AND SUPPLY CHAIN The business focuses on key regional sectors and value added product t offerings and retains a strong geographic presence in North America, The business has a large customer base with customers located in with export sales to Latin America, Europe and Asia Pacic.
different regions around the world.
Our top ten customers account for 46 per cent of total sales.
Chromium United States The business has many competitors from multinationals to smaller privately owned businesses.
The business has agreements in place to secure supplies of key raw materials, such as chrome ore, soda ash and sulphuric acid.
As well as being the only domestic producer in the US, the business has t a unique product delivery system that meets high regulatory standards and helps our customers manage their supply chain more effectively.
ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 19 OUR BUSINESS MODEL 2012 PERFORMANCE Our strategy is to operate at high capacity utilisation to Chromium sales in 2012 were $240.1 million compared to generate sustainable earnings and cash ow to reinvest $231.0 million in 2011, an increase of 4 per cent.
Currency had into the Specialty Products business no material impact on year on year sales.
Sales volumes were Elementis Chromium manufactures a range of chromium 1 per cent higher than the previous year, as the business operated chemicals.
The business has the ability to ex its manufacturing at high rates of capacity and adjusted its production mix to optimise operations to respond to changes in demand and its diverse end output in response to changes in global demand patterns.
Sales markets by geography, application and sector, giving our volumes in the first half of the year were 2 per cent ahead of the business model the strength and resilience to generate sustainable previous year, while second half volumes were similar to the earnings and cash ow over a broad range of economic conditions.
In North America, which accounted for 58 per cent of sales in 2012 2011: 57 per cent, sales volumes were 5 per cent How our business is organised higher than the previous year, as higher sales of chromic acid used The Chromium business operates with a lean management in timber treatment offset lower sales of chrome sulphate for leather structure: tanning applications.
The demand in timber treatment was driven by a continuing preference by consumers for chrome based Business President products over more expensive petrochemical based alternatives, while the softer demand in leather tanning applications was a result of lower herd sizes in North America following recent drought conditions.
Leadership team: Vice President Finance also responsible t In Europe, sales volumes were signicantly higher than the previous for sourcing of key materials and energy year, growing by 29 per cent, as solid growth in the global chrome Global Commercial Director sales and marketing t metal market for aerospace applications created opportunities to President of the leather tanning products t sell high quality chrome oxide to key manufacturers, a number of LTP business whom are based in Europe.
Operations Director t In Asia Pacic, sales volumes were 18 per cent lower than the previous year as strong sales of chromic acid for auto applications in China were more than offset by lower sales in Japan caused by the The Product Stewardship & Regulatory Affairs, HSE and merger of two major customers.
Average selling prices increased by Quality functions report to the Operations Director 3 per cent in response to higher raw material prices.
Operating profit improved by 12 per cent versus the previous year to $62.8 million and operating margin increased to 26.2 per cent The business is supported by corporate support functions: from 24.3 per cent.
Lower energy costs contributed $7.4 million to the operating profit improvement and were largely a result of the Shared service centres Group Finance including conversion of Castle Hayne to natural gas during the first quarter of credit control, accounts Treasury, HR, IT, Legal & 2011, as well as lower average gas prices compared to the previous payable receivable Compliance and Governance year.
This, combined with higher average selling prices, more than & Risk Management compensated for higher raw material costs experienced in the year, while xed costs remained rmly under control.
How our business operates The two main facilities in Castle Hayne and Corpus Christi produce all of our chromium chemicals, with the exception of liquid chrome sulphate which is manufactured at the LTP sites.
The commercial and operations teams work together closely to ex our production output to meet current customer demand, to respond to regional or market shifts and to optimise product mix and margins.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 ELEMENTIS PLC SHAREHOLDER 106 108 FINANCIAL 62 105 CORPORATE 36 61 BUSINESS 04 35 COMPANY IFC 03 INFORMATION STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE REVIEW OVERVIEW 20 OUR BUSINESSES CONTINUED Elementis Surfactants 2012 2011 INDUSTRY STRUCTURE AND SUPPLY CHAIN Sales $72.5m $94.3m The business has many competitors from multinationals to smaller Operating profit $4.8m $5.4m privately owned businesses.
Operating margin 6.6% 5.7% ROCE 25.1% 21.7% The business has long term agreements in place to secure supplies before exceptional items of key raw materials, which include ethylene and propylene oxides, before tax and excluding goodwill nonylphenol ethoxylate and fatty alcohols.
WHAT WE DO OUR BUSINESS MODEL Our strategy is to shift our product portfolio towards We manufacture a wide range of Our products have many higher margin applications, while transitioning our surface active ingredients and applications and are used in a manufacturing facility towards producing additives products that are used as large number of industries and for Specialty Products, and to improve our level of intermediates in the production of sectors, such as in oileld services, chemical compositions.
household and industrial cleaning, profitability and operating margin.
textiles and leather, and other niche markets including animal How our business is organised feed, agriculture and plastics.
The President of the Specialty Products business is also the President of the Surfactants business which, in addition to sharing a site, also shares a common management framework and Our broad range of specialty resources, although its performance is reported separately.
The surfactants include non-ionic, Surfactants facility is headed by a business unit managing director anionic, cationic and amphoteric surfactants, blended products, as into whom the operations and commercial sales teams report.
The well as specialty additives, such as business shares various business and corporate support functions dispersing agents, emulsiers and with the Specialty Products business, as illustrated on page 16. defoamers.
The businesss customers are mainly based in Europe and its top ten customers represent 64 per cent of revenue.
The focus of the business is to continue operational excellence by maintaining a HOW WE DO IT tight control over costs and to increase sales of our higher margin and more profitable products.
Our unique and versatile product portfolio, broad expertise in surfactants t chemistry, exibility and ability to produce a wide range of complex products, often in relatively small quantities and customised to meet our 2012 PERFORMANCE customers requirements, are key strengths of the business.
Through close customer relationships and by maximising synergies of t Sales in Surfactants for 2012 were $72.5 million compared to customers application experience, as well as our chemical knowledge, $94.3 million in the previous year, a decrease of 23 per cent, or we continuously strive to offer tailor made products and system solutions 18 per cent on a constant currency basis.
The majority of sales in that contribute to our customers success.
this business are denominated in euros.
In line with the businesss Our plant is equipped with both continuous and multi-purpose batch t strategy to produce more additives for Specialty Products, sales reactors for various chemical processes, including polymerisation and condensation reactions, ethoxylation, propoxylation, phosphation, volumes in Surfactants declined by 21 per cent compared to the sulphation, sulphonation and quaternisation.
This was exacerbated by the economic downturn in Europe, with approximately 80 per cent of sales in Surfactants going into this region.
During this transition, the business WHERE WE DO IT continues to improve the sales portfolio by increasing the proportion of higher value products and this was evident in the Key segments served 2012 sales mix.
Average selling prices improved by 3 per cent in Oileld production chemicals Textiles and leather t t response to increases in raw material costs.
Construction chemicals Plastics and resins t t Agro-chemical and animal Household t t Operating profit in 2012 was $4.8 million compared to $5.4 million feed markets Resin and polymer t in the previous year.
Operating profit was lower due to the planned Pharmaceutical ingredients emulsication t reduction in sales volumes, however, operating margin improved to 6.6 per cent, compared to 5.7 per cent in the previous year.
Improved selling prices largely compensated for increases in raw SPLIT OF SALES REVENUE 2012 % material costs and the increase in operating margin was a result of GEOGRAPHIC SEGMENT portfolio optimisation and positive cost control.
Oilfield chemicals Europe 3 4 5 7 before exceptional items, all of which relate to 2011 Other Rest of 13 Textiles and Leather the world 15 39 Water Treatment Asia Pacific Feed North America 79 35 ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 21 FINANCE REPORT Brian Taylorson REVENUE Finance Director 2012 2011 $million $million Specialty Products 458.7 449.9 Chromium 240.1 231.0 Surfactants 72.5 94.3 Inter-segment 14.3 14.7 757.0 760.5 OPERATING PROFIT 2012 2011 Adjusted Adjusted Operating Exceptional operating Operating Exceptional operating profit items profit profit items profit $million $million $million $million $million $million Specialty Products 90.1 90.1 87.9 1.8 89.7 Chromium 62.8 62.8 56.1 56.1 Surfactants 4.8 4.8 0.2 5.2 5.4 Central costs 13.8 13.8 20.4 34.5 14.1 143.9 143.9 164.6 27.5 137.1 Group results Central costs Group sales in 2012 were $757.0 million compared to $760.5 million Central costs are costs that are not identiable as expenses of a in the previous year, an increase of 2 per cent excluding currency particular business and comprise expenditures of the Board of movements.
Sales in both Specialty Products and Chromium directors and the corporate ofce.
In 2012 central costs were increased over the previous year, while sales in Surfactants declined, $0.3 million lower than the previous year, before exceptional in line with that businesss strategy.
Overall sales volumes for the items, at $13.8 million.
The decrease was largely due to foreign Group were higher than the previous year, largely due to growth in currency movements.
Specialty Products, and pricing also improved, compensating for increases in raw material costs.
Exceptional items There were no exceptional items in 2012.
Group operating profit increased by 5 per cent to $143.9 million, an increase of 7 per cent on a constant currency basis.
Operating margin Two items were recorded in 2011 under Exceptional items.
The improved to 19.0 per cent, compared to 18.0 per cent in the previous first item was in relation to the recovery of $34.5 million from the year, as each business continued to focus on sustainable higher European Commission as first reported in the 2011 interim results margin and differentiated business opportunities, and maintained announcement.
The recovery of these funds came about after the a strict operating discipline.
The Group also benefited from lower Commission repealed its decision of November 2009 to impose energy costs in the year as a result of structural changes in Chromium fines on Elementis.
The second item was a provision of $7.0 million operations and generally lower gas prices in North America.
relating to the Groups pension arrangements in the Netherlands.
Currency hedging Net finance costs Although a large proportion of the Groups business is transacted in 2012 2011 $million $million US dollars, the Group also transacts in other currencies, in particular euros and pounds sterling.
In order to reduce earnings volatility Finance income 0.8 0.7 from these currency exposures, the Group takes out cash ow Finance cost of borrowings 3.4 4.0 hedges in these currencies each year.
In 2012 a credit of $1.2 million 2.6 3.3 2011: $0.3 million cost resulted from these hedge transactions and Net pension finance income 1.2 1.9 was reported in the Specialty Products results.
Discount on provisions 1.3 1.2 2.7 2.6 before exceptional items, all of which relate to 2011 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 ELEMENTIS PLC SHAREHOLDER 106 108 FINANCIAL 62 105 CORPORATE 36 61 BUSINESS 04 35 COMPANY IFC 03 INFORMATION STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE REVIEW OVERVIEW 22 FINANCE REPORT CONTINUED Cash ow Net finance costs increased by $0.1 million in 2012 to $2.7 million, The cash ow is summarised below: largely due to a reduction in the net pension credit on the Groups pension deficits under IAS 19.
Net interest costs on borrowings and 2012 2011 $million $million deposits were $2.6 million compared to $3.3 million in the previous 1 EBITDA 165.2 157.0 year.
A significant part of the finance cost of borrowings is xed in nature and relates to arrangement and commitment fees on the Change in working capital 12.9 9.3 Groups borrowing facilities.
The discount on provisions of $1.3 million Capital expenditure 37.4 20.8 2011: $1.2 million relates to environmental provisions, which are Other 2.3 0.6 evaluated on a discounted basis and hence the cost of the discount Operating cash ow 117.2 126.3 is recognised each year as an interest charge.
Pension deficit payments 27.9 22.0 Interest and tax 15.7 11.3 Taxation Exceptional items 3.7 31.8 Tax charge Other 3.1 1.7 2012 2011 Free cash ow 73.0 126.5 Effective Effective rate rate Dividends paid 32.2 21.9 $million per cent $million per cent Acquisitions and disposals 24.0 Before exceptional items 34.1 24.2 39.7 29.5 Currency uctuations 1.0 0.9 Exceptional items 1.8 1.3 Movement in net cash 17.8 105.5 Total 34.1 24.2 37.9 28.2 Net cash borrowings at start of year 26.2 79.3 Net cash at end of year 44.0 26.2 The tax charge of $34.1 million 2011: $39.7 million represents an effective tax rate of 24.2 per cent 2011: 29.5 per cent with the 1 EBITDA earnings before interest, tax, exceptional items, depreciation decrease in tax rate resulting from structural changes within the and amortisation Groups nancing arrangements, as well as certain credits for the cost of share options.
Set against these credits is an increase in The Group delivered a positive cash ow performance in 2012 and, deferred taxation due to the changes in the UK tax rate resulting in as a result, increased net cash on the balance sheet from $26.2 million a reduction in the amount of the deferred tax asset as well as increases at the end of 2011 to $44.0 million at the end of 2012.
Contributing to in overseas taxes.
operating cash ow in the year, EBITDA increased from $157.0 million to $165.2 million consistent with the improvement in operating profit.
Earnings per share Cash ow relating to working capital was an outow of $12.9 million Note 9 to the Financial Statements sets out a number of calculations of compared to an outow of $9.3 million in 2011.
The increase was largely earnings per share.
To better understand the underlying performance due to additional spending of $13.3 million to increase the strategic of the Group, earnings per share reported under IFRS is adjusted for level of chrome ore inventories held by the Chromium business, in items classied as exceptional.
order to mitigate supply chain risks.
This was offset by other structural improvements in working capital, as part of the Groups programme to Diluted earnings per share was 23.3 cents compared to 20.8 cents in continuously improve working capital efficiency.
Capital expenditure in the previous year, with the improvement mainly due to an increase in 2012 increased by $16.6 million to $37.4 million as the Group continued operating profit of $6.8 million and a reduction in the Group tax rate to invest in the growth of Specialty Products.
In Specialty Products, from 29.5 per cent to 24.2 per cent.
spending on the new technical centre in the US, the new plant to produce innovative products for decorative coatings and the plant Basic earnings per share including exceptional items all of which expansion to serve the oileld drilling sector accounted for almost relate to 2011 was 23.7 cents compared to 27.8 cents in 2011.
The 2011 $15 million of the Group capital spend in 2012, while capital spending result benefited from a one-time recovery of funds from the EU on plant maintenance across the Group was approximately $15 million Commission of $34.5 million.
Pension deficit payments in 2012 were $27.9 million, compared to $22.0 million in the previous year, and mostly relate to Distributions to shareholders payments to the UK plan which are discussed further below.
Interest During 2012 the Group paid a final dividend in respect of the year and tax payments in 2012 were $15.7 million 2011: $11.3 million and the ended 31 December 2011 of 4.66 cents per share 2011: 2.60 cents.
increase relates mostly to higher tax payments associated with a higher An interim dividend of 2.45 cents per share 2011: 2.34 cents was paid level of profits in 2012.
Dividends paid are in line with distributions on 5 October 2012 and the Board is recommending a final dividend described in the previous paragraph and acquisition spending of of 5.32 cents per share 2011: 4.66 cents and a special dividend of $24.0 million in 2012 relates to the acquisition of Watercryl in Brazil by 4.79 cents per share, both of which will be paid on 31 May 2013.
before exceptional items, all of which relate to 2011 ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 23 Balance sheet UK plan The largest of the Groups retirement plans is the UK dened benefit 2012 2011 pension scheme UK Scheme which had a deficit under IAS 19 of $million $million $72.9 million at the end of 2012, compared to $35.0 million at the end Intangible xed assets 342.6 335.1 of 2011.
The UK Scheme is relatively mature, with approximately Other net assets 94.0 87.9 66 per cent 2011: 66 per cent of its gross liabilities represented by Net cash 44.0 26.2 pensions in payment, and was closed to new members during 2012.
480.6 449.2 Funding Equity 480.6 449.2 The most recent triennial valuation was completed as of 30 September 2011 and resulted in an agreed deficit with the trustees of the UK Group equity increased by $31.4 million in 2012 2011: $69.5 million.
Scheme, for funding purposes, of 91.1 million.
The deficit at the Capital expenditure and the recognition of plant acquired with previous triennial valuation 30 September 2008 was 101.7 million.
Watercryl led to an increase in property, plant and equipment of A new funding plan was agreed with the trustees in 2012 which $33.4 million 2011: $0.7 million and working capital increased by includes a xed payment schedule plus two contingent payments $17.0 million 2011: $11.8 million, much of which related to the linked to dividends paid to shareholders in each of 2012 and 2013. increase in strategic stocks of chrome ore.
Offsetting these Based on dividends paid in 2012, the first contingent payment of increases, the retirement benefit obligation increased by $41.2 million 2.9 million was made to the fund in 2012.
A second payment will 2011: increase of $27.4 million driven mainly by actuarial losses be made in the first half of 2014 based on dividends paid in 2013. following a decline in corporate bond yields.
Net cash increased by For example, based on the ordinary and special dividends announced $17.8 million 2011: $105.5 million as the Group continues to be cash on 26 February 2013 and assuming that the interim dividend in 2013 generative after its operating, investment and nancing activities.
is the same as 2012 2.45 cents per share, the second contingent payment would be approximately 8.2 million.
The overall payment The main dollar exchange rates relevant to the Group are set out schedule is designed to eliminate the funding deficit by the end of below: 2018 and, using the above example, the combined xed and contingent payments are likely to be as follows: 2012 2011 Year end Average Year end Average Year payable Amount million Pounds sterling 0.62 0.63 0.64 0.62 2012 12.9 Euro 0.76 0.78 0.77 0.71 2013 14.5 2014 23.8 Provisions 2015 14.9 A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has 2016 10.9 a present obligation as a result of past events, which is expected to 2017 9.7 result in an outow of economic benets in order to settle the 2018 7.4 obligation.
At the end of 2012 the Group held provisions of $40.5 million 2011: $43.6 million, of which $37.6 million 2011: $41.3 million relates to environmental matters, including the closure of the Eaglescliffe IAS 19 valuation facility in the UK.
The Groups environmental provision has been In 2012 the UK Scheme deficit, under IAS 19, increased to $72.9 million calculated using a methodology consistent with previous years.
2011: $35.0 million as a result of an increase in scheme assets of Approximately $25.2 million relates to sites maintained by the Group $47.6 million 2011: $29.0 million, offset by an increase in scheme 2011: $28.8 million with the remainder relating to sites no longer liabilities of $85.5 million 2011: increase of $35.1 million.
The scheme under Group control.
$3.7 million was spent on the Eaglescliffe assets increased due to a 5 per cent return on investments for the year closure programme in 2012 with an anticipated spend in 2013 of 2011: 9 per cent, contributions from the Company of $21.1 million approximately $2.5 million.
2011: $16.3 million, less benefit payments of $40.2 million 2011: $40.0 million.
Currency movements also increased the Pensions and other post-retirement benets asset value by $31.6 million 2011: reduced by $3.9 million.
The scheme liabilities increased due to actuarial losses of $57.5 million 2012 2011 2011: $41.9 million, mainly due to a decline in real corporate bond $million $million yields of approximately 30 basis points 2011: 30 basis points, finance Net liabilities: costs of $33.2 million 2011: $36.5 million and currency movements of UK 72.9 35.0 $34.1 million 2011: decreased by $4.2 million, which were offset by US 51.3 49.6 benefit payments as described above.
Other 11.8 10.2 136.0 94.8 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 ELEMENTIS PLC SHAREHOLDER 106 108 FINANCIAL 62 105 CORPORATE 36 61 BUSINESS 04 35 COMPANY IFC 03 INFORMATION STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE REVIEW OVERVIEW 24 FINANCE REPORT CONTINUED Investment strategy Other liabilities amounted to $3.3 million 2011: $2.7 million and With the support of the Company, the trustees are operating an relate to pension arrangements for a relatively small number of investment strategy that broadly includes 50 per cent of the assets employees in Germany.
being invested in a liability matching fund and 50 per cent in an investment fund.
The liability matching fund consists of bonds, Amendments to IAS 19 impacting reporting from gilts and liquid assets, plus a portfolio of interest and ination 2013 onwards swaps constructed in such a way as to match the interest and Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benets make substantial ination risks inherent in a similar percentage of the scheme changes to the recognition, measurement and disclosure of liabilities.
The purpose of this fund is to finance a portion of the retirement benefit obligations.
The most significant change is that liabilities without creating significant volatility in the reported the expected return on plan assets, currently calculated using deficit.
The investment fund, on the other hand, consists of a managements estimate of the return on the appropriate assets, portfolio of return seeking assets, largely equity based, with the will be replaced by a gure calculated by applying the liability aim of funding part of the liabilities by generating higher returns discount rate to the pension plan assets.
The Group estimates with an acceptable level of risk, while also contributing to reducing that had the revised standard been applied in the 2012 the deficit over time.
financial year the profit before tax gure would have been lower by $7.8 million, or 1.5 cents per share.
The impact in US plans 2013 is likely to be of a similar amount.
The US liabilities in 2012 comprised a dened benefit pension plan, with a deficit value of $42.8 million 2011: $41.4 million, and a post-retirement medical plan with a value of $8.5 million 2011: $8.2 million.
The US pension plan is smaller than the UK Scheme and is closed to future accruals.
The deficit in the plan increased by $1.4 million 2011: $15.2 million during the year, due to an increase in the scheme assets of $10.5 million 2011: decrease of $2.8 million and an increase in the scheme liabilities of $11.9 million 2011: $12.4 million.
The scheme assets were 73 per cent 2011: 74 per cent invested in equities and generated a return of 13 per cent in the year 2011: minus one per cent, which was the main contributor to the increase in value.
The scheme liabilities increased mainly due to a fall in real corporate bond yields during the year of approximately 60 basis points 2011: 100 basis points.
Other plans In the Netherlands, the Group operates an insured dened benets plan as is customary in that country.
At the end of 2012 the deficit value for this plan was $8.5 million, compared to $7.5 million in the previous year and the increase was mostly due to a fall in real corporate bond yields of 125 basis points.
In 2005 a number of changes were made to the benets provided by the plan, as well as other non-pension benets, as part of a negotiation with labour unions.
In 2009 a group of pensioners challenged the benefit changes in court, on the basis that they should not be applied to them, and in 2010 the court ruled in favour of Elementis.
The pensioner group challenged the courts decision in an appellate court and in 2011 the appellate court overturned the original decision.
Elementis has appealed that courts decision to the Supreme Court of the Netherlands, which is expected to review the case sometime in 2013.
The majority of the deficit value in 2012 relates to this case.
ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 25 Key performance indicators 3.
Return on operating capital employed The Groups key performance indicators The return on operating capital employed ROCE is dened as are a standard set of measures against operating profit before exceptional items divided by operating capital employed, expressed as a percentage.
Operating capital which each business reports on a employed comprises xed assets excluding goodwill, working monthly basis.
Incentive plans include capital and operating provisions.
Operating provisions include self insurance and environmental provisions but exclude targets against the annual operating restructuring provisions and retirement benefit obligations.
The Groups ROCE was 49.0 per cent for the year ended plan for earnings per share, operating 31 December 2012 2011: 52.6 per cent.
profit and average trade working ROCE for the Group including goodwill was 31.2 per cent in 2012 capital to sales ratio.
Lost time accidents Operating profit is the profit derived from the normal operations of A lost time accident LTA is any work related injury or illness the business.
Operating margin is the ratio of operating profit or sustained by an employee or directly employed contractor whilst loss, before exceptional items, to sales.
The Group achieved an working at the Groups premises that results in greater than three operating profit of $143.9 million for the year ended 31 December days lost, excluding the day of accident.
There were two LTAs in 2012 2011: $137.1 million before exceptional items.
operating margin was 19.0 per cent compared to 18.0 per cent in 2011.
Average trade working capital to sales ratio The Groups contribution margin, which is dened as sales less The trade working capital to sales ratio is dened as the 12 month all variable costs, divided by sales and expressed as a percentage, average trade working capital divided by sales, expressed as in 2012 was 38.5 per cent 2011: 37.7 per cent.
Trade working capital comprises inventories, trade receivables and trade payables.
It specifically excludes prepayments, capital or interest related receivables or payables, 6.
Operating cash ow working capital related to acquisitions made in the year, The operating cash ow is dened as the net cash ow from changes due to currency movements and items classied as other operating activities less net capital expenditure but excluding receivables and other payables.
The Groups 12 month average income taxes paid or received, interest paid or received, pension trade working capital to sales ratio at 31 December 2012 was contributions net of current service cost and exceptional items.
2012 the operating cash ow was $117.2 million 2011: $126.3 million.
Risk management report Risk management leadership Risk management structure The Board is ultimately responsible for the management of risk in the The illustration overleaf is intended to show that a holistic approach Group.
It sets the tone for the Groups policies on risk, appetite for risk is taken to the management of risk throughout the Group, which is and levels of risk tolerance.
However, the day to day management of a responsibility shared by all directors, executives, managers and risk is delegated to the executive directors and the management team employees alike.
who have specic responsibility for ensuring compliance with and A summary of the key components of the Elementis risk management implementing policies at corporate, divisional and business unit level.
system can be found on our website under Principal features of The Board retains an oversight role and has a schedule of matters our risk management system at: www.
com specifically reserved to it for decision, with strict delegation of  risk-management.
The Board is supported by the Audit Committee, which is assisted by the internal and external auditors.
The Audit The principal objectives of risk management are preventing material Committee plays an important role monitoring our risk management and internal control system.
In addition to these formal structures, the financial loss and fraud, safeguarding the value of assets including Board considers and reviews many different types of risks regularly in reputation and ensuring compliance with laws, regulations and its annual programme of meetings.
In seeking to generate and preserve value over the longer term, the Board sets the tone and direction for the way the businesses are managed that strikes the right balance between being too risk tolerant and being too risk averse.
This is reected in the decisions that have been taken, such as in relation to the acquisition of Watercryl, the approval of capital investment plans to support further growth in the Specialty Products business and agreeing the pension deficit and new funding plan with the trustees of the UK pension scheme.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 ELEMENTIS PLC SHAREHOLDER 106 108 FINANCIAL 62 105 CORPORATE 36 61 BUSINESS 04 35 COMPANY IFC 03 INFORMATION STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE REVIEW OVERVIEW Regulatory, compliance, legal, financial and IT risks and controls 26 FINANCE REPORT CONTINUED Elementis risk management structure Risk management Compliance monitoring policies and processes, and external audit communication and training Board of Directors Executive Directors and Audit management team Committee risk committee Operational management Business and HSE, risk management Site management leadership teams and compliance and employees professionals Commercial, supply chain, HSE and operational risks Risk identication, Review and evaluation of assessment and mitigation risk management systems Internal control system Risk management review A critical component of the Groups risk management is the internal The following is a summary of the Boards formal programme for control system and the role of the Audit Committee in overseeing and reviewing risk during the year: managing the Companys relationship with both the internal and external auditors.
The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring, Reviewing and approving the 2011 annual report and accounts.
t and reviewing the effectiveness of, the Groups system of internal Considering and approving the risk transference and t controls, which comprises financial, operational and compliance risks insurance programme.
Although the Audit Committee has been delegated Receiving and considering periodic litigation and t specic tasks in connection with this role, the Board is ultimately compliance reports and presentations.
responsible for the effectiveness of such a system, which can only Presentations from business units.
t be designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to Approving amendments to the risk management policy t achieve business objectives.
Our risk management and internal and associated organisation and resource arrangements.
Considering and approving the major risks identied by the control system can therefore only provide reasonable, and not t management team in its formal risk review process, including absolute, assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
mitigation action and testing of business continuity plans.
Reviewing business performance through CEO and Finance A separate description of the work of the Audit Committee appears t Director board reports, approving annual operating plans and in the corporate governance section of the Annual Report.
monitoring performance against updated forecasts during the year.
Receiving incident notication reports on health, safety and The Board is of the view that an on-going process for identifying, t environmental matters.
evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group was Considering the views of shareholders through regular feedback in place throughout the financial year under review and up to the t from investors on meetings with management, analysts research date that this Annual Report was approved.
This process is regularly reports and presentations from the Companys corporate advisers.
reviewed by the Board and accords with the Financial Reporting Board, Committee and individual director performance evaluation.
Councils guidance on audit committees.
t Board succession planning exercise and the work of the t Nomination Committee.
Set out below is a summary of the key features of the Groups internal Work of the Remuneration Committee in setting remuneration control system: t policies and incentive targets that encourages the business to deliver exceptional performance without excessive levels of Control environment risk taking.
A key factor in the Groups approach to internal control is the Work of the Audit Committee and the internal audit recognition of the need for risk awareness and the ownership of t service providers.
risk management by executives at all levels.
ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Governance and strategic risk 27 The Group has policies and procedures that set out the responsibilities Financial reporting of divisional management, including authority levels, reporting There is a comprehensive Group-wide system of financial reporting.
disciplines and responsibility for risk management and internal The Board reviews at each of its meetings reports from the Chief control.
Certain activities, including treasury, taxation, insurance, Executive and the Finance Director, as well as full management pension, compliance and legal matters are controlled centrally with accounts, comprising monthly and year to date profit and loss reports reviewed by the Board as appropriate.
Site level policies and statements, cash ows and balance sheet, with segmental and procedures are set by divisional management as appropriate to the individual business performance analyses.
In addition, capital needs of each business unit.
expenditure and relevant performance indicators are reported.
Actual monthly results are monitored against budget, forecasts and An internal audit programme is agreed by the Finance Director the previous years results.
Any significant variances are investigated and approved by the Audit Committee each year, setting out a and acted upon as appropriate.
As well as monthly management programme of audits over the course of the next 12 months.
accounts, each operating division prepares an annual and a three This focuses mainly on financial controls but also includes other year operating plan which is approved by the Board.
Thereafter a operational or compliance controls e. g. IT security, HSE reporting formal re-forecasting exercise is undertaken three times a year.
and compliance with Group policies.
The Audit Committee considers that the Groups systems of internal Risk identication and review control and risk management including those relating to the financial Key identied risks, both financial and non-financial, are reviewed by reporting process are robust and effective.
The Audit Committee is the Board, which is supported by the work of the Audit Committee responsible for ensuring the integrity of the Groups financial and the internal auditors, as well as by divisional management.
statements and other communications to the market about trading A formal annual review of risks and controls is carried out by both performance relative to market forecasts.
The Audit Committee the management team and the Board, and includes presentations approves and keeps under review significant accounting policies, from senior managers.
particularly in areas where judgements and estimates are made.
The management team, which comprises the executive directors, Investment appraisal business presidents and functional business leaders, meets on a There are clearly dened investment guidelines for capital expenditure.
regular basis to review each divisions and the Groups performance, All investment expenditure is subject to formal authorisation strategy and risk management.
Its work is supported by the internal procedures, with major proposals being considered by the Board.
audit programme which covers the monitoring of the effectiveness of internal controls and the design of processes to test the effectiveness Audit Committee of controls.
The role of the Audit Committee is critical within the Companys system of internal control and risk management.
For a description At an operating level, all divisions are required to have processes to of its work during the year, see page 46. identify risks and, so far as possible, take action to reduce those risks.
In addition annual compliance statements on internal control are Principal risks and uncertainties certied by each operating division.
The table below is a summary of the principal risks agreed by the Board, together with a description of how the risks are mitigated.
Principal risks and uncertainties RISK MITIGATION Sub-optimal global economic conditions can Specialty Products is well positioned against a deterioration in economic conditions t affect sales, capacity utilisation and cash due to its balanced geographic footprint, broad differentiated product offering and generation, as well as increase competitive the broad application of its technology across different sectors.
pressure in the marketplace, impacting Chromium business model is exible and can be adapted to respond to variances in t profitability and operating margins.
resultant non-delivery of operating plans can Financial performance including monthly sales, profit and cash ows is closely t lead to market expectations of Group earnings monitored with full year forecasts updated three times a year and variances explained not being met.
Contingency and cost reduction plans can be implemented in the event of an t economic downturn to reduce operating costs, including freezing salaries and non-essential capital expenditure items.
Growth opportunities and product innovation Organic and acquisitive growth is a priority for the Board and a key area of focus for the t may not materialise.
Experienced Board and management team, robust due diligence processes and t support of professional advisers.
Capacity expansion programmes are being implemented to ensure the business can t supply to high growth markets.
Regular Board reports on new product pipeline and progress on R&D projects.
t ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 ELEMENTIS PLC SHAREHOLDER 106 108 FINANCIAL 62 105 CORPORATE 36 61 BUSINESS 04 35 COMPANY IFC 03 INFORMATION STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE REVIEW OVERVIEW 28 FINANCE REPORT CONTINUED RISK MITIGATION Disruption to supply chain, key raw materials, Raw materials are sourced from a broad and diverse supplier base.
t infrastructure e. g. IT networks or transportation Strategic holding of key raw materials.
t and energy price stability can impact capacity Transport and carrier mitigation plans and insurance in place.
t utilisation and add to operating costs.
Energy costs are hedged where possible.
t Major regulatory enforcement action litigation Active compliance and risk management programmes in place including policies, t and other claims from products and historical procedures and training.
on-going operations can lead to higher Insurance programme and risk transfer strategy in place to mitigate financial losses.
t operating costs and reputational damage.
Experienced General Counsel supported by in-house and external legal teams.
t Regular reviews of litigation and compliance reports by the Board and role of the t Audit Committee, as well as the internal audit programme, help ensure these key risks are managed effectively.
UK pension fund: Pension investment strategy includes significant element of liability matching, t including the use of interest rate and ination hedging instruments.
Volatile financial markets, poor investment Options for pension fide-risking periodically reviewed.
t t returns and increased life expectancy can all deficit funding plan agreed with pension trustees through to 2018. t result in higher funding costs.
Regulation technological advances: R&D team aims to develop new products and technologies for use in an evolving t market to meet the changing needs of our sophisticated customers.
New technology, methods of production Active REACh programme in which the businesses participate in industry consortia, t t or processes giving competitors a providing data and information to regulators and experts, to support safety reviews market advantage.
of our products in a broad range of applications.
New regulations restricting the use or t carriage of chemicals can lead to loss of applications and sales or add to operating costs.
Major event or catastrophe Good housekeeping, preventative maintenance and other safety procedures help to t e. g. IT failure or operations HSE incident.
mitigate the effects of a major incident.
Reliance on hectorite mine and ood risk mitigated by the installation of drainage pumps t at the mine in 2011.
Insurance programme and business continuity plans that are tested regularly help to t mitigate the effects of a major incident.
HSE management programme with environmental compliance audits in place.
t Volatile financial markets and or major Company was in a net cash position at the year end with extensive borrowing facilities t disruptions to global or regional banking in place, so any impact is unlikely to materially impact on the ability to trade and systems can affect liquidity, the ability to access fund operations.
cash, make payments and fund operations, Company cash is deposited with a syndicate of banks with high credit approval ratings.
t and lead to higher operating costs.
Company has a strong unleveraged balance sheet so could raise alternative sources of t funding in emergencies.
Treasury policies implemented and compliance monitored, strong focus on cash t management with weekly cash reports so that cash requirements are known in advance.
These principal risks and uncertainties should be read in conjunction with the note on contingent liabilities on page 100.
Brian Taylorson Finance Director 26 February 2013 ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 29 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Introduction Compliance programme The Company recognises that corporate social responsibility CSR The Elementis Board and senior management team view the is a fundamental part of its business activities, from employee safety effectiveness of the Elementis compliance programme as and environmental awareness, to supply chain responsibility and fundamental to the Groups continuing success and in meeting its business ethics.
How it performs in this important area is critical to the corporate responsibilities.
The high expectations Elementis has for long term success of the Company, which is why the Chief Executive all of its employees around the world are set out in the Groups Code is responsible for CSR matters at Board level.
of Business Conduct and Ethics the Code, a summary of which appears on our website at: www.
All employees receive training on the Code, which has been translated into five languages.
The Code is supplemented by an extensive global network of policies, processes and guidelines covering a wide range of compliance matters including, for example, anti-bribery and corruption.
On completion of training, employees are required to certify that they understand and agree to be bound by Elementis joined the FTSE4Good the Code and various other policies.
index in September 2009 To demonstrate the Companys commitment to CSR, it is a member In 2012, numerous online training courses were provided to Elementis of the FTSE4Good index, a leading global responsible investment employees on the Code and other compliance areas including: index, and its CSR activities are centred on four core areas: people, global export controls, human rights, the UK Bribery Act, records community, environment and business relationships.
These training courses were made available to employees in multiple languages.
Online training is People supplemented by personal training, where appropriate, with senior Our people remain our most valuable asset and are a key differentiator executives also receiving training through briengs by the General between Elementis and its competitors.
The long term success of Counsel.
The Code also requires independent contractors, the Group depends on the passion, attitude, commitment and work consultants, agents and sales representatives who represent the ethic of all our employees around the world.
A strong culture of Group to agree to the same high standards as the Groups employees performance, leadership and success, with a focus on innovation while working on Group business.
It is the Groups practice to and customer service, fosters this Elementis can do spirit and this undertake an extensive due diligence review of all potential is supported by Group policies, training and guidelines.
acquisition targets before completing any transaction.
Diversity Beyond its compliance policies and training, a critical aspect of the We have a global workforce including contractors and temporary Elementis compliance programme is the Groups strong commitment workers of over 1,300 spread across three continents 42 per cent to having employees feel that they can raise compliance concerns in the Americas, 27 per cent in Europe and 31 per cent in Asia.
During 2012, our employees were Gender diversity in the workplace continues to be a focus of reminded of the Groups whistleblowing arrangements and governance in UK public companies.
Elementis is committed to information and AlertLine posters were distributed to all sites in local equality of opportunity and rmly believes that women contribute languages, where appropriate.
Reporting options for employees, equally in the workplace at all levels, which is demonstrated through which include their manager, Human Resources and the General the recent appointment of a new Vice President of Global Human Counsel and Chief Compliance officer, are well publicised within the Resources, Ling Dawes, at the beginning of 2013.
While employees are encouraged to report concerns through of the senior executive team and reports directly to the CEO.
Out of these routes, a toll-free hotline is also available.
The Group views its our total workforce excluding contractors or temporary workers, employees as its best form of defence in detecting compliance issues 24 per cent are female.
Of these female employees, 16 per cent just and early detection is essential to effectively protecting Elementis.
under 50 hold managerial positions and 8 per cent over 20 hold an executive management position within the four tiers below Board level.
The Group, however, does not consider targets or quotas to be appropriate for increasing the percentage of women in management positions.
In terms of a diversity policy more generally, a summary of our employment policies appears on page 38 in the Directors report but the principal message is that we apply a policy of nondiscrimination except as it relates to a persons ability or potential in relation to the needs of a job throughout the Group to recruitment and promotion, layoffs, training and grievance procedures.
Our HR policies seek to ensure decisions are based on objective criteria and merit.
Staff turnover across the Group, for 2012, was under 0.5 per cent 2011: 0.6 per cent.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 ELEMENTIS PLC SHAREHOLDER 106 108 FINANCIAL 62 105 CORPORATE 36 61 BUSINESS 04 35 COMPANY IFC 03 INFORMATION STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE REVIEW OVERVIEW 30 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED Health and safety The Group uses recordable incidents as its principal measure of Elementis cares about the health and safety of its employees, safety performance.
Recordable incidents as dened by the US contractors and visitors.
As such, safety performance and the Occupational Safety & Health Administration are work related effectiveness of current programmes are reviewed on a regular basis injuries and illnesses that require medical treatment beyond first aid.
by management at all levels.
New initiatives are commonly developed To monitor performance and trends among more serious injuries and implemented as part of the Groups continuing commitment to and illnesses, the Group also records lost time accidents LTAs, reduce risk within the work environment.
as dened by the UK Health & Safety Executive greater than three days lost, not including the day of incident.
The number of The Group must, of course, comply with all applicable regulatory recordable incidents across the Group in 2012 was 14 2011: 15. requirements in each country in which it operates.
A programme of Of the 14 recordable incidents only two required time away from health and safety audits is undertaken on a three year rolling cycle work greater than three days 2011: five.
However, Elementis takes health and safety beyond regulatory compliance and has Group policies, As well as the total number of recordable and lost time incidents, procedures and standards, supplemented by local instructions on the Board uses an overall recordable incident rate as a performance how requirements are to be applied specifically at manufacturing indicator based on the industry standard of 200,000 hours worked.
Senior operations management routinely review, improve and The total recordable incident rate in 2012 was 1.11 2011: 1.20. implement new Group policies and practices.
Internal and external Within the chemical industry, the sustained performance of subject experts provide guidance and training in the development Elementis is comparable to companies that are generally viewed and implementation of these new policies and practices.
An incident as having industry best safety performance based on American notication and reporting system is in place to ensure that safety Chemistry Council Responsible Care members, 0.85 in 2011 and incidents are reported to the management team and the Board.
signicantly better than the general chemical industry in the US Incidents, including near misses, are recorded and managed 2.4 in 2011 based on latest data available from the US Bureau of through an HSE database.
Investigations are carried out following Labour Statistics.
any incidents and appropriate corrective action is taken to mitigate the risk of their recurrence.
In addition, safety incidents and general RECORDABLE INCIDENT RATE safety topics are often highlighted in safety alerts and shared Recordable incidents per 200,000 hours worked throughout the Group sites to raise awareness.
5 A summary of the Groups policy on health, safety and 4 environmental matters can be found on the Groups website at: 3 www.
2 Safety performance 1 The Company continually strives to eliminate accidents and injuries 0 within the workplace.
We seek to achieve this through maintaining 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 our strong focus on, and commitment to, safety design, a safe environment, setting and communicating safety standards, training, Key encouraging safe behaviours and developing a corporate culture that Elementis ACC RC emphasises and supports all of the above.
US chemical 2011 is latest data available for ACC and US chemical To ensure comprehensive monitoring of our safety performance, Elementis also records and reports separately the recordable injury rate for contractors working at our sites.
Contractors are closely supervised and compliance with Elementis policies and procedures is strictly enforced.
As a result, there were no recordable injuries to contractors on Elementis sites in 2012 2011: zero.
ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 31 Safety improvement initiatives Community During 2012, we completed the implementation of the basic safety Elementis understands the need to work with local communities to process that we started in 2011 following a comprehensive review.
provide information on its activities and be a responsible neighbour.
The changes introduced a new level of focus on safety leadership The Group continues to be a sponsoring partner of the Mojave and communication, policies and behavioural safety.
Environmental Education Consortium in California, which provides many environmental education programmes and resources for Keeping track of safety related actions and reporting can be a teachers and students.
Our Newberry Springs mine is located near complex task.
To help manage this, a compliance calendar system the Mojave desert.
introduced in recent years has become a critical tool that ensures safety related actions and training are completed in a timely manner.
Our community programme remains centred on encouraging and In addition, new policies continue to be developed and instituted supporting employees to be active in their communities through based on the needs within the Group.
The Company has guidelines for charitable giving but does not dictate any specic areas or priority The Group collects a significant amount of data in an incident for corporate support.
This approach is designed to encourage reporting database.
The original purpose of the database was as a management and employees at individual sites to focus on local tool for investigation and establishing corrective actions.
A major issues and to take the initiative.
Their efforts are often rewarded by improvement initiated in 2012 is to use the data in the database either a Company donation or programme that matches amounts to identify trends and manage safety proactively rather than the raised by employees.
A collaborative exercise to enhance the current database was conducted during 2012 involving In 2012, the Group made charitable donations of $28,563 representatives from manufacturing and external consultants and 2011: $51,113 to a wide range of groups and organisations experts.
This has led to a specication for modications that will supporting many different causes.
Examples of organisations and help site and corporate management to understand and manage groups supported last year include local youth and sports clubs, HSE related trends, as well as specic HSE incidents.
schools, arts groups, hospice and other welfare related groups and medical research health related charities.
Some sites have experimented with bringing in recognised safety professionals to help make safety personal and show the individual Environment contributions that everyone can make to safety.
Elementis seeks to operate its facilities in a way that minimises the impact on the environment.
We view compliance with all applicable Fundamental human rights legal requirements and other codes of practice as our minimum Elementis supports the wider fundamental human rights of all its standard.
Our sustainable development strategy requires that we employees and all those who may be affected by our business work proactively to reduce emissions, minimise waste from our activities.
These include, for example, the right to the freedom of processes, conserve valuable natural resources and ensure speech, thought, movement, association, a right to privacy and to responsible product stewardship throughout the supply chain.
make decisions and contracts, and a right to equality of treatment, protection and non-discrimination.
While the application of some of In addition to complying with environmental regulatory reporting these principles has centred on employment practices, such as child requirements, Elementis records and categorises incidents into tiers or forced labour, these concepts can have daily application in many based on the severity of the incident on the environment or actions different aspects of our activities.
Employees can expect to be treated taken by regulatory authorities.
Tier 3 incidents are those that have fairly, with dignity and respect.
Anti-harassment and anti-retaliation an impact on the environment and require reporting to an external policies and grievance procedures all allow employees to speak authority, and where enforcement action is likely.
Tier 2 incidents freely and openly.
Our employment policies recognise the right have a minor impact and require notication but are likely to result in of employees to join a union and to be treated equally without minimal or no action being taken by the authorities.
Currently over 40 per cent of our employees are require no external reporting and are recorded internally and union members and over a fifth are subject to collective bargaining investigated so that continual improvements can be made to reduce agreements.
the likelihood of future Tier 2 and Tier 3 incidents.
Further information on human rights at Elementis can be found on our website at: www.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 ELEMENTIS PLC SHAREHOLDER 106 108 FINANCIAL 62 105 CORPORATE 36 61 BUSINESS 04 35 COMPANY IFC 03 INFORMATION STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE REVIEW OVERVIEW 32 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED Environmental performance The data presented in Table 1 is influenced by production levels Our target is to comply with all environmental regulations and and specic events, so an increase or decrease does not necessarily permits, with zero environmental incidents classed as Elementis mean our performance in these areas has improved or deteriorated.
Beyond that we strive for continual improvement in The information in Table 1 showing our performance per tonne of standards to reduce our impact on the environment.
In 2012, production is affected by changes in the type of fuel, production Elementis had no Tier 2 or Tier 3 incidents 2011: one.
processes, product mix and plant efficiencies, which may change with different levels of capacity utilisation.
As is standard practice in Emissions to air, discharges to water and waste disposal are regulated the chemical industry, some emission values may be calculated from by external authorities and controlled carefully within Elementis.
energy use or based on samples rather than continuous monitoring.
The table below shows our performance in this area, as well as our water and energy usage over the past three years.
The changes in performance data shown in Table 1 is explained in the commentary following.
Table 1 Environmental performance 2012 2011 2010 Per Per Per Absolute tonne of Absolute tonne of Absolute tonne of 000s production 000s production 000s production CO emissions tonnes 183 0.76 200 0.74 261 0.99 2 3 Water consumed m 1,928 7.97 1,889 6.97 1,848 6.99 Energy consumed GJ 4,910 12.9 4,862 12.1 4,926 12.1 Per 1,000 Per 1,000 Per 1,000 Absolute tonnes of Absolute tonnes of Absolute tonnes of 000s production 000s production 000s production Hazardous waste disposed tonnes 1.70 7.01 1.54 5.67 1.20 4.54 Non-hazardous waste disposed tonnes 104 430 116 431 114 433 Emissions to air Discharges to water The Group is committed to reducing, wherever it can, its greenhouse Maintaining the water quality of the areas in which we operate is a gas GHG emissions, which for Elementis are principally carbon regulatory issue and vital to protect the ecosystems and communities dioxide CO and some nitrous oxide.
Elementis complies with in which we operate.
The Groups production activity generates 2 relevant national CO reduction schemes, such as the UK Carbon process efuent with low concentrations of organic material that are 2 Reduction Commitment energy efficiency scheme, and will comply discharged to water.
This is measured as chemical and biological with future requirements under the Companies Act 2006 requiring the oxygen demand.
These are regulated by external authorities and directors to report on specic GHG emissions.
However, the volumes of these discharges are not considered to be significant and are not reported The reduction in CO emissions is largely due to the change of fuel here, but can also be found on our website.
2 from oil to natural gas used for ring the chromate kilns at Castle Hayne, North Carolina.
Any emissions to air or discharges to water above regulatory permitted levels will continue to be reported each year under In addition to the GHG potential, the emissions of the oxides of environmental incidents.
sulphur and nitrogen arising from the Groups operations can contribute towards acid rain.
Volatile organic compounds, where Water consumption emitted, can damage soil and ground water or combine with Generally, the Company does not operate in areas of extreme water nitrous oxide to cause smog.
However, all these emissions are shortage.
Nevertheless, water is a valuable resource and the controlled to comply with regulatory permits and, as the volumes Company recognises the global need to conserve water.
Water are not considered to be significant, they are not reported here.
consumption is minimised where possible by treatment and recycling.
For information on these emissions, visit our website at www.
Water consumption is related to production output, product mix, plant utilisation and cleaning activities.
Water consumption increased in 2012 due to the varying nature of plant operating and cleaning requirements.
ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 33 Energy consumption Solid waste The Group is committed to reducing its consumption of energy As part of our commitment to sustainable development, Elementis derived from fossil fuels as a contribution towards reducing GHG seeks to minimise the quantity of all types of waste.
The quantity emissions and the consequential impact on global warming.
There is of hazardous waste resulting from our operations has reduced nevertheless an energy requirement for production, so the Group has signicantly over the last decade.
However, cleaning out a storm taken steps to move towards cleaner energy sources, such as natural water tank damaged by a hurricane at Corpus Christi, Texas created gas in place of oil.
In 2012 natural gas represented 96 per cent of the an exceptional generation of hazardous waste in 2012. fossil fuel consumption gas, oil and coal measured in consistent energy units, GJ 2011: 69 per cent.
There is also the added incentive In 2012, the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection that, as energy is an expensive resource, its efficient use has a recognised Elementis Specialty Products under its environmental significant effect on the cost of production.
As the Group uses a range stewardship initiative.
The award cited the voluntary and proactive of fuel sources purchased conventionally in a variety of units, we measures taken in environmental policy and hazardous materials report usage in gigajoules GJ to provide consistent energy units.
reduction to go beyond compliance in an effort to improve the environment and achieve a sustainable future.
The hazardous Energy reduction initiatives waste reduction involves separating out solvent waste from the Under the Groups policy on sustainable development, one area cleaning process at our Jersey City facility.
This waste is now which our businesses have been working on is energy efficiency.
There are a number of initiatives underway to increase the Groups energy efficiency.
The facility at Delden in the Netherlands, shared by Non-hazardous waste is minimised and recycled as far as possible.
Specialty Products and Surfactants, is working on an energy efficiency It is predominantly the inert residue from the chromate kiln plan for the period 2013 to 2016.
Under the plan, several process operations, which is deposited in our own permitted impoundments efficiency measures have been identied and the facility is targeted to and licensed landll sites adjacent to the manufacturing facilities.
reduce energy usage by an estimated 6 per cent over the next four Hazardous waste generated by our operations is disposed of at years, with an additional 6 per cent in the same period being subject licensed disposal sites.
to further study and investment.
Areas where such improvements are anticipated include ventilation, replacement of the nitrogen supply Product stewardship and through the activities of our operational excellence initiative.
Elementis products benefit our customers and society in many ways, but they must be used in a way to ensure safety to people and the There is also an energy management plan at the Specialty Products environment throughout the products entire life cycle.
Our principles site in Livingston, Scotland.
A number of processes and procedures and culture are such that each employee takes responsibility to ensure have been developed to enable continual monitoring of the facilitys health, safety and environmental protection are a part of their daily energy usage and waste water generation by product.
This enhanced personal and commercial activities.
monitoring has enabled the site to identify specic projects to reduce its energy consumption.
The facility has specic targets to reduce its We ensure that health, safety and environmental protection are an natural gas consumption by 10 per cent, electricity consumption by integral part of our products life cycle, including development, 5 per cent and waste water generation by 5 per cent over the next manufacture, sales, distribution, use, recycle and final disposal by: two years.
This equates to a reduction of over 1,100 tonnes of CO per 2 annum.
It is intended to achieve these reductions through investment The identication and evaluation of any significant hazards for t in new technology and improvements to operating practice.
each product or family of products at all stages of their life cycle.
The characterisation and review of any risks associated with these t In our Chromium business, the main focus of its energy efficiency products or product families in their intended use.
plans has been on its largest energy usage plant in Castle Hayne, The establishment of risk management practices to minimise the t North Carolina.
During 2012, phase two of a major conversion process potential risks associated with use to people and the environment.
at this facility from heavy fuel oil to natural gas on three large process Proactively communicating the hazards associated with our t driers yielded a 5 per cent reduction in CO emissions per tonne products and their proper handling, recycling, use and disposal to 2 produced.
This followed on from phase 1, completed during 2011, employees, customers, distributors and the general public.
where the major operating kilns and boilers were converted to natural The application of our product stewardship principles when t gas, reducing CO emissions by 35 per cent from 2010. selecting suppliers, toll manufacturers and distributors.
2 Switching from heavy fuel oil to natural gas has additional benets with a reduction in sulphur oxide SOx emissions by over 99 per cent and nitrogen oxide NOx emissions by about 75 per cent.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 ELEMENTIS PLC SHAREHOLDER 106 108 FINANCIAL 62 105 CORPORATE 36 61 BUSINESS 04 35 COMPANY IFC 03 INFORMATION STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE REVIEW OVERVIEW 34 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED To implement these practices, Elementis relies on a highly We continue to actively meet the requirements of new, or revised, experienced global product stewardship team, as well as expert chemical control regulations across our global markets.
At Elementis consultants, academics and government authorities.
We use we are continually evaluating and improving our product stewardship up-to-date hazard communications and compliance tools to programme to ensure best practices protection of our employees, communicate product safe handling, transport and disposal customers, society and the environment.
information to our employees, customers and the general public via technical bulletins, safety data sheets SDS and labelling.
R&D and sustainable development These communications are further enhanced by product safety Our global R&D team continues its focus on: briengs with our employees, suppliers, distributors and customers.
Indeed, each year our global product stewardship team responds Reduction in the use of materials that contribute to t to several thousand product safety and compliance questions from greenhouse gases.
our customers, the general public and regulatory authorities.
Development of biodegradable new products for use in t aqueous environments.
Whilst we practice a consistent and coordinated approach to Expanded use of bio-based materials in our products.
t regulatory compliance at state, national, regional and global levels, Facilitating the migration of decorative coatings to aqueous t our internal IT systems are being enhanced to automatically ag when solutions from solvent-based systems.
We continue to support efforts, by taking opportunities to work with government authorities, to develop We further advanced our offerings of zero VOC volatile organic regulations to enhance the protection of society and the environment compound rheological additives with the introduction of a second that are based on established scientific risk assessment and risk generation of products to serve a larger section of the decorative management principles.
Our goal is to work with industry groups coatings market than before.
to support regulations that are predictable, exible and capable of responsibly addressing societys economic, environmental and safety New manufacturing processes were dened to meet the increasing requirements.
demand for two of our new bio-based products.
These new manufacturing techniques substantially increased yield from Through our global product stewardship team, Elementis continues the renewable raw materials while at the same time reduced to be fully engaged in the European REACh programme and will process waste.
successfully deliver on its 2013 Tier 2 REACh obligations.
During 2012 our REACh programme was reviewed by our internal auditors and Our global commitment to these and other environmentally friendly found to be robust and capable of meeting our obligations in 2013 initiatives continues to be very high.
Biodiversity We continue to support our global customers and markets through Elementis takes care to ensure that its activities do not cause long term our Only Representative services under REACh covering imports damage to biodiversity in the areas where it has operations.
In this into Europe by Elementis entities and key customers.
The product regard, the Group has policies and systems in place to ensure full stewardship team continues to be actively involved in many consortia compliance with environmental requirements.
coordinating the REACh registration of our most important product categories.
We continue providing active support to consortia and organisations such as CEFIC European Chemical Industry Council and numerous SIEFs Substance Information Exchange Forum.
In addition to complying with the REACh regulatory requirements for our products during 2012, Elementis continued to focus on compliance with the United Nations GHS Globally Harmonized System hazard communications standard as it is implemented around the world.
For example, the necessary GHS safety data sheets and labels were available for our products in Singapore when that countrys new GHS regulation came into effect in late 2012.
Other important regulatory milestones successfully achieved in 2012 were completion of our chemical data reporting for the US Environment Protection Agency, In-Commerce listings for Health Canada and recertication under the US National Organic Programme.
ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 35 Business relationships Innovation award Customers During the year, Elementis was invited to submit an entry to the Each of our business strategies has as its cornerstone an intense focus British Business Awards 2012 the Awards, which is an event on our customers with the goal of offering value added, high quality organised by the British Chamber of Commerce in China every two solutions that are supported by strong technical service.
Elementis entered the innovation award category, which is technical service and innovative product development are critical judged on the basis of: commercial success: long term commitment elements in helping our customers be successful and in how we to continuous investment in China: best practice in innovation: and differentiate ourselves from our competitors.
We monitor our the wider benets of the innovation in the Chinese market.
The performance with metrics, for example, OTIF on-time, in full Awards attract strong interest from British companies operating in delivery which improved by 41 basis points over 2011.
We develop China across many industrial sectors.
Elementis won the prestigious and nurture close customer relationships through our key account innovation award by demonstrating a deep understanding of the business process and participation in trade shows and industry Chinese market and tailoring its innovation to this market.
forums, as well as conducting numerous group workshops, training seminars and hosting collaborative laboratory sessions This success and recognition exemplify our long standing commitment to work with customers on a one-on-one basis.
to product innovation, fostered on technical excellence, knowledge of our markets and customers, teamwork and collaboration, and will help Suppliers and supply chain drive further growth of our business in China, where Elementis has Over the last several years we have seen a growth in global trade already established a leading market position.
compliance requirements through increased legislation and regulations, such as GHS and CLP Classication for Labels Documentation and Packaging.
These define information to be provided on safety data sheets, product labels and transportation tariffs.
They include documentation requiring an effective supply chain methodology to identify the afrmative measures to be taken by our suppliers, internal operations, external warehouses and distribution channels to ensure our customers are able to receive products in a timely manner which we monitor, as explained above, on an OTIF basis globally.
We have continued to address questions from our customers on social responsibility and environmental awareness programmes and have successfully completed a number of surveys and informal audits.
Training worldwide for all procurement members continues to ensure compliance and adherence to our Purchasing Code of Practice and Anti-corruption policy.
Suppliers are likewise expected to afrm their conformity to international labour laws, social and environmental responsible legislation and best practices.
Conict minerals continue to be absent from our supply chain.
Our North American freight activities have included a focus on the expanded use of back-hauls by carriers to reduce our carbon footprint through an outsourced third party that has greater access to the carrier network.
Shipments routed through the third party network reduce both logistics carrier rates and fuel consumption.
Our New Martinsville, West Virginia facility, which came on-stream in early 2013, will also address ocean and road freight usage, as we seek to produce rheological products that are currently imported for our North American customers from Europe.
We regularly monitor and amend the European and Asian distribution networks using our regional distribution centres to limit our carbon footprint.
Use of natural products within our supply chain grew by $4.5 million in 2012 and is now up to $15.8 million annually.
This represents a rise of 40 per cent from 2011 $11.3 million.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 ELEMENTIS PLC SHAREHOLDER 106 108 FINANCIAL 62 105 CORPORATE 36 61 BUSINESS 04 35 COMPANY IFC 03 INFORMATION STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE REVIEW OVERVIEW
