36 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Non-executive directors Executive directors Robert Beeston Andrew Christie David Dutro Chairman Non-executive directo or r Group Chief Executive Committee Committee membership: membership: A, N, R N c Robert Beeston was appointed non-executive Andrew Christie was appointed a non-executive David Dutro was appointed Group Chief Chairman of Elementis and Chairman of the director in August 2008 and has over 25 years of Executive in January 2007.
He joined Elementis Nomination Committee in September 2006. investment banking and international corporate in November 1998 as President of Elementis He was non-executive chairman of Cookson finance experience.
He is a partner of Smith Pigments then became President and Chief Group plc from April 2003 to May 2010 and a Square Partners LLP, a corporate finance advisory Operating officer of Elementis Worldwide in non-executive director of D S Smith plc between rm, and before that was, until March 2008, a UK October 2005.
He was vice president and December 2000 and December 2010, where managing director in the European Investment general manager of Universal Foods Dairy and he was the senior independent director and Banking Group at Credit Suisse.
In his prior role Food Ingredient businesses now Sensient chairman of the remuneration committee from at Credit Suisse, he was head of Investment Technologies Corp, and also spent time with 2003 to 2009.
From 1992 until 2002 he was chief Banking, Asia Pacic, based in Hong Kong and, ICI in their colours, polymer additives and executive officer of FKI plc.
He spent 18 years with before that, held the same position with Barclays surfactants businesses.
David Dutro was born Dowty Group before joining John Brown Plastics fide Zoete Wedd.
He was previously chairman and educated in the US and holds a Bachelor Machinery UK Ltd as managing director.
In 1985, and non-executive director of Ark Therapeutics of Science degree in marketing.
he was appointed managing director of BTR Valve Group plc and holds an MBA and a Bachelor of Group, a position he held for six years before Science degree in engineering.
Ian Brindle Chris Girling Brian Taylorson Senior Independent Direct tor or Non-executive director Finance Director Committee Committee membership: membership: A, N A c, N, R Ian Brindle was appointed a non-executive director Chris Girling was appointed a non-executive Brian Taylorson was appointed Finance Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee in June 2005. director in April 2005 and Chairman of the Audit in April 2002.
Before joining Elementis he was He retired as Chairman of the Audit Committee in Committee in April 2008.
He was group finance head of European chemicals M&A group at April 2008 and was appointed Senior Independent director of Carillion plc, a construction and KPMG Corporate Finance.
He joined KPMG in Director.
He was senior partner of Price Waterhouse support service group, from 1999 to 2007, and 2000 from the Dow Chemical Company where from 1991 to 1998 and UK chairman of previous to that he was finance director of Vosper he held a number of positions in finance over  until 2001.
He was also a Thornycroft plc for ten years.
He holds an MBA a period of 17 years.
He holds an MA from member of the Accounting Standards Board and is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Cambridge University, is a member of the between 1992 and 2001 and the deputy chairman Accountants in England and Wales.
He is a Institute of Chartered Accountants in England of the Financial Reporting Review Panel between non-executive director of Keller Group plc, and Wales and a member of the Association of 2001 and 2008.
He is senior independent director Workspace Group plc and ARCO Limited, Corporate Treasurers.
He was a non-executive and chairman of the audit committee of Spirent and chairman of the board of trustees of the director of Fiberweb plc between September Communications plc, a non-executive director of Slaughter and May pension scheme.
F&C Asset Management plc and non-executive chairman of Sherborne Investors Guernsey A Limited and Sherborne Investors Guernsey B Limited.
From October 2003 to June 2012, he was a non-executive director of 4imprint Group plc where he was also the senior independent director.
Kevin Matthews Non-executive director Committee membership: A, N, R c Kevin Matthews was appointed a non-executive director in February 2005 and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in April 2008.
He is chief executive officer of Isogenica Limited, a private biotechnology business based in the UK and established in 2000.
Prior to that, he was CEO of Oxonica plc, a UK based nanotechnology company, a role he held from April 2001 to September 2009, and previous to that he held roles in Rhodia Consumer Specialties Limited, Key Albright & Wilson UK Limited and ICI Chemicals A Audit Committee and Polymers.
He is a non-executive director of N Nomination Committee Cellectricon AB, a Swedish private biotechnology R Remuneration Committee business, and holds a D. Phil in chemistry.
c Chairman of Committee ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012
