37 SENIOR EXECUTIVES Greg McClatchy Walker Allen Ken Morris President of Elementis General Counsel and Chief Information officer Specialties comprising Chief Compliance officer r Elementis Specialty Produ uc ct ts s and Elementis Surfactant ts s Greg McClatchy was appointed President of Walker Allen joined Elementis as General Counsel Ken Morris was appointed Chief Information Elementis Specialties in January 2007.
He joined in 1999 and was appointed General Counsel and officer in October 2012, bringing over 30 years Elementis Pigments in 1999, served as managing Chief Compliance officer in 2006.
Prior to joining of experience in the chemical industry.
Prior to director of its Durham UK operations, and was Elementis, he was associate general counsel with joining Elementis, he held senior IT positions appointed President of Specialty Rubber in 2002 GE Americom a GE Capital company and before with Ashland, International Specialty Products and President of Elementis Chromium in 2005. that senior business counsel with GE Plastics a now Ashland, and The BOC Group now Linde.
He was previously with Universal Foods now division of General Electric Company.
He began He also worked as a chemical engineer for Sensient Technologies Corp and ICIs polymer his legal career as a lawyer in private practice with Exxon now ExxonMobil.
Ken Morris holds a additives business.
Greg McClatchy completed two leading New York City law rms, where he Master of Science degree in management from his undergraduate studies in chemistry and specialised in corporate law, securities, and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology economics at the University of Delaware.
Walker Allen is a and a Bachelor of Science degree in chemical member of the New York Bar and is admitted as engineering from Penn State University.
in-house counsel in New Jersey.
Dennis Valentino Ling Dawes Wai Wong President of Elementis Vice President Global Company Secretary Chromium Human Resources Dennis Valentino re-joined Elementis as Ling Dawes joined Elementis as the Vice President Wai Wong joined Elementis and was appointed President of Elementis Chromium in April 2009. of Global Human Resources in January 2013, Company Secretary in May 2007.
He is a Fellow His previous positions at Elementis included bringing to the Company over 20 years of of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and managing director of Asia Pacic and President experience as a senior global HR business Administrators ICSA.
Prior to joining Elementis, of Elementis Pigments until it was sold in August executive and consultant for mid to large-sized he held a number of senior company secretarial 2007 when he left the Group.
Prior to Elementis, companies, including Aramark International, positions including at John Menzies plc, ICSA he joined Pzer Pigments in 1975 and held Cox Enterprise Sales, Corning Technology, and .
Wai Wong has a various positions there including vice president Cisco Systems, SAE Corporation and DuPont Bachelors degree in commerce and law from the of manufacturing and vice president of Global Operations.
She holds an MA degree University of Edinburgh and a Masters degree in its North America Coatings business.
Dennis from the University of Arizona and is a certied corporate and commercial law from Queen Mary Valentino completed his undergraduate study professional in compensation, benets and College, University of London.
in chemical engineering at the University of global remuneration with WorldatWork.
Ling Missouri Rolla, and obtained his MBA from Dawes is also a certied senior professional in HR St. Louis University.
with the Society for HR Management.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 ELEMENTIS PLC SHAREHOLDER 106 108 FINANCIAL 62 105 CORPORATE 36 61 BUSINESS 04 35 COMPANY IFC 03 INFORMATION STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE REVIEW OVERVIEW
