BUSINESS REVIEW ENQUEST VALUES EnQuest people are safe, creative and passionate, with a relentless focus onresults.
EnQuests people are unied We have a Code of Conduct by a common set of values, which sets out the behaviours these values are what we must follow.
The values differentiates us as an however inspire us to create organisation.
the organisation that we want it to be.
Amjad Bseisu Chief Executive Stefan Ricketts General Counsel Colin Smith Michelle McRobbie Logistics Superintendent Aberdeen Process Engineer Hamburg Respect Focus In EnQuest respect is paramount, for our EnQuest is an organisation with a people, our environment and the safety relentless focus on results.
areaccountable and responsible, and entrusted to take ownership of decisions At EnQuest everyone works to the same and appropriate actions.
level and talks to each other, not at each other, or down to each other.
ou can see If you are out in the shipyard, on the the respect come through and with this vessel, or anywhere in the yard you have you get far more cooperation.
to constantly be aware of whats going on around you.
ou cannot lose your focus and its great!
EnQuest PLC 40 Annual Report 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Simon Richards Ali Young Vas Anastasiadis Drilling Operations Manager Aberdeen Drilling Superintendent Aberdeen IT Systems Analyst London Agility Creativity Passion Nimble technical and commercial Creativity and innovation to embrace new EnQuest is a passionate, enthusiastic and behaviour from a responsive and exible ideas and deliver solutions differentiates committed organisation.
Individuals and team allows EnQuest to meet its growth EnQuest from its peers.
They result in a teams inspire others and create a catalyst targets and to react to challenges.
motivated workforce with greater selfwith positive impact on the organisation confidence, pride and self-management.
We are always dealing with a workface that is small, that is a long way away, We have a diverse knowledge across The variety of IT projects that we are andthat you can never touch.
But well theteam, so we use that knowledge to handling in EnQuest at the moment is engineers do relate to that and remain becreative in coming up with solutions.
something that excites me and makes exible and agile to address the ever The creativity that comes from designing mewant to come to work every day.
wells right through to drilling and execution can be huge.
Richard Hall Iain Kellock General Manager International London Graduate Quantity Surveyor Hamburg Collaboration Empowerment In EnQuest we take on challenges and EnQuest recognises that an empowered nd solutions through mutual trust, workforce is fundamental to its success.
Byclearly dening each role, our people areencouraged to be accountable and 3eople from a range of different disciplines responsible, and entrusted to take ownership and teams across EnQuest worked on the of decisions and appropriate actions.
Sabah transaction in Malaysia, our first international project.
It was a truly As a young engineer only months into the collaborative effort and I expect it to prove job I definitely feel empowered.
Itgives me typical of how we work together on other great confidence to deal with the packages international projects.
Having established a of work Ive been given to deal with.
presence in Norway and Malaysia, collaboration between our international ofces and London and Aberdeen will be X To view our values video in full please central to our future success.
com EnQuest PLC 41 Annual Report 2012
