BUSINESS REVIEW MARGINAL FIELD SOLUTIONS ALMA GALIA Alma Galia is EnQuests first new hub.
It reects our focus on Alma Galia is not only creating a new identifying new opportunities in mature assets and creating a lease of life for what was the 8.
North technology led solution to maximise recovery.
The past year has seen the key elements of the project remain on track and we Seas first producing eld, but the continue to anticipate first oil in Q4 of 201.
This agship project is revitalising the UK North Seas first producing eld, formerly project exemplies the ability of known as Argyll.
EnQuests people to formulate strong EnQuests distinctive project execution model is being deployed economic solutions for mature assets.
This integrated project team approach is designed to achieve optimum efficiency and performance across all areas of the project.
The execution team possesses Blocks 30 24 and 30 25 extensive experience as well as in-depth skills across the subsurface and development disciplines.
310km southeast of Aberdeen Water depth approximately 80m Towards the end of 2012, significant milestones were reached onthe subsea installation elements of Alma Galia.
specifically, Reservoir depth approximately 9,000ft pipeline works authorisations have been approved, subsea trenching operations were completed, and owlines were laid Distance from EnQuest Producer to Alma, 2.1km between the two elds and the EnQuest 3roducer Floating Distance from Alma to Galia, 5.4km 3roduction, Storage and Ofoading vessel F3SO location.
Themooring installation contract was awarded and equipment Six Electrical Submersible Pump ESP wells on Alma, factory accepting testing programmes also commenced.
dual ESP completion One ESP well on Galia, dual ESP completion Two water injection wells at the Alma water injection drillcentre ALMA GALIA PROPOSED SUBSEA INFRASTRUCTURE EnQuest PLC 10 Annual Report 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS developments FDP The EnQuest 3roducer re-t in Hamburg ission anticipated in Q2 2013 overies ALMA G ALMA GA AL LI IA A r licences Licensing Round offers The infrastructure will feature six producing wells on Alma and Gross eld 2P reserves one producer on Galia, tied back to the EnQuest 3roducer which is currently in the port of Hamburg, Germany, undergoing major modication and life extension work.
The Hamburg team are leading this modication programme, which includes upgrade work on the swivel, hull strengthening, and the refurbishment of 34 MMBoe all facilities and systems.
During 2012 the Kuwait Foreign 3etroleum Exploration Company KUF3EC became a partner in Alma Galia, acquiring a 5% interest.
The farm out agreement brings further technical and financial strength to the project.
In early 201 the EnQuest Board also approved an increase in the scope and specication of the project, with the objective of extending eld life, optimising costs and enabling a potential second phase development.
These changes are expected to extend the F3SO vessel life materially to up to 15 years, and to add additional Why did you re-use an wells in any second development phase.
"existing vessel for the Alma Galia FPSO"" The FPSO element of Alma Galia demonstrates that EnQuest isnt putoff by old assets."
While others may have looked at the Uisge Gorm thename of the vessel before it became the EnQuest Producer andconsidered it to be at the end ofits useful life, that wasnt the case withus.
Having completed a similar process with the Northern Producer in the Don elds, we understood the scale of what we were getting into, we were prepared to take that on and manage our way through it.
Name: Craig Matthew right EnQuest position: New Developments Manager SEE MORE ABOUT OUR OPERATIONS ON P2431 EnQuest PLC 11 Annual Report 2012
