GOVERNANCE SENIOR MANAGEMENT Nigel Hares David Heslop Co-founder and Strategic Adviser General Manager U. CS From 1972 to 1994, Nigel worked for B3 in the UK, Abu Dhabi, David Heslop graduated with a BSc in Aeronautical Engineering Norway and Alaska.
At B3, Nigels roles included those of drilling, and subsequently gained an MSc in 3etroleum Engineering.
petroleum, reservoir, well-site, and offshore production engineer.
David was initially a wireline engineer at Schlumberger, working Nigel also held positions of production and pipeline superintendent, in the Middle East, before moving to Mobil Oil where amongst manager of petroleum engineering, manager of reservoir other roles, he was the development manager responsible for studiesfor Middle East, Europe and Africa and business advisor, exploration, development and reservoir management activities developing global gas strategies for B3.
Nigel then moved to for over 50 elds in Continental Europe.
3rior to joining EnQuest Talisman Energy Inc. as executive vice-president, international in June 2011, David was at Talisman Energy where his roles operations, heading international operations for the UK, Norway, included: vice president, wells: vice president of the Greater Netherlands, Algeria, Sudan, Malaysia, Indonesia, Vietnam, 3eru, Fulmar area: and subsurface manager.
Nigel stepped down from the Board at the end of2012.
Andrew Thomson Tim Bradbury General Manager Technical Deputy General Manager U. CS Andrew Thomson has a Masters degree in 3etroleum Tim Bradbury has an Honours degree in Chemical Engineering and Engineering and a wealth of experience working as a petroleum, began his career as a process engineer at Grangemouth Renery reservoir and operations engineer.
Andrew first worked for before moving onto a variety of onshore and offshore engineering Schlumberger and spent seven years working for Britoil and positions on the B3 Forties eld.
After three years as petroleum B3.
In 1990 Andrew co-founded RML where he was managing engineering manager in Indonesia, he went on to manage the director, then Senergy in 2005, where he held roles as CFO technical and commercial issues of Southern North Sea gas elds, andthen CEO of Senergy Investments.
Andrew is a Competent then the commissioning and early operation of the first hydrocarbon 3erson in reserves reporting and is a chartered engineer.
Tim then moved to Abu Dhabi Andrewjoined EnQuest in October 2010, having supported for three years as safety manager, and then to Alaska as operations theformation of EnQuest as a consultant.
His primary manager of 3rudhoe Bay.
In 1999 Tim returned to Aberdeen to responsibilities are technical quality assurance, reserves, manage the Forties eld and then joined the B3 petrochemicals exploration, pre-developments, business development and business, first as manufacturing manager at a 3TA plant in South functional subsurface co-ordinator, reporting directly to the CEO.
Carolina and then as logistics director for B3 Chemicals in Europe.
Following that Tim joined the Ineos 3olymers business, first as supply chain director and subsequently became their European manufacturing director, before joining EnQuest in early 2011.
EnQuest PLC 44 Annual Report 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Health Safety Environment and Assurance HSE A Graham Cooper Faysal Hamza John Atkinson Head of Business Development Head of Strategy & Corporate Head of HSE&A Graham Cooper graduated from John Atkinsons career in the industry Development Cambridge University with a Masters in spans a variety of on and offshore Faysal Hamza has an MBA from Georgetown Natural Sciences and then worked as a engineering, maintenance and operational University in Washington and over 2 years wireline logging engineer before joining roles.
He was a commissioning engineer of experience in oil and gas finance, business Conoco in 1982 as a geologist and for Taylor Instruments before moving development and private equity.
During his time at Conoco, intoan offshore role as instrument joined EnQuest in 2011 and prior to that was Graham held a number of technical roles, engineer for Shells North Sea assets.
managing director, private equity at Swicorp, both in the UK and Dubai, before moving Johnsubsequently became operations a financial rm operating in the Middle into various commercial roles.
In 1999, superintendent at Amerada Hess, Eastand North Africa.
Faysal has also held Graham joined Shell UK as new business followedby a period as maintenance rolesas senior executive at Arab 3etroleum development manager in Aberdeen and manager.
At3etrofac John was a eld Investment Corporation A3ICOR3, subsequently moved to The Hague in manager prior to moving to Lundin groupbusiness development manager 2005to take up the role of vice-president Britainwhere hisroles included operations withthe Alturki Group in Saudi Arabia, and commercial for global exploration.
Graham manager, business delivery manager management positions at Arco International latterly became head of Shells commercial andHeather asset manager.
John joined Oil & Gas Company ARCO in the US, Saudi academy, before joining EnQuest in EnQuest 3LC in 2010 and moved into the International Bank in London and the Saudi October 2010. role of Head of HSE&A in 2011.
Arabian Oil Company Saudi Aramco.
Human Resources HR Craig Matthew Stefan Ricketts Graeme Cook New Developments Manager General Counsel HR Director Craig Matthew graduated with an Honours Stefan Ricketts joined EnQuest in 2012 and Graeme holds an MA in Accountancy and degree in Civil Engineering and has over isresponsible for all legal and Company Economics from the University of Dundee 20years of eld development, project secretarial matters.
3rior to joining EnQuest, and has over 20 years experience in both management, engineering and construction Stefan was a partner at Fulbright & Jaworski, finance and HR leadership roles.
Initially Craig spent 10 years LL3 heading its energy and natural resources early career was spent predominantly with working for Stena in a variety of subsea roles practice in the Asia-3acic region.
He had Schlumberger in the UK, Africa, Middle whilst also completing a 3ost Graduate previously been general counsel at BG East and Asia.
Graeme returned to the UK Certicate in 3roject Management.
Stefan, whose early career in 2004 and was appointed as HR director then joined Kerr-McGee as subsea manager, asasolicitor was with Herbert Smith, for BG Groups Mediterranean basin and eventually becoming project manager for hassignicant experience as a lawyer Africa region.
3rior to joining EnQuest in the Dumbarton eld development.
Craig andinmanagement working across the April 2011, Graeme was group head of became part of EnQuest via 3etrofac Energy energy chain and in all phases of project talent and leadership for Legal & General Developments, after joining them as project development and operations.
In previous 3LC, where he was accountable for the manager for the Dons area development.
roles he has been based in London, 3aris, resourcing, performance management, Dubai, Jakarta, Singapore and Hong Kong.
succession and development of the leadership group of this City institution.
