BUSINESS REVIEW NEW DEVELOPMENTS THE KRAKEN DISCOVERY As EnQuest increased its interest in the Kraken discovery during The.
raken project illustrates our ability 2012 and assumed operatorship, we took pivotal steps to toidentify new opportunities and quickly establish a robust foundation for the project.
A proven EnQuest execution model has been applied to take forward one of the create an innovative development largest current development projects in the North Sea.
The Field Development 3lan FD3 for Kraken is scheduled for submission environment to exploit them with in the second quarter of 201. maximum efficiency.
With an anticipated A series of acquisitions during 2012, saw the Company build a 60% production life of 25 years, it is set to interest in this opportunity in the East Shetland Basin, a eld which become core to our long term production.
was first discovered in the 1980s.
We became operator upon the completion of the last of those deals in September.
The proposed development concept is essentially that of a conventional rather than a heavy oil type of development.
In 2012 the project team was intensely focused on the concept EnQuest direct workforce at the end of 2012 approximately selection phase of the project, ahead of FD3 submission.
The main phases of subsea installation are expected to begin in early 2015, with first oil from the eld targeted in 2016, subject to FD3 approval.
A dedicated Kraken team was formed at the early stages of the 500 project, an integrated group comprising of professionals with skills and experience from across the spectrum of industry disciplines.
"KRAKEN PROPOSED SUBSEA INFRASTRUCTURE EnQuest PLC 12 Annual Report 2012 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Terminal Shetland Islands KR KRA AK KEN EN PEIK EnQuest workforce including offshore contractors at the end of 2012 approximately 1 600 What makes this project How important is the soexciting"" teamdynamic to a project."
"raken is a major project for like Kraken"" EnQuest, with a technically Very."
The successful delivery of the challenging subsurface environment.
raken project is dependent on the and a demanding delivery schedule.
execution of the development as a whole.
For this to be achieved, the For me, Im excited by the passion team needs to be able to interface Isee from the team, the level of and understand the implication of expertise from my colleagues, and each stream of work on the rest of how the teams share knowledge the development.
tocome up with creative ideas andsolutions.
It is important that all team members are comfortable to freely discuss and Name: Andy Beck left achieve a common understanding of EnQuest position: what is right for.
raken Subsurface Team Leader working environment at EnQuest allows for this.
Name: Alisdair MacInnes right EnQuest position:.
raken Developments Manager EnQuest PLC 13 Annual Report 2012
