50 Governance Senior Management team Mr P Sampath Mr Lalit Kumar Gupta Chief Financial officer Managing Director and Chief Executive officer of Essar Oil Mr Sampath was appointed the Chief Financial officer of Essar Energy in September 2010.
He joined the Essar Group in August Mr Lalit Kumar Gupta has been head of the downstream Oil 2008 and was previously the Director Finance of Essar Oil.
He Rening Business of Essar in India since December 2011.
Mr Gupta hasover 30 years of experience in various elds including has 31 years of diverse leadership experience in core sectors globalcorporate finance and treasury, mergers and acquisitions, across Energy Oil & Gas, Utilities Power and Steel.
Prior to joining corporate business planning, investor relations, global HR strategy Essar Group, he has held Board level positions as CEO and Joint and financial and management accounting.
Prior to this, MrSampath Managing Director of JSW Energy Ltd and Director Finance with held a number of senior finance roles including Group Chief Financial MRPL ONGC subsidiary.
He has diverse experience across all officer for RPG Enterprises Limited and Managing Director of strategic business functions including international oil trading, GHCLLimited.
Mr Sampath has a first class Bachelor of Commerce finance, taxation, insurance, legal and commercial function.
degree from Madras University, is a Fellow Member of both the MrGupta is a Rank Holder Chartered Accountant and also a Institute of Cost and Works Accountants of India and the Institute Company Secretary and holds a Bachelors Degree in Commerce ofCompany Secretaries of India.
Gold Medallist, from Jiwaji University, Gwalior.
Mr KVB Reddy Mr Iftikhar Nasir Executive Director Essar Power Chief Executive officer of Exploration and Production business Mr Reddy is the Executive Director of Essar Power.
He is responsible for formulating and directing the overall business strategy of the Mr Nasir is Chief Executive officer of Essar Energys Exploration Power business group and project execution and has been with andProduction business.
He joined Essar Energy in July 2008 theEssar Group since 1995.
Mr Reddy has more than 29 years of asExecutive Director of Strategy and Business Development and experience in the power industry and has previously worked for the spearheaded closure of Essars acquisitions of the Mombasa National Thermal Power Corporation where he gained in-depth renery in Kenya and the Stanlow renery in the UK.
Mr Nasir has experience in the areas of project planning, materials, commercial over 24 years of industry experience.
He joined Essar from BP, and erection and commissioning.
During this time, he set up three where he was the Regional Vice President of Group Business gas-based combined cycle power projects at Anta, Auraiya and Development.
During his tenure with BP he led a range of business Kawas.
Mr Reddy is a graduate in mechanical engineering from activities across the energy value chain from Exploration and NITBhopal.
Previous roles included Commercial Director for the Exploration and Production Segment across the Middle East and for the Africa, Middle East, Russia and Caspian Region at Group level.
Mr Nasir is a Graduate from the Royal Societyof Chemistry, a Post Graduate member of the Chartered Institute ofMarketing and has completed the Stanford Senior Executive Program.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 COMPAN Y BUSINESS FINANCIA L OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENT S 51 Mr Volker Schultz Chief Executive officer of Essar Oil UK Mr Schultz joined Essar Energy in October 2011 as Chief Executive officer of Essar Oil UK, which includes the Stanlow renery, the UKs second largest renery.
Mr. Schultz joined Essar Energy from BP, where he worked for 23 years in various senior commercial, strategy and manufacturing positions including global Head of Rening and Marketing Strategy and Portfolio and beforehand Business Unit Leader Managing Director of the BP Lingen renery.
He has worked in the UK, Germany, the USA and South Africa.
MrSchultz holds a Master of Science in Management from the Stanford University Graduate School of Business and a Bachelor ofScience in Chemical Engineering from the University of KwaZulu-Natal in South Africa.
Mr Mark Lidiard Director of Investor Relations and Communications Mr Lidiard is the Director of Investor Relations and Communications for Essar Energy and joined the Company in April 2010.
Mr Lidiard was previously the Group Communications Director at Lloyds TSB from 2008 to 2009, Vice President of Investor Relations and Communications at BHP Billiton from 2002 to 2007, and Head of Investor Relations at Powergen plc from 2000 to 2002.
From 1997 to 2000, Mr Lidiard was the Assistant Group Treasurer and Head ofProject Finance at Powergen which included responsibility for power project nancings in India.
He has a postgraduate certicate in business management from Thames Valley University and a degree in Physics with Geology from Southampton University.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012
