52 Governance Directors report The Directors have the pleasure in presenting their annual to ensure that the Group is capable of carrying on its business report and audited accounts for the 15 month period ended independently of Essar Global and its associates for the 31 March 2012.
The information contained in the Business purpose of this summary, as dened in the Relationship review, Board of Directors, the Corporate governance report Agreement and that transactions and relationships are at and the Statement of Directors responsibilities forms part of arms length and on normal commercial terms other than the Directors report.
Principal activities The Relationship Agreement will continue for so long as the Essar Energy plc is a holding company.
The principal activities of ordinary shares are listed on the premium listing segment of the the Group of which it is the parent are those of an India-focused Ofcial List and traded on the LSE and Essar Global, together energy company with assets across the power and oil and gas with its associates, has an aggregate interest of at least 30% industries.
The Group comprises four operating divisions: inthe issued shares of Essar Energy.
The key terms of the t Rening and Marketing India: Relationship Agreement are set out in Appendix 2 of this Report t Rening and Marketing UK: on pages 143 and 144.
The Directors believe that the terms of t Exploration and Production: and the Relationship Agreement enable the Company to carry on its t Power.
business independently from the Essar Group and its associates.
Business review Directors and Directors authority A detailed Business review for the Group as required by The names and biographies of each Director as at the date section 417 of the Companies Act 2006 can be found in of this report appear on pages 48 and 49. the sections of this annual report listed below, which are incorporated into this Directors report by reference.
These On 21 December 2011, Mr Ravi Ruia stepped down as comment on the operation and development of the business Chairman of the Board although he remains a Non-Executive and its future prospects along with details of key performance Director of the Company, and Mr Prashant Ruia was indicators and the description of the principal risks and appointed as Chairman in his place.
On 29 March 2012, uncertainties facing the Group.
following the recommendation of the Nomination and t Highlights on page 1: Governance Committee, Mr Steve Lucas was appointed t Essar Energy at a glance on pages 2 and 3: asanIndependent Non-Executive Director.
t Chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5: t Chief Executive Ofcers review on pages 6 and 7: The Directors may from time to time appoint one or more t Market overview on pages 8 and 9: Director s. Any such Director shall hold ofce only until the t Our strategy and business model on pages 10 and 11: next AGM and shall then offer themselves for election by the t Key performance indicators on page 13: Companys shareholders.
In accordance with the Companys t Operating review on pages 14 to 27: Articles of Association, which require the Directors to retire t Corporate responsibility on pages 28 to 31: and offer themselves for election by shareholders at the first t Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 32 to 37: and AGM after their appointment, Mr Steve Lucas will offer himself t Financial review on pages 38 to 47. for election at the forthcoming AGM.
Notwithstanding that the Articles of Association provide that one third of the Directors This Business review and other sections of this annual or the number nearest to one third are to retire by rotation reportcontain forward looking statements.
The extent to at each AGM and offer themselves for re-election by the which the Companys shareholders or anyone may rely on shareholders, all of the Directors will seek re-election at these forward looking statements is set out inside the back the forthcoming AGM and intend to do so thereafter on an cover of this annual report.
annual basis at each future AGM, in compliance with the Governance Code.
Corporate governance The Company is required to comply with the Governance At the Companys 2011 AGM the Directors were given Code throughout the period or explain its reasons for authority to allot up to an aggregate nominal amount of non-compliance.
A report on corporate governance and 21,723,954.88, being an amount equal to one third of the compliance with the provisions of the Governance Code is Companys issued ordinary share capital.
The Company was set out on pages 57 to 64. also authorised by a shareholders resolution to make market purchases of its ordinary shares up to 130,343,729 ordinary Dividends shares representing 10% of its issued ordinary share capital.
No final dividend for the 15 month period ended 31 March These authorities will expire on 18 August 2012 and similar 2012 has been declared, and no final dividend was declared authorities will be proposed at the 2012 AGM to be held for the 12 month period ended 31 December 2010. on 4 September 2012.
In addition, the Company may not generally allot shares for cash without first making an offer to No interim dividend was declared for the six month period to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
30 June 2011 or the 12 month period to 31 December 2011.
This is known as rights of pre-emption.
A resolution to allow a limited waiver of these rights was passed at last years AGM.
Relationship agreement This authority expires on 18 August 2012 and it is proposed Prior to Listing in May 2010, Essar Energy was a wholly owned that a similar waiver be approved at the forthcoming AGM.
On 30 April 2010 Essar Energy and Full details of the proposed waiver and of the other authorities Essar Global entered into a relationship agreement to regulate to be renewed are set out in the Notice of the AGM.
No shares the ongoing relationship between the Company and Essar were allotted by the Directors or purchased by the Company Global.
The principal purpose of the Relationship Agreement is during the 15 month period to 31 March 2012.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 COMPAN Y BUSINESS FINANCIA L OVERVIE W REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENT S 53 Directors indemnities and insurance Voting rights Directors and ofcers are indemnified under the Articles of Ordinary shareholders are entitled to receive notice and to Association of the Company, to the extent permitted by the attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company.
In addition, the Company has entered On a show of hands every shareholder present in person or into a deed of indemnity with each Director in respect of by proxy or being a corporation present by a duly authorised proceedings brought by third parties, subject to the conditions representative shall have one vote, and on a poll every set out in the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has also shareholder who is present in person or by proxy or in purchased Directors and Ofcers liability insurance, which thecase of a corporate member by a duly authorised was renewed in May 2012 and remains in place at the date representative shall have one vote for every share of which ofthis report.
Directors interests A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at a general The number of ordinary shares of the Company in which meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and vote theDirectors or a person connected with a Director were instead of him.
If a member appoints more than one proxy interested, as at 31 March 2012, were as follows: he must specify the number of shares which each proxy is entitled to exercise rights over.
A proxy need not be a 31 March shareholder of the Company.
2012 1 Mr Ravi Ruia See below Variation of rights 1 Mr Prashant Ruia See below Subject to the Companies Act 2006, whenever the share 2 Mr Naresh Nayyar 333,088 capital of the Company is divided into different classes of shares, the rights attaching to any class of shares may be Mr Philip Aiken 14,285 varied with the consent in writing of the holders of threeMr Sattar Hajee Abdoula 23,809 quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of the class or Mr Simon Murray 71,428 with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate Mr Subhas Lallah 0 general meeting of the shareholders.
Mr Steve Lucas 0 Transfer of shares 1 Mr Ravi Ruia and Mr Prashant Ruia have an indirect interest in the Company.
Essar Global Essar Global and the Directors were subject to a lock-up has beneficial interests in 1,000,000,000 ordinary shares 76.72% of the Company.
Essar arrangement in accordance with an underwriting agreement Global, incorporated in the Cayman Islands, is the ultimate parent company of the Group.
Kettle River Holdings Limited and Copper Cayman Holdings Limited have significant dated 30 April 2010 and related arrangements under which influence over Essar Global.
Essar Global also acquired an economic interest in up to a they were not permitted to sell their shares for a period of further 16,973,961 ordinary shares of the Company on 18 January 2011 pursuant to an Equity Swap Transaction as part of the convertible bond arrangements.
As part of the equity 365 days following the Listing.
swap transaction, Essar Global has the option to settle the swap by acquiring these further 16,973,961 shares and therefore the beneficial interest in such shares.
2 Outstanding executive share option awards held by Mr Naresh Nayyar, further details The Company itself was also subject to a lock-up ofwhich are set out in the Remuneration report.
arrangement pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement.
The Company agreed that, subject to certain exceptions, during During the 201112 financial year, Mr Naresh Nayyar was the period of 365 days from Listing, it would not, without the granted a further 128,644 share options in March 2011 in prior written consent of the joint global coordinators and the addition to the 204,444 share options he was granted during Sponsor, issue, offer, sell or contract to sell, or otherwise the previous 12 month period.
There were no other changes to dispose of, directly or indirectly, any shares or any interest the Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company therein or enter into any transaction with the same economic throughout the 15 month period ended 31 March 2012. effect as any of the foregoing.
No Director had any dealings in the shares of the Company On 18 January 2011, the Company entered into an additional between 31 March 2012 and a date not more than one lock-up arrangement in relation to the convertible bond issue month prior to the date of the notice convening the AGM, under which it agreed that, subject to certain exceptions, it other than as disclosed in Appendix 3 on page 144. would not, during the period of 60 days from the date of the agreement, issue, offer, sell or contract to sell or otherwise Share capital dispose of, directly or indirectly, any ordinary shares or any Details of the Companys share capital are set out in Note 24 interest therein or enter into any transaction with a similar to the financial statements.
The issued share capital of the economic effect as any of the foregoing.
Company at 31 March 2012 was 1,303,437,293 ordinary shares of 5 pence each.
The Companys shares are listed All lock-up arrangements as detailed above have now lapsed onthe LSE.
The rights and obligations attached to these and therefore all restrictions relating to the shares under such shares are governed by English law and the Companys arrangements no longer apply.
As at 31 March 2012, there were no restrictions on the transfer On 6 December 2011 the Company launched a Sponsored of the ordinary shares other than as set out in the Articles of Level 1 ADR programme.
Each ADR represents two of Association and certain restrictions that may from time to time theCompanys ordinary shares and is traded on the US be imposed by laws and regulations and pursuant to the Listing over-the-counter market under the symbol ERERY.
This Rules of the Financial Services Authority whereby certain ADR programme has no impact on the overall share capital Directors, ofcers and employees of the Company require the of the Company.
approval of the Company to deal in the ordinary shares.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 54 Governance Directors report continued No shareholder holds securities carrying special rights as to the control of the Company.
There are no limitations on the holding of securities.
Other than those dened in the Relationship Agreement there are no restrictions on voting rights or any arrangements by which, with the Companys cooperation, financial rights carried by securities are held by a person other than the holder of the securities.
There are no agreements between holders of securities that are known to the Company which may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting rights.
Major interests in shares As at 31 March 2012, the Company had been notied, in accordance with DTR5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following interests of 3% or more whether directly or indirectly held in its voting rights: Name of Shareholder Number of voting rights % 1 2 Essar Global 1,000,000,000 76.72% Lloyds Banking Group plc 81,833,216 6.278% 1 Essar Global, incorporated in the Cayman Islands, is the ultimate parent company of the Group.
Kettle River Holdings Limited and Copper Cayman Holdings Limited have significant influence over Essar Global.
2 On 18 January 2011, Essar Global acquired an economic interest in a further 16,973,961 shares pursuant to an equity swap transaction as part of the convertible bond arrangements see Convertible bond issue below.
As part of the equity swap transaction, Essar Global has the option to settle the swap by acquiring these further 16,973,961 shares and therefore the voting rights attached to such shares.
In addition, on 18 April 2012 the Company received notication from Lloyds Banking Group plc that it had increased its interest in the voting rights of the Company to 7.002%.
Subsequently, on 7 June 2012 the Company received notication from Lloyds Banking Group plc that it had decreased its interest in the voting rights of the Company, to 6.971%.
On 18 June 2012, the Company received two further notications from Lloyds Banking Group plc, i that it had increased its interest in the voting rights of the Company, to 7.148%, and subsequently ii that it had then decreased its interest in the voting rights of the Company, to 6.800%.
No further DTR5 notications were received during the period 31 March 2012 to a date not more than one month prior to the date of the notice convening the AGM, other than as disclosed in Appendix 3 on page 144.
Employee Share Schemes and Plans As at 31 March 2012 the following share based plans in existence were: Performance Total Outstanding Name of Plan Who it covers Related Summary Description Awards Source of shares Essar Energy CEO and other selected Yes Market price options to acquire shares 659,352 To be Executive Share members of the Senior subject to achievement of performance determined Option Plan Management of the targets over a period of three years.
upon exercise Company, subject to of the share ESOP Scheme the eligibility conditions options as per as set out in the ESOP the rules of the Scheme ESOP Scheme Essar Oil UK All eligible employees of No The scheme allows employees the 3 year 895,181 Market Essar Oil UK subject to opportunity to save money over a xed 5 year Purchase Essar Save As service criteria contract period of 3 or 5 years with 1,314,112 You Earn Share the purpose of purchasing shares in Option Scheme Essar Energy at a xed price at the end of the contract period.
The xed price Launched in is based upon the market price at the January 2012 time of grant.
Essar Oil UK All eligible employees of No The plan gives employees the 261,776 shares Market Essar Oil UK subject to opportunity to purchase Essar Energy purchased Purchase Essar All certain service criteria shares tax effectively from gross Employee Share monthly pay.
Investment Plan Employees can invest up to a maximum Launched in of 1,500 in a tax year and shares are January 2012 purchased at market price each month.
Further details relating to the awards under the ESOP Scheme are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 68 to 70.
Shares intended to satisfy options granted and shares awards under the Share Save and Share Investment Plan schemes will be purchased in the market and held by the trustees of the Essar Energy Employee benefit Trust, which is currently in the process of being established.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 COMPAN Y BUSINESS FINANCIA L OVERVIE W REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENT S 55 Essential contracts Essar Global, together with its associates as dened in the Essar Oil Limited has entered into long-term rened Relationship Agreement, cease to have an aggregate interest petroleum product off-take agreements, which together in 30% or more of the issued share capital of the Company.
accounted for 39% of the Groups net sales, with the following Indian national oil companies: a four year agreement US$300 million secured term loan facility with Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited effective from On 1 July 2011, Essar Energy entered into a US$450 April 2012, a four year agreement with Hindustan Petroleum millionsecured bridge loan facility due December 2012.
Corporation Limited effective from January 2008 extendable EssarEnergyutilised this loan to enable Essar Oil UK to by one year which is currently being nalised, and a three finance the acquisition of the Stanlow renery and, amongst year agreement with Indian Oil Corporation Limited effective other things, for general corporate purposes.
Under the terms of these agreements, Essar Energyrenanced this loan with a new US$300 million the Company is not guaranteed any binding minimum three year secured loan facility and US$150 million of internal off-take quantity from the Indian national oil companies, cash resources.
The new facility is being provided by a however, due to the pricing terms for sales to the Indian consortium ofbanks who were the lenders under the original national oil companies, the Company is able to generate US$450 million bridge loan.
Pursuant to the terms of the new higher margins on sales to these customers than on export facility, each lender has the right to terminate its respective sales and the Company considers these arrangements are participation in the facility should Essar Global cease to have essential to the business of the Group within the meaning of the power to direct the management and policies of the Section 417 5 c of the Companies Act 2006.
Company, or cease to own legally and beneficially directly orindirectly more than 50% of the total issued share capital Amendments to the Articles of Association ofthe Company.
Any amendments to the Articles of Association of the Company may be made by special resolution of the Other shareholders.
The Companys Articles of Association are The service contract of the Chief Executive officer contains available on the Companys website, www.
certain provisions for compensation to be paid in the event of a change of control of the Company or a loss of ofce.
Further significant agreements details are set out in the Remuneration report on page 70.
The Companies Act 2006 requires disclosure of significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate on a change Employees ofcontrol of the Company.
These are as set out below: The Company is committed to providing employees with information about the Company on a regular basis and Convertible bond issue employee communication and consultation is widely On 18 January 2011, Essar Energy launched an offering encouraged throughout the Group.
For example, within ofUS$500 million 4.25% guaranteed senior unsecured Essar Oil UK, employees are invited to hear directly from convertible bonds due 2016.
The bonds were successfully Senior Leaders during quarterly townhall sessions and priced with a coupon of 4.25% payable semi-annually in via the Essar Oil UK Intranet.
Matters requiring specic arrears and a conversion price set at a premium of 30% to consultation are managed via established employee bodies the reference price of US$8.5277 c. 5.37 per share.
Essar Oil UK operates performance offering size was subsequently increased to US$550 million management systems to align business and individual goals due to the exercise of an over-allotment option of US$50 and has introduced share schemes whereby employees can million.
The convertible bonds were issued on 1 February purchase shares and have a vested interest in the success 2011.
Pursuant to the final terms attaching to the bonds, the and performance of the Company.
bondholders have the right to require the Group to redeem the bonds at a price equal to the principal amount, together Employment opportunities are open to applicants from with accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption diverse backgrounds and all levels of ability throughout the ifthere is a change of control of the Company in which any Company.
Disabled persons are encouraged to apply and person or persons, acting together other than Essar Global will be provided with the appropriate training according or any person s controlled by or acting together with Essar totheir level of aptitude and ability.
In the event that an Global acquires or becomes entitled to control more than employee becomes disabled during the course of their 50% of the voting rights of the Company.
employment, the Company seeks to redeploy or retrain theemployee wherever possible.
Essar Global, the majority shareholder of Essar Energy, did notparticipate in the convertible bond transaction, but it did Further information relating to employees of the Group is enter into an equity swap transaction with Standard Chartered contained in the Companys separate 201112 sustainability Bank whereby Essar Global acquired an additional economic report, which can be accessed at www.
interest in 16,973,961 of Essar Energys ordinary shares.
The swap will last for the life of the convertible bonds and may be Creditor payment policy settled by Essar Global receiving cash or, at Essar Globals It is the Groups payment policy, in respect of all suppliers, to option, shares.
The result of the equity swap transaction is to settle agreed outstanding accounts in accordance with terms increase Essar Globals economic interest in Essar Energy to and conditions agreed with suppliers when placing orders and 78.02% from 76.72%.
suppliers are made aware of these payment conditions.
The Groups trade creditors as a proportion of amounts invoiced Relationship Agreement by suppliers represented 58 days at 31 March 2012.
The Relationship Agreement between Essar Global and the Company described in detail on page 52 will terminate should Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 56 Governance Directors report continued Post balance sheet events Audit information See Note 32 to the financial statements for full details of post Each of the Directors at the date of the approval of this report balance sheet events.
confirms that: t so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit Market value of land and buildings information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and Land is carried at cost within the financial statements.
It is t the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have not practical to estimate the market value of land at each taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant balance sheet date.
audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of such information.
Political and charitable donations The Group has made no political donations during the 15 The conrmation is given and should be interpreted in month period to 31 March 2012 including in India.
Essar Oil accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the UK donated a total of 15,000 to various British charitable Companies Act 2006. causes during the 15 month period.
No further charitable donations were made by the Group during the period Auditors including in India.
The Group made no charitable or The Companys auditor, Deloitte LLP, was first appointed by politicaldonations in 2010 including in India.
the Company in April 2010 and has indicated its willingness to continue in ofce, and resolutions seeking to reappoint it Further information in respect of the Groups community as the Companys auditor and to authorise the Directors to initiatives are set out in the Companys separate 201112 determine its remuneration will be proposed at the sustainability report, which can be accessed at forthcoming AGM.
Annual General Meeting Financial instruments The Companys AGM will be held at 11.00am on Tuesday, Details of the Companys use of financial instruments, 4September 2012 at Deutsche Bank Auditorium, Winchester together with objectives and policies on financial risk including House, 1 Great Winchester Street, London EC2N 2DB.
Details information on the Companys exposures to foreign currency, of the meeting and the resolutions to be proposed are set out credit, commodity, price, liquidity and interest rate risks can in a separate Notice of Meeting which accompanies this be found in Notes 25 and 26 to the financial statements.
Going concern By order of the Board Disclosures in respect of going concern are provided in the Financial Review on page 47.
Elaine Richardson Joint Company Secretary 22 June 2012 Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012
