12 Business review Our strategy in action Power Exploration and Production India Rening and Marketing Solar plant at Bhuj Raniganj community investment Vadinar renery expansion Essar Energy has commissioned its The development of Essars CBM gas As part of the Vadinar renery expansion, first renewable energy project, a solar operations at Raniganj, West Bengal, the whole plant was shut down during photovoltaic plant at Bhuj in Gujarat state.
brings its own challenges because of the September and October 2011 so the Power from the 1 MW project is being large geographical spread of the gas original base renery units could be tied sold to the Gujarat state electricity utility, wells being drilled the area covers 500 into the new units and extensive routine GUVNL, under a long-term PPA.
The square kilometres and 25 villages.
This plant was built in less than two months is working hard to engage with these required precision delivery of a hugely ata cost of approximately US$2.2 million.
communities and invest in vital facilities.
complex plan which would normally Itis clear that there will be an increasing In healthcare, a mobile medical van takearound 4560 days but thanks to longer term need for clean, renewable caters for 2,200 patients per month.
exceptionally well coordinated team energy in India and this first step in that Health awareness workshops have work, it was completed in a record 35 sector will give the Company valuable beenset up, helping over 1,500 women days, allowing production to be ramped experience.
Then, as low carbon and adolescent girls, while tanker water up again.
To deliver this turnaround, generation becomes more important in is being provided to 600 households in a team of about 15,000 worked 24 hours India, we will be better placed to play our four villages, helping combat summer a day in shifts to complete 1,618 revamp part in that change.
On the tasks and 2,492 maintenance and environmental front, over 7,000 saplings inspection jobs involving about 190 have been planted at various locations pieces of heavy machinery, cranes, around Raniganj.
India Rening and Marketing Power UK Rening and Marketing Essar Oils non-fuel retail offering Tori promoting entrepreneurship Stanlow natural gas installation Essar Oil has built a portfolio of At Essar Energys Tori power project in As part of a drive to increase profit approximately 1,400 retail fuel outlets Jharkhand state, an initiative is running margins and improve environmental inIndia, with another 200 under innearby villages to help people launch performance at the Stanlow renery construction, which have benefited their own businesses by providing skills following its acquisition in 2011, Essar frompetrol price deregulation by the training, creating business opportunities Energy is bringing in a natural gas supply Government and will further benefit if and nurturing entrepreneurs.
One for the first time to provide fuel for the diesel prices are deregulated.
To attract example is Saro Kumari, pictured, a girl in sixboilers on site and replace the fuel oil customers and provide additional income the village of Angada, who was 15 years previously used.
By June 2012, Essar for its franchisees, Essar Oil hasbeen old when she joined an Essar training waswell advanced with installation of increasing non-fuel retailing activities.
centre for women, covering stitching, the new 3 kilometre, 12 inch diameter The products on offer include engine cutting and tailoring.
Today, Saro has her pipeline, through which natural gas lubricants, batteries, food and cold own tailoring centre and is able to support willow.
Overall the project involves drinks, agricultural products such as and help fund education for her siblings.
The pesticides, mobile phone recharge Essars training center at Chatro village introduction of natural gas will reduce facilities, money transfer and other has now produced four entrepreneurs sulphur and carbon emissions as well banking facilities.
These offerings have andEssar provides cloth from which they ascutting odour, nitrogen oxide and proved very popular with customers.
The plan is to particulate emissions within the further develop this initiative.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012
