48 Governance Board of Directors Mr Prashant Ruia, 43 Mr Naresh Nayyar, 60 Chairman and Non-Executive Director Chief Executive officer Appointed as the Interim Chairman of Essar Energy in December Appointed to current role in 2010 and a member of the Health, 2011 combining this with his previous role as the Vice Chairman Safety and Environment Committee and of the Monthly Review andalso serves as a member of the Nomination and Governance Committee.
Mr Nayyar joined Essar Oil in October 2007 and Committee.
Mr Prashant Ruia is a non-resident Indian and the servedas its Managing Director and CEO until 1 December 2011.
Mr Ruia has been involved with the He now serves as the Deputy Chairman of Essar Oil.
Prior to joining EssarGroups operations and management since 1985 and he is Essar Oil, Mr Nayyar was the CEO of ONGC Mittal Energy Limited fundamental to its strategy, continued growth and diversication a joint venture between Oil & Natural Gas Corporation Limited bothwithin India and internationally.
Mr Ruia is known for his project andMittal Investments from November 2005 to September 2007. management skills, financial expertise and people management Previous directorships include Indian Oil Corporation, Oil & Natural capabilities.
Mr Ruia holds several key positions on various regulatory Gas Corporation, Petronet LNG Ltd, IBP, and Lanka IOC Limited and professional boards, and was a member of the Prime Minister of where he served as Chairman.
He was also Chairman of the Indian Indias advisory council on trade and industry in 2007.
He is currently Oil Marubeni Panipat Power Project between March 2003 and a member of the audit committee of the World Steel Association and November 2005. a member of the Energy Boardroom at the World Economic Forum.
With effect from 1 July 2012 Mr Prashant Ruia will be appointed as the permanent Chairman of Essar Energy.
Mr Ravi Ruia, 63 Mr Sattar Hajee Abdoula, 53 Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Chairman of Essar Energy until December 2011, he remains a Appointed to the Board in April 2010, Chairman of the Audit Non-Executive Director.
Mr Ravi Ruia is a non-resident Indian Committee and a member of the Health, Safety and Environment andisthe Vice Chairman of Essar Group.
Mr Ruia belongs to the Committee.
Mr Hajee Abdoula has over 30 years of experience in generation of industrialists who have played a significant role in audit, consultancy and taxation with significant experience in providing leading Indias industrial renaissance.
An engineer by training, with advice to global businesses on structures and tax issues.
Mr Hajee proven entrepreneurial skills, he has helped to develop the Essar Abdoula qualied as a Chartered Accountant in 1985 and had a Group with his elder brother, Mr Shashi Ruia, to become one of the successful career with BDO in London before moving to Mauritius.
leading names in the global industry.
Mr Ruia has overseen Essar Asa founder partner of Grant Thornton and CEO of Grant Thornton Groups globalisation plans including new ventures in Africa, South inMauritius, he has been the Senior Taxation and Advisory Services East Asia and the Middle East and has led the acquisitions partner since its launch in 1999, advising a wide variety of clients.
ofAlgoma Steel now called Essar Steel Algoma in Canada, Heis also the lead partner for litigation support.
Mr Hajee Abdoula is Minnesota Steel now called Essar Steel Minnesota and Trinity currently an Independent member of the board of two non-bank Coalin the USA.
He was the recipient of the Business India financial institutions in Mauritius.
Mr Hajee Abdoula has a wide Businessman of the year in 2010. advisory experience in Africa and has also advised the Government ofGhana on scalissues.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 COMPAN Y BUSINESS FINANCIA L OVERVIEW REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENT S 49 Mr Philip Aiken, 63 Mr Subhas Lallah S. C. 67 Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board in April 2010.
Chairman of the Health, Appointed to the Board in April 2010.
Chairman of the Safety and Environment Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committee.
Mr Aiken is currently Senior Independent Nomination and Governance Committees.
Mr Lallah is a Senior Director of Kazakhmys plc, a Non-Executive Director of National Counsel in Mauritius and has had a legal career that spans 40 Grid plc and Miclyn Express Offshore and was recently appointed years.
He has represented domestic and international companies Deputy Chairman of the AVEVA Group.
He recently stepped down inarbitration and sits as an independent Director on the boards of as Chairman of Robert Walters plc.
He has over 35 years of Mauritius Eagle Insurance Company Ltd, Mauritian Eagle Leasing experience in industry and commerce having held senior positions Co Ltd, Deutsche Bank Offshore Mauritius Ltd, and a number of with BTR and the BOC Group in the UK and Australia.
Mr Lallah is a former member of the Board appointments include Group President Energy, BHP Billiton and ofGovernors of the Mauritius Broadcasting Corporation, was President BHP Petroleum, Chairman of the 2004 Sydney World Chairman of the National Transport Corporation, was a member Energy Congress and a board member of Governor of Guangdong ofparliament of the Republic of Mauritius between 1982 and 1995 International Consultative Council, World Energy Council, and and was also a deputy chief whip and deputy speaker of the Monash Mt Eliza Business School.
With effect from 1 July 2012 national assembly.
Mr Lallah read law and political science and MrAiken will be appointed as the Senior Independent wascalled to the UK Bar in 1970 and the Mauritius Bar in 1971.
Non-Executive Director of Essar Energy and will be appointed With effect from 1 July 2012 Mr Lallah will relinquish his role on totheNomination and Governance Committee.
Mr Simon Murray CBE, 72 Mr Steve Lucas, 58 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board in April 2010.
Chairman of the Nomination Appointed to the Board on 29 March 2012.
Mr Lucas is and Governance Committee and a member of the Audit and  Director of the drilling company Remuneration Committees.
Mr Murray is currently the Chairman Transocean Ltd, Essar Infrastructure Limited and Tullow Oil plc where ofGEMS, and was appointed the independent Non-Executive he is the Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Chairman of Glencore International plc in April 2011.
He is also a Remuneration Committee.
Before that, he was Finance Director at Board Director of Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd, Orient Overseas National Grid plc from 2002 to 2010 and has significant expertise in International, Wing Tai Properties Ltd, Richemont SA, and IRC energy and power, infrastructure finance and treasury.
He has, in the past, served on boards and held advisory heworked for 11 years at Royal Dutch Shell and for six years at BG positions with a number of companies such as Vodafone, Tommy Group, latterly as Group Treasurer.
Mr Lucas retired last year as Hilger Corporation, Vivendi Universal, Usinor SA, Hermes, General aNon-executive Director of Compass Group plc where he was Electric USA, China National Offshore Oil Corporation CNOOC, chairman of the Audit Committee.
With effect from 1 July 2012, Macquarie Bank, N. M. Rothschild, and Bain the consultancy MrLucas will be appointed to the Audit Committee and the company.
He continues to serve on the advisory board of Remuneration Committee of Essar Energy.
Lightbridge Corporation USA, SouthWest Energy BVI Ltd, and isa Senior Advisor on the International Advisory Council of Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd, PRC.
Until recently Mr Murray served on the Development Advisory Board of Imperial College, London.
With effect from 1 July 2012, Mr Murray will be appointed as the Vice Chairman of Essar Energy and will relinquish his role on the Remuneration Committee.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012
