Directors Report Enabling Everywhere | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance | Group Management Committee 49 07 08 09 10 07 08 09 Malcolm Waugh Joanna Speed Jon Green Group Commercial Director Corporate Affairs Director Company Secretary & General Counsel Malcolm Waugh joined Filtrona in 2007 as Joanna Speed joined Filtrona in 2011 as Jon Green joined Filtrona in 2005, and was Managing Director of Payne Tear Tape, and was Corporate Affairs Director, having previously appointed Company Secretary & General appointed to his current role in January 2012. held the position of Investor Relations Director Counsel in July 2005.
Prior to joining Filtrona, Prior to joining Filtrona, Malcolm was Commercial at Reckitt Benckiser Group plc and Scottish & Jon worked as an in-house lawyer for a number Director at Tetra Pak UK and Ireland, holding a Newcastle plc.
Prior to this, Joanna was an equity of large international businesses, including Hays variety of business development and commercial analyst and worked in investment banking for plc and Unilever plc.
positions during his 18 year career there.
Joanna is a Chartered Accountant, having qualied with Arthur Andersen.
10 Alan Richards Group Operations Director Alan Richards joined Filtrona as Group Operations Director in 2012.
Prior to joining Filtrona, Alan was Senior Director Manufacturing Excellence at the Mars Group, and has held a number of increasingly senior operational roles in the pharmaceutical, cosmetic and mining industries.
Since 1 January 2013 Alan is responsible for the Groups Health, Safety & Environment.
50 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 Board of Directors Jeff Harris Paul Drechsler Colin Day Non-Executive Chairman Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Chief Executive Appointed to the Board: May 2005 Appointed to the Board: May 2005 Appointed to the Board: April 2011 Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Chairman of Filtrona since its formation Paul is currently Chairman and Chief Executive Prior to joining Filtrona, Colin was Chief in 2005, Jeff has played a key role in of WatesGroup Limited, a private family-owned Financial officer at ReckittBenckiser Group ensuring continuity upon demerger construction services company.
Having served plc for over tenyears.
In addition to leading and in the subsequent development on the Board of Filtrona since its formation the finance function there Colin was instrumental of the Company.
Jeff is a Chartered in 2005, Paul has played a key role in the in both mergers and acquisitions activity and Accountant, having spent over 25years development of the Company, particularly the development of group strategy.
Prior to working in public companies, and brings regarding its remuneration policy.
Paul brings joining Reckitt Benckiser, Colin held a range a wealth of financial and strategic extensive international business experience of senior finance and operational positions experience to Filtrona.
to his role, having spent 24 years at ICIPLC at a variety of companies.
in a variety of senior positions.
Past appointments Other appointments Other appointments Chief Executive and Chairman of Alliance Member of the Trinity College Dublin Business Non-Executive Director of WPP Group plc UniChem plc, Non-Executive Chairman School Advisory Board, Board member of CBI, and AMEC plc of Bunzl plc, Non-Executive Director of member of Board of Business in the Community Associated British Foods plc, Non-Executive and Chairman of the Education Leadership Team Past appointments Chairman of Cookson Group plc and NonChief Financial officer of Aegis Group plc.
Executive Director of WH Smith PLC Past appointments Non-Executive Director of EasyJet plc, Executive Director of ICI plc, Chairman of the Imperial Tobacco Group plc and Cadbury plc Committee membership ICIGroup pension fund Chairman of the Nomination Committee Committee membership Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, member of the Audit and Nomination Committees
