Directors Report Enabling Everywhere | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance | Board of Directors 51 Matthew Gregory Terry Twigger Lars Emilson Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board: September 2012 Appointed to the Board: June 2009 Appointed to the Board: May 2007 Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Matthew joined Filtrona in 2003 as Finance Director Terry is currently Chief Executive of Meggitt PLC, Lars has considerable experience of of the Moss Plastic Parts business and became a designer and manufacturer of high technology manufacturing companies, having spent Finance Director of the Protection & Finishing products and systems for the international the majority of his career in the packaging Products division in 2006.
Before being appointed aerospace, defence and energy markets.
Prior to his retirement in 2007, to his current role in 2012, Matthew was Corporate Terry has considerable merger and acquisition Lars was Chief Executive of RexamPLC Development Director where he played a key role experience and has also held a number of senior from 2004. in the development of the Companys strategy and finance roles, including having previously been in building its mergers and acquisitions capability.
Terry will be retiring Lars resigned from the Board on 5 February 2013 Prior to joining Filtrona, Matthew worked for the as Chief Executive of Meggitt PLC on 1 May 2013. with immediate effect.
Rank Group plc in a number of senior finance positions.
Matthew is a Chartered Accountant, having qualied with Ernst & Young.
Past appointments Other appointments Lucas Aerospace Director of East Capital Explorer AB Committee membership Past appointments Chairman of the Audit Committee, member of Non-Executive Chairman, Charter International plc the Remuneration and Nomination Committees Committee membership Member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees 52 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 Chairmans Letter As the Company has continued its strong growth and its expansion into new end-markets and geographies, so your Board has successfully responded to the increasing demands of the governance agenda.
JEFF HARRIS Chairman Code compliance Dear Shareholder I am pleased to confirm that the Group complied throughout the year with 2012 saw Filtrona continue to make very good progress in the delivery the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010.
The required regulatory and of Vision 2015 and its strategic objectives.
Organic growth and acquisition governance assurances are provided throughout this report.
The Board activity have together established a strong base for the Group to further has received regular updates on the variety of legislative and governance develop its operations on a global basis with entry into both new endrelated developments which occurred during the year and which are yet markets and geographies.
to be nalised, and I am committed to ensuring that the highest standards of governance and compliance are maintained across the Group.
Risk appetite Audit Committee The Board continues to focus on strategy and, with the executive management team, sets the targets for the Group.
The executive The work of the Audit Committee has continued to focus on the integrity management team is empowered to deliver against those targets, of financial reporting and the oversight of the risk management process through appropriate levels of delegated authority and support.
Much and internal controls across the Group.
The benets of the good progress of the Boards time has been spent on setting the risk appetite for the made by the Group Assurance function during its first full year of operation Group, and monitoring the risks within our businesses, while giving the are being seen, and the continued development of its work will be executive management team freedom to deliver long-term growth in important to ensure the Companys expansion does not prejudice the shareholder value.
strength of its controls and processes.
Board responsibilities Remuneration Committee The rigorous monitoring of financial and operational performance has The task of the Remuneration Committee was particularly challenging remained fundamental to the fullment of the Boards responsibilities in 2012 in seeking to fairly reward executives for some very strong results, during the year.
The pace of successful change within the Group remains and setting remuneration at levels which will attract new key executives to founded on strong governance based on transparency and integrity driven the Group, while being sensitive to the restraint expected in the current by an effective Board, with appropriate internal controls and a comprehensive economic environment.
The importance of the drive to retain, attract and understanding of risk.
motivate the team required to deliver the strategic objectives of Vision 2015 and beyond, necessitates the Remuneration Committee to ensure that the Companys remuneration practices and incentives are appropriate while maintaining a clear alignment with the interests of shareholders.
Indeed, the increased levels of share ownership required of the Group Leadership Team illustrates the commitment to ensuring that alignment.
