92 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 Notes 1.
Risk management Filtronas activities expose the business to a number of key risks which have the potential to affect its ability to achieve its business objectives.
The Board has overall responsibility for Filtronas system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing the effectiveness of this system.
Such a system can only be designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can therefore only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Filtrona has a centralised treasury department to manage funding, liquidity and exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange risk.
Treasury policies are approved by the Board and cover the nature of the exposure to be hedged, the types of derivatives that may be employed and the criteria for investing and borrowing cash.
Filtrona uses derivatives only to manage currency and interest rate risk arising from underlying business activities.
No transactions of a speculative nature are undertaken.
The treasury department is subject to periodic independent reviews by the Group Assurance department.
Underlying policy assumptions and activities are reviewed by the Executive Directors.
Controls over exposure changes and transaction authenticity are in place and dealings are restricted to those banks with the relevant combination of geographic presence, expertise and suitable credit rating.
The following describes Filtronas financial risk exposure and management from a quantitative and qualitative perspective.
i Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty to a financial asset fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from trade receivables and cash and cash equivalents.
Filtrona has no significant individual concentrations of credit risk.
The following is an overview of how Filtrona manages its credit risk exposures.
Trade and other receivables Filtronas exposure to credit risk is driven by the prole of its customers.
This is influenced by the demographics of the customer base, including the industry and country in which customers operate.
Trade and other receivables are generally due from customers who are unlikely to seek credit ratings as part of their normal course of business.
Filtrona monitors significant customers credit limits and there is an allowance for impairment that represents the estimate of potential losses in respect of trade and other receivables.
The components of this allowance are a specic allowance for individual losses and a collective allowance for losses that have been incurred but not yet identied.
The collective allowance takes account of historical experience and the prole of customers.
As at 31 December 2012, gross trade receivables were 85.4m 2011: 77.8m of which 13.2m 2011: 13.3m were past due but not impaired.
The ageing analysis of trade receivables past due but not impaired is as follows: 2012 2011 m m Up to 3 months 13.2 13.3 As at 31 December 2012, trade receivables of 4.9m 2011: 6.7m were provided for as they were considered to be impaired.
The ageing of the impaired receivables provided for is as follows: 2012 2011 m m Up to 3 months 3.6 5.6 Over 3 months 1.3 1.1 4.9 6.7 The movement in the provision for impaired receivables is as follows: 2012 2011 m m Beginning of year 6.7 2.4 Impairment gain loss recognised 1.3 4.6 Utilisation of impairment provision 0.5 0.3 End of year 4.9 6.7
