Directors Report Enabling Everywhere | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review | What We Do 11 Protection & Finishing Products Porous Technologies Coated & Security Products Filter Products Other Each of the operating divisions is responsible for managing its respective business activities to meet the needs of its customers and to create value for the Company.
%FMJWFSJOH WBMVF OWFTU JO OFX %FWFMPQ MPOH UFSN #VJME PO PVS MFBEJOH QSPEVDU JOOPWBUJPO DVTUPNFS SFMBUJPOTIJQT JOUFSOBUJPOBM NBSLFU QPTJUJPOT The continued successful launch and We develop and maintain a close relationship We have secured leading international commercialisation of new products and with a wide portfolio of blue-chip customers, positions in many of our served markets services is a key driver of our future growth.
who are successful leaders in their respective in each of our four principal operating divisions.
Investment in research and development markets.
The high standards of service and With our investment in international functions, supported by the identication supply demanded by such customers help infrastructure, technology, innovation of additional product sourcing opportunities to drive continuous improvement across the and people, the strength of our businesses to deliver product innovation and range Company.
Our manufacturing and distribution within their respective markets enables development, provides the platform to expertise adds value in response to customer us to deliver balanced, profitable growth.
further enhance our competitive positions.
demands, and our innovative capabilities drive Robust quality systems to internationally the joint development of new products and accredited standards assist the fullment services with key strategic partners.
Research and development facilities Sales and distribution operations to Total shareholder return serve our international customer base #FOFmU GSPN PVS FYQFSJFODFE NBOBHFNFOU UFBN BOE UBMFOU CBTF We have a highly experienced and well-regarded management team and employee base.
The detailed insight into customer needs and market trends allows us proactively to respond to changing priorities and to drive performance.
Technical expertise is reected in production and supply chain efficiencies and product innovation.
"ZST Average service at senior management level 12 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 $IJFG &YFDVUJWF T 3FWJFX Vision 2015 Delivering balanced, profitable growth from the manufacture of millions of plastic, $0- %"": bre and foam Chief Executive components Last year, Filtrona unveiled a new, more ambitious strategy known as Vision 'JMUSPOB T i 1Tw 2015, building on the Companys positive features and attributes, but with a rekindled appetite for growth behind key objectives and targets and with Filtronas key strategic objectives can be summarised as the 3Ps: Place: a more unied culture across the organisation."
I am very pleased that we Products & Markets: and People.
These apply equally to how we seek to have continued to make excellent progress towards our objectives in 2012. deliver balanced, profitable organic growth and the way in which we identify value-creating, complementary acquisition opportunities.
%FMJWFSJOH CBMBODFE QSPmUBCMF PSHBOJD HSPXUI 1MBDF In FY 2012, revenue increased 11% on a like-for-like basis, signicantly ahead of our Vision 2015 objective of at least mid single-digit growth.
As In order to take advantage of new revenue growth opportunities, we expected at the beginning of the year, each of our four principal operating look to expand our geographic footprint through increasing both our divisions contributed to this result through a combination of geographic penetration in existing markets and our presence in new or faster growing expansion, successful new product launches and range expansion, with economies.
And we made considerable progress in 2012 in this respect.
a particularly noteworthy 17% like-for-like growth rate in Filter Products.
Continuing our successful roll-out programme, the Protection & Finishing With adjusted operating profit growth of 28% at constant exchange Products division further strengthened its position in the US, with new site for a margin improvement of 30bps rigorous control of our nancing openings in New Jersey, Houston and Jacksonville during the year, and in costs and a further 100bps improvement in our tax rate, adjusted earnings Memphis shortly after the year end.
In addition, we established a Moss per share growth was 30% at constant exchange again, well in excess facility in Xiamen, China and also entered the Austrian, Swiss and Slovakian of our Vision 2015 objective of at least double-digit.
markets for the first time: indeed the sales and warehousing capability which has been established in Slovakia will also act as a regional distribution Consistent with our business model, we re-invested in the Company hub for central and eastern Europe.
In Porous Technologies, we opened to support future revenue growth opportunities.
Yet, notwithstanding a new corporate ofce in Singapore.
This regional headquarters which 43m capital expenditure across the divisions, our cash ow conversion includes sales, marketing, business development and customer service was strong, at over 75% 87% on an underlying basis, and was supported capabilities will allow us to provide our customers in Asia Pacic with by additional progress on our net working capital ratio.
We also maintained an even better level of service and more co-ordinated support, reinforced our commitment to paying a progressive dividend to our shareholders, with by our state-of-the-art manufacturing facilities around the world.
Subsequent to the year end, we announced the strategic expansion of our presence in the key Indian market.
To date, the Companys footprint in India has been limited to our successful lters joint venture with ITC and a tear tape slitting facility for our Coated & Security Products division.
However, this new investment will see us move to a purpose-built facility in Bangalore, with the capacity to accommodate manufacturing, warehousing and the appropriate commercial infrastructure for three of our divisions.
