Directors Report Enabling Everywhere | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 77 Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles of Association of Under a note purchase agreement dated 29 April 2010 relating to US$80m the Company, the Companys Articles of Association may be amended by senior notes due 29 April 2017 and US$80m senior notes due 29 April special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
2020, on a change of control the Company must make an offer to prepay all the notes at par, without any premium of any kind, together with Substantial shareholders accrued and unpaid interest thereon.
At the close of business on 20 February 2013, the Company was advised of All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a change the following voting rights attaching to Filtrona shares in accordance with in control.
Outstanding options and awards normally vest and become the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: exercisable on a change of control subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
% of total voting rights There are a number of other agreements, involving the Company or its Black Rock 18.02 subsidiaries, that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control AXA Investment Managers SA 8.11 of the Company following a takeover bid, such as commercial contracts Oppenheimer Funds 7.00 and joint venture agreements.
None are considered to be significant in FMR LLC 5.05 terms of their potential impact on the business of the Group as a whole, Cazenove Capital Management 4.99 to any potential bidder for the Company or Group.
TIAA-CREF Investment Managers Teachers Advisors Inc 4.96 Annual General Meeting J P Morgan Asset Management Holdings Inc 4.91 Invesco Limited 4.79 The AGM of the Company will be held at the Holiday Inn Hotel, Allianz SE 4.79 500 Saxon Gate West, Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire MK9 2HQ Ignis Asset Management 3.92 on Thursday 25 April 2013 at 12 noon.
BT Pension Scheme Trustees Limited 3.66 In addition to the ordinary business of the AGM, resolutions in respect of the following matters of special business are included in the Notice Property values of Annual General Meeting: In the opinion of the Directors, there was no significant difference between Authority to allot unissued shares the market and book values of the property held by the Group, as shown At the last AGM held in 2012, the Directors were granted authority to in the consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2012. allot relevant securities up to a nominal amount of 17,453,532, which expires at the end of the forthcoming AGM.
Charitable and political contributions At this years AGM, shareholders will be asked to grant the Directors In line with Group policy the Company made no political contributions authority to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any in 2012 2011: nil.
Donations to UK charities amounted to 0.1m 2011: security into shares: i up to an aggregate nominal amount of 17,616,915 0.1m, of which nil were made by the Company 2011: nil, with representing approximately one-third of the Companys issued share all contributions being made by its subsidiary companies.
capital, excluding treasury shares, at 20 February 2013 such an amount to be reduced by the nominal amount allotted or granted under section ii Directors indemnities below in excess of such sum : and ii comprising equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 35,233,830 representing approximately During the year and as at the date of this Report, indemnities are in force two-thirds of the issued share capital, excluding treasury shares, at 20 under which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors and February 2013 such an amount to be reduced by any allotments or grants the Company Secretary & General Counsel, in addition to other senior made under section i above in connection with an offer by way of executives who are directors of subsidiaries of the Company, to the extent a rights issue.
permitted by law and the Companys Articles of Association, in respect of all losses arising out of or in connection with the execution of their powers, The proposal conforms to the guidelines issued by the institutional duties and responsibilities as a director or officer of the Company or any of investment protection bodies to ensure that existing shareholders its subsidiaries, including the pension scheme trustee companies.
The scope interests are safeguarded.
The Directors have no present intention of the indemnities extends to include liabilities to third parties.
of exercising either of these authorities, which will expire at the end of next years AGM or, if earlier, the close of business on 24 July 2014 Creditor payment policy except in relation to share options.
The Company policy for payment of suppliers is to pay according to the Allotment of shares for cash terms agreed with suppliers from time to time, subject to the suppliers At the last AGM held in 2012, the shareholders approved a special performance in accordance with those agreed terms and conditions.
resolution to enable the Directors to allot shares for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing significant agreements shareholdings.
That approval expires at the end of the forthcoming AGM and Resolution 12 in the Notice of AGM seeks to renew it.
The Company has committed bank facilities consisting of two five-year multi-currency revolving credit facilities of 165.6m and 187.7m.
Under The resolution authorises the Directors to allot or sell shares for cash the terms of these facilities, the banks can give notice to Filtrona to repay without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to outstanding amounts and cancel the commitments where there is a their existing shareholdings up to an aggregate nominal amount of 5% change of control of the Company.
of the issued share capital of the Company, including treasury shares, at 31 December 2012 equivalent to 10,966,340 ordinary shares.
78 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 In respect of this aggregate nominal amount, the Directors confirm their Recommendation intention to follow the provisions of the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles regarding cumulative usage of authorities within a rolling The Directors believe that the resolutions in the Notice of Annual General three-year period where the Principles provide that usage in excess of 7.5% Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders should not take place without prior consultation with shareholders.
This as a whole, and unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour authority will expire at the conclusion of the following AGM or, if earlier, of each resolution.
The proposal conforms to the guidelines issued by the institutional investment protection bodies to ensure that existing shareholders Derivatives interests are safeguarded.
Information related to derivatives is included in the Accounting Policies Purchase of own shares on page 87, and in note 15.
At the last AGM held in 2012, the shareholders approved a special resolution to enable the Company to purchase its own shares.
Post balance sheet events That approval expires at the end of the forthcoming AGM.
On 31 January 2013, Filtrona entered into an agreement to form a joint At this years AGM, the Directors consider it expedient to seek venture, in which Filtrona will be the majority shareholder, with BBM shareholders approval to enable the Company to purchase, in the market, Bommidala BBM in the United Arab Emirates to manufacture lters.
up to 10% of its issued share capital excluding any treasury shares for BBM is an Indian-based producer of tobacco products and by-products cancellation, or to be held in Treasury, such power to apply until the end and a leading cigarette exporter from India.
of next years AGM or if earlier, 24 July 2014.
In accordance with the requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the On 20 February 2013, Filtrona acquired 100% of the share capital of Ulinco minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a share is its Components AB Ulinco Components from Ulinco Invest Aktiebolag.
nominal value and the maximum price exclusive of expenses for shares Ulinco Components is a distributor of plastic protection and nishing which may be paid is the highest of: i an amount equal to 105% of the products, hardware and specialist masking solutions in the Nordic region of average market value for a share for the five business days immediately Europe, and will be reported under the Component & Protection Solutions preceding the date of the purchase: and ii the higher of the price of the division.
The acquisition of Ulinco Components will expand the product last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the range and customer base of the Component Distribution businesses and trading venues where the purchase is carried out.
extend the divisions geographic presence in Scandinavia.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising the authority to Going concern statement make market purchases, however the authority provides the exibility to allow them to do so in the future.
The Directors will only utilise this The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has authority if satisfied that to do so would be in the best interests of the adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable Company and its shareholders generally, and could be expected to future and accordingly have adopted the going concern basis in preparing result in an increase in earnings per share of the Company.
Further information regarding the financial position of the Group, its cash ows, liquidity position, and During the financial year ending 31 December 2012 2,489,635 ordinary borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 18 to shares were transferred out of Treasury by the Company to satisfy share 19.
In addition, note 1 to the Financial Statements includes the Groups options under the Companys SAYE Sharesave and executive share objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk incentive plans.
management objectives, and details of its financial instruments, hedging activities and exposures to credit, market and liquidity risk.
Cash balances No dividends have been paid on shares whilst held in Treasury and and borrowings are included in note 21.
This disclosure has been prepared no voting rights attach to the treasury shares.
in accordance the with Financial Reporting Councils Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guide for Directors of UK Companies 2009.
Auditor Directors statement as to disclosure KPMG Audit Plc has indicated that it is willing to continue in ofce.
of information to the auditor Resolutions to re-appoint them and to authorise the Board to set their remuneration will be proposed at the AGM Resolution 9 and 10 As required by section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors respectively in the Notice of AGM.
who were members of the Board at the time of approving this Report, having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the auditor, confirm that: t As far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and t Each Director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to ascertain any relevant audit information and to ensure that the Companys auditor is aware of that information By order of the Board Jon Green Company Secretary & General Counsel 21 February 2013 Directors Report Enabling Everywhere | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2012 79 Statement of Directors Responsibilities In respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate applicable law and regulations.
Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
European Union EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
t The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements and financial position and profit of the Company and the undertakings unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and affairs of the Group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that t The Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial performance of the business and the position of the Company and the statements, the Directors are required to: undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
t Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: t Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: t For the Group financial statements, state whether they have been Colin Day Matthew Gregory Chief Executive Group Finance Director prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: t For the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and t Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
