Independent assurance report to the Directors ofEurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC 92 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The Directors of Eurasian Natural Measuring ENRCs performance based Understanding reporting and Resources Corporation PLC ENRC on the Reporting Principles: and measurement methodologies the Group engaged us to provide The content of the Annual Report and There are no globally recognised and limited assurance on the information set Accounts 2012. established practices for evaluating and out below and included in the Annual measuring the Selected Information.
The Report and Accounts for the year ended Our responsibilities range of different, but acceptable, techniques 31December2012.
We are responsible for: can result in materially different reporting outcomes that may affect comparability Planning and performing the engagement What we are assuring with other organisations.
The Reporting to obtain limited assurance about whether Selected Information Principles used as the basis of ENRCs the Selected Information is freefrom The Selected Information, as set out in reporting should therefore be read in material misstatement, whether due to the Performance Summary in the Annual conjunction with the Selected Information.
fraud or error: and Report and Accounts 2012 on page 19 Forming an independent conclusion, 4 consists of: Work done based on the procedures we have Workforce employees : Considering the risk of material misstatement performed and the evidence we have of the Selected Information, we: obtained: and reporting our conclusion Fatalities employees and contractors : tothe Directors of ENRC.
Made enquiries of ENRCs management, Lost Time Injuries employees : including the Sustainable Development Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate: Our conclusions SD team and those with responsibility Energy Consumed production only : As a result of our procedures nothing has for SD management and Group Greenhouse Gas Emissions energy only : come to our attention that indicates the SD reporting: Selected Information for the year ended Water Use: and Evaluated the design of the key 31December 2012 has not been prepared structures, systems, processes and Community Social Investment.
in all material respects with the Reporting controls for managing, recording and The scope of our work was restricted to Principles.
the Selected Information for the year ended This report, including our conclusions, Thisincluded analysing and visiting 31 December 2012 and does not extend has been prepared solely for the Directors 14 sites, selected on the basis of their to information in respect of earlier periods of ENRC as a body in accordance with inherent risk and materiality to the Group, or to any other information in the Annual the agreement between us, to assist the to understand the key processes and Report and Accounts 2012.
Directors in reporting ENRCs sustainable controls for reporting site performance development performance and activities.
data to the Group SD team: How the information is We permit this report to be disclosed in the assessed Reporting Performed limited substantive testing on a Annual Report and Accounts for the year selective basis of the Selected Information Criteria ended 31 December 2012, to enable the at corporate head offices London and We assessed the Selected Information Directors to show they have addressed Astana and in relation to 33 sites to verify using ENRCs 2012 Reporting Principles as their governance responsibilities by that data had been appropriately 1 set out at www.
obtaining an independent assurance report measured, recorded, collated and in connection with the Selected Information.
reported: and Professional standards To the fullest extent permitted by law, we 2 applied and level of Assessed the disclosure and presentation do not accept or assume responsibility 3 of the Selected Information.
assurance to anyone other than the Directors as a body and ENRC for our work or this report We have used ISAE 3000 limited level of ENRCs responsibilities except where terms are expressly agreed assurance and we have complied with The Directors of ENRC are responsible for: between us in writing.
the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales ICAEW Code of Designing, implementing and maintaining Ethics.
internal controls over information relevant to the preparation of the Selected Information  LLP that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: Chartered Accountants London Establishing objective Reporting Principles 24 April 2013 for preparing the Selected Information: 1 The maintenance and integrity of the ENRC website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by us does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, we accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the reported Selected Data or Reporting Principles when presented on the ENRC website.
2 We have complied with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 Assurance Engagements other than Audits and Review of Historical Financial Information issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board IAASB, and with the applicable independence and competency requirements of the ICAEW Code of Ethics.
To comply with those standards our work was carried out by an Independent and multi-disciplinary team of sustainability and assurance specialists.
3 Assurance, defined by the IAASB, gives the user confidence about the subject matter assessed against the reporting criteria.
Reasonable assurance gives more confidence than limited assurance engagement in substantially less in scope in relation to both the assessment of risks of material misstatement and the procedures performed in response to the assessed risks.
4 We comply with the applicable independence and competency requirements of the ICAEW Code of Ethics.
