Directors biographies 60 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Mr Gerhard Ammann Mr Felix Vulis Dr Zaure Zaurbekova Acting Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointed to the Board on 8 November 2007.
Appointed to the Board on 20 August 2009.
Appointed to the Board on 1 October 2009.
Appointed Acting Chairman on 23 April 2013.
Last re-elected by shareholders at the AGM in 2012.
Yes, until appointment as Acting Chairman.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Mr Vulis has been Chief Executive Officer since August Dr Zaurbekova became Chief Financial Officer Prior to joining the Board Mr Ammann was chairman 2009.
Prior to this he was Chief Operating Officer of inSeptember 2009, having been Chief Financial Officer and CEO of Deloitte in Switzerland until May 2007 ENRC from December 2006.
Between 2002 and 2006, of ENRC Kazakhstan since 2001.
Prior to that, she and has over 30 years experience as an auditor of Mr Vulis was first vice president of Eurasia Industrial was Finance Director and later first Vice President international companies, primarily in banking, finance Association.
Before joining the Group in 2001, Mr Vulis of Kazchrome.
Before joining ENRC, Dr Zaurbekova and international trade.
was president of UNICHEM K, LLC.
From 1990 until worked in the Ministry of Industry and Trade of the 1995 he was president and CEO of AGC Group, Inc. Republic of Kazakhstan and she began her career Committee membership in the Kazakh Research Institute of Automation Chairman of the Investment Committee.
of the Health, Safety, Environment and Community Chairman of the Health, Safety, Environment Committee.
Member of the Committee membership Nominationand CorporateGovernance and Member of the Investment, Executive and Health, External appointments ExecutiveCommittees.
Safety, Environment and Community Committees.
President of Bank von Roll, a private bank in Switzerland.
External appointments External appointments Non-executive director of Net Element, Inc. None.
1 Professor Dr Dieter Ameling Mr Marat Beketayev Mr Richard Burrows Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointed to the Board on 26 January 2010.
Appointed to the Board on 20 February 2008.
Appointed to the Board on 12 June 2012.
He will put Last re-elected by shareholders at the AGM in 2012.
Last re-elected by shareholders at the AGM in 2012. himself forward for election by shareholders at the 2013 AGM, the first after his appointment.
No, representative of the Government of the Republic Independent of Kazakhstan.
Skills and experience From 2000 to 2008 Professor Dr Ameling was the Skills and experience Skills and experience chairman of the Steel Institute VDEh and president Mr Beketayev was previously an advisor to the Prime Chief executive of Irish Distillers 1978 to 2000.
Co-chief ofthe German Steel Federation.
Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
He graduated executive of Pernod Ricard 2000 to 2005.
Governor in 1998 from the Kazakh State Law Institute.
In 2000 of the Bank of Ireland 2005 to July 2009.
President of Committee membership hecompleted an LLM in International Business Law the Irish Business and Employers Confederation from Member of the Health, Safety, Environment and atthe London School of Economics.
Chairman of the National Development Community and Investment Committees.
Chairman of the Committee membership External appointments Scotch Whisky Association 2006 to 2007.
Member of the Investment Committee, Health, Senior counsellor ThyssenKrupp Steel Europe AG from Safety, Environment and Community Committee and Committee membership 2008 to 2012.
Associate professor at the Technical Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee.
Member of the Audit, Remuneration and Health, Safety, University Clausthal.
External appointments Vice-minister of Justice of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
External appointments Chairman of British American Tobacco p. l. c. Non-executive roles at Rentokil Initial, Carlsberg and VoiceSage.
Member of the Trilateral Commission which fosters closer cooperation among democratic industrialised nations.
Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 61 Senior Management 2 Ms Mounissa Chodieva Head of Investor and Public Relations 2 Mr Beat Ehrensberger General Counsel 2 Mr Victor Hanna 1 CEO Africa Sir Paul Judge Dr Mohsen Khalil Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Mr Almaz Ibragimov Appointment Appointment President of JSC Aluminium of Appointed to the Board on 6 December 2007.
He will put Kazakhstan Last re-elected by shareholders at the AGM in 2012. himself forward for election by shareholders at the 2013 AGM, the first after his appointment.
Independent Mr Eduard Kaplan Yes.
Independent Chairman of the Board of ENRC Logistics Yes.
Skills and experience 2 Sir Paul spent 13 years with Cadbury Schweppes plc Skills and experience Mr Mark Midgley where he led the buyout of its food companies to form Dr Khalil has extensive experience in emerging Head of Strategy Premier Brands Ltd.
Following that he served as the markets, finance and investments.
A former executive chairman of Food from Britain, the Director General of IFC and the World Bank where his leadership roles 2 Mr Abdumalik Mirakhmedov of the Conservative Party, a ministerial advisor at the included: Global Head of IFC Climate Business Group: UK Cabinet Office, a director of WPP Group plc, the joint IFC World Bank Group Director of the Global CEO Sales & Marketing and Logistics president of the Chartered Management Institute Information and Communication Technologies Dept: and the Chairman of the Royal Society of Arts and IFC Regional Director for Middle East, North Africa and Mr Abduazim Rustambayev ofTeachers TV.
Central Asia: and Chief Investment Officer for IFCs President of JSC Eurasian Energy Infrastructure Dept.
Prior to that, he was advisor to Committee membership Corporation various governments and major corporations in the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He also worked with McKinsey & Co. ofthe Audit Committee.
Mr Viktor Til Management Consultants, NASA Goddard Space External appointments Flight Center and MITRE Corporation.
President of JSC Kazchrome Chairman of Schroder Income Growth Fund plc.
Committee membership Director of the United Kingdom Accreditation Service, Mr Mukhamejan Turdakhunov Member of the Investment and Nomination and Tempur-Pedic International Inc. of Kentucky and Abraaj Corporate Governance Committees.
President of SSGPO Capital of Dubai, Alderman of the City of London and president of the Chartered Institute of Marketing and External appointments ofthe Association of MBAs.
Founder and chief executive officer of MAKVEST, LLC and member of the board of Darling Holdings Group.
Mr Roderick Thomson Mr Terence Wilkinson Non-executive Director Senior Independent Director Appointment Appointment Appointed to the Board on 6 December 2007.
Appointed to the Board on 28 September 2011, Last re-elected by shareholders at the AGM in 2012. hebecame Senior Independent Director on 25 May 2012.
Elected by shareholders at the AGM in 2012.
Skills and experience Mr Thomson is an international financier, venture Skills and experience capitalist and philanthropist with over 40 years of Mr Wilkinson was Chief Executive and Chairman international business experience.
He has provided ofLonrho South Africa Ltd from 1985 to 1996, then capital from his own private investment portfolios to an Executive Director of Lonrho plc.
He was Chief numerous companies in the information technology, Operating Officer of Lonmin plc between 1997 and biotechnology, oil and gas, real estate and 2000.
In 2000 he joined Ridge Mining plc as an telecommunications sectors.
Executive Director, serving as Chief Executive from 2003 to 2009.
Committee membership Member of the Audit, Remuneration, Investment and Committee membership Nomination and Corporate Governance Committees.
Chairman of the Audit and Nomination and Corporate Governance Committees.
Member of the External appointments Remuneration Committee.
External appointments 1 Non-executive chairman and member of the audit and Not standing for re-election at the 2013 AGM.
2 remuneration committees of Century Aluminum Co.
Member of the Executive Committee.
