Directors report 86 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The Directors present their report and the audited Consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31December 2012.
All of the above form part of the On 25 May 2012 two new independent Principal activities management report required by the non-executive Directors were appointed to The Group is a leading diversified natural Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure the Board of the Company, with effect from resources group with integrated mining, and Transparency Rules.
12 June 2012: Mr Richard Burrows and processing, energy, logistical, and Dr Mohsen Khalil.
On the same date Mr marketing operations.
Production assets Terence Wilkinson was appointed as Senior Dividends are located in the Republic of Kazakhstan, Independent Director.
Mr Terence Wilkinson The Company paid an interim dividend of Russia, Zambia and the Democratic had been a non-executive Director and a US 6.5 cents per ordinary share 2011:US Republic of the Congo.
The Group has six member of the Audit and Remuneration 16 cents in October 2012.
The Directors operating Divisions: Ferroalloys, Iron Ore, Committees since December 2011. of the Board do not recommend a final Alumina and Aluminium, Energy, Logistics Following the appointments, the Board dividend for the year ended 31 December and Other Non-ferrous.
comprised 12 Directors, seven of whom 2012, making a total for the year of US were independent non-executive Directors.
6.5cents per ordinary share 2011:US Business Review On 10 August 2012, following the 27 cents.
The default payment currency The Business Review has been prepared to recommendation of the Nomination and of every dividend is US dollars unless a provide the Companys shareholders and Corporate Governance Committee, the currency election form has been lodged.
other interested parties with a fair review of Board agreed that Mr Gerhard Ammann Registered shareholders may elect to the business of the Group and a description and Mr Mehmet Dalman should stand receive their dividend in pounds sterling of the principal risks and uncertainties down as Chairmen of the Audit and by notifying the Registrars before the next facing it.
In accordance with section 417 Investment Committees respectively and dividend announcement.
of the Companies Act 2006, the Business that Mr Terence Wilkinson assume the chair Review is incorporated by reference into of the Audit Committee and Mr Gerhard Annual General Meeting this report and comprises the following: Ammann of the Investment Committee.
AGM Chairmans statement on pages 8 and 9: On 23 November 2012 the role of the The 2013 AGM will be held on Wednesday, Chairman was extended to include direct Chief Executive Officers statement and 5 June 2013 at The Lincoln Centre responsibility for corporate functions capital expenditure on pages 10 to 13: 18Lincolns Inn Fields, London WC2A including finance, risk, human resources, 3ED.
A separate circular containing Key Performance Indicators on pages 14 legal & compliance and investor relations.
the Notice of Meeting, together with an and 15: The Chairman retained, together with explanation of the items of special business, the Board, overall responsibility for the Sustainable development review is enclosed with this Annual Report and strategic development of the Group and on pages 17 to 20, which should Accounts.
The role then be read in conjunction with the focused on improving the efficiency of Sustainable Development Report to be Directors the Groups investment programme, as published separately: Details of the current Directors of the well as continuing to enhance the Groups Operational review on pages 24 to 42: Company and their biographies are set out corporate governance.
This change on pages 60 and 61. enabled the Chief Executive Officer, Mr Felix Chief Financial Officers review and capital Vulis, to fully focus on operations, notably expenditure on pages 44 to 49: On 3 February 2012 Dr Johannes Sittard cost and operational efficiencies across the stepped down from the roles of Chairman Risk management on pages 50 to 58: Groups assets.
Operational management and non-executive Director and Mr Mehmet and teams report directly to Mr Felix Vulis, and Dalman was appointed Chairman.
he retains all responsibility for marketing, Note 38 to the Consolidated financial logistics and exploration.
Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 87 Also on 23 November 2012 Mr Terence election.
The UK Corporate Governance The Board has put in place a procedure Wilkinson was appointed as the new Code, effective from June 2010, requires whereby all Directors have access, through Chairman of the NaCG Committee, that all directors of FTSE 350 companies the Company Secretary, to independent taking over from Mr Mehmet Dalman who stand for re-election annually.
The professional advice at the expense of the stepped down as a member and Chairman NaCG Committee recommended to the Company.
The Company also maintains an of this Committee.
Mr Jim Cochrane Board which Directors should continue.
appropriate level of Directors and Officers resigned on 11 April 2013.
On 23 April 2013 MrAmmann, Mr Beketayev, Mr Roderick D&O liability insurance.
A qualifying third Mr Dalman stepped down from the Board Thomson, Mr Vulis, Mr Wilkinson and party indemnity provision has been in and Mr Ammann was appointed Acting DrZaubekova will stand for re-election place since 2008 for the benefit of current Chairman.
Prof Dr Dieter Ameling and Directors and officers of the Company SirPaul Judge will stand down after the and those of its subsidiaries to enable Details of all changes to the Board during 2013 AGM.
the Company to fund the costs incurred the year are shown on page 64. by Directors in defending certain claims Directors are appointed and may be In accordance with the Articles of against them in relation to their duties removed in accordance with the Articles Association, all Directors are subject as Directors and officers.
The indemnity of Association of the Company and the to election at the first AGM after their operates only to the extent that the D&O provisions of the Companies Act 2006. appointment and to re-election at intervals liability insurance does not afford protection.
of no more than three years.
At the 2013 Details about Board processes, including AGM, Mr Richard Burrows and Dr Mohsen training and development, are included on Khalil, having been appointed since the pages 64 and 66. previous AGM, will offer themselves for Directors interests in ordinary shares This table shows the number of ordinary shares of the Company in which the Directors were beneficially interested as at the date of thisreport.
2 Mr Cochrane stood down from the Board on 11 April 2013.
Major interests in shares The table overleaf shows those shareholders who have been notified to the Company as holding major interests in shares amounting to more than 3% of the issued share capital of the Company, as at the date of this report.
Number of Nature voting rights % of holding Kazakhmys Eurasia BV 334,824,860 26 Indirect 1 Mr P Chodiev 154,052,625 12 Indirect 2 Mr A Ibragimov 113,836,250 9 Indirect Mr A Machkevitch 187,836,250 15 Indirect The State Property and Privatisation Committee of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan 150,047,116 12 Direct 1 Mr Chodievs total holdings amount to 187,836,250 shares 14.59% as he has transferred a total of 33,783,625 shares to entities where he is the beneficial owner.
The entities are managed by amongst others certain members of Mr Chodievs family.
A TR-1 has been received in respect of the shares notified above.
2 Mr Ibragimovs total holdings amount to 187,836,250 shares 14.59%, however, some are held on a discretionary basis by a fund management vehicle owned and operated by, amongst others, Mr Ibragimovs family.
Directors report continued 88 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 operates.
The recruitment process in the Share capital Situational conflicts Group is based on skills and experience.
As at 31 December 2012 the In accordance with the Articles of The Group has implemented Global People Companys authorised share capital Association of the Company, the Board is Policies to ensure that the employment was US$400,000,000 divided into permitted to consider and, if it sees fit, to process is free of discrimination on 2,000,000,000 ordinary shares of authorise situations where a Director has grounds of age, religion, marital status, US20cents each.
The issued share an interest that conflicts, or may possibly disability, gender, sexual orientation and capital of the Company at 31 December conflict, with the interests of the Company.
The Board has a formal system in place As a global group, we realise the Theordinary shares are listed on the for Directors to declare any conflicts or significance of promoting and protecting London and Kazakhstan Stock Exchanges.
potential conflicts and for these to then be human rights in the workplace.
The NaCG The rights and obligations attaching to accordance with the Groups Code of Committee takes responsibility for ensuring the Companys shares, in addition to Conduct any form of discrimination or unfair that a schedule of conflicts is maintained those conferred on their holders by law, treatment is not tolerated.
and that the Board reviews this schedule on are set out in the Articles of Association, an annual basis and updates authorisations which can be obtained from the Company Creditor payment policy where necessary.
Secretary at the Companys Registered The Groups policy is to agree terms of Office.
Theholders of ordinary shares Amendments to the Articles trading with suppliers in advance and to are entitled to receive all shareholder of Association make payment in accordance with these documents, toattend and speak at general terms.
The Group does not follow any meetings of the Company, to appoint The Companys Articles of Association may specific published code or standard on proxies, toexercise all voting rights and only be amended by a special resolution at payment practice.
Suppliers in Kazakhstan to participate in distributions of income a general meeting of the shareholders.
and Africa often require prepayment orcapital.
and the average number of creditor Relationship agreements At the 2012 AGM, shareholders gave the days outstanding for the Group as at Directors authority to allot shares up to an On 7 December 2007 the Founder 31 December 2012 was 52 2011: 40. aggregate nominal value of US$25,755,000, Shareholders, Messrs Chodiev, Ibragimov The average number of creditor days representing 10% of the issued share and Machkevitch, entered into separate outstanding as at 31 December 2012 for capital of the Company as at 16 April 2012. relationship agreements with the Company the Company was nil 2011: nil.
This authority will expire on the earlier of to regulate the ongoing relationship the 2013 AGM or 11 September 2013. between each Founder Shareholder and Events after balance Noshares were allotted during the year.
The principal purpose of the sheetdate relationship agreements is to ensure that Also at the 2012 AGM shareholders 2012 Final Dividend transactions and relationships between the authorised the Company to make market Group and the Founder Shareholders are at purchases of up to 128,775,000 ordinary The Directors of the Board do not arms length and on a normal commercial shares, representing 10% of the issued recommend a final dividend for the year basis.
Under the terms of the relationship share capital of the Company as at 16 April ended 31 December 2012. agreements, each Founder Shareholder 2012.
This authority will expire on the earlier Details of all other events after the balance has a right to appoint a Director to of the 2013 AGM or 11 September 2013. sheet date are set out in note 38 to the the Board as detailed in the corporate No market purchases of shares were made Consolidated financial statements on governance report on page 63.
None of the during the year.
Directors currently on the Board has been At the forthcoming AGM the Board will appointed by the Founder Shareholders.
again seek shareholders approval to renew Political and charitable the annual authorities for the Company to donations Employees allot shares and to make purchases of its No political donations were made during Information about employees is disclosed own shares through the market.
Charitable donations towards in the sustainable development review The Company is not aware of any community social investment amounted to on pages 17 to 20, which should be agreements between shareholders US$121 million 2011: US$156 million.
read in conjunction with the Sustainable restricting the voting rights or the right to Development Report, to be published A description of community social transfer shares in the Company.
investment is included in the sustainable development review on page 19 of this The Group understands that the success of report, which should be read in conjunction every global business depends on its ability with the Sustainable Development Report, to maintain diversity within its workforce.
The Group works hard on promoting diversity in all of the countries where it Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 89 For these purposes, change of control Russian Commercial Bank Cyprus Financial instruments means the occurrence of any of the Limited part of the VTB Group Details of the Groups financial risk following: On 30 September 2011, the Group entered management, objectives and policies, The direct or indirect sale, lease, transfer, into a US$1,000 million loan agreement.
together with details of financial instruments conveyance or other disposition other The loan has an applicable interest rate of are described in note 34 to the Consolidated than by way of merger, amalgamation 6.1% per annum and is repayable initially financial statements on pages 150 to 155. or statutory plan of arrangement or in three years by bullet repayment with a Change of control: consolidation of all or substantially all of two-year term-out option.
No security has  the assets of ENRC PLC to any person or been pledged as part of the agreement.
group other than to ENRC PLC, one of At31 December 2012, US$1,000 million The following represent significant its subsidiaries or one or more Permitted had been drawn down.
agreements and other potential legal Holders : or impediments which may entitle the On 25 April 2012, the Group entered into a counterparties to exercise termination or The consummation of any transaction second US$1,000 million term loan facility.
other rights in the event of a change of which results in any person other than The loan has an applicable interest rate control of the Company.
a Permitted Holder or a group other of LIBOR plus 6.25% per annum and is than a group that includes one or more repayable in two years by bullet repayment.
Article 13 of the Kazakhstan Permitted Holders becoming the The full amount was drawn down at Subsurface Law beneficial owner directly or indirectly, 31December 2012.
The Republic of Kazakhstan may be of more than 50% of the combined Sberbank of Russia entitled to exercise pre-emptive rights voting power of the issuers voting stock.
over certain issuances or sales of ordinary APermitted Holder is any of: On 1 February 2012, the Group entered into shares or assets shared by the Group.
a credit facility agreement with Sberbank of Messrs Chodiev, Machkevitch and Article 13 of the Kazakhstan Law on Russia for US$2,000 million.
The facility has Ibragimov and any related person or trust: Subsoil and Subsoil Use provides that the an applicable interest rate of LIBOR plus or Republic of Kazakhstan has pre-emptive 6.3% and is repayable in five years.
The full rights to purchase certain subsurface The State Property and Privatisation amount was drawn down at 31 December use rights or indirect or direct interests in Committee of the Ministry of Finance 2012. companies having subsurface use rights of the Republic of Kazakhstan and any Export Credit Facilities for sale.
This pre-emptive right permits successor entity thereto.
the Republic of Kazakhstan to purchase On 7 February 2011, the Group entered Structured Trade Finance Facility any such subsurface use rights or equity into an ECA facility for the amount of interests being offered for sale on no less On 5 October 2010, the Group entered into 185 million.
The facility has an 11 year favourable terms than those offered by a US$500 million structured trade finance maturity and bears an interest rate of six other purchasers.
facility with a group of international lenders.
month EURIBOR plus 1.2% per annum.
The facility has an applicable interest Euler Hermes Kreditversicherungs AG Euro Medium Term Notes rate of one month LIBOR plus 3.37% has provided credit insurance to support On 13 May 2010, the Group established and is repayable over three years.
The purpose of the facility is to a Euro Medium Term Note EMTN 31December 2012, US$167 million of the finance the Groups capital expenditure programme for up to US$3,000 million.
in the new Aktobe ferroalloys smelter.
At Subject to relevant laws and regulations, 31 December 2012, US$180 million of the Revolving Credit Facility notes can be issued in a variety of forms facility was outstanding.
and for a range of maturity periods.
On 16 February 2012, the Group signed the On 21 December 2012, the Group entered Proceeds from any issues under the refinancing of the US$500 million revolving into an ECA facility for the amount of 74.8 programme may be used for the Groups credit facility.
The amount of the facility million.
The facility has a 10.5 year maturity capital expenditure programme, potential was reduced to US$467 million and has with a three year draw down availability future acquisitions and for general been arranged on a club deal basis with period and bears an interest rate of six corporate purposes.
There were no issues Crdit Agricole acting as the coordinating month EURIBOR plus 1.1% per annum.
outstanding under the programme as at bank.
This is a two-year facility and bears Euler Hermes Kreditversicherungs AG has 31December 2012. an interest rate of LIBOR plus 2.5% per provided credit insurance to support the annum.
At 31 December 2012, there Upon the occurrence of a change of facility.
At 31 December 2012 there were no were no drawings under this facility.
On control, the holder of any note under the drawings under this facility.
12February 2013, this facility was replaced EMTN programme will have the right to with a new revolving credit facility.
require the issuer to purchase such note at a purchase price in cash equal to 101% of the nominal amount together with if appropriate interest accrued to the date ofpurchase.
Directors report continued 90 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Promissory Note Under the Promissory Note, if a change of Auditors and disclosure of control occurs, the principal sum and any information to auditors As part of the FQM transaction, announced accrued and unpaid interest thereon must on 2 March 2012, the total consideration The Groups external auditors, be prepaid within 14 days unless a the included deferred consideration of US$500  LLP, have acquiring entitys long-term, unsecured, million.
This is in the form of a three-year indicated their willingness to continue in office unsubordinated debt securities have a credit promissory note with an interest coupon and a resolution seeking to reappoint them rating equivalent to or better than ENRC of 3% per annum.
In accordance with will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
PLCs credit rating and ENRC PLCs credit IAS 39 Financial Instruments Recognition rating does not worsen as a result of the Each of the Directors at the date of and Measurement, this was measured at change of control or, if it does, the acquiring approval of this report confirms that so fair value of US$441 million at the time of entity replaces ENRC PLC as guarantor far as the Directors are aware, there is no the transaction and US$466 million as at under the Promissory Note or b the holder relevant audit information of which the 31December 2012. consents to the change of control.
Companys auditors are unaware: and Brazil deferred consideration the Directors have taken all the steps that For these purposes, change of control they ought to have taken as Directors to In September 2010, ENRC NV acquired means any person or group of persons make themselves aware of any relevant the remaining 50% of Bahia Minerals BV acting in concert who gains direct or audit information and to establish that for an initial consideration amount and indirect control of the Company and the Groups auditors are aware of the various event driven incremental purchase control means the power whether by way information.
The confirmation is given payments thereafter.
At the date of of ownership of shares, proxy, contract, and should be interpreted in accordance this report the aggregate amount of agency or otherwise to cast more than with the provisions of section 418 of the net outstanding incremental purchase one half of the maximum number of votes Companies Act 2006. payments is US$220 million.
that might be cast at a general meeting of the Company as applicable or appoint Change of control Corporate governance or remove all, or the majority of, the The aforementioned Structured Trade Directors or give directions with respect to The Groups statement on corporate Finance Facility, the Revolving Credit the operating and financial policies of the governance is included in the corporate Facility, the Russian Commercial Bank Company.
governance report on pages 63 to 75 Cyprus Facilities, the Sberbank of Russia of this Annual Report and Accounts and Facility and the Export Credit Facilities have In respect of the Brazil deferred forms part of this Directors report.
broadly similar change of control provisions consideration, upon a change of control, described below.
ENRC NV will become liable to pay all outstanding incremental purchase Electronic access to the If at any time a change of control occurs payments to Ardila Investments N. V. the Companys publications and if the majority lenders so require, the Seller under the Bahia Minerals BV sale and lenders may decline to fund a draw down A copy of the 2012 Annual Report and purchase agreement within five business and may cancel their commitments under Accounts, along with other corporate days.
For these purposes, a change of the facility and require that any outstanding publications, reports and press releases, control means an acquisition by a person, loan, together with accrued interest, be due is available on the Companys website at not being a subsidiary undertaking or and payable in full by giving not less than www.
parent undertaking of ENRC NV, of a 10days notice.
beneficial interest in more than 50% of the Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors total issued share capital of Bahia Minerals BV as at the date of such sale.
There are a number of agreements that take effect after or terminate upon a change of control of the Company, such as commercial contracts and joint venture Mr Felix J Vulis agreements.
None is considered to be Chief Executive Officer significant in terms of their potential impact 24 April 2013 on the business of the Group as a whole.
