Unlocking value through our competitive advantage 2 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The Group is well positioned as a leading natural resources business due to a combination of the high quality of its assets, their preferential positions on the cost curve, proximity to the worlds largest growth markets and the potential to grow production volumes.
High quality assets Proximity Low cost Unlocking to growth model value markets Russia Capacity for growth UK 1 Kazakhstan Switzerland China High-quality assets Mali The Group has a portfolio of world class assets focused on its core products of ferroalloys, iron ore, copper, alumina, aluminium, coal and energy.
The Groups commodity suite is well supported by the growth prospects of emerging markets and DRC Zambia their commodity intensive requirements.
Brazil 2 Zimbabwe Mozambique South Africa Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 3 Detail 1 RUSSIA Detail 2 DRC Africo and Comide RTR Boss Mining, Astana SMKK KAZAKHSTAN n Ferroalloys Division Lubumbashi n Iron Ore Division Almaty n Alumina and Aluminium Division Chambishi Frontier n Other Non-ferrous Division ZAMBIA n Energy Division n Logistics Division Kazakhstan African copper belt The majority of the Groups production The Group currently mines copper and assets are located in Kazakhstan.
They cobalt and processes the ore at Boss are supported by an integrated energy and Mining in the DRC.
A number of other logistics infrastructure.
The regional head development and near-production assets office is based in the capital city of Astana.
The Groups copper smelter, Chambishi Metals PLC, n Production assets islocated in Zambia.
n Development assets, Corporate offices Russia UK 1 Kazakhstan Switzerland China Mali DRC Zambia Brazil 2 Zimbabwe Mozambique South Africa Unlocking value through our competitive advantage continued 4 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Low cost model A key strength of the Group is its large scale, scaleable and long-life assets in its principal commodities.
The growth and success of the Groups Kazakhstan-based businesses is supported by its integrated energy and logistics capacity.
Together, these attributes help to maintain the advantageous low cost position ofthe Group in its key commodities.
Proximity to growth markets The Groups growth potential is underpinned by itsstrategic location in Kazakhstan, with its proximity to the longer-term, high-growth prospects of China, as well as the potential of Russia.
These prospects are built on continued urbanisation, rising consumer demand and infrastructure needs.
Our competitive Sustainable Financial review advantage Strategy in action development review Operational review and risk management Governance Financials ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 5 Capacity for growth The Group has focused its investment spend ofapproximately US$4.2 billion on five key growthprojects.
These will deliver significant valuethrough the addition of new ferrochrome and iron ore volumes in Kazakhstan, as well asincreasing copper production in Africa to inexcess of 200 ktpa over the next five years.
