Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Our Divisions Activities FINANCIAL PUBLISHING TRAINING 20% 8% of group of group 77.1m Revenue 31.2m Revenue turnover turnover Financial publishing includes an The training division runs a extensive portfolio of titles covering comprehensive range of banking, the international capital markets as finance and legal courses, both public well as a number of specialist financial and in-house, under the Euromoney titles.
Products include magazines, and DC Gardner brands.
newsletters, journals, surveys and Courses are run all over the world for both research, directories, and books.
In addition A selection of the companys leading financial the companys Boston-based subsidiary, MIS, runs a brands includes: Euromoney, Institutional Investor, wide range of courses for the audit and information EuroWeek, Latin Finance, Asiamoney, Global security market.
Investor, Project Finance, Air Finance and the hedge fund title EuroHedge.
BUSINESS PUBLISHING 16% of group 64.6m Revenue turnover The business publishing division Principal Brands produces print and online information for the metals and mining, legal, telecoms and energy sectors.
Its leading brands include: Metal Bulletin, American Metal Market: International Financial Law Review, International Tax Review and Managing Intellectual Property: Capacity: Petroleum Economist, World Oil and Hydrocarbon Processing.
02 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com CONFERENCES and SEMINARS RESEARCH and DATA 23% 33% of group of group 92.3m Revenue 130.3m Revenue turnover turnover The group runs a large number of The group provides a number of sponsored conferences and seminars subscription-based research and data for the international financial services for financial markets.
markets, mostly under the Euromoney, Montreal-based BCA Research is one of the worlds Institutional Investor, Metal Bulletin leading independent providers of global macro and IMN brands.
In 2011, the group expanded its independent research activities with the acquisition Many of these conferences are the leading annual of US-based Ned Davis Research, a leading provider events in their sector and provide sponsors with of independent financial research to institutional a high quality programme and speakers, and and retail investors.
The companys US subsidiary, outstanding networking opportunities.
Such events Internet Securities, Inc. provides the worlds most include: Euromoneys Covered Bond Congress: the comprehensive service for news and data on global Global Borrowers and Investors Forum: the Annual emerging markets under the Emerging Markets Global Hedge Fund Summit: the European Airfinance Information Service EMIS brand, and includes CEIC, Conference: and Global ABS and ABS East for the one of the leading providers of time-series macroasset-backed securities market.
In the commodities economic data for emerging markets.
The group sector, events include Metal Bulletins International also offers global capital market databases through Ferro Alloys conference and the worlds leading a venture with its partner, Dealogic Holdings plc.
annual coal conferences, Coaltrans and Coaltrans Asia: TelCap runs International Telecoms Week, the worldwide meeting place for telecom carriers and service providers: and MIS runs a leading event for the information security sector in the US, InfoSec World.
Ned Davis Research Group 03 Our Divisions Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance
