Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Directors and Advisors Executive Directors Mr PR Ensor Mr CR Jones Chairman Mr CR Jones aged 52 is the finance director and a chartered accountant.
Mr PR Ensor aged 64 joined the company in 1976 and was appointed an He joined the company in July 1996 and was appointed finance director executive director in 1983.
He was appointed managing director in 1992 in November 1996.
He is also the groups chief operating officer and chairman on October 15 2012.
He is chairman of the nominations and company secretary.
He is a director of Institutional Investor, Inc. committee.
He is also a director of Internet Securities, Inc. BCA Research, Information Management Network, Inc. Internet Securities, Inc. and BCA Inc. Ned Davis Research Inc. and Davis, Mendel & Regenstein Inc. and Research, Inc. an outside member of the Finance Committee of Oxford University Press.
Ms fide Alfano Mr CHC Fordham Ms fide Alfano aged 56 joined Institutional Investor, Inc. in 1984 and was Managing Director appointed an executive director in July 2000.
She is managing director of Mr CHC Fordham aged 52 joined the company in 2000 and was Institutional Investors conference division and a director and chairman of appointed an executive director in July 2003 and managing director Institutional Investor, Inc. on October 15 2012.
He was previously the director responsible for acquisitions and disposals as well as running some of the companys Ms JL Wilkinson businesses, including the recently acquired Ned Davis Research.
Ms JL Wilkinson aged 47 joined the company in 2000 and was appointed an executive director in March 2007.
She is group marketing Mr NF Osborn director, CEO of Institutional Investors publishing activities and president Mr NF Osborn aged 62 joined the company in 1983 and was appointed of Institutional Investor, Inc. an executive director in February 1988.
He is the publisher of Euromoney.
He is also a director of Internet Securities, Inc. and of RBC OJSC, a Mr B AL-Rehany Moscow-listed media company.
Mr B AL-Rehany aged 55 was appointed an executive director in November 2009.
He is chief executive officer and a director of BCA Mr DC Cohen Research, Inc. which he joined in January 2003.
Euromoney acquired BCA Mr DC Cohen aged 54 joined the company in 1984 and was appointed Research, Inc. in October 2006. an executive director in September 1989.
He is managing director of the training division.
28 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Non-executive Directors The Viscount Rothermere Mr JC Gonzalez The Viscount Rothermere aged 44 was appointed a non-executive Mr JC Gonzalez independent aged 66 was appointed a non-executive director in September 1998 and is a member of the nominations director in November 2004 and is a member of the audit committee.
He is chairman of Daily Mail and General Trust plc.
He is chairman and chief executive of American Orient Capital Partners Holdings Limited, an investment and financial advisory services rm based Sir Patrick Sergeant in Hong Kong covering the Asia Pacic region, and a director of a number Sir Patrick Sergeant aged 88 is a non-executive director and president.
of publicly listed companies in the Philippines.
He founded the company in 1969 and was managing director until 1985 when he became chairman.
He retired as chairman in September 1992 Mr MWH Morgan when he was appointed as president and a non-executive director.
He is a Mr MWH Morgan aged 62 was appointed a non-executive director on member of the nominations committee.
He is a member of the remuneration and nominations committees.
He was previously chief executive of DMG Information and Mr JC Botts became chief executive of Daily Mail and General Trust plc on October 1 Mr JC Botts aged 71 was appointed a non-executive director in December 2008.
1992 and is chairman of the remuneration committee and a member of the audit and nominations committees.
He is senior adviser of Allen & Mr DP Pritchard Company in London, a director of Songbird Estates plc and a director of Mr DP Pritchard independent aged 68 was appointed a non-executive several private companies.
He was formerly a non-executive chairman of director in December 2008.
He is chairman of the audit committee and United Business Media plc.
a member of the remuneration committee.
He is chairman of Songbird Estates plc and of AIB Group UK plc, and a director of The Motability Tenth Anniversary Trust.
He was formerly deputy chairman of Lloyds TSB Group, chairman of Cheltenham & Gloucester plc and a director of Scottish Widows Group and LCH.
Member of the remuneration committee Member of the nominations committee Member of the audit committee Advisors and registered office President Auditor Brokers Sir Patrick Sergeant Deloitte LLP, UBS, 1 Finsbury Avenue, 2 New Street Square, London EC2M 2PP Company Secretary London EC4A 3BZ CR Jones Registrars Solicitors Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Registered Ofce Nabarro, Lacon House, Road, Lancing, West Sussex, Nestor House, Playhouse Yard, Theobalds Road, BN99 6DA London EC4V 5EX London WC1 8RW Registered Number 954730 29 Directors and Advisors Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance
