Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Directors Report The directors submit their annual report and whole.
It has been prepared solely to provide groups main ofces are in London, New York, group accounts for the year ended September additional information to shareholders to assess Montreal and Hong Kong and more than a 30 2012. the companys strategy and the potential for that third of its revenues are derived from emerging strategy to succeed, and the Directors Report markets.
Details of the groups legal entities can Certain statements made in this document are should not be relied upon by any other party for be found in note 14. forward-looking statements.
Such statements are any other purpose.
The Corporate Governance based on current expectations and are subject to Report forms part of this Directors Report.
2. Business model a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially The groups activities are categorised into 1.
Principal activities from any expected future events or results referred five operating divisions: Financial Publishing: to in these forward-looking statements.
Unless Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC is listed Business Publishing: Conferences and Seminars: otherwise required by applicable law, regulation on the London Stock Exchange and a member Training: and Research and Data see pages or accounting standard, the directors do not of the FTSE 250 share index.
It is a leading 2 and 3 for further details.
The group has many undertake any obligation to update or revise international business-to-business media group mutually exclusive valuable brands see pages any forward-looking statements, whether as a focused primarily on the international finance, 2 and 3 allowing the directors to extend the result of new information, future development metals and commodities sectors.
It publishes value of existing products and to leverage or otherwise.
Nothing in this document shall be more than 70 titles in both print and online these into new areas both on a geographical regarded as a profit forecast.
format, including Euromoney, Institutional basis and a new product basis, for example Investor and Metal Bulletin, and is a leading publishing businesses often run branded The Directors Report has been prepared for the provider of electronic research and data under events covering their area of specialism.
The group as a whole and, therefore, gives greater the BCA Research, Ned Davis Research and group has a sizeable and valuable marketing emphasis to those matters which are significant ISI Emerging Markets brands.
It also runs an database allowing new and existing products to Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC and extensive portfolio of conferences, seminars to be matched with relevant companies and its subsidiary undertakings when viewed as a and training courses for financial markets.
The individuals on a tailored basis.
08 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com The group primarily generates revenues from financial institutions, governments, financial no longer t, the group divests.
The group is four revenue streams: advertising: subscriptions: advisory rms, hedge fund organisations, law investing heavily in its program to migrate its sponsorship: and delegates.
rms, commodity traders, other corporate print products online, develop new electronic organisations and for the groups niche focused information services, and to take advantage of Advertising revenues represent the fees that products relevant niche corporate entities across mobile and cloud technology.
customers pay to place an advert in one or the length of the respective supply chain.
more of the groups publications, either in 3.
Advertising revenue is primarily The groups main ofces are located in London, generated from the Financial Publishing and New York, Montreal and Hong Kong.
The key elements of the groups strategy are: Business Publishing divisions.
driving top-line revenue growth from both The groups costs are tightly managed with a new and existing products: Subscription revenues are the fees that customers constant focus on margin control.
The group building robust subscription and repeat pay to receive access to the groups information, benets from having a exible cost base, revenues and reducing the dependence on either through online access to various databases, outsourcing the printing of publications, hiring advertising: through regular delivery of soft copy research, external venues for events, and choosing to improving operating margins through tight publications and newsletters or hard copy engage freelancers, contributors, external trainers cost control: magazines.
Subscriptions are also received from and speakers to help deliver its products.
Other investing in new businesses, technology customers who belong to Institutional Investors than its main ofces, the group avoids the xed and the online migration of its publishing exclusive specialised membership groups.
costs of ofces in most of the markets in which it activities: Subscription revenue is primarily generated from operates.
This allows the group to scale up resource leveraging technology to launch specialised the Financial Publishing, Business Publishing and or reduce overhead as the economic environment new electronic information services: Research and Data divisions.
in which it operates demand.
making acquisitions that supplement the groups existing businesses: Sponsorship revenues represent fees paid by The group has strong covenants and takes strengthening the companys market customers to sponsor an event.
A payment of advantage of its ability to borrow money cheaply position in key areas which have the sponsorship entitles the sponsor to high-prole using these funds to invest in new products capacity for organic growth using the speaking opportunities at the conference, unique and fund acquisitions.
The groups subscription existing knowledge base of the group: branding before, during and after the event revenues are normally received in advance, at managing its cash ows to keep its debt and an unparalleled networking opportunity to the beginning of the subscription service, and within a net debt to EBITDA limit of three meet the sponsors clients and representatives.
a typical subscription contract would be for a times: and Sponsorship revenue is generated from the 12 month period.
This helps provide the group providing incentives to foster an Conferences and Seminars division and the with strong cash ows and normally leads to entrepreneurial culture and retain key people publishing businesses which run smaller events.
cash generated from operations being in excess see section 4.4.
of adjusted operating profit a cash conversion Delegate revenues represent fees paid by percentage in excess of 100%.
customers to attend a conference, training 4. Business review course or seminar.
Delegate revenues are derived The board does not micro-manage each business, 4.1 Group results and dividends from the Conferences and Seminars and Training The group profit for the year attributable to instead devolving operating decisions to the local divisions and from smaller events run by the shareholders amounted to 69.7 million 2011: management of each business, while taking publishing businesses.
The directors recommend a final advantage of a strong central control environment dividend of 14.75 pence per ordinary share for monitoring performance and underlying Details of the groups revenues by revenue risk.
This encourages an entrepreneurial culture 2011: 12.50 pence, payable on Thursday stream and by division are set out in note 3. where businesses have the right kind of support February 14 2013 to shareholders on the register and managers are motivated and rewarded for on Friday November 23 2012.
This, together with The group has a global customer base with the interim dividend of 7.00 pence per ordinary revenue derived from almost 200 countries, growth and initiative.
with approximately 60% from the US, Canada, share 2011: 6.25 pence which was declared on UK and the rest of Europe and more than a The group invests for the long-term in businesses May 17 2012 and paid on July 19 2012, brings third of its revenue from emerging markets.
and products that meet certain financial and the total dividend for the year to 21.75 pence per Its customer base predominantly consists of strategic criteria.
Equally, where businesses ordinary share 2011: 18.75 pence.
09 Directors Report Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Directors Report continued 4.2 Key performance indicators The group monitors its performance against its strategy using the following key performance indicators: Revenue Mix Revenue Mix Revenue 2012 2012 2011 2011 growth m % m % % Revenue growth and mix Subscriptions 199.7 51% 171.0 47% 17% Advertising 58.4 15% 62.7 17% 7% Sponsorship 47.6 12% 48.8 13% 2% Delegates 80.1 20% 75.0 20% 7% Other closed 9.7 2% 9.4 3% 3% Foreign exchange losses on forward contracts 1.4 3.8 394.1 100% 363.1 100% 9% 2012 2011 Change 1 Gross margin 75.1% 73.9% 1.2% 2 Adjusted operating margin 30.0% 30.0% 3 Like-for-like growth in profits 5.7m 7.6m 4 Headcount 2,133 2,111 22 5 Net debt to EBITDA 0.27:1 1.01:1 6 7 CAP profit and Adjusted PBT 120.0 CAP profit 110.0 100.0 Adjusted PBT 90.0 80.0 CAP 2004 Original Target 70.0 60.0 CAP 2004 Revised Target 50.0 40.0 30.0 CAP 2010 Target 20.0 10.0 CAP 2010 Revised Target 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 1.
Gross margin: gross profit as a percentage of revenue.
Gross profit and revenue are both as per note 4 to the financial statements.
Adjusted operating margin: operating profit before acquired intangible amortisation, long-term incentive expense, exceptional items and associates as a percentage of revenue.
Operating profit and revenue are both as per the Group Income Statement in the financial statements.
Like-for-like growth in profits: proportion of adjusted operating profit growth that relates to organic growth, rather than acquisitions.
Adjusted operating profit is from continuing operations and excludes closed businesses, acquired intangible amortisation, exceptional items, long-term incentive expense, unallocated corporate costs and interest and is adjusted for significant timing differences.
Headcount: number of permanent people employed at the end of the period excluding people employed in associates.
Net debt to EBITDA: the amount of the groups net debt converted at the groups weighted average exchange rate for the rolling 12 month period to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and also before exceptional items and the accelerated long-term incentive expense, but after the normal long-term incentive expense.
CAP profit: profit before tax excluding acquired intangible amortisation, long-term incentive expense, exceptional items, net movements in acquisition option commitments values, imputed interest on acquisition option commitments, foreign exchange loss interest charge on tax equalisation contracts and foreign exchange on restructured hedging arrangements as set out in the Group Income Statement, note 5 and note 8.
Adjusted PBT: CAP profit after the deduction of long-term incentive expense as set out on page 7.
10 Million Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com 4.3 KPIs explained The key performance indicators are all within the boards expectations and support its successful strategy.
These indicators are discussed in detail in the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 to 6, and in section 4.4 below.
4.4 Development of the business of the group 4.4.
1 Trading review Total revenues for the year increased by 9% to 394.1 million.
After a 13% increase in the first half, the headline rate of revenue growth dropped to 5% in the second as markets became tougher and the impact of the acquisition of NDR in August 2011 diminished.
Underlying revenues, excluding NDR, increased by 1% in the second half against 6% in the first.
Change at constant exchange 2012 2011 Headline change rates Revenues m m H1 H2 Year Year Subscriptions 199.7 171.0 22% 12% 17% 16% Advertising 58.4 62.7 9% 5% 7% 8% Sponsorship 47.6 48.8 1% 5% 2% 4% Delegates 80.1 75.0 19% 4% 7% 6% Other closed 9.7 9.4 5% 3% 2% Foreign exchange losses on forward currency contracts 1.4 3.8 Total revenue 394.1 363.1 13% 5% 9% 8% Less: revenue from acquisitions 24.3 4.6 Underlying revenue 369.8 358.5 6% 1% 3% 2% 11 Directors Report Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Directors Report continued Subscriptions increased by 17% to nearly increased by 3% during the year, mostly due delegates and increased by 7% to 92.3 200 million and accounted for more than to the acquisition of NDR at the end of 2011. million, with adjusted operating profits up half the groups revenues for the first time.
2 Business division review Underlying subscription revenues, excluding markets became more challenging during the Financial Publishing: revenues fell by 8% NDR, increased by 5%, with the growth driven third quarter, the most important of the year to 77.1 million and adjusted operating largely by the groups electronic information for the events businesses.
Financial market profits by 12% to 24.9 million.
Advertising, services such as BCA Research and CEIC Data.
events, with a heavy emphasis on sponsorship which accounts for approximately half the revenues, have been under pressure from cost divisions revenues, has been under pressure The 7% fall in advertising revenues reects cutting among global financial institutions.
all year from cuts in spend by global financial two very different trends.
Financial titles have In contrast, events in sectors outside finance, institutions as well as a gradual shift away from experienced falls of as much as 20% in the face particularly in the commodities and energy print advertising across the sector.
As a result, of deep cuts by global financial institutions.
But sectors, have performed better.
The division financial advertising fell by 13%, although the this has been partly offset by increases in online also generates nearly 20% of its revenues from impact of more severe cuts by Wall Street banks advertising, a greater appetite for print advertising subscriptions to membership organisations was offset by a stronger performance from from emerging markets and growth in advertising for the asset management industry, and emerging markets which helped sustain titles from sectors outside finance, particularly energy.
these have continued to grow, helped by such as Euromoney and Asiamoney.
Revenues a significant investment in Institutional from subscription products were at, helped by Event revenues broadly comprise an equal Investors Investor Intelligence Network, a the launch of new products.
mix of sponsorship and paying delegates.
private online community for senior executives Event sponsorship, which is heavily financial from institutional investors and asset owners Business Publishing: the groups activities market focused, has suffered in a similar way worldwide.
outside finance cover a number of sectors to advertising, although to a lesser degree.
including metals, commodities, energy, Events, particularly those outside the financial Research and Data: revenues are derived telecoms and law, and provide a strong sector which tend to be more delegate driven, predominantly from subscriptions and increased counterbalance to the more volatile financial performed well in the first half but growth has by 25% to 130.3 million.
Revenues increased by 9% been more difficult to achieve in the second excluding NDR, was 6%.
The trends seen in the to 64.6 million and adjusted operating profits and some smaller events were cut.
first half have continued, with the main drivers by 5% to 24.5 million, with growth achieved of growth being BCA, the groups independent from both advertising, particularly in the energy The group derives nearly two-thirds of its total macroeconomic research house, CEIC, the sector, and subscriptions, for which Metal revenue in US dollars and movements in the emerging market data provider, and the capital Bulletin is the biggest driver.
This year is the first sterlingUS dollar rate can have a significant market databases run as a joint venture with that profits from Business Publishing have been impact on reported revenues.
Renewal rates for all these products similar to those from Financial Publishing.
was not the case in 2012 and headline revenue have held up well, although new sales have growth rates are similar to those at constant been harder to generate.
Adjusted operating Training: the groups training division currency see table above.
profits increased by 30% to 55.4 million predominantly serves the global financial sector.
including a 9.0 million contribution from NDR.
The groups adjusted operating margin was However, more than half its revenues are derived 30.0%, the same as 2011.
The increased from emerging markets, and this has helped 4.4.
3 Financial review spend on technology and digital products has mitigate the impact of cuts in bank headcount The adjusted profit before tax of 106.8 million reduced margins in the publishing businesses, and training budgets.
Training revenues fell by compares to a statutory profit before tax of while in the research and data division margins 4% to 31.2 million and adjusted operating 92.4 million.
A detailed reconciliation of the have improved following investments made profits by 11% to 7.0 million.
The decline in groups adjusted and statutory results is set out in the previous two years.
In the face of operating margin from 24% to 22% was largely in the appendix to the Chairmans Statement.
challenging markets, costs and margins have due to the completion at the end of 2011 of The statutory profit is generally lower than remained tightly controlled throughout the a long-term training contract in Asia, and the the adjusted profit before tax because of the year.
Permanent headcount at September 30 margin in the second half recovered to 25%.
impact of acquired intangible amortisation.
was 2,133 against 2,111 a year ago, with most Exceptional charges of 1.6 million 2011: 3.3 of the increase coming in the second half.
The Conferences and Seminars: revenues million were incurred, mainly as a result of the average headcount including temporary staff comprise both sponsorship and paying restructuring of one of the groups businesses.
12 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com The long-term incentive expense of 6.3 million The adjusted effective tax rate for the year related foreign currency finance costs provide a 2011: 9.5 million before additional accelerated was 22% against 26% in 2011.
The tax rate partial hedge against the translation of overseas expense of 6.6 million relates largely to the depends on the geographic mix of profits and profits.
The translation impact on overseas amortisation of the 30 million cost of the the group has benefited this year from the profits of a one cent movement in the average companys CAP scheme.
The reduction in this reduction in the UK corporate tax rate from US dollar exchange rate is approximately 0.5 years expense partly reects the acceleration of 26% to 24%.
The effective tax rate has also million on an annualised basis.
The average cost last year following the earlier than expected benefited from an increase in the tax deduction sterlingUS dollar rate for the year was $1.58 vesting of CAP 2010 see below, as well as a for goodwill amortisation on acquisitions in the 2011: $1.61 which increased operating profits credit of 1.8 million for options lapsing under US, following the purchase of NDR.
The UK tax by approximately 1.5 million, most of it in the CAP 2004.
This early vesting means the CAP rate will fall to 23% in April 2013, although this second half.
2010 expense for 2013 is expected to fall to benefit will be more than offset by the expiry of approximately 2.0 million.
the US tax deduction for goodwill amortisation 4.4.
4 Net debt, cash flow and from the acquisition of Institutional Investor 15 dividend Adjusted net finance costs for the groups years ago.
Net debt at September 30 was 30.8 million committed borrowing facility fell by 1.6 million compared with 88.5 million at March 31, to 5.6 million, reecting the rapid reduction The group continues to generate two-thirds of and has fallen by 88.4 million since the start in net debt, most of it in the second half.
The its revenues, including approximately 30% of the of the year.
The groups net debt is now at its average cost of funds for the year fell to 4.8% revenues from its UK businesses, and more than lowest level since the acquisition of Institutional 2011: 5.7% as the groups cheaper oating half its operating profits in US dollars.
The sharp fall in net debt rate debt comprised a higher portion of total hedges its exposure to the US dollar revenues in during the year was helped by the offer of the debt following the acquisition of NDR.
its UK businesses by using forward contracts to scrip dividend alternative and the absence of any sell surplus US dollars.
This delays the impact of significant acquisitions.
Cash generated from Statutory net finance costs of 3.6 million 2011: movements in exchange rates for at least a year.
operations increased by 4.2 million to 122.2 9.6 million include a 2.9 million credit for the The group does not hedge the foreign exchange million and the operating cash conversion rate reduction in the expected consideration payable risk on the translation of overseas profits, the percentage by which cash generated from under the option agreement to acquire the although it does endeavour to match foreign operations covers adjusted operating profit, outstanding 15% minority interest in NDR.
The currency borrowings with investments and the was 103% 2011: 108%.
For 2013, the ending group acquired 85% of NDR for 68.5 million in August 2011 and the integration with the rest of the group, including the consolidation of the back ofce functions, the restructuring of the sales teams and the opening of a sales ofce in London was completed according to plan.
However, it has taken longer than expected to convert the business to the standard subscription model used by BCA, and to expand the sales team.
This, combined with difficult markets in the US, has meant that the revenue growth from NDR in 2012 has been less than that expected at the time of acquisition, although the outlook for growth in 2013 and beyond remains positive.
As a result, the expected amount payable under the NDR earn-out arrangement has fallen to 7.9 million, of which 4.3 million is payable in 2013.
SSA Markets a comprehensive daily news and data service launched by Euroweek 13 Directors Report Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Directors Report continued of the scrip dividend, combined with the 7.5 earnings for dividend purposes were reduced debtors primarily reecting improved collections million cash payment following the vesting of by 1.1 million in 2012, and will be similarly across the group and a 1.2 million reduction the first tranche of CAP options and an increase reduced by 4.0 million in 2013 and 1.5 in the debtors provision.
Other debtors fell by in technology capital expenditure, will reduce million in 2014.
4.9 million reecting the receipt of local taxes, the groups free cash ows.
and prepayments and accrued income increased The final dividend will be paid on February by 2.0 million, primarily due to an increase The groups debt is provided through a $300 14 2013 to shareholders on the register at in accrued subscription revenue.
Net current million 190 million dedicated multi-currency November 23 2012.
As announced at the time income tax assets and liabilities fell from a net committed facility from its parent company, of the interim results, acceptance levels for the asset position of 1.8 million to a net liability Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT.
This scrip dividend alternative have been low and of 6.4 million following receipts in the year facility expires in December 2013, after which the company will no longer be offering a scrip and further provision for tax due from trading the group has the option to access a further dividend.
activities: total acquisition option commitments $300 million facility from DMGT for the period fell from 11.0 million to 7.9 million mainly 4.4.
The option to take up this reecting the revised commitment to purchase The net assets of the group were 287.9 million facility must be exercised by November 2013. the remaining equity shareholding in NDR: net compared to 225.6 million in 2011.
The main derivative financial instrument due less than movements in the balance sheet items were: The companys policy is to distribute a third of its one year and more than one year fell from a intangible assets fell by 20.7 million, reecting after-tax earnings by way of dividends each year.
liability of 6.9 million to an asset of 2.1 million amortisation costs of 14.8 million offset by the Pursuant to this policy, the board recommends following maturity of several forward currency recognition of 5.2 million of goodwill and 1.3 a final dividend of 14.75 pence a share 2011: and interest rate swap contracts during the year million of acquired intangible assets following 12.50 pence giving a total dividend for the coupled with a reduction in the mark to market the acquisition of Global Grain: and property, year of 21.75 pence a share 2011: 18.75 loss of the groups future interest rate swaps plant and equipment fell by 2.4 million to pence.
Last year the additional accelerated CAP and forward currency contracts: committed loan 18.0 million, largely as a result of regular capital expense of 6.6 million was not charged against facility fell 86.9 million to 43.2 million, net expenditure across the group of 1.7 million earnings for dividend purposes.
As explained at cash generated by the group from operations offset by depreciation of 3.4 million.
Trade and the time, this expense would instead be charged of 122.2 million offset by 9.0 million used other receivables fell by 5.5 million to 66.0 against earnings for dividend purposes over the in investing activities, 96.4 million spent on million due to a 4.7 million decrease in trade period to which it originally related.
Accordingly, nancing activities and 15.3 million on tax: net 14 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com pension deficit increased from 1.9 million to a Purchase of associate Global Grain Asia essential or for investment purposes.
Headcount deficit of 4.8 million reecting a 5.5 million Also on February 29 2012, the group acquired at September 2012 was 2,133, an increase increase in the pension obligation offset by a 50% of Global Grain Asia, a new event for grain of only 22 since September 2011, the main 2.6 million increase in the asset value.
industry professionals in the Asia-Pacic region, increases being in technology to support the for 671,000 567,000.
The group has the stepped up investment in that area and at NDR 4.4.
6 Capital Appreciation Plan option to purchase the remaining 50% equity as the directors expand its sales force into new CAP holding of GGA Pte.
The CAP is a highly geared performanceand if exercised expects to pay 1,021,000 based share option scheme which both directly 4.4.
9 Marketing and digital 813,000. development rewards executives for the growth in profits of In 2012 group marketing strategy has focused the businesses they manage, and links this to Provisional fair value and goodwill update on widening the prospect pool through the the delivery of shareholder value by satisfying Ned Davis Research NDR groups communities focus and driving online rewards in a mix of shares in the company and In August 2011, the group acquired 85% of revenue through new product innovation.
The current CAP, CAP 2010, aims to mirror the equity share capital of NDR, the US-based the success of CAP 2004 for both shareholders provider of independent financial research The group continues to push boundaries to and management by delivering exceptional to institutional investors, for an initial cash maintain customer acquisition by adopting a profit growth over the performance period.
consideration of US$112.0 million 68.5 more nurturing approach to marketing with Further details of CAP 2004 and CAP 2010 are million.
Following true-up adjustments during the explosion of niche online communities and set out in the Company Shares Schemes section the year to the cash payable following the final online audience development.
The marketing in the Directors Remuneration Report.
working capital calculation, the cash receivable and digital development team create and from non-controlling interests, the nalisation manage 70 communities with over 140,000 4.4.
7 Acquisitions and disposals of the sellers tax liability, the accounting policy members, growing at a 6% monthly average.
Acquisitions remain an important part of the alignment of property, plant and equipment and These communities reach finance, business and groups growth strategy.
In particular the board the recognition of previously unrecognised tax commodities professionals across the globe.
In believes that acquisitions are valuable for taking liabilities, the related goodwill was increased by addition, the online products have now achieved the group into new sectors, for bringing new 1.0 million to 35.3 million.
over 14% growth in unique visitors.
technologies into the group and for increasing the groups revenues by buying into rapidly Further details of the above acquisitions are set In 2012 the group spent 9.9 million in growing niche businesses.
The group continues out in note 15. online product development to drive multito look for strategic acquisitions in the areas of device access to the groups product portfolio, international finance and commodities, and in Increase in equity holdings dedicated community services and launch new emerging markets.
During the year the group spent 840,000 premium data-based subscriber services.
The on an additional 1.12% interest in Internet Acquisitions groups dedicated online customer network for Securities Inc. the emerging market content Purchase of new business Global Grain aviation finance has now engaged over 3,300 aggregator and data business, taking its holding Geneva senior members and provides a platform to to 99.92%.
On February 29 2012, the group acquired keep them updated on industry news, events, Global Grain Geneva, the worlds leading 4.4.
8 Headcount share opinions and network together.
The event for international grain traders.
The The number of people employed is monitored groups innovative Investor Intelligence Network initial consideration paid was 6,159,000 monthly to ensure there are sufficient resources has 1,300 members, with a combined US$18 5,134,000.
A further net consideration of to meet the forthcoming demands of each trillion in assets, providing a private online 93,000 77,000 is expected to be paid business and to make sure that the businesses forum where institutional investors can question dependent upon the audited results of the continue to deliver sufficient profits to their peers in a condential environment and business for the year to February 2013.
The support the people they employ.
During 2012 engage with investment managers on their acquisition of Global Grain is consistent with the the directors have focused on maintaining mandates.
The mobile and tablet applications groups strategy of building fast growing global headcount at a similar level to that in 2011, continue to roll out and have provided greater event businesses.
hiring new heads only where considered online engagement, with a 70% growth in 15 Directors Report Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Directors Report continued average time spent online from 2011.
The increase speed to market.
10 Systems and information usage behaviour of mobile applications has technology and HTML5 have both been adopted within been complementary to online site usage, The group continues to increase its investment the digital development process with mobile engaging users whilst travelling or not at their in technology with particular emphasis on cloud, versions of key websites launched as well as desks.
The applications have also provided mobile, social and data as well as the people over 14 mobile applications.
an opportunity for greater advertising and that manage its delivery and management.
Continued investment has been made A number of new products were launched as in migrating the digital and corporate Customers remain at the heart of the groups well as existing digital assets redesigned during infrastructure to a new supplier who will provide strategy the group now request online the year to support continued business demand.
an enterprise class, service-orientated hybrid customer feedback, provide prototype and beta cloud architecture.
Microsoft Ofce 365, remote stages of innovation and have invested in online Project Delphi was initiated in 2012 and is at working solutions and Windows 7 have all been segmentation and analytics through Webtrends the core of this digital strategy.
The project will successfully piloted and will be fully rolled out in across all sites.
introduce a new digital application platform 2013.
The new CRM and events platform have for authoring, storing and presenting content continued to be rolled out across the group efficiencies have continued within marketing and data based upon a unied web content with increased functionality.
Investment in the services with customer service, contact management system, standards based XML data e-commerce, tax and permissioning systems repository and semantic engine.
It will enable the research and event sales, accounting for 48% also continued.
The online store technology will repurposing of existing content and data with of all event delegate revenue, now outsourced provide a way to promote better cross-selling of granular discovery and aggregation, remove to Philippines and India.
existing barriers to product segmentation and 16 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com A framework has been adopted for service Interest rate swaps are used to manage the The group does not hedge the foreign exchange management in order to minimise business groups exposure to uctuations in interest rates risk on the translation of overseas profits, disruption and generate cost efficiencies across on its oating rate borrowings.
The maturity although it does endeavour to match foreign the group.
There has also been an increased prole of these derivatives is matched with currency borrowings with investments and the focus on information security with frequent the expected future debt prole of the group.
related foreign currency finance costs provide a penetration tests and audits conducted.
The The groups policy is to x the interest rates on partial hedge against the translation of overseas groups digital assets are compliant with the approximately 80% of its term debt looking profits.
As a result of this hedging strategy, new Privacy and Electronic Communication forward over five years.
The maturity dates any profit or loss from the strengthening or Regulations.
Policies regarding social media use are spread in order to avoid interest rate basis weakening of the US dollar will largely be have similarly been reviewed and Euromoney is risk and also to mitigate short-term changes in delayed until the following financial year and actively building out capability in this area.
These steps have increased the groups exibility, At September 30 2012, the group had 69% of Details of the financial instruments used are set scalability and resilience allowing technical its gross debt xed by the use of interest rate out in note 19 to the accounts.
staff to instead focus on core front-ofce hedges.
The predictability of interest costs is Tax and revenue-generating activities rather than deemed to be more important than the possible The adjusted effective tax rate based on commodity maintenance.
opportunity cost forgone of achieving lower adjusted profit before tax and excluding interest rates and this hedging strategy has 4.4.
11 Tax and treasury deferred tax movements on intangible assets, the effect of spreading the groups exposure Committee prior year items and exceptional items is 22% to uctuations arising from changes in interest The groups tax and treasury committee 2011: 26%.
The groups reported effective tax rates and hence protects the groups interest normally meets twice a year and is responsible rate decreased to an expense of 24% compared charge against sudden increases in rates but also for recommending policy to the board.
A reconciliation prevents the group from benefiting immediately committee members are the chairman, to the underlying effective rate is set out in note from falls in rates.
managing director and finance director of the 9 to the accounts.
company, and the finance director and the The group generates approximately twodeputy finance director of DMGT.
The chairman The total net deferred tax balance held is a thirds of its revenues in US dollars, including of the audit committee is also invited to attend liability of 9.6 million 2011: 9.0 million and approximately 30% of the revenues in its UKtax and treasury meetings.
The groups treasury relates primarily to capitalised intangible assets based businesses, and approximately 60% of policies are directed to giving greater certainty of and rolled over capital gains, net of deferred its operating profits are US dollar-denominated.
future costs and revenues and ensuring that the tax assets held in respect of US tax losses and The group is therefore exposed to foreign group has adequate liquidity for working capital short-term timing differences and the future exchange risk on the US dollar revenues in its and debt capacity for funding acquisitions.
deductions available for the CAP.
UK businesses, and on the translation of the results of its US dollar-denominated businesses.
Treasury The treasury department does not act as a profit In order to hedge its exposure to US dollar centre, nor does it undertake any speculative revenues in its UK businesses, a series of forward trading activity, and it operates within policies contracts are put in place to sell forward surplus and procedures approved by the board.
The group hedges 80% of forecast US dollar revenues for the coming 12 months and up to 50% for a further six months.
17 Directors Report Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
Principal risks and uncertainties The principal risks and uncertainties the group faces vary across the different businesses and are identied in the groups risk register.
Management of significant risk is regularly on the agenda of the board and other senior management meetings.
The geographical spread and diverse portfolio of businesses within the group help to dilute the impact of some of the groups key risks.
The groups principal risks and uncertainties are summarised below: DOWNTURN IN ECONOMY OR MARKET SECTOR The group generates significant income from certain key geographical regions and market sectors for its publishing, events, research and data businesses.
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION Uncertainty in global financial markets increases the risk of a downturn The group has a diverse product mix and operates in many geographical or potential collapse in one or more areas of the business.
This reduces dependency on any one sector or region.
income is likely to be adversely affected and for events businesses some Management has the ability to cut costs quickly if required or to abandonment costs may also be incurred.
switch the groups focus to new or unaffected markets, e. g. through development of new vertical markets or transferring events to better performing regions.
TRAVEL RISK The conference, seminar and training businesses account for approximately a third of the groups revenues and profits.
The success of these events and courses relies heavily on the confidence in and ability of delegates and speakers to travel internationally.
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION Significant disruptions to or reductions in international travel for any Where possible, contingency plans are in place to minimise the disruption reason could lead to events and courses being postponed or cancelled from travel restrictions.
Events can be postponed or moved to another and could have a significant impact on the groups performance.
location, or increasingly can be attended remotely using online technologies.
Cancellation and abandonment insurance is in place for Past incidents such as transport strikes, extreme weather including the groups largest events.
hurricanes, terrorist attacks, fears over SARS and swine flu, and natural disasters such as the disruption from volcanic ash in Europe, have all had a negative impact on the groups results, although none materially.
18 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS Group businesses are subject to legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which they operate.
The key laws and regulations that may have an impact on the group cover areas such as libel, bribery and corruption, competition, data protection, privacy including e-privacy, health and safety and employment law.
Additionally, specific regulations from the Audit Bureau of Circulations apply to published titles see incorrect circulation claims below.
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION A breach of legislation or regulations could have a significant impact on Compliance with laws and regulations is taken seriously throughout the the group in terms of additional costs, management time and group.
The groups Code of Conduct and supporting policies sets out reputational damage.
appropriate standards of business behaviour and highlights the key legal and regulatory issues affecting group businesses.
Divisional and local In recent years responsibilities for managing data protection have management is responsible for compliance with applicable local laws and increased significantly.
The emergence of new online technology is regulations, overseen by the executive committee and the board.
further driving legislation and responsibilities for managing data privacy.
Failure to comply with data protection and privacy laws could result in The group has strict policies and controls in place for the management of significant financial penalties and reputational damage.
data protection and privacy across the group with staff receiving relevant training.
This year the group rolled out website technology across all its online businesses to comply with new EU e-privacy regulations PECR.
Controls are also in place surrounding compliance with the Audit Bureau of Circulations regulations and other regulatory bodies to which the group adhere.
DATA INTEGRITY, AVAILABILITY AND SECURITY The group uses large quantities of data including customer, employee and commercial data in the ordinary course of its business.
The group also publishes data see published content risk below.
The integrity, availability and security of this data is key to the success of the group.
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION Any challenge to the integrity or availability of information that the The group has comprehensive information security standards and policies group relies upon could result in operational and regulatory challenges, in place which are reviewed on a regular basis.
Access to key systems costs to the group, reputational damage to the businesses and the and data is restricted, monitored, and logged with auditable data trails.
The wider use of social media has increased Restrictions are in place to prevent unauthorised data downloads.
this risk as negative comments made about the groups products can The group is subject to regular internal information security audits, now spread more easily.
supplemented by expert external resource.
Although technological innovations in mobile working, the introduction Comprehensive backup plans for IT infrastructure and business data are of cloud-based technologies and the growing use of social media in place to protect the businesses from unnecessary disruption.
present exciting opportunities for the group, they also introduce new information security risks that need to be managed carefully.
The group has professional indemnity insurance.
19 Directors Report Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Directors Report continued LONDON, NEW YORK, MONTREAL OR HONG KONG WIDE DISASTER The groups main offices are located in London, New York, Montreal and Hong Kong.
A significant incident affecting these regions could lead to disruption to group operations.
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION An incident affecting one or more of the key offices could disrupt the Business continuity plans are in place for all businesses.
These plans are ordinary operations of the businesses at these locations: a region wide refreshed annually and a programme is in place for testing.
If required, disaster affecting all offices could have much worse implications with employees can work remotely.
serious management and communication challenges for the group and The group has robust IT systems with key locations including the UK, US, a potential adverse affect on results.
Canada and Asia benefiting from offsite data backups, remote recovery The risk of office space becoming unusable for a prolonged period and sites and third-party 24-hour support contracts for key applications.
a lack of suitable alternative accommodation in the affected area could Recently the groups business continuity planning helped its New York also cause significant disruption to the business and interfere with office to recover quickly and effectively from the significant disruption delivery of products and services.
Incidents affecting key clients or staff in these regions could also give rise to the risk of not achieving forecast results.
PUBLISHED CONTENT RISK The group generates a significant amount of its revenue from publishing, be it magazines, journals or information and data published online.
As a result, there is an inherent risk of error which, in some instances, may give rise to claims for libel.
The rapid development of social media has further increased this risk.
The transition to online publishing means content is being distributed far quicker and wider than ever before.
This has introduced new challenges for securing and delivering content and effective management of content rights and royalties.
The business also publishes databases and data services with a particular focus on high value proprietary data.
There is the potential for errors in data collection and data processing.
The group publishes industry pricing benchmarks for the metals markets and runs more than 100 reader polls and awards each year.
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION A successful libel claim could damage the groups reputation.
The rise in The group runs mandatory annual libel courses for all journalists and use of social media, and in particular blogging, has further increased this editors.
Controls are in place, including legal review, to approve content risk.
Damage to the reputation of the group arising from libel could lead that may carry a libel risk.
The group also has editorial controls in place to a loss of revenue, including income from advertising.
In addition there for publishing using social media and this activity is monitored carefully.
could be costs incurred in defending the claim.
The groups policy is to own its content and manage redistribution rights The failure to manage content redistribution rights and royalty tightly.
Royalty and redistribution agreements are in place to mitigate agreements could lead to overpayment of royalties, loss of intellectual risks arising from online publishing.
property and additional liabilities for redistribution of content.
The group has implemented tight controls for the verification, cleaning The integrity of the groups published data is critical to the success of the and processing of data used in its database, research and data services.
groups database, research and data services.
The group also publishes The groups processes and methodologies for assessing metals prices and extensive pricing information and indices for the global metals industries.
calculating indices are clearly defined and documented.
All employees Errors in published data, price assessments or indices could affect the involved with publishing pricing information receive relevant training.
Robust reputation of the group leading to fewer subscribers and lower revenues.
contractual disclaimers are in place for all businesses that publish pricing data.
20 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com PUBLISHED CONTENT RISK continued POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION Any challenge to the integrity of polls and awards could damage the Polls and awards are regularly audited and a firewall is in place between reputation of the product challenged and by association the rest of the the commercial arm of the business and the editors involved in the polls group, resulting in legal costs and a permanent loss of revenue.
Key staff are aware of the significant nature of published content risk and strong internal controls are in place for reporting to senior management if a potential issue arises.
The group also has libel insurance and professional indemnity cover.
INCORRECT CIRCULATION OR AUDIENCE CLAIMS The group publishes over 70 titles and sells advertising based partly on circulation and online audience figures.
An incorrect claim for circulation or audience could adversely affect the groups reputation.
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION A claim resulting from an incorrect circulation or audience claim could The group audits the circulation figures of every publication regularly and lead to the permanent loss of advertisers and other revenue streams.
A strict approval system is in place for all media packs.
Detailed guidance is provided to all relevant employees and their understanding of the rules is regularly monitored.
There are a large number of mutually exclusive titles and it is unlikely that an incorrect circulation claim, should it arise, would affect the circulation of other titles within the wider group.
Similar controls are applied to claims for electronic publishing activities including online traffic reporting.
LOSS OF KEY STAFF The group is reliant on key management and staff across all of its businesses.
Many products are dependent on specialist, technical expertise.
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION The inability to recruit and retain talented people could affect the groups Long-term incentive plans are in place for key staff to encourage ability to maintain its performance and deliver growth.
The directors remain committed to recruitment and retention of high quality management and talent, and provide a programme of When key staff leave or retire, there is a risk that knowledge or career opportunity and progression for employees including extensive competitive advantage is lost.
training and international transfer opportunities.
Succession planning is in place for senior management.
The group announced in August that PR Ensor, managing director, would succeed PM Fallon as executive chairman with CHC Fordham, an executive director since 2003, succeeding PR Ensor as managing director.
This followed an independent and rigorous selection process.
These succession plans have now been implemented.
21 Directors Report Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Directors Report continued FAILURE OF CENTRAL BACK-OFFICE TECHNOLOGY The business has invested significantly in central back-office technology to support the transition of the business from print to online publishing.
The back-office provides customer and product management, digital rights management, e-commerce and performance and activity reporting.
The platform supports a large share of the groups online requirements including key activities for publishing, events and data businesses.
The back-office technology is critical to the successful functioning of the online business and hence carries a significant amount of risk.
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION A failure of the back-office technology may affect the performance, data The group continues to invest significantly in its central back-office integrity or availability of the groups products and services.
The platform is planned, managed and run by a dedicated, failure is likely to affect a large number of the businesses and customers, skilled team and its progress and performance is closely monitored by the and lead directly to a loss of revenues.
executive committee and the board.
Online customers are accessing the groups digital content in an The group continues to invest in digital rights management technology to increasing number of ways, including using websites, apps and e-books.
ensure its content is adequately secured and changing customer The group relies on effective digital rights management technology to requirements for accessing the groups products and services are met.
provide flexible and secure access to its content.
An inability to provide flexible access rights to the groups content could lead to products being The group has recently made a substantial investment in new e-commerce less competitive or allow unauthorised access to content, reducing technology and hosting infrastructure to ensure the back-office platform subscription revenues as a result.
continues to perform effectively over the next five years.
A reduction in back-office technology investment increases the risk of the online platform becoming ineffective with the group becoming less competitive.
This could lead to fewer customers and declining group revenues.
ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL RISK As well as launching and building new businesses, the group continues to make strategic acquisitions where opportunities exist to strengthen the group.
The management team review a number of potential acquisitions each year with only a small proportion of these going through to the due diligence stage and possible subsequent purchase.
The strategy also results in the disposal of businesses that no longer fit the groups investment criteria.
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION There is a risk that an acquisition opportunity could be missed.
The Senior management perform detailed in-house due diligence on all group could also suffer an impairment loss if an acquired business does possible acquisitions and call on expert external advisers where deemed not generate the expected returns or fails to operate or grow in its necessary.
Acquisition agreements are usually structured so as to retain markets and products areas.
Additionally, there is a risk that a newly key employees in the acquired company and there is close monitoring acquired business is not integrated into the group successfully or that of performance at board level of the entity concerned post acquisition.
the expected risks of a newly acquired entity may be misunderstood.
As a consequence a significant amount of management time could be The board regularly reviews the groups existing portfolio of businesses to diverted from other operational matters.
identify under-performing businesses or businesses that no longer fit with the groups strategy and puts in place divestment plans accordingly.
The group is also subject to disposal risk, possibly failing to achieve optimal value from disposed businesses, failing to identify the time at which businesses should be sold or under estimating the impact on the remaining group from such a disposal.
22 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com FAILURE OF ONLINE STRATEGY The emergence of new technologies such as tablet and other mobile devices and the proliferation of social media is changing how customers access and use the groups products and services.
The group has established a strategy to meet the many challenges of migrating the publishing businesses from traditional print media to online and to ensure the non-publishing businesses take advantage of new technology when advantageous to do so.
This strategy has been pursued for a number of years.
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION The groups online strategy addresses a number of challenges arising The group is already embracing these challenges and overall sees the from the groups transition from print media to an online business and Internet and other technological advances as an opportunity not a threat.
Significant investment in the groups online strategy has already been Competition has increased, with free content becoming more available on made and will continue for as long as necessary see 4.4.
10 of the the Internet and new competitors benefiting from the lower barriers to Directors Report.
New content management technology is being entry.
A failure to manage pricing effectively or successfully differentiating implemented across the group to enable more effective publishing to the groups products and services could negatively affect business results.
web, print and the rapidly increasing number of mobile platforms coming on to the market.
Many of the groups businesses already produce soft The customer environment is changing fast with an increasing number copies of publications to supplement the hard copies as well as provide spending more time using the Internet.
Print circulation is declining information and content via apps.
and a failure to convert customers from print risks a permanent loss of customers to competition.
The groups acquisition strategy has increased the number of online information providers in the business.
However, while online revenues The transition from the traditional monthly publishing cycle to continuous are important, the groups product mix reduces dependency on this publishing has affected editorial practices significantly.
For example, the group generates a third of its profits from its continue to manage this transition effectively could make the business event businesses and face-to-face meetings remain an important part of less efficient and less competitive.
Further changes in technology including the widespread use of tablets and other mobile devices and the impact of social media such as LinkedIn and Twitter is changing customer behaviour and will introduce new challenges for all businesses.
A failure in the groups online strategy to meet these challenges could result in a permanent loss of revenue.
TREASURY OPERATIONS The group treasury function is responsible for executing treasury policy which seeks to manage the groups funding, liquidity and treasury derivatives risks.
More specifically, these include currency exchange rate fluctuations, interest rate risks, counterparty risk and liquidity and debt levels.
These risks are described in more detail in note 19 to the financial statements.
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION If the treasury policy does not adequately mitigate the financial risks The tax and treasury committee is responsible for reviewing and approving summarised above or is not correctly executed, it could result in group treasury policies which are executed by the group treasury.
unforeseen derivative losses or higher than expected finance costs.
Segregation of duties and authorisation limits are in place for all payments The treasury function undertakes high value transactions hence there is made.
The treasury function is also subject to regular internal audit.
an inherent high risk of payment fraud or error having an adverse impact on group results.
23 Directors Report Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Directors Report continued UNFORESEEN TAX LIABILITIES The group operates within many tax jurisdictions and earnings are therefore subject to taxation at differing rates across these jurisdictions.
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION The directors endeavour to manage the tax affairs of the group in an External tax experts and in-house tax specialists, reporting to the tax and efficient manner, however, due to an ever more complex international treasury committee, work together to review all tax arrangements within tax environment there will always be a level of uncertainty when the group and keep abreast of changes in global tax legislation.
There is also a risk of tax laws being amended by authorities in the different jurisdictions in which the group operates which could have an adverse effect on the financial results.
The Articles of Association Future development in the 9.
Customers and suppliers themselves may be amended by a special business resolution of the shareholders.
An indication of the trading outlook for the The group operates through a large number of group is given in the Chairmans Statement on The directors who served during the year are listed businesses in many geographical locations.
In 2013 the directors will manage the on page 47.
The directors interests are given on the relationships with key customers and suppliers business to facilitate growth and to continue to page 51.
There were no changes in the executive is decentralised such that there is no overarching shape the business to remain competitive in the or non-executive directors during the year.
policy on how the group manages these economic environments in which it operates.
This enables each business to tailor The group is well placed to diversify its product Following best practice under the June 2010 UK their approach to suit customers and suppliers and geographical base and remains committed Corporate Governance Code and in accordance specic needs and requirements.
Each key customer to its strategy set out on page 9. with the companys Articles of Association, all and supplier has an account manager allocated directors submit themselves for re-election to them ensuring that open communication is The board will continue to review the portfolio annually.
Accordingly, all directors will retire maintained throughout the relationship.
of businesses, disposing, closing or restructuring at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting any under-performing businesses to allow the and, being eligible, will offer themselves for Each business agrees payment terms with group to have the necessary resources and skills re-election.
In addition, in accordance with the its suppliers and it is group policy to make to remain acquisitive.
The group will invest in June 2010 UK Combined Code on Corporate payments in accordance with these terms.
The technology and new businesses, particularly Governance, before the re-election of a nongroup had 59 days of purchases in creditors at electronic information products, as well as in its executive director, the chairman is required to September 30 2012 2011: 77 days.
confirm to shareholders that, following formal performance evaluation, the non-executive Employees involvement 10. directors performance continues to be effective 7.
Post balance sheet events and training and demonstrates commitment to the role.
Equal opportunities Events arising after September 30 2012 are set Accordingly, the non-executive directors will The group is an equal opportunity employer.
out in note 30. retire at the forthcoming Annual General It seeks to employ a workforce which reects Meeting and, being eligible following a formal the diverse community at large, because the performance evaluation by the chairman, offer 8.
Directors and their contribution of the individual is valued, irrespective themselves for re-election.
interests of sex, age, marital status, disability, sexual preference or orientation, race, colour, religion, The companys Articles of Association give Details of the interests of the directors in the ethnic or national origin.
It does not discriminate power to the board to appoint directors from ordinary shares of the company and of options in recruitment, promotion or other employee time to time.
In addition to the statutory rights held by the directors to subscribe for ordinary matters.
The group endeavours to provide of shareholders to remove a director by ordinary shares in the company are set out in the Directors a working environment free from unlawful resolution, the board may also remove a director Remuneration Report on pages 41 to 52. discrimination, victimisation or harassment.
where 75% of the board give written notice 24 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Quality and integrity of employees Human rights and health and safety 11.
Going concern, debt requirements The competence of people is ensured through covenants and liquidity The group is committed to the health and high recruitment standards and a commitment The results of the groups business activities, safety and the human rights of its employees to management and business skills training.
The together with the factors likely to affect and communities in which it operates.
Health group has the advantage of running external its future development, performance and and safety issues are monitored to ensure training businesses and uses this in-house financial position are set out in the Chairmans compliance with all local health and safety resource to train cost effectively its employees on Statement on pages 4 to 6. regulations.
External health and safety advisers a regular basis.
Employees are also encouraged are used where appropriate.
The UK businesses actively to seek external training as necessary.
The financial position of the group, its cash ows benefit from a regular assessment of the and liquidity position are set out in detail in this working environment by experienced assessors High-quality and honest personnel are an report.
The group meets its day-to-day working and regular training of all existing and new UK essential part of the control environment.
capital requirements through its US$300 million employees in health and safety matters.
The high ethical standards expected are dedicated multi-currency borrowing facility with communicated by management and through Daily Mail and General Trust plc group DMGT.
Disabled employees the employee handbook which is provided to The facility is divided into US dollar and sterling It is the groups policy to give full and fair all employees.
The employee handbook includes funds with a total maximum borrowing capacity consideration to applications for employment specic policies on matters such as the use of of US$250 million 155 million and 33 from people who are disabled: to continue, the groups information technology resources, million respectively and matures in December wherever possible, the employment of, and to data protection policy, the UK Bribery Act, and 2013.
The facilitys covenant requires the arrange appropriate training for, employees who disciplinary and grievance procedures.
The group groups net debt to be no more than four times become disabled: and to provide opportunities operates an internal intranet site which is used adjusted EBITDA on a rolling 12 month basis.
for the career development, training and to communicate with employees and provide At September 30 2012, the groups net debt to promotion of disabled employees.
guidance and assistance on day-to-day matters adjusted EBITDA covenant was 0.27 times and facing employees.
The group has a specic the committed undrawn facility available to the whistle blowing policy that is supported by an group was 144.7 million.
externally monitored and run whistle blowing hotline.
The whistle blowing policy is updated In addition, the group has agreed terms with regularly and is reviewed by the audit committee.
DMGT that provide it with access to US$300 million of funding should the group require it during the period from December 2013 through April 2016.
The groups forecasts and projections, looking out to September 2015 and taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the group should be able to operate within the level and covenants of its current borrowing facility.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing this annual report.
25 Directors Report Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Directors Report continued the company has a number of agreements 12.
Directors indemnities that take effect, alter or terminate upon a significant shareholdings The company has directors and ofcers liability change of control of the company following Details of the companys share capital are given and corporate reimbursement insurance for a takeover bid, such as commercial in note 23.
The companys share capital is the benefit of its directors and those of other contracts, bank loan agreements, property divided into ordinary shares of 0.25 pence each.
This insurance has been lease arrangements, directors service Each share entitles its holder to one vote at in place throughout the year and remains in agreements and employee share plans.
shareholders meetings and the right to receive force at the date of this report.
None of these agreements are deemed to one share of the companys dividends.
be significant in terms of their potential impact on the business of the group as a 17.
Significant shareholdings at Annual General Meeting whole: and November 13 2012 The companys next Annual General Meeting details of the directors entitlement to Nature % of will be held on January 31 2013. compensation for loss of ofce following a Name of Number voting takeover or contract termination are given of holder holding of shares rights in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Auditor Limited Direct 84,638,741 68.07 A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as the 14.
Authority to purchase and companys auditor is expected to be proposed 13.
EU Takeovers Directive allot own shares at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The companys authority to purchase up to 10% Pursuant to s992 of the Companies Act 2006, of its own shares expires at the conclusion of which implements the EU Takeovers Directive, 19.
Disclosure of information the companys next Annual General Meeting.
A the company is required to disclose certain to the auditor resolution to renew this authority for a further additional information which is not covered In the case of each of the persons who is a period will be put to shareholders at this meeting.
elsewhere in this annual report.
Such disclosures director of the company at November 14 2012: are as follows: At the Annual General Meeting of the company on so far as each of the directors is aware, there January 26 2012, the shareholders authorised the there are no restrictions on the transfer is no relevant audit information as dened directors to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal of securities shares or loan notes in the in the Companies Act 2006 of which the amount of 90,971 expiring at the conclusion of company, including: i limitations on the companys auditor is unaware: and the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2013. holding of securities: and ii requirements each of the directors has taken all the A resolution to renew this authority for a further to obtain the approval of the company, steps that he she ought to have taken as period will be put to shareholders at this meeting.
or of other holders or securities in the a director to make himself herself aware of company, for a transfer of securities: any relevant audit information as dened there are no people who hold securities 15.
Political and charitable and to establish that the companys auditor carrying special rights with regard to contributions is aware of the information.
control of the company: During the year the group raised charitable the companys employee share schemes do This conrmation is given and should be contributions of 1,085,000 2011: 1,108,000. not give rights with regard to control of the interpreted in accordance with the provisions of There were no political contributions in either company that are not exercisable directly s418 of the Companies Act 2006. year.
See pages 36 to 40 for details of the groups by employees: charitable projects.
there are no restrictions on voting rights: By order of the board the directors are not aware of any agreements between holders or securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights: Colin Jones Company Secretary November 14 2012 26
