24 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 EVRAZ Business System The EVRAZ Business System EBS is the The Company uses the following tools in order While in 2011 the Company mostly practical expression of EVRAZs vision which to apply the Lean philosophy throughout concentrated on introducing the principles of aims to reduce costs, improve quality and EVRAZ and involve the workforce in improving Lean philosophy and deploying some of the safety and eliminate waste.
EBS their business: basic Lean tools and instruments, 2012 was incorporates the business principles and focused on expanding that knowledge and tools of the Lean management philosophy to r Strategy Development and Deployment consolidating it in so-called lean pilots with manage change and create a culture of Matrix a form used to show relationships the aim of increasing the efficiency of various continuous improvement within the Company.
between 3-5 year objectives, improvement work areas at sites and offices.
This allowed It consists of a set of principles that define priorities, targets, resources required and the Company not only to develop specific the way the Company operates and the way benefits to the organisation: areas but also provided key examples of how people think and act.
EBS applies in every r Value Stream Analysis to analyse and to implement the EVRAZ Business System in part of the business and every process in the design the flow of materials and practical terms.
information required to bring a product or service to a consumer: A large part of that effort was concentrated The main objectives of EBS are to design out r A3 Thinking provides for a systematic on building cells, especially those dedicated overburden and inconsistency and to method to identify opportunities for to maintenance and repairs.
The first pilot eliminate waste.
The most significant effects improvements in the workplace, realise area was the continuous caster #4 at EVRAZ on process value delivery are achieved by them daily as well as make the NTMK, one of the most critical pieces of designing a process capable of delivering transformation planning and problem equipment of the plant.
The result was an personal customer requirements and solving: increase in the speed and quality of repairs business results smoothly.
r Cell Development is the area where work is of bender rolls for the shop.
performed and improvement is made.
This EBS objectives area includes such items as 6S, Flow, Cells also laid the ground for changing the r Grow leaders who thoroughly understand Standard Work, Pull and Visual Companys current function-oriented the work, live the philosophy, and teach it Management, which ensure a safe and approach to management to team based to others.
problem solving that allows the cross r Develop exceptional people and teams who functional members to determine the root follow Companys philosophy.
EBS in action cause to problems and develop concrete r Respect the extended network of partners In two years since the introduction of the countermeasure plans to resolve them.
and suppliers by challenging them and EVRAZ Business System the Company has helping them improve.
achieved significant results in the In 2012, EVRAZ initiated a study into aligning r EVRAZ understands customer value and improvement of its processes and the organisation along product lines to create focuses its key processes to continuously procedures.
a system where marketing, sales, finance, increase it.
The ultimate goal is to provide product development and operations can perfect value to the customers through a work across the Company tackling various perfect value creation process that has processes with the goal of making them less zero waste.
Flow 6HW XS ZRUN LQ VXFK D ZD DV WR GHOLYHU WKH UHTXLUHG SURGXFW RU VHUYLFH MXVW LQ WLPH DQG ZLWK PLQLPDO ZDVWH $LP IRU E VWUDLJKW OLQH RU 8 VKDSHG IORZ 6S 6RUW HW ULG RI ZKDW RX GRQW QHHG Visual Standard work 6WUDLJKWHQ &UHDWH IORZ Management 'HVFULEH WKH EHVW SUDFWLFH RI ZRUN IRU D JLYHQ SURFHVV ROG TXLFN VWDQG XS 6FUXE &OHDQ DQG PDNH 'RFXPHQW LW XVLQJ YLVXDO PHHWLQJV RQ WKH IORRU SUREOHPV YLVXDO DLGV SLFWXUHV JUDSKV 6DIHW 6WDUW ZRUN RQO 6HH DEQRUPDO SKRWRV LI LWV VDIH WR GR VR FRQGLGLWRQV LQ VWDEOLVK D SDWWHUQ IRU VHFRQGV RU OHVV 6WDQGDUGLVH 0DUN DQG UHSHWLWLYH WDVNV ODEHO 0DQDJH E H[FHSWLRQ 5HYLVH DQG LPSURYH $ SODFH IRU HYHU WKLQJ 7DNH FRUUHFWLYH DFWLRQ UHJXODUO DQG HYHU WKLQJ LQ LWV SODFH 6XVWDLQ $XGLW 7UDFN, PSURYH Pull %DVH SURGXFWLRQ RQ &XVWRPHU GHPDQG &RPPXQLFDWH DFWXDO UHDO WLPH QHHGV IRUP GRZQVWUHDP RSHUDWLRQV 7LH HDQ FHOOV WRJHWKHU Here, waste refers to anything that does not advance the process or increase added value Corporate Overview Strategy Operating Review Social Responsibility Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Risk register within EBS r an awareness of risk at all levels within With risk being a critical element in the ability EVRAZ to ensure that risks can be to achieve business strategies EVRAZ is escalated to a level of management incorporating the risk register as a key that can effectively respond to them element in the Company Mission Control Key targets for 2013 Rooms.
This process allows the management As EVRAZ strives to enhance quality and to assess the risks and develop counter efficiency, the Company has set a goal for measures thus to align the organisation and 2013 to develop a Lean maintenance and maintain the trajectory of improvement toward procurement system for 20% of critical the Companys True North Goals.
This is a equipment at all sites.
While efforts in 2012 significant step for EVRAZ as the Lean were concentrated on the deployment of 6S, principles are deployed within the EVRAZ in 2013 the focus will be shifted to increasing Business System.
the 6S score of the Company to a minimum of 50%.
Management also plan to increase the EVRAZ will take a measured approach to risk amount of training and recognition for management that enables: improvements by employees one EBS target r an understanding of the level of risk is 100% recognition of all improvement efforts exposure that can be tolerated in the Company.
Finally, the management of r an understanding of the type of risks faced EVRAZ intends to set up a model Lean facility and how to measure them for each of the divisions which will give each r where the level of risk exposure is too high business unit an example of what a Lean that a suitable level of mitigation exists production site should look like.
This initial r the ongoing assessment of the enterprise will lead the way for other EVRAZ effectiveness of mitigation sites to follow suit in due course.
r prompt action where existing arrangements are found to be inadequate or ineffective EBS risk register ow chart Risks and actions deployed Top level mission control room Production level control board Shop level control board r Risk register will be developed r Each division will deploy r Deploy the risks to product at Group Level its risks to the sites line shop functional r Should be a part of the r Sites will assess overall Risks responsibilities strategic plan and risks from division r This should be in the form of r Initiatives should be in line r Should be a part of the actions required to mitigate with the risks transformation plan the risks r Risk register will live in the CEO r Actions and status should live and division MCRs in the shop level production A3s will be developed for top control boards risks Action plans developed Tracked using A3 and MCR
