Corporate Overview Strategy Operating Review Social Responsibility Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Other Businesses Key assets of EVRAZ in trading, logistics and other auxiliary services Name Location Services provided EVRAZ NMTP Russia Logistics Sinano Europe Logistics Trading Company EvrazHolding Russia Trading EVRAZ Metall Inprom Russia Trading East Metals AG Europe Trading ZapSib Power Plant part of EVRAZ ZSMK Russia Electricity and heat generation Power Plant at EVRAZ NTMK part of EVRAZ NTMK Russia Electricity and heat generation Kachkanar Power Plant part of EVRAZ KGOK Russia Electricity and heat generation Metallenergonance Russia Electricity supplies EvrazEnergoTrans Russia Power grid EVRAZ ships most of its exports to Asia 82%.
A key achievement in 2012 was a which is based on SAP functionality and through EVRAZ NMTP, Nakhodka Trade Sea fourfold decrease in the number of late represents one of the best in class solutions Port, which is one of the largest ports in the deliveries and incomplete orders as compared for trading companies.
Implementation of the Russian Far East.
to 2011. new system allowed EMAG to further integrate all major areas of its operations including In 2012, cargo turnover at the port increased Trading Company EvrazHolding plans to sales, procurement, logistics and finance and by 10% vs. 2011 and totalled 6.9 million continue improving customer loyalty by make all management processes leaner and tonnes.
EVRAZ plans to further increase cargo enhancing the flexibility of pricing, improving more efficient.
turnover to over 8 million tonnes in 2013. stock availability, reducing customer delivery claims and improving product quality.
During 2012, EMAG increased sales to MENA Coal port handling facilities are being markets mainly Iraq and Turkey, by 300 modernised and upgraded with a target annual EVRAZ Metall Inprom is one of the leading thousand tonnes and completed its maiden coal capacity of 5 million tonnes per annum by Russian steel trading companies which shipments of steel slabs to India.
A further 2015, however capacity is expected to finishes and distributes steel products rebar, significant achievement was an increase in increase incrementally from 2013. structural shapes, sheet, pipe produced sales to end users.
mostly by EVRAZ EVRAZ ZSMK and EVRAZ Sinano provides sea freight services and NTMK in Russia and EVRAZ DMZ Petrovskogo EVRAZs major energy assets are located in Russia and in 2012 supplied 42% of the delivers up to 4 million tonnes of EVRAZ in Ukraine.
In 2012 EVRAZ Metall Inprom sold Companys electricity needs.
The ZapSib products to clients every year.
EVRAZ owns almost 2 million tonnes of steel products compared to 1.7 million tonnes in 2011.
Power Plant supplies electricity and heat to and operates four vessels with a total EVRAZ ZSMK and external customers whilst a deadweight capacity of 95,465 tonnes, which covered approximately 25% of 2012 shipping EVRAZ Metall Inprom has delivered steel second power plant is in operation at EVRAZ requirements for EVRAZs Russian and products for the construction of sports NTMK.
Ukrainian subsidiaries on a CIF CFR basis.
facilities including for the Olympic Games for EVRAZs fleet transports semi-finished and example, the reconstruction of the railway During 2012 the Kachkanar Power Plant long steel products, coal, vanadium slag and station and the construction of the new was integrated into EVRAZ KGOKs operations, other materials.
In 2012, Sinano launched a Central Olympic Stadium as well as the main generating operating efficiencies of several project to implement SAP in order to enhance media centre, a football stadium in Kazan for million US dollars.
In addition, the initial stage its operational efficiency and offer a higher Universiada, and a stadium in Saransk for the of a project to increase generating capacity at level of customer service.
The system will Football World Cup.
Among other significant the ZapSib Power Plant by 17% compared to become operational in 2013. projects are the construction of the Vostochny 2011 levels was approved.
space base and works for the Moscow and Trading Company EvrazHolding is EVRAZs Samara subways.
In 2013, EVRAZ plans to continue with trading arm for Russian & CIS markets programmes on operational improvements covering the whole range of the Groups As part of EVRAZs strategy of focusing on at key power generating facilities.
In 2012, sales of steel products customers, a quality monitoring bureau was totalled 6.8 million tonnes and Trading established to manage a centralised process Metallenergofinance supplies electricity to Company EvrazHolding strengthened its for processing customer claims and EVRAZs steel and mining segments and to position in key product segments in Siberia complaints.
Total volume of realised energy in and the Urals.
2012 amounted to 6.5 billion kW h including East Metals AG EMAG, located in 5.7 billion kW h of intragroup deliveries.
In 2012, Trading Company EvrazHolding Switzerland, trades EVRAZs Russian, conducted customer research which Ukrainian and South African steel products on EvrazEnergoTrans is a power grid operator, demonstrated very high levels of customer international markets.
In 2012, a new core IT which transmitted 4.9 billion kW h in 2012 satisfaction, with a customer loyalty score of system was implemented at East Metals AG, including 4.6 billion kW h intragroup deliveries.
52 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate Overview Strategy Operating Review Social Responsibility Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc EVRAZ plc 53 53 Annual Repor Annual Report and Accounts 2012 t and Accounts 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility
