38 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Steel: North America EVRAZ Calgary EVRAZ Red Deer EVRAZ Camrose EVRAZ Surrey EVRAZ Regina EVRAZ EVRAZ Portland North America Headquarters EVRAZ Claymont EVRAZ Pueblo Key steelmaking assets of EVRAZ in North America Name Operations Products EVRAZ North America Flat-rolled product group: r Flat-rolled products: steel plate, coil and Capacity: r Portland, Oregon structural tubing used in the construction r Crude steel: 3.0 mtpa r Claymont, Delaware of liquid storage tanks, vessels, bridges, r Flat-rolled products: 2.7 mtpa r Regina, Saskatchewan rail cars, armour: coil and plate used in r Tubular products: 2.2 mtpa r Surrey, British Columbia manufacturing of goods by the tubular r Long products: 840 ktpa Tubular product group: products group Employees: 4,324 r Portland, Oregon r Tubular products: steel pipes including Ownership: 100% interest r Calgary, Alberta large-diameter American Petroleum r Red Deer and Camrose, Alberta Institute API grade pipes used for oil and r Regina, Saskatchewan gas pipelines and small-diameter API r Pueblo, Colorado grade welded and seamless pipes for use Long product group: in down-hole drilling and in the collection r Pueblo, Colorado of oil and gas application r Long products: railroad rail and rod & bar used to make wire products: round billets used in the production of other long products and goods by the tubular products group Steel production by EVRAZ in North America Product, 000 tonnes 2011 2012 2012 2011, change Crude steel 2,332 2,411 3% Steel products, net of re-rolled volumes 2,646 2,662 1% Flat products group 1,007 969 4 % Tubular products group 848 872 3% Long products group Construction products 302 331 10% Railway products 490 491 0% Corporate Overview Strategy Operating Review Social Responsibility Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 EVRAZ North America is a leading steel to the favourable location of the Portland average annual prices for the Tubular product manufacturer in the United States and facility.
This enables EVRAZ to offer the group remained largely flat in 2012.
The business of EVRAZ North market shorter lead times than competitors.
America is organised into three primary On the East coast of US, the flexibility and In the Long product group, EVRAZ Pueblo rail divisions: flat products, tubular products and domestic origin of Claymonts products mill set record volumes of 490,000 tonnes in long products.
allow EVRAZ to serve bridge and other 2012.
EVRAZ market share continued to non-residential construction markets, increase, despite growing imports and intense Operational Highlights: while niche products distinguish EVRAZ domestic competition, due to the Companys r Flat product group completion of from competitors in the railcar industry.
advanced head hardening technology and investments in air permits and the reheat overall quality improvements.
The rail market furnace upgrades at EVRAZ Claymont to Demand from railcar manufactures has continues to be strong, as the Class One ensure its compliance with environmental increased due to continued urbanisation and railroads continue to invest in infrastructure to standards: increased construction in western Canada support growth in the oil and gas industry.
r Tubular product group significant and USA.
At the same time overall plate price improvements in productivity with Camrose levels remained weak and showed steady In the reporting year, EVRAZs rod and bar electric resistance weld mill improving its decline throughout the year, with EVRAZ business grew in spite of significant increases first pass yield by 16% compared to 2011.
North America being no exception to this.
in imports from China and Brazil.
Continued Regina Spiral weld line improved by 14% quality improvements, the addition of a third and Red Deer weld line improved by 8%.
In Tubular product group, 2012 was a difficult crew at the rod and bar mill and record Additionally, Regina and Portland spiral mills year with many American large diameter steelmaking production ensured an were restarted and a premium thread line at product mills either idled or on reduced crews.
improvement of EVRAZs market position.
Rod the Red Deer facility was launched: However, EVRAZ North Americas large and bar prices softened slightly during 2012. r Long product group commencement of diameter mills have been operating at close to improvements to the rail mill in Pueblo, maximum capacity.
Moreover, due to high In 2012, EVRAZ North America continued to Colorado.
Engineering and design works demand for large diameter products, EVRAZ focus on its customers with significant were successfully carried out and the restarted the Portland Spiral mill during the improvements in on-time in-full performance project is on track for completion in 2013. first half of 2013. as well as the introduction of new products.
EVRAZ also acquired scrap yards in EVRAZ North Americas long products enjoyed Colorado to secure scrap needs of Pueblo EVRAZ has maintained a leading position in on-time performance of over 90% through the rail mill.
OCTG in Western Canada, with an approximate year.
40% market share and an estimated 12% Production 2012 2013 Targets: market share for heat treated alloy OCTG In 2012, EVRAZs North American steel mills r Increase in steelmaking capacity and quality pipe.
EVRAZs proximity of production demonstrated strong performance in all improvements at Pueblo.
Billet production compared to its major Western Canadian product segments with total output of flat, capacity will be expanded by 52,000 tonnes competitors continued to be a differentiating tubular and long steel products exceeding 2.6 upon completion of the project in 2013. factor, both in terms of lead time advantages million tonnes, with utilisation rates high The project is also expected to improve and responsiveness to local customers throughout the reporting year.
conversion costs and the steel produced is demands.
EVRAZ has announced an to be re-rolled by the Tubular and Long expansion of heat treating and threading at In 2012, EVRAZ North America identified and product groups: the Calgary facility, to increase the heat treat evaluated a number of major capital projects r Flat product group growth of capacity, capacity by 150% and threading capacity by that will be instrumental to the long-term lowering cost position and improvement of 40%.
growth of the North American business of operational stability: EVRAZ, including construction of spiral double r Tubular product group further focus on In 2012, EVRAZ recorded growth in highjoiner in Portland, an increase in incremental areas critical for profitability productivity, quality heat treated alloy pipe and premium capacity of premium thread line at Red Deer first pass yield, working capital connections.
Horizontal directional wells, and an upgrade of rail mill and steelmaking management and the start of major capital which require more high-quality, high-strength capacity at Pueblo.
projects in heat treating and threading: alloy products and premium connections, r Long product group improvements in rail increased to 73% of the total U. S. rig activity In markets for Flat product group, EVRAZ quality strengthening of surface, etc.
The increase in North America enjoys a 20% share of the ramp-up of capacity to 580,000 tonnes per horizontal directional wells is expected to lead North American plate market by physical annum.
to a 6% increase in 2013 OCTG consumption, volumes and has a significant competitive according to OCTG Situation Report.
Overall advantage in the Western US and Canada due Average selling prices of EVRAZ North America USD tonne ex works 2011 2012 Construction products 897 843 Railway products 1,023 987 Flat-rolled products 1,134 1,019 Tubular products 1,486 1,497
