20 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 EVRAZs Strategy The Strategic Objective of EVRAZ is to create long term value for shareholders by maintaining a balance between investment, financial stability and dividend payment.
Strategic Commercial Development Objective Objectives Principles To create long term value for r Further vertical integration and r Health, Safety and Environment shareholders by maintaining a development of the raw materials base r Human Capital balance between investment, r Strengthening of competitive positions r Customer Focus financial stability and dividend in key markets r EVRAZ Business System payment r Development of the product portfolio r Growth r Enhancement of cost leadership positions in steelmaking Corporate Social Responsibility Risk Management CSR report can be found at page 54 of the report.
The Groups business and operations are exposed to various business risks.
The principal risks of EVRAZ can be found at page 28 of the report.
Key Performance Indicators EVRAZs financial and non-financial KPIs to measure and manage its performance can be found at page 26 of the report.
Given the context of the global steel industry By delivering on the first four principles EVRAZ volumes of Raspadskaya.
This implies total in which EVRAZ operates, achieving this core will achieve growth.
Well managed growth will production of 22 million tonnes of saleable aim depends upon delivering a number of ultimately lead to EVRAZ delivering on the iron ore products per annum and 15 million Commercial Objectives: commitment to create long term value for tonnes of raw coking coal per annum from r Further vertical integration and shareholders.
The Company intends to maximise the development of the raw materials base intragroup consumption of proprietary key raw Commercial objectives r Strengthening of competitive positions materials and sell the excess in the open Further vertical integration and development in key markets market.
of raw materials base r Development of the product portfolio 2012 was a highly volatile year for r Enhancement of cost leadership positions Coking coal commodities including coking coal and iron in steelmaking EVRAZ continues to develop the coking coal ore.
However, EVRAZ believes that these business both organically and through the fluctuations and subdued pricing were In view of the scale of ongoing improvement in transformational acquisition of Raspadskaya, short-term and of a temporary nature.
At the a business as large as EVRAZ, which spans which was completed in January 2013.
The same time, all fundamentals remain intact: four continents and employs more than pipeline of organic development projects China, being the largest consumer of 110,000 people, it is important to establish includes the construction of the commodities, continues to experience a and adopt a clear set of Development Yerunakovskaya VIII mine with a production structural lack of resources: and iron ore and Principles.
These principles, which demonstrate capacity of 2.5 million tonnes of raw coking coking coal markets are still concentrated on the Companys commitment to change, coal per annum and the Mezhegey project the supply side, which allows the major consist of five elements which, together, with a projected production capacity of 6.5 players to react swiftly to changes in demand.
provide a solid foundation for long term million tonnes of hard coking coal per annum.
These factors should continue to support sustainable development.
prices of iron ore and coking coal for the next In 2012, the Company completed the 5 to 10 years.
The Development Principles cover: construction of the Yerunakovskaya VIII mine 1.
Health, Safety and Environment in the Kuzbass region for the production of Given the market outlook and competitive 2.
Human Capital semi-hard coking coal.
The first coal was advantages of EVRAZ, arising from the 3.
Customer Focus mined in February 2013, with total annual geographical proximity of the proprietary 4.
EVRAZ Business System production projected to reach 1.2 million mineral resource base and key steelmaking 5.
The ramp-up to full capacity facilities, the Company has set long term of 2.5 million tonnes per annum will take targets of 120% self-coverage in iron ore and place in 2013 with the mine reaching 130% in coking coal excluding production nameplate capacity by 2014.
Coal washing Corporate Overview Strategy Operating Review Social Responsibility Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 will take place at the existing facilities and the EVRAZs business strengthens EVRAZs Strengthening of competitive positions in key markets and development of product coal concentrate will be utilised by EVRAZs market positions in Russia and Ukraine, portfolio steelmaking plants in Russia.
Proven and significantly increases intragroup coal EVRAZ expects that global steel consumption probable reserves of Yerunakovskaya VIII consumption and consolidates Asian export will grow at a moderate rate over the next two mine under JORC classification amount to 85 sales through the logistics infrastructure of years due to uncertain economic conditions million tonnes of semi-hard coking coal.
For more information across the globe.
Nevertheless, this provides capital spending under the project amounted on Raspadskaya please refer to page 23. the Company with an opportunity to increase to US$310 million, which is almost 20% below its focus on specific niche products in key the budget target.
The estimated cash cost of Iron ore markets, i. e. enhance the leading global raw coal production is US$40 per tonne, EVRAZs major iron ore projects include market position in railway products and in which places Yerunakovskaya VIII mine in the brownfield development of the the CIS construction steel products market.
the lowest quartile of CIS producers in  deposit and terms of the cash cost curve.
Coal from the the Timir greenfield project located in the In 2012, EVRAZ completed the modernisation Yerunakovskaya VIII mine will be utilised Yakutia region.
programme at the rail and beam mill at intragroup and sold in the market.
EVRAZ ZSMK, which is now capable of In 2012 the Company finalised the feasibility producing high quality rails, including 100 EVRAZ continues to work on the Mezhegey study of the  metre rails suitable for high-speed railways.
Phase I project, a world class coking coal deposit and received government approvals in As a result of this project, EVRAZ is targeting deposit located in the largest undeveloped February 2013.
The 6.9 billion tonnes of iron growth in production capacity from the rail mill coal province in Russia.
Total reserves of ore confirmed by the Russian State at EVRAZ ZSMK from 750 thousand tonnes to deposits covered by EVRAZs licences amount Commission on Mineral Reserves provide 950 thousand tonnes per annum with total to 763 million tonnes of hard coking coal 140 years of stable output at EVRAZ KGOK.
available railway capacity at EVRAZs Russian based on exploration works of prior periods.
Development of the deposit will enable EVRAZ assets of 1.5 million tonnes.
The full ramp-up During the first stage EVRAZ envisages to sustain the level of annual iron ore of the rail mill at EVRAZ ZSMK is expected by mining 1.5 million tonnes of raw coking coal production at EVRAZ KGOK at 56 million mid-2013.
using room-and-pillar technology, thereafter tonnes.
Total capex to realise the first stage utilising road haulage to the railway station of the project until 2016 is in excess of In 2013, EVRAZ plans to commission a new and subsequently transporting the coal to US$240 million.
EVRAZ KGOK plans to rolling mill, Vostochniy, in Kazakhstan, with a proprietary coal washing plants in the commence production of iron ore at total annual capacity of 450 thousand tonnes Kuzbass region of Russia.
The of rebar thus strengthening our position in budget for the first stage is US$195 million, iron ore mined will be sufficient to cover the this growing market.
EVRAZ is looking to funded principally through project finance needs of EVRAZ NTMKs production facilities expand its sales in Kazakhstan from the from Gazprombank with limited recourse to in the foreseeable future.
current level of 210 Ktpa to 300 Ktpa by EVRAZ plc.
Cash costs of production of raw 2015.
The feedstock square billet for the coking coal, including transportation to the In April 2013 EVRAZ signed an agreement to mill will be delivered from EVRAZ ZSMK coal washing plant, is estimated at US$70 acquire the stake in the Timir company which allowing the Company to manage sales of per tonne, which is comparatively low for the holds licences for four iron ore deposits in semi-finished products between domestic and production of hard coking coal in Russia.
The Southern Yakutia with total reserves under export market with greater flexibility.
The first coal is expected to be mined in October the Russian classification of 3.5 billion tonnes launch of the second rolling mill, in Russia, 2013, with ramp-up to full capacity scheduled of iron ore Russian geological categories of Yuzhniy with a total capacity of 450 for 2014.
The majority of production will be A B C1.
Among these deposits, the thousand tonnes of rebar and sections per utilised by EVRAZ ZSMK.
Tayozhnoye deposit is considered to be the annum, is targeted for 2014. most attractive with 341 million tonnes of The Mezhegey Phase II project involves both fully explored reserves for open pit mining, At the beginning of 2013 EVRAZ North mining and coal washing facilities at the mine with ore grades of 38-40% Fe and near to America embarked on a project to expand site.
The main trigger for execution of the the existing infrastructure located 4 km heat-treatment capacity at the Calgary mill in second stage will be the completion of the from railway, 6 km from power grid.
In 2012, Western Canada from 80 thousand tonnes to construction of a 400 km railway connecting EVRAZ finalised a scoping study for the 200 thousand tonnes per annum in order to the area with the Trans-Siberian railroad.
The project with current estimates indicating a strengthen margins.
Mill modernisation will construction of the rail link is expected to be capital budget of US$1.8 billion.
The mining also provide for a 65 thousand tonne increase financed by the Russian government.
capacity of the Tayozhnoye open pit is in mill welding capacity.
The project is estimated at 15 million tonnes of iron ore per expected to be completed by 2014.
In 2012, EVRAZ made a major commitment annum with first ore scheduled to be mined in to non-organic investment in coking coal 2018.
Convenient geographical location of assets via the agreement in respect of the the Tayozhnoye deposit on a railway acquisition of the Raspadskaya coal company.
connected to the TransSiberian railroad The Company has been a JV partner with the provides for competitive delivery of iron ore management of Raspadskaya since 2005 products to EVRAZ ZSMK and Southeast and has been actively involved in the strategic Asian countries through the Far East of decision making process.
acquisition of Raspadskaya not only complements the Companys strategy to expand the mining business, but also captures operational synergies based on the aforementioned knowledge of Raspadskayas assets.
The integration of Raspadskaya into 22 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 EVRAZs Strategy Continued Enhancement of cost leadership positions in environment HSE performance.
The designed to match evolving customer steelmaking long-term target of HSE policy is to prevent requirements and generate additional EVRAZ has maintained its key competitive all fatal accidents and to comply with value from tailored solutions.
The goal is advantage of being a low cost steel producer environmental standards.
To achieve to expand the proportion of new products through operational and strategic initiatives.
these targets EVRAZ has implemented to 5% of the total product mix.
Priority programmes which ensure compliance niche segments are identified based on The management believes that CIS is one of with rigorous safety standards in every rigorous research and selection.
As a first the lowest cost regions for steel production in EVRAZ workplace and which provide all step in this programme, EVRAZ has the world, enabling EVRAZ to benefit from launched a new product development pilot employees with relevant safety training.
lower production costs compared to some of project at the railway shop of EVRAZ The Company has established a dedicated its global competitors, i. e. EVRAZ benefits NTMK.
Similar projects will be initiated corporate HSE function at management through both sales of low-cost Russian slabs level and has linked the remuneration of at other operations during the course to global markets and through synergies senior executives to the achievement of of 2013. created by being able to supply feedstock to safety performance targets.
As a part of certain of its non-Russian subsidiaries.
the Board HSE Committee reviews the EVRAZs comprehensive efforts to reduce Companys performance in this area and costs at key industrial facilities, the In 2012 EVRAZ completed construction of the recommends improvements where Company continues to implement the pulverised coal injection PCI project at appropriate.
The core of this EVRAZ NTMK.
EVRAZ perceives the programme is comprised of a set of Lean gas is estimated to reduce by 50%, coke by attraction and retention of high calibre production practices affecting various 20% and the increase in capacity for pig iron employees as an integral element of the areas including safety, work flow and production should amount to 100 thousand Companys sustainable success.
As well maintenance optimisation, and warehouse tonnes per annum.
The project is expected to as providing competitive levels of management.
The key objective is the reach designated parameters during the first remuneration by industry standards, elimination of production losses due to half of 2013.
A similar PCI project is underway EVRAZ provides significant professional unplanned machine downtime with the at EVRAZ ZSMK which is expected to be development support for its employees.
aim of decreasing cash costs on a completed by mid-2014 with a similar 20% For instance, the Company cooperates sustainable basis.
A detailed breakdown decrease in coke consumption, full with the leading Russian Skolkovo of the elements which make up the elimination of natural gas consumption and Business School annually through the EVRAZ Business System can be found additional pig iron capacity of 260 thousand EVRAZ New Leader programme which on page 24. tonnes per annum.
The pursuit of growth options opportunities based on global best is confined to the key areas of EVRAZs In 2012 EVRAZ approved a plan to enhance practice.
This initiative is a part of expertise, such as development of the raw the effectiveness of EVRAZ DMZ Petrovskogo.
EVRAZs human capital strategy with an materials base, the promotion of further The Company intends to adopt the standard ultimate goal of comprehensively vertical integration, strengthening of the upgrades that have been successfully supporting the development of middle competitive positions in key markets, implemented at the Russian steelmaking management to create a pool of qualified development of the product portfolio and facilities.
These include: PCI technology successors to fulfil the management the enhancement of cost leadership aimed at fully eliminating natural gas challenges of the future and adopt senior positions in steelmaking.
consumption, improvements to blast furnace roles within the Company.
productivity through a new air separation unit, Research and development 3.
Given the versatile and debottlenecking of processes at the EVRAZ constantly seeks to improve industry landscape, EVRAZ takes into full sinter screening and structural mill stages.
operations at its facilities, principally through account the importance of customer The implementation of PCI projects and enhancing operating efficiency, reliability and loyalty.
The Companys long-term target is improvements at the blast furnace will capacity.
The majority of these measures to minimise customer claims, late delivery contribute to the growth of pig iron production constitute incremental improvements to and incomplete orders.
The results of from 860 thousand tonnes to 1.35 million current activities and, as a result, are 2012 provide evidence that the Company tonnes per annum by 2014 and to a reduction undertaken in conjunction with regular is on track in meeting its long-term of ca.
20% in the cash costs of billet operational maintenance and monitoring.
targets, with a quadrupled decrease in production.
Where appropriate, EVRAZ seeks to register late delivery and incomplete orders any rights to intellectual property that may compared to 2011, and visibly improved Development principles result from these efforts.
customer satisfaction with the quality of 1.
EVRAZs strategic effort the last two years EVRAZ has significantly includes the development of new products increased its focus on health, safety and
