Corporate Overview Strategy Operating Review Social Responsibility Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 EVRAZs Business Model Distinctive capabilities and sources of competitive advantages M Miining g: S S Ste eelmaking R Ro olling S S S Sale e e es Proprietary mineral resource base IIrrro onOrrrre Historically EVRAZs operations were designed as a single production chain consisting of a proprietary mineral resource base and M Miining g: a steelmaking facility.
EVRAZs steelmaking C Co oking Coal plants are the most natural consumers of the Companys own iron ore and coking coal as they are have been designed to process unique components of the raw materials V V V Va ana a adiium Con nv v verrrsion and are located in close proximity to the resource base.
Unique product mix EVRAZ creates value by processing its proprietary mineral resources & presence in key markets into high-end steel products for its large scale global infrastructure EVRAZ produces a superior portfolio of clients.
Efficient operations, continued pursuit of economically attractive products, and is the leading producer of asset development and search for value-enhancing M&A transactions construction steel products in the CIS, are the fundamental features of EVRAZs approach.
a global player in railway products and a major constituent of the North American tubular The health and safety of its employees is the 3.
The Company creates value primary focus of all decision making at EVRAZ.
Steelmaking is the core of EVRAZs business.
by applying its technical expertise to the The Company also places great emphasis The Company produces steel from proprietary production of high quality steel products, for on the recruitment and development of its iron ore and coking coal, as well as collected sophisticated applications, and to secure workforce, as this provides the backbone scrap.
Due to the close proximity of its raw market leading positions.
The Companys for all of EVRAZs operations.
materials base and efficient operation of its production facilities are located close to key steelmaking plants, EVRAZ produces high markets, reducing transportation costs, EVRAZs value chain quality steel at a low cost.
Semi-finished steel decreasing working capital requirements and 1.
Iron ore products can be further rolled into finished allowing EVRAZ to react flexibly and swiftly to EVRAZs iron ore supplies are fully vertically products at EVRAZs worldwide processing changes in customers requirements.
integrated for its key steelmaking facilities.
facilities or sold to third parties in Europe, The Company mines and processes iron ore to Asia and Middle East.
Geographical diversication produce high quality marketable concentrate.
EVRAZs operations are spread over 7 EVRAZs iron ore assets are located close to 4.
The Companys the Companys steelmaking facilities which EVRAZ specialises in production of global presence provides it with the ability minimises associated transportation costs.
construction long steel products in CIS.
to monitor market developments both along EVRAZ is currently 100% self-covered in These products, including rebar and H-beams the production chain and geographically.
iron ore. are used for construction of bridges, stadiums, This ability has become especially important offices and residential buildings.
EVRAZ is following the divergence of economic growth 2.
Coking coal also a world leader in railway products both and steel consumption between developed EVRAZ is a leading coking coal producer in in terms of quality and volume produced.
and emerging markets over recent years.
The Company operates underground mines and processing plants in Kuzbass, the 5.
Sales Low cost & efficient operations primary coking coal region of Russia.
EVRAZ The Company strives to market its products The major steelmaking facilities of EVRAZ are consumes a proportion of the coking coal directly at local and international markets.
located in CIS, which is structurally a low cost produced at its core steelmaking plants in CIS This gives EVRAZ an in-depth understanding of region for steel production due to low prices and the remainder is sold domestically or its customers needs and the opportunity to on key inputs such as gas and labour.
This exported to Asia and Europe.
As part of the rapidly adjust production volumes to market provides EVRAZ an opportunity to create value Companys drive for increased coking coal selftrends.
when exporting steel produced in CIS to either coverage, EVRAZ acquired a controlling stake proprietary rolling facilities in Europe and USA in the Raspadskaya coal mining company.
Vanadium or to customers globally.
EVRAZ also creates a pro forma basis, coking coal self-coverage of Vanadium is a valuable ferroalloy which is value by maximising efficiently at its the combined entity would have been about added to steel in order to make it stronger.
operations, using the EVRAZ Business 142% in 2012.
Due to the unique geological characteristics of System, which minimises processing costs EVRAZs iron ore reserves in Russia and South and the production cycle.
Africa the Company is able to extract vanadium from by-products at its steelmaking Leading global vanadium producer plants at very low cost.
EVRAZ delivers value in its vanadium business as a result of its unique low cost position on the global cost curve.
This position is secured by the historical combination of iron ore and steelmaking facilities in Russia and South Africa as well as by the fact that vanadium is produced efficiently as a by-product of its main steelmaking operations.
