70 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Board of Directors Alexander Abramov, Alexander Frolov, Olga Pokrovskaya, Eugene Shvidler, Eugene Tenenbaum, Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director born 1959 born 1964 born 1969 born 1964 born 1964 Founded EvrazMetall, a Joined EvrazMetall in 1994 and Has been a member of the Member of the Board of Member of the Board of predecessor of the Group, in served as EvrazMetalls Chief Board of Directors of Evraz Directors of Evraz Group S. A.
Directors of Evraz Group S. A.
CEO of EVRAZ Group Financial Officer from 2002 to Group S. A. since August since August 2006.
Appointed S. A. until 1 January 2006, 2004 and as Senior Executive 2006.
Appointed to the Board to the Board of EVRAZ plc on to the Board of EVRAZ plc on Chairman of EVRAZ Group Vice President of Evraz Group of EVRAZ plc on 14 October 14 October 2011 14 October 2011.
Appointed Chairman of EVRAZ Chairman of the Board of plc on 14 October 2011.
Directors of Evraz Group S. A. from May 2006 until December 2008 and appointed CEO with effect from January 2007.
Appointed CEO of EVRAZ plc on 14 October 2011.
Alexander Abramov served Alexander Frolov has held Olga Pokrovskaya is head of Eugene Shvidler currently Eugene Tenenbaum is currently as a Non-Executive Director various positions at EvrazMetall corporate finance at Millhouse serves as Chairman of Managing Director of MHC from May 2006 until his reand other companies, LLC and a member of the Millhouse LLC and Highland Services Ltd. and serves appointment as Chairman of predecessors of Evraz Group Board of Directors of Highland Gold Mining Ltd.
He is also on on the Board of Chelsea FC the Board on S. A. since joining in 1994 Gold Mining Ltd.
Since 1997, the board of Directors of AFC Plc and Highland Gold Mining 1 December 2008.
A Director and has been a member of Ms. Pokrovskaya has held Energy plc.
He served as Head of of OJSC Raspadskaya, a the Board of Directors of Evraz several key finance positions as President of Sibneft from Corporate Finance for Sibneft member of the Bureau of Group S. A. since 2005.
Prior with Sibneft, including head 1998 to 2005. in Moscow from 1998 to2001.
the Board of Directors and to joining EVRAZ, Mr. Frolov of corporate finance.
From Mr. Tenenbaum joined Salomon a member of the Board of worked as a research fellow at 1991 to 1997, she worked Brothers in 1994 as Director Directors of the Russian the I. V. Kurchatov Institute of as a senior audit manager for Corporate Finance where he Union of Industrialists and Atomic Energy.
at the accounting firm Arthur worked until 1998.
Prior to that, Entrepreneurs an independent Andersen.
he spent five years in Corporate non-governmental organization, Finance with KPMG in Toronto, and a Director of OJSC Bank Moscow and London, including International Financial Club.
three years 1990-1993 as National Director at KPMG International in Moscow.
Mr. Tenenbaum was an accountant in the Business Advisory Group at Price Waterhouse in Toronto from 1987 until 1989.
Member of the Nominations Member of the Health, Safety Member of the Audit Member of the Committee and Environment Committee Committee and of the Health, Nominations Committee Safety and Environment Committee Committee Membership Skills and Experience Appointment Member of the Board Corporate Overview Strategy Operating Review Social Responsibility Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 71 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Sir Michael Peat, Duncan Baxter, Karl Gruber, Alexander Izosimov, Terry Robinson, Senior Independent Independent Independent Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director born 1949 born 1952 born 1952 born 1964 born 1944 Appointed to the Board of Member of the Board of Member of the Board of Appointed to the Board of Member of the Board of EVRAZ plc on 14 October Directors of Evraz Group S. A.
Directors of Evraz Group S. A. EVRAZ plc on 28 February Directors of Evraz Group S. A.
Appointed to the Board of EVRAZ plc on to the Board of EVRAZ plc on to the Board of EVRAZ plc on 14 October 2011.
Sir Michael Peat is a qualified Duncan Baxter, resident in Karl Gruber has extensive Alexander Izosimov has Terry Robinson is a qualified chartered accountant with Jersey, has had many years experience in the international extensive managerial and chartered accountant and over 40 years experience.
experience of international metallurgical mill business.
From 2003 has 40 years international He served as Principal banking.
He began his career He held various management to 2011, he was President business experience.
He spent Private Secretary to HRH The in banking with Barclays positions, including eight years and CEO of VimpelCom, a 20 years at Lonrho PLC, the Prince of Wales from 2002 International Bank in Zimbabwe as a member of the Managing leading emerging market international mining and trading until 2011.
Prior to this, before joining RAL Merchant Board of VOEST-Alpine telecommunications operator.
group, the last 10 years of he spent nine years as the Bank in 1978.
In 1985, Industrieanlagenbau VAI, first From 1996 to 2003 he held which he served as a main Royal Households Director of he became a Director of as Executive Vice President of various managerial positions board Director.
Since 1998, Finance and Property Services, Commercial Bank Jersey VAI and then as Vice Chairman at Mars Inc. and was Regional he has been variously occupied Keeper of the Privy Purse and Ltd, which was subsequently of the Managing Board of President for CIS, Central with international business Treasurer to the Queen, and acquired by Swiss Bank Siemens VAI.
He also served Europe and Nordics, and a recovery engagements and Receiver General of the Duchy Corporation SBC.
In 1988, as Chairman on the Boards member of the executive investment projects including of Lancaster.
Sir Michael Peat he became managing Director of Metals Technologies MT board.
Prior to Mars Inc, natural resources in the UK, was at KPMG from 1972, and of SBC Jersey Branch.
Since Germany and MT Italy.
Mr Izosimov was a Russia, the CIS and Brazil.
He leaving SBC in 1998 after consultant with McKinsey He is independent Director left KPMG in 1993 to devote its merger with UBS AG, he & Co. Stockholm, London and Deputy Chairman of himself to his public roles.
Sir has undertaken a number 1991-1996 and was Katanga Mining Limited and Michael Peat is an Independent of consultancy projects for involved in numerous is also an independent and Non-executive on the Board international banks and projects in transportation, senior Non-Executive Director of Deloitte LLP, Senior Adviser investment management mining, manufacturing and of Highland Gold Mining Ltd. to CQS UK LLP, a member companies.
Mr Izosimov He is a Fellow of the Institute of the Barclays Wealth and Executive Director of Highland currently serves on the boards of Chartered Accountants Investment Management Gold Mining Ltd and also of MTG AB, East Capital AB of England and Wales.
Advisory Committee, Senior holds other Non-Executive and Dynasty Foundation.
He Terry Robinson has been Adviser to Mr Wafic Said and a Directorships.
Mr. Baxter is previously served as Director nominated for election to the Non-Executive Director of Tamar a Fellow of the Institute of and Chairman of the GSMA Board of OJSC Raspadskaya, Energy Limited.
He is an MA, Chartered Secretaries and Global association of mobile a subsidiary of EVRAZ, at the MBA and Fellow of the Institute Administrators, the Securities operators board of Directors, AGM of OJSC Raspadskaya of Chartered Accountants.
Institute, the Chartered and was also previously a that is to take place by the Institute of Bankers, the Director of Baltika Breweries, end of June 2013 at the latest.
Institute of Management and confectionery company Sladko, The Board is satisfied that this the Institute of Directors.
and IT company Teleopti AB.
nomination has no impact on Mr. Izosimov is on the boards Mr Robinsons independence.
of Directors of LM Ericsson AB and Transcom SA, as well as on the executive board of ICC International Chamber of Commerce.
Chairman of the Nominations Chairman of the Remuneration Chairman of the Health, Safety Member of the Remuneration Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of Committee and a member of and Environment Committee Committee and the Committee and a member of the Audit Committee the Audit Committee and a member of the Nominations Committee the Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee and of the Health, Safety and Environment Committee.
He also chairs the Groups Risk Committee, which is an Executive Committee 72 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Vice Presidents Oleg Kuzmin Leonid Kachur Vice President, Senior Vice President, Corporate Communications Business Support and Interregional Relations Alexander Kuznetsov Vice President, Pavel Tatyanin Strategic Development and Senior Vice President, Operational Planning Head of International Business 1 Artem Natrusov Marat Atnashev Vice President, Vice President, Information Technologies Iron Ore Division and Major Projects Yury Pavlov Vice President, Giacomo Baizini Procurement Vice President, Corporate Affairs and CFO Ilya Shirokobrod Vice President, Scott Baus Railway Products Division Vice President, EVRAZ Business System 3 Sergey Stepanov Vice President, Grigory Botvinovskiy Coal Division Vice President, Vanadium Assets Timur Yanbukhtin Vice President, Natalia Ionova Business Development, Vice President, International Business Human Resources Aleksey Ivanov Elena Zhavoronkova Vice President, Vice President, Steel Division Legal Affairs 2 Michael Shuble Vice President, Health, Safety and Environment 1 On 13 December 2012 Marat Atnashev was appointed Vice President of the Iron Ore Division.
2 On 28 January 2013 Michael Shuble was appointed Vice President of Health, Safety and Environment 3 On 13 December 2012 Sergey Stepanov was appointed Vice President of the Coal Division.
