92 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report Principal activities EVRAZ plc is a global  steel, mining and vanadium business with operations in the Russian Federation, Ukraine, the Czech Republic, Italy, the USA, Canada and South Africa.
The Company has a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange and is included in the FTSE 100 Index.
Additional information on the Groups operations during the year and the information that fulfils the requirements of the Business Review is provided in the Overview, Strategy, Operating Review, Corporate Social Responsibility, Financial Review and Governance sections of this document, which are deemed to form part of this report by reference.
Sustainable development The Corporate Social Responsibility section of this report focuses on the health and safety, environmental and employment performance of the Companys operations, and outlines the Companys core values and commitment to the principles of sustainable development and development of community relations programmes.
Going concern The financial position and performance of the Group and its cash flows are set out in the Financial Review section of the report on pages 62 to 67.
The Directors have considered the Groups debt maturity and cash flow projections and an analysis of projected debt covenants compliance for the period to the end of June 2014.
The Board is satisfied that the Groups forecasts and projections, taking into account reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group will continue in operation for the foreseeable future and has neither the intention nor the need to liquidate or materially curtail the scale of its operations.
For this reason the Group continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
More details are provided in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements on page 107 including further information regarding certain risks related to projected debt covenant compliance.
Results and dividends Financial results of the Group are presented in the Financial Review of this Annual Report on pages 62 to 67.
Under the dividend policy, EVRAZ is targeting a long-term average dividend pay-out ratio of at least 25% of the consolidated net profit calculated in accordance with IFRS and adjusted for non-recurring items.
In addition to the regular dividend payments, the Company may also employ special dividends from time to time at the discretion of the EVRAZ Board to return surplus capital to shareholders.
In August 2012, EVRAZs Board declared an interim dividend of 11 cents per share US$147 million in total based on the results for the first half of 2012.
The Board, having reviewed the results in respect of the financial year to 31 December 2012 and after taking into account the substantial deterioration in the respective prices of steel and steel raw materials towards the year-end, has decided to forgo the recommendation of a final dividend in respect of 2012 in order to preserve the financial standing of the Company and provide greater flexibility to manage the current market environment.
Fixed assets The Groups property, plant and equipment is stated at purchase or construction cost, excluding the costs of day-to-day servicing, less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
The last valuation of land was determined as at 31 March 2010 by an independent professionally qualified valuer.
At that time, the market value of land was 1.7 times higher than its carrying value.
At 31 December 2012, the carrying value of land amounted to US$181 million.
In the opinion of the Directors, the total market value of land has not decreased significantly since the last valuation.
It is not practicable to estimate the market value of buildings and mineral reserves as at 31 December 2012.
Overseas branches EVRAZ does not have any branches.
The Company does, however, have a controlling interest in Evraz Group S. A. which owns steel production, mining and trading companies, as well as in EVRAZ Greenfield development.
Information about the direct and indirect subsidiaries of EVRAZ is provided in the Additional Information EVRAZs Corporate Structure section of this report on page 178.
Future developments Information on the Group and its subsidiaries future developments is provided in the Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Statement, Strategy, Operational Review and Financial Review sections of this report.
Financial instruments The financial risk management and internal control processes and policies and details of hedging policy and exposure to the risks associated with financial instruments can be found in Note 29 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Corporate Governance section of this report on pages 84 to 85 and in the Financial Review on page 67.
Political and charitable donations No political donations were made in 2012.
The Companys corporate social expenditure supports initiatives that benefit local communities of the Groups operations in the areas of sports, education, charity funds, and infrastructure.
In 2012, the Company set aside US$51 million for social and social infrastructure maintenance expenses.
No donations were made to UK registered charities in 2012.
Events since the reporting date The major events after 31 December 2012 are disclosed in Note 33 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 167.
Corporate Overview Strategy Operating Review Social Responsibility Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 93 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors and their Interests Biographical details of the Directors who served on the Board during the year are set out in the Corporate Governance section on pages 70 to 71.
Detailed information on share ownership by directors and their connected persons can be found in the Remuneration Report on page 90.
Members of EVRAZ plc Board do not receive share-based compensations.
Powers of Directors Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, UK legislation and to any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Company.
The Articles of Association contain specific provisions concerning the Company power to borrow money and also provide the power to make purchases of any of its own shares.
The Directors have the authority to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company.
Further details of the proposed authorities are set out in the Notice of AGM.
Director appointment and re-election The Group by ordinary resolution and the Directors have the power at any time to elect any person to be a Director, but the number of Directors must not exceed the maximum number fixed by the Articles of Association of the Company.
Any person so appointed by the Directors will retire at the next Annual General Meeting and then be eligible for election.
Under the Articles of Association each Director shall retire at the Annual General Meeting held in the fourth calendar year following the year in which he she was elected or at such earlier Annual General Meeting as the Directors may decide.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors are subject to annual reelection.
Directors liabilities Directors indemnities The Company has granted qualifying third party indemnities to each of its Directors against any liability that attaches to them in defending proceedings brought against them, to the extent permitted by the Companies Acts.
In addition, Directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries are covered by Directors & Officers liability insurance.
Substantial shareholdings As of 31 December 2012, the following significant holdings of voting rights in the share capital of the Company had been disclosed to the Company under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5.
Number of ordinary Shares % of Issued ordinary Shares Lanebrook Ltd. 967,561,578 72.21 Lanebrook Ltd. Affiliates 37,499,997 2.80 Lanebrook Ltd. the Major Shareholder is a limited liability company incorporated under the laws of Cyprus on 16 March 2006.
It was established for the purpose of holding a majority interest in the Group.
Lanebrook Ltd. is controlled by i Mr. Abramovich, who held a beneficial interest in 463,801,971 ordinary shares in EVRAZ plc 34.68%, ii Mr. Abramov, who held a beneficial interest in 329,622,798 ordinary shares in EVRAZ plc 24.64%, iii Mr. Frolov, who held a beneficial interest in 164,811,399 ordinary shares in EVRAZ plc 12.32% and iv Mr. Shvidler, who held a beneficial interest in 46,825,407 ordinary shares in EVRAZ plc 3.50%.
The percentages in this paragraph exclude any treasury shares and any shares held by or on behalf of EVRAZ pursuant to any employee incentive plan.
From 31 December 2012 to 10 April 2013 being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this document, there was a decrease in the underlying number of beneficial interests held by each of Mr. Abramovich, Mr. Abramov, Mr. Frolov and Mr. Shvidler.
In October 2012 EVRAZ agreed the terms of an acquisition of a further 50% interest in Corber Enterprises Limited, a 82% shareholder of OJSC Raspadskaya and its subsidiaries, from Mr. Gennady Kozovoy and Mr. Alexander Vagin.
The acquisition was completed in January 2013 when 132,653,006 new EVRAZ ordinary shares were issued in equal shares in favour of the sellers.
The new shares were admitted to the Official List of the Financial Services Authority and began to be traded on the London Stock Exchange Main Market.
Pursuant to the terms of the acquisition, EVRAZ also issued to Messrs. Kozovoy and Vagin 33,944,928 new warrants to subscribe for 33,944,928 new ordinary shares in EVRAZ.
Cash consideration was also agreed to be paid to the sellers in the amount of approximately US$202 million, payable in four equal instalments in Q1, Q2, Q3 2013 and Q1 2014.
In February 2013, following an agreement between EVRAZs major shareholder, Lanebrook, and Messrs. Kozovoy and Vagin, the latter two shareholders exchanged all their warrants for Lanebrooks 33,121,022 EVRAZ shares.
The 33,944,928 warrants, now held by Lanebrook, may be exercised at any time between 16 January 2014 and 16 April 2014.
As a result the following ultimate beneficial owners had interests in EVRAZ plc share capital in each case, except for Mr. Kozovoy, held indirectly as of 10 April 2013 being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this document : Shareholder Number of ordinary Shares % of issued share capital Mr. Roman Abramovich 456,310,736 30.99% Mr. Alexander Abramov 317,300,488 21.55% Mr. Alexander Frolov 158,442,915 10.76% Mr. Gennady Kozovoy 83,751,827 5.69% Mr. Alexander Vagin 82,887,014 5.63% Mr. Eugene Shvidler 45,257,031 3.07% 94 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report Continued significant contractual arrangements The Major Shareholder and the Company have entered into a relationship agreement which regulates the ongoing relationship between them, ensures that the Company is capable of carrying on its business independently of the Major Shareholder and ensures that any transactions and relationships between the Company and the Major Shareholder are at arms length and on normal commercial terms.
This agreement terminates if the Major Shareholder ceases to own or control directly or indirectly at least 30% of the Ordinary Shares in the Company or if the Major Shareholder ceases to have a larger interest in the Company than the interest of any other shareholder of the Company.
Under the relationship agreement, the Major Shareholder and the Company agree that: a the Major Shareholder has the right to appoint the maximum number of Non-Executive Directors that may be appointed whilst ensuring that the composition of the Board remains compliant with the UK Corporate Governance Code for so long as it holds an interest in 30% or more of the Company with each appointee being a Shareholder Director: b the Major Shareholder shall, and shall procure, insofar as it is legally able to do so that each of its affiliates excluding the Company and its subsidiary undertakings the Major Shareholder Group shall, save to the extent required by law, exercise its powers so far as it is able so that the Company is managed in compliance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: c transactions, relationships and agreements between the Company and or its subsidiaries on the one hand and the Major Shareholder or a member of the Major Shareholder Group on the other shall be entered into and conducted on an arms length and normal commercial basis, unless otherwise agreed by a committee comprising the Non-Executive Directors of the Company whom the Board considers to be independent in accordance with paragraph B.
1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Independent Committee : d the Major Shareholder shall not, and shall procure, insofar as it is legally able to do so, that each member of the Major Shareholder Group shall not, take any action which precludes or inhibits the Company and or its subsidiaries from carrying on its business independently of the Major shareholder or any member of the Major Shareholder Group: e the quorum for any Board meeting of the Company shall be two, of which at least one must be a Director other than a Shareholder Director and or a Director who is or has, in the 12 months prior to the relevant date any business or other relationship with the Major Shareholder or any member of the Major Shareholder Group which could materially interfere with the exercise of his or her independent judgement in matters concerning the Company Lanebrook Director : f the Major Shareholder shall not, and shall procure, insofar as it is legally able to do so, that each member of the Major Shareholder Group shall not, subject to specified exceptions, take any action or omit to take any action to prejudice the Companys status as a listed company or its suitability for listing or its ongoing compliance with the Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency Rules: g the Major Shareholder shall not, and shall procure, insofar as it is legally able to do so, that each member of the Major Shareholder Group shall not, exercise any of its voting or other rights and powers to procure any amendment to the Articles which would be inconsistent with, undermine or breach any of the provisions of the Relationship Agreement, and will abstain from voting on, and will procure that the Lanebrook Directors abstain from voting on, any resolution to approve a transaction with a related party as defined in the Listing Rules involving the Major Shareholder or any member of the Major Shareholder Group: h if any matter which, in the opinion of an independent Director, gives rise to a potential conflict of interest between the Company and or its subsidiaries on the one hand and the Lanebrook Directors, the Major Shareholder or any member of the Major Shareholder Group on the other, such matter must be approved at a duly convened meeting of the Independent Committee or in writing by a majority of the Independent Committee: and i for so long as the Major Shareholder holds an interest in 50% or more in the Company, the Major Shareholder undertakes that it will not and will use its reasonable endeavours to procure that no other member of the Controlling Shareholder Group becomes involved in any competing business subject to certain exceptions in Russia, the Ukraine or the CIS without giving the Company the opportunity to participate in the relevant competing business.
The Board is satisfied that the Company is capable of carrying on its business independently of the major shareholder and makes its decisions in a manner consistent with its duties to the Company and stakeholders of EVRAZ plc.
8.875% notes due 2013 and 9.50% notes due 2018, issued by Evraz Group S. A. as well as a structured credit facility agreement for a syndicated loan of US$759 million contain change of control provisions.
If a change of control occurs under the terms of these notes, note holders will have the option to require Evraz Group S. A. to redeem notes together with interest accrued, if any.
Under the structured credit facility terms, in the event of a change of control over Evraz Group S. A. any lender will have the right to cancel its commitments and declare that amounts relating to that lenders participation in the loan become immediately payable.
At 31 December 2012, the principal amount of these borrowings amounted to US$1,802 million, accrued interest was US$21 million.
Supplier payment policy and practice The Group does not have any specific published code, however the Group has developed standard payment periods in respect of trade accounts payable and monitors the timeliness of payments to its suppliers and contractors.
Trade creditors of the Group at 31 December 2012 were US$1,100 million.
Annual General Meeting AGM An annual general meeting shall be held in each period of six months beginning with the day following the Companys annual accounting reference date, at such place or places, date and time as may be decided by the Directors.
The 2013 AGM will be held on 13 June 2013 in London.
At the AGM, shareholders will have the opportunity to put questions to the Board, including the chairmen of the Board committees.
Full details of the AGM, including explanatory notes, are contained in the Notice of AGM which will be distributed at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Notice sets out the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM and an explanation of each resolution.
All documents relating to the AGM are available on the Companys website www.
Corporate Overview Strategy Operating Review Social Responsibility Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 95 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Electronic communications A copy of the 2012 Annual Report, the Notice of the AGM and other corporate publications, reports and announcements are available on the Companys website www.
Shareholders may elect to receive notification by email of the availability of the Annual Report on the Companys website instead of receiving paper copies.
Purchase of own shares Details of transactions with treasury shares are provided in Note 20 of the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 147.
Share capital As of 31 December 2012 EVRAZ plc subscribed share capital is represented by 1,339,929,360 ordinary shares with a nominal value of US$1 each.
As a result of acquisition of controlling interest in Raspadskaya on 16 January 2013 the Company issued 132,653,006 new EVRAZ ordinary shares, thus increasing EVRAZs share capital to 1,472,582,366 ordinary shares.
In addition the Company issued 33,944,928 warrants, which may be exercised at any time between 16 January 2014 and 16 April 2014.
The Companys issued ordinary share capital ranks pari passu in all respects and carries the right to receive all dividends and distributions declared, made or paid on or in respect of the ordinary shares.
There are currently no redeemable non-voting preference shares or subscriber shares of the Company in issue.
Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association have been adopted with effect from Admission on 7 November 2011 and contain, among others, provisions on the rights and obligations attaching to the Companys shares.
The Articles of Association may only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
Share rights Without prejudice to any rights attached to any existing shares, the Company may issue shares with rights or restrictions as determined by either the Company by ordinary resolution or, if the Company passes a resolution, the directors.
The Company may also issue shares which are, or are liable to be, redeemed at the option of the Company or the holder and, subject to applicable law, the Directors may determine the terms, conditions and manner of redemption of any such shares.
Voting rights There are no other restrictions on voting rights or transfers of shares in the Articles other than those described in these paragraphs.
At a general meeting, subject to any special rights or restrictions attached to any class of shares on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy has one vote for every share held by him.
A proxy is not be entitled to vote where the member appointing the proxy would not have been entitled to vote on the resolution had he been present in person.
Unless the Directors decide otherwise, no member shall be entitled to vote either personally or by proxy or to exercise any other right in relation to general meetings if any sum due from him to the Company in respect of that share remains unpaid.
The trustee of the Companys Employee Share Trust is entitled, under the terms of the trust deed, to vote as it sees fit in respect of the shares held on trust.
Transfer of shares The Companys Articles provide that transfers of certificated shares must be effected in writing, and duly signed by or on behalf of the transferor and, except in the case of fully paid shares, by or on behalf of the transferee.
The transferor shall remain the holder of the shares concerned until the name of the transferee is entered in the Register of Members in respect of those shares.
As of the date hereof, the Company does not have certificated shares.
Transfers of uncertificated shares may be effected by means of CREST unless the CREST Regulations provide otherwise.
The Directors may refuse to register an allotment or transfer of shares in favour of more than four persons jointly.
Auditors Ernst & Young is the Companys auditor and will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board Alexander Frolov Chief Executive officer EVRAZ plc 10 April 2013
