16 Experian Annual Report 2012 Business overview Our four global business lines 21% Interactive Contribution to Group revenue Our Consumer Direct business provides Financial characteristics credit monitoring and other information Consumer credit reports, scores and identity services directly to millions of consumers protection are provided to consumers for a via the internet.
It enables consumers to monthly subscription fee.
monitor the accuracy of their credit report, to check their credit score and to protect Competitive environment against identity theft.
Experians direct-to-consumer, credit Description information business is the clear market leader in both the US and UK.
In the Experian provides consumers with secure, US, competition is provided by Equifax, online, unlimited access to their complete TransUnion, Fair Isaac and other smaller credit history in return for a regular monthly specialists, but Experian is more than four subscription fee.
times the size of any of those competitors.
In In the US, CreditReport.
com and the UK, competition is provided by Equifax freecreditscore.
com, and in the UK, and smaller niche players.
co. uk, allow consumers to see the same information available to lenders.
Market influences Typically a consumer will subscribe to Consumers are becoming increasingly aware Experian when they have a major life event, of the need to manage and control their such as when obtaining a loan, and they financial circumstances, and protect their want to feel more confident about their identity.
They are more conscious of how situation by looking at their credit report and personal information and credit history is score.
Or when there is a life change, such as employed by lenders, and are more focused getting married or moving city and they need on managing their credit relationships.
to take a more in-depth look at their financial Consumers want to protect their identities situation through their credit report.
and to minimise the risk of identity theft, as well as protecting their children while they are Email or text alerts keep consumers informed on-line and using mobile devices.
about any significant changes to their credit report.
Subscribers also receive information that helps them manage their credit commitments.
Experians identity protection services in the US and the UK, ProtectMyID.
co. uk, provide identity theft detection, protection and fraud resolution to consumers.
In the event of fraud, Experian provides access to a dedicated fraud resolution service together with insurance against financial loss.
com helps parents monitor their childrens online activity and mobile usage, and Garlik.
com, in the UK, US, Germany and Italy, provides wider web and social network monitoring to help prevent identity fraud before it happens.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements I 1 n 7 te ra Ect xpi ev re s ian A u nnu cce al Re ss st por o t 2 ry 0: 1 2 A Bu n e sin ne durin ss overg vi p ew artnership with the Automobile Club of Southern California AAA wanted to ensure that its members had access to the right tools for protecting their identity.
AAA is one of our highly valued affinity partners here at Experian Interactive.
These are organisations we partner with to offer their customers the security and convenience of being able to monitor and manage their credit and identity.
For more than a century, AAA auto clubs have been providing members with safety, security and peace of mind.
Its a history thats rooted in roadside assistance, but that today covers a wide range of insurance, travel and other services for over 53 million members throughout the USA and Canada.
Our partnership with AAA began in 2008, when identity theft was recognised as one of the countrys fastest growing crimes.
More than nine million Americans now fall victim to the crime each year, which is why AAA wanted to ensure that its members had access to the right tools for protecting their identity and for quickly managing any issues that might arise.
The identity theft monitoring product we offer to AAA members includes daily monitoring of a members credit report, with email alerts when a key change is detected.
Theres also a co-branded monthly all clear email sent out if no critical changes occur and the added protection of identity theft insurance.
If something does go wrong, members have the personal support of one of our Fraud Resolution Agents.
At AAA, every decision is centred on how it will benefit the member, which has helped foster exceptional loyalty.
AAA lives by the motto we do the right thing because it is the right thing to do and this philosophy has extended to our own partnership, where weve invested time understanding AAAs unique culture and seeing at first hand how their call centres truly support each member.
Were proud of the role we play in helping AAA create members for life.
Its a growing partnership and AAA certainly keeps us on our toes!
We know its their reputation thats at stake as much as ours and I think thats why the partnership continues to flourish.
Hazel Dulla Experian Interactive North America
