8 Experian Annual Report 2012 Business overview How were getting there Our vision is for Experians people, data and technology to become a necessary part of every major consumer economy.
We are committed to driving long-term shareholder value by focusing on data and analytics, driving profitable growth and optimising capital efficiency.
We have five strategic goals Extend our global lead in credit information and analytics Create successful businesses in new customer segments Build large-scale operations in our major emerging consumer economies Become the global leader in digital marketing services Become the most trusted consumer brand for credit information services and identity protection And three financial objectives Deliver sustainable mid-to-high single digit organic revenue growth Maintain or improve EBIT margins Convert at least 90% of EBIT into operating cash flow All of which are underpinned by our six corporate responsibilities Create social and economic Use and protect Inform and empower benefit through Experians data properly consumers products and services Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 9 Progress We continue to extend and build data assets by investing in rental, income, payday loan, and utilities data, enabling us to develop new products for risk management and fraud prevention.
In Brazil, Spain and Denmark, we are building positive data files.
In Australia we are establishing new consumer and business credit bureaux, in partnership with the major banks.
We expanded our addressable market in US healthcare payments with the acquisition of Medical Present Value, and in the UK, we increased services we offer to small and medium enterprises in the credit reference sector with the acquisition of LM Group.
We are helping telecommunication providers better manage their collections processes, and in the UK we are partnering with the public sector to assist government departments to authenticate benefit claimants and to prevent fraud.
The acquisition of Computec extended our geographic presence to Colombia, Peru and Venezuela.
In Brazil we have invested in new sources of negative data in partnership with a major retail association.
We have also launched credit risk and business information services in India and fraud prevention services in Russia.
With the acquisition of an email marketing business in Brazil, we now offer email marketing across ten of the largest advertising markets in the world.
We have deepened our social media capabilities, with the launch of social research and media campaign platforms.
And we have developed a sophisticated digital advertising platform that allows our clients to manage their online campaigns.
We continue to enhance the services we provide to consumers.
For example, in the UK we are offering greater value to subscribers of credit reference products by bundling vehicle history checks and property valuation reports.
We have added new identity protection services including wider web monitoring and protection for children when online in the US.
And we are the first credit reporting agency in the US to offer personalised, live telephone-based credit education.
Progress 10% Organic revenue growth KPI on page 22 2012 50 basis points 26.2% EBIT margin KPI on page 22 2012 96% Cash flow conversion KPI on page 22 2012 Be a good Play an active part Minimise employer to all in our communities environmental impacts CR section on page 47
