14 Experian Annual Report 2012 Business overview Our four global business lines Marketing Services 21% Contribution to Group revenue Marketing Services provides data and Experian helps clients to execute their Market influences segmentation tools to help organisations marketing campaigns, develop their Digital channels are changing consumers increase customer revenue and loyalty messaging, and directly target advertising to habits.
Consumers are increasingly and to communicate effectively with a consumer according to their preferences.
purchasing via on-line, mobile and social consumers across multiple channels.
Targeted marketing and advertising may channels, they expect quick response times be delivered via traditional channels such and personalised, relevant offers.
This is Description as direct mail, or increasingly via newer driving a greater need for real-time data channels such as email, television, social, Experian is a global leader in targeted and analytics to facilitate better targeting internet display and mobile devices.
marketing, providing Marketing Services and multi-channel delivery.
Companies are in some 30 countries.
Experian helps now requiring more and more customised, Clients clients to develop effective marketing portable and global campaigns, where campaigns to identify their best customers, Experian has a Marketing Services presence the marketing message is personalised understand their motivations and to find in some of the largest economies around to individuals, using online, real-time new, similar customers to whom they the world, including Australia, Brazil, China, communication channels.
Experian France, Germany, Japan, the UK and the accomplishes this by helping marketers US, allowing it to service large regional and to profile, segment and target consumers multinational businesses.
Clients include and to deliver their marketing messages financial services, retail, media, automotive through various channels.
Marketing Services maintains some of the Financial characteristics worlds largest databases of marketing Revenue from Marketing Services is derived information on consumers.
Consumer in a variety of ways, including transactional profiles include data from many sources, volume-tiered charges, data licences and including market surveys, postal addresses, subscription fees.
electoral registers, internet service providers and magazine subscription data.
Data Competitive environment is often augmented with a clients own proprietary data and aggregated according to With the growth of new digital channels the the clients needs.
competitive environment for Experian has evolved.
Competitors include traditional Globally, Experian holds demographic data providers such as Acxiom and Epsilon, on more than 500 million individuals in agencies, such as WPP or Omnicom, and 250 million households and online behaviour online publishers.
Experians competitive data on 25 million internet users across distinction lies in its global reach, the depth 5 million websites.
of our data assets, expertise in targeted This rich source of information provides marketing, our extensive platforms and our marketers with exceptional insight into position as a trusted, neutral third party.
customers and prospects by classifying consumers according to their circumstances and preferences.
Segmentation can be by geographic location, demographics, purchasing behaviours or media preferences.
Experian segments more than 2.2 billion consumers in over 28 countries.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Marketing Services success story: Maximising opportunities with customers, partners and prospects Were helping ACE to better understand the individual behaviours and needs of customers.
We began talking to ACE, the global insurance organisation, in 2009 when we were approached by its Accident & Health business in Spain.
ACE wanted to develop a better understanding of the individual behaviours and needs of its customers.
That meant changing the way it looked at information: moving from a policy view to a more customer-focused one.
Our solution was to develop a datamart where ACE could bring together all of its customer and prospect information within one integrated system, hosted by Experian in Nottingham.
Individual countries would view their own information through a centralised web application, from which theyd also have access to Experian tools for analysing customer information, making selections and running marketing campaigns.
Prospect information and data quality would be managed by Experian locally to ensure compliance with local regulations.
Another vital aspect of the project was the participation of ACE sponsors, who are an important source of new business.
These companies provide ACE with information about their own customers, who they believe may be interested in insurance products.
In the past they would send files directly to ACEs call centres, but with the introduction of the datamart they have separate contracts with Experian, allowing us to host their information and enabling ACE to make more refined selections on their behalf without compromising commercial confidentiality.
The new datamart went live in Spain during September 2011 and were now introducing Sweden and Finland to the project, to be followed by several other European countries this year.
Jose Luiz Gomez, Accident & Health Director for ACE in Spain, described the implementation of the datamart as impeccable.
He believes its giving real advantage to ACE by maximising opportunities with customers, partners and prospects.
Our relationship with ACE is very exciting, but were really only at the beginning of the journey.
Were now introducing ACE to potential new sponsors, to new lists of prospective customers and to the power of email marketing through Experian CheetahMail.
Olga Rodriguez-Piero Experian Marketing Services EMEA
