34 Experian Annual Report 2012 Business review Latin America review Performance in Latin America goes from strength to strength.
Total revenue from continuing activities was US$961m, up 31% at constant exchange rates, with organic revenue growth of 23%.
The difference relates to the acquisitions of Virid Interatividade Digital Virid acquired July 2011 and Computec completed November 2011.
Decision Analytics Were pleased with our regions We delivered good progress at Decision strong growth this year as we Analytics with total and organic revenue continued to broaden our product growth of 70%.
Our business is benefiting range, invest in new data sources as we leverage our credit bureau footprint in and move into new customer Brazil, with new contract wins from major segments.
The acquisition of Brazilian banks during the year.
We also Computec has expanded our saw good progress in other Latin American presence in Latin America and we markets, including Argentina and Mexico.
can see many opportunities for Marketing Services further growth across the region.
At Marketing Services, total revenue more than doubled, including first-time contributions from the acquisition of the Virid email marketing business and Computecs marketing-related activities.
Ricardo Loureiro Credit Services EBIT and margin Managing Director, Total revenue growth was 28%, at Latin America For Latin America, EBIT grew 34% at constant exchange rates, while organic constant exchange rates to US$320m.
Both consumer Margins increased by 80 basis points to information and business information 33.3%.
Margins benefited from strong activities in Brazil performed strongly, positive operating leverage in Credit benefiting from new data supply Services in Brazil, offset by organic growth agreements, take-up of new premium investments in other areas and adverse products, further penetration of the mix due to the first time contribution of small and medium enterprise sector and Computec.
good progress across new customer segments such as telecommunications.
Authentication revenue grew exceptionally strongly in the year, as the Brazilian government extended its programme for businesses to use digital certificates to identify themselves in  interactions.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 35 Social, ethical and environmental performance Total revenue growth 2012 revenue by activity Community volunteering has been part of 43% the culture in our Latin America business Credit for many years but this year, we launched Services 93% 31% a Citizenship Portal: a social network to Decision Analytics 2% help match volunteers to social causes, Marketing focusing on using our specific skills.
More 19% 18% Services 5% 16% than 600 employees registered and over 80 organisations have benefited from their support.
The financial education course, delivered by 08 09 10 11 12 volunteer employees, continues to expand and touch the lives of an increasing number Organic revenue growth EBIT US$m and margin of people and the business assiduously tracks the effectiveness of this programme.
33.3% 43% From an environmental perspective, a 320 noteworthy development was our focus 32.5% on lowering water consumption and more 235 detail is available in the full Corporate 23% 29.7% Responsibility report at 19% 18% 166 16% 25.5% www.
The 118 23.1% business also continues to excel as an 75 employer, again winning awards and gaining significant recognition.
Growth at constant exchange rates.
