Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 83 Directors report The directors present their report and 2011: 19 US cents to be paid on 20 July Insurance and third party the audited financial statements for the 2012 to shareholders on the register of indemnification year ended 31 March 2012.
The corporate members on 22 June 2012.
An interim During the year and up to the date of governance statement forms part of this dividend of 10.25 US cents per ordinary approval of this annual report, the Company report.
share was paid on 27 January 2012 giving maintained liability insurance and third party a total dividend for the year of 32 US cents indemnification provisions for its directors.
Principal activities and business per ordinary share 2011: 28 US cents.
review Acquisitions Directors Experian provides data and analytical tools Information in respect of acquisitions made to organisations in North America, Latin The names and biographical details of the during the year is contained in the business America, UK and Ireland, EMEA and Asia directors are shown in the biographies review and in note 41 to the Group financial Pacific.
Clients use these to manage credit section of the annual report.
risk, prevent fraud, target marketing offers served as a director of the Company until his and automate decision-making.
Brian Cassin was Post balance sheet events also helps individuals to manage their appointed as a director of the Company on credit relationships and protect against 30 April 2012.
Deirdre Mahlan and George Details of events occurring after the end of identity theft.
Activities in the regions in Rose have been appointed as directors of the the reporting period are contained in note 47 which Experian operates are grouped into Company with effect from 1 September 2012. to the Group financial statements.
four global business lines: Credit Services, Particulars of directors remuneration, Share capital Decision Analytics, Marketing Services service contracts and interests in the and Interactive.
Details of the authorised and issued share ordinary shares of the Company are shown capital of the Company and changes to the The business overview and business in the report on directors remuneration.
Companys share capital during the year review sections are incorporated into There have been no changes in the directors ended 31 March 2012 are set out in note N this directors report by reference.
They interests in such ordinary shares between to the parent company financial statements.
contain details of the development and the end of the financial year and 9 May 2012.
The rights and obligations attaching to the performance of the Groups businesses In accordance with the UK Corporate ordinary and deferred shares are also set during the year, an indication of the key Governance Code, all directors will retire out in note N and the articles of association performance indicators and information at the annual general meeting in July 2012 of the Company, a copy of which can be regarding principal risks and uncertainties, and, being eligible, will offer themselves obtained from the Experian website which is together with information equivalent to for election re-election.
that required for a business review.
Board performance and the performance of individual directors, as well as an evaluation Substantial shareholdings Research and development of the performance of the principal Board Substantial shareholders are required to Research and development plays a key role committees, was carried out during the notify their interests in accordance with the in supporting Experians activities.
Details year ended 31 March 2012 and the Board Companys articles of association, which of such activities are given in the business is satisfied that all directors contribute obliges shareholders to comply with the review section.
effectively and demonstrate commitment notification obligations to the Company to their roles.
Further details regarding the contained in the UK Disclosure and Results and dividends evaluation process are contained in the Transparency Rules.
As at 9 May 2012, corporate governance statement.
The Group income statement shows a profit the Company had been notified of the for the financial year ended 31 March 2012 interests below in its issued ordinary share of US$718m 2011: US$623m.
The directors capital or voting rights.
No notifications have have announced the payment of a second been received by the Company between interim dividend in lieu of a final dividend of 31 March 2012 and the date of approval of 21.75 US cents per ordinary share this annual report.
Substantial shareholdings Direct indirect Number of ordinary Percentage of issued Date of notification Shareholder interest shares voting rights share capital voting rights 14 October 2009 Legal & General Group plc Direct 40,756,800 3.97% 15 February 2011 Artisan Partners Limited Partnership Indirect 50,901,871 4.98% 25 October 2011 BlackRock, Inc.
Indirect 55,911,695 5.57% 84 Experian Annual Report 2012 Governance Directors report continued Details of the new authority being requested ADR programme No member shall, unless the directors at the 2012 annual general meeting are otherwise determine, be entitled in The Company has a Level 1 American contained in the circular to shareholders, respect of any share held by him her to Depositary Receipt ADR programme in which accompanies this annual report or is vote either personally or by proxy at a the USA for which the Bank of New York available on the Companys website at shareholders meeting or to exercise any Mellon acts as depositary.
other right conferred by membership in traded on the highest tier of the US over-therelation to shareholders meetings if any Details of the shares in the Company counter market, OTCQX, where each ADR call or other sum presently payable by purchased by and held under The Experian represents one Experian plc ordinary share.
him her to the Company in respect of that plc Employee Share Trust and the Experian Further details are given in the shareholder share remains unpaid.
UK Approved All Employee Share Plan are information section.
No member shall, unless the directors set out in note O to the parent companys otherwise determine, be entitled to Restrictions on transfers of shares financial statements.
vote either personally or by proxy at a and or voting rights shareholders meeting or to exercise any Significant agreements change of The Company is not aware of any other right conferred by membership in control agreements between shareholders that relation to shareholders meetings if he she There are a number of agreements to which may result in restrictions on the transfer of fails within the prescribed period to provide the Group is party that take effect, alter or securities and or voting rights and, apart the Company with information concerning terminate, or have the potential to do so, upon from those matters described below, there interests in those shares required to are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary a change of control of the Company following be provided after being duly served shares in the capital of the Company and or a takeover bid.
Details of the agreements of with a notice pursuant to the articles of voting rights: this nature are: association of the Company.
The Groups banking facilities contain Certain restrictions on transfers of shares In accordance with the articles of provisions which, in the event of a may from time to time be imposed by, for association of the Company and save change of control of the Company, could example, insider dealing regulations.
In for certain limited circumstances, if result in a renegotiation or withdrawal of accordance with the Listing Rules of the the number of shares in the Company such facilities.
UK Financial Services Authority, directors beneficially owned by residents of the USA and certain employees are required to The 334m 5.625% Euronotes due 2013, the exceeds a defined permitted maximum seek the approval of the Company to deal 400m 4.75% Euronotes due 2018 and the and the directors give notice to the in its shares.
500m 4.75% Euronotes due 2020, issued holder s of such shares, such shares shall by the Group, provide that holders may Some of Experians share-based employee not confer on the holder s thereof the require repayment of the notes in the event incentive plans include restrictions on right to receive notice of, attend or vote at that a rating agency re-rates the notes transfer of shares while the shares are general meetings of the Company.
to below investment grade following a subject to the plan.
Details of deadlines in respect of voting change of control of the Company.
As described in the report on directors for the 2012 annual general meeting are remuneration, non-executive directors All of Experians share-based employee contained in the notice of meeting that receive a proportion of fees in shares until incentive plans contain provisions relating has been circulated to shareholders their shareholding reaches one times their to a change of control.
Outstanding and which can also be viewed at the annual fee.
These shares may not normally awards and options would normally vest Companys website.
be transferred during their period of office.
and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any Where, under a share-based employee Own shares performance conditions at that time.
incentive plan operated by Experian, The existing authority for the Company to The Group is party to a limited number of participants are the beneficial owners of purchase its own shares, which expires at operational arrangements which can be the shares but not the registered owner, the end of this years annual general meeting, terminated or altered upon a change of the voting rights are normally exercised was given at the annual general meeting held control of the Company, but these are not by the registered owner at the direction of on 20 July 2011 and permitted the Company considered to be individually significant to the participants.
to purchase, in the market, 99,713,610 of its the business of the Group as a whole or, Shares held in treasury carry no voting own shares.
The Company did not utilise this in certain cases, it is considered that their rights for as long as they are held as authority during the year under review, or up disclosure would be seriously prejudicial to treasury shares.
to the date of approval of this annual report.
The deferred shares in the Company carry At the date of approval of this annual report, The provisions in directors service no voting rights.
the Company holds 23,995,602 of its own contracts relating to a change of control of shares as treasury shares.
the Company are described in the report on directors remuneration.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 85 Of this, in 2012, the Groups community meetings, publications and intranet sites.
Contractual arrangements investment in the UK totalled US$1.2m More detail on employee engagement, The licences granted to Group companies 2011: US$1.2m and US$0.8m was made in together with information on diversity, by governmental entities in respect of financial donations and volunteering hours succession planning and talent development, the operation of its credit bureaux in key to charitable organisations.
An amount can be found in the Our people, our strength jurisdictions are essential to the Groups of US$0.2m was given to fund significant section of the annual report.
The Group also has several partnership projects with The Princes Trust, Experian continues to support employee key agreements with its technology and Framework, The School of Artisan Food and share ownership through the provision of data providers.
Although the Group has Entrepreneur First.
A further US$0.2m was save as you earn and other employee share numerous other third party contractual donated to the ABF Soldiers Charity and Help plan arrangements which are intended to arrangements, none of these is considered For Heroes, the Experian UKs charity of the align the interests of employees with those of essential to its business.
In addition, small grants were made to a shareholders.
further 74 charities in support of employees Appointment and removal of suggestions and fundraising efforts.
Creditor payment directors Political donations For all trade creditors, it is Group policy to: Both the Company by ordinary resolution and the directors may elect any person to Agree and confirm the terms of payment at Experian did not make any EU political be a director, but the number of directors the commencement of business with that donations during the year ended 31 March shall not exceed the maximum number supplier: 2012. fixed by the articles of association of the Pay in accordance with any contract Company.
Any person appointed by the agreed with the supplier or as required by Employment of people with directors shall only hold office until the next law: and disabilities annual general meeting and shall then be Continually review payment procedures People with disabilities have equal eligible for election.
The office of a director and liaise with suppliers as a means of opportunities when applying for vacancies.
shall be vacated on the occurrence of eliminating difficulties and maintaining In addition to complying with legislative any of the events listed in article 92 of the good working relationships.
requirements, procedures are in place articles of association of the Company.
The Trade creditors of the Group at 31 March 2012 to ensure that disabled employees are Company may, in accordance with its articles were 28 days based on the ratio of Group fairly treated and that their training and of association, remove any director from trade creditors at the end of the year to the career development needs are carefully office and elect another person in place of a amounts invoiced during the year by trade managed.
The policies are considered to director so removed.
The Company has, and in respect operate effectively.
For those employees of the year ended 31 March 2011, had, no becoming disabled during the course Articles of association trade creditors.
of their employment, the Group is The articles of association of the Company supportive, whether through re-training may be amended by the passing of a Going concern or re-deployment, so as to provide an special resolution.
opportunity for them to remain with the Details of the adoption by the Group and Group whenever possible.
the Company of the going concern basis in Financial risk management, preparing the financial statements are set objectives and policies Employee involvement out in the financial review within the business Descriptions of the use of financial review section and are incorporated into this Experian is committed to employee instruments and Experians treasury and report by reference.
involvement throughout the business and risk management objectives and policies is intent on motivating and keeping staff are set out in the financial review within the Relevant audit information informed on matters that concern them in the business review section and also in note 8 to context of their employment and involving As at 9 May 2012, so far as each director is the Group financial statements.
them through local consultative procedures.
aware, there is no relevant audit information, Where there are recognition agreements being information needed by the auditors Charitable donations with trade unions, the consultation process in connection with preparing their report, of Experian has continued to support is established through national and local which the auditors are unaware and each community initiatives and charitable trade union representatives and through joint director has taken all steps that he she ought causes worldwide in line with our strategy, consultation committees.
to have taken as a director in order to make which focuses on financial education and himself herself aware of any relevant audit Employees are kept well informed on matters entrepreneurship.
The total commitment, information and to establish that the auditors of concern and the financial and economic including cash support and employee are aware of that information.
factors affecting the Groups performance time, during the year was US$2.9m 2011: through management channels, conferences, US$3.2m.
86 Experian Annual Report 2012 Governance Directors report continued By order of the Board Annual general meeting taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the The 2012 annual general meeting of the Charles Brown Company and the Group, and to prevent Company will be held at The Merrion Hotel, Company Secretary and detect fraud and other irregularities: Upper Merrion Street, Dublin 2, Ireland 9 May 2012 and at 9.30am on Wednesday 18 July 2012. the maintenance and integrity of the Shareholders who are unable to attend in Corporate headquarters: statutory and audited information on the person may submit questions beforehand via Newenham House Companys website Jersey legislation and email to agmquestions@experianplc.
com Northern Cross UK regulation governing the preparation or on the prepaid card sent to shareholders Malahide Road and dissemination of financial statements with the notice of meeting.
The questions Dublin 17 may differ from requirements in other will be addressed at the meeting, via the Ireland jurisdictions.
com Registered office: or individually as appropriate.
The notice of 22 Grenville Street In addition, the directors consider that, in meeting has been circulated to shareholders St Helier preparing the financial statements: and can also be viewed on the Companys Jersey suitable accounting policies have been website.
JE4 8PX selected and applied consistently: Independent auditors judgments and estimates made have been reasonable and prudent: The auditors,  LLP, the Group financial statements comply have indicated their willingness to continue with IFRSs as adopted for use in the in office and a resolution that they be reEuropean Union: appointed as auditors of the Company will be all accounting standards which they proposed at the annual general meeting.
consider applicable have been followed in preparing the parent company financial Statements of directors statements: and responsibilities it is appropriate that the Group and parent The directors are responsible for: company financial statements have been preparing the annual report, the Group prepared on a going concern basis.
and parent company financial statements The directors confirm that, to the best of and the report on directors remuneration their knowledge, the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and are prepared in accordance with the regulations: applicable set of accounting standards, give preparing financial statements which give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, a true and fair view of the state of affairs financial position and profit of the Company at the balance sheet date, and the profit and the Group taken as a whole: and this or loss for the period then ended of a directors report contains a fair review of the Group in accordance with IFRSs as the development and performance of the adopted for use in the European Union, business and the position of the Company and b the Company in accordance with and the Group taken as a whole, together UK Accounting Standards : with a description of the principal risks and keeping proper accounting records which uncertainties that they face.
disclose, with reasonable accuracy, at any time the financial position of the Group and the Company and enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with applicable law and Article 4 of the International Accounting Standards Regulation:
