12 Experian Annual Report 2012 Business overview Our four global business lines Decision Analytics 11% Contribution to Group revenue Decision Analytics unlocks the value Solutions developed by Experian include Financial characteristics of Experians vast databases of credit application processing, customer Credit scores and fraud checks are sold on and marketing information, as well as management, fraud solutions and collections a transactional volume-tiered basis, whilst clients data, applying expert consulting, software and systems.
revenue from software and systems consists analytical tools, software and systems, to Application processing systems enable partly of implementation fees and partly of help clients solve complex problems and organisations to balance the requirement contractually recurring licence fees.
for speed and competitiveness with the need for careful risk assessment when Competitive environment Description considering an applicant for credit.
Experian is a market leading provider Experian enables organisations to make Customer management systems are used of Decision Analytics in all its major accurate and relevant decisions at every to automate huge volumes of day-to-day geographies.
Global competitors include stage of the customer relationship: helping to decisions: helping clients make the right Fair Isaac and SAS, and competition in identify potentially profitable new customers, decision for each customer, in a consistent individual markets consists typically of to segment their existing customers and cost-efficient manner.
according to risk and opportunity, to manage Fraud and identity solutions are used to loan portfolios and to undertake effective authenticate that people are who they say Market influences for Credit collections actions.
Decision Analytics they are and that the information being Services and Decision Analytics products are also used in the detection and provided is correct.
There is a growing demand from Collections analytics and software governments, regulators and lenders for Experian has developed a comprehensive play an important part in helping greater transparency.
Governments want consultative-led approach for its clients, organisations establish an accurate picture safety and soundness in the banking system, helping them identify issues, develop of a customers propensity to pay, and regulators want greater insight and control insights and to focus on solutions that therefore the amount likely to be recovered.
over the entities they are regulating and add value to their business.
Hundreds of lenders want to grow whilst being more Clients statisticians, mathematicians and analysts discerning about their customer acquisition.
are employed globally creating both Clients vary in size, from small to medium, Clients in newer customer segments, such bespoke and industry solutions.
They come from a range as telecommunications and utilities, are of industries, including financial services, becoming increasingly aware of the benefits telecommunications, utilities, retailers, of managing customer relationships, insurance, automotive and the public sector.
optimising collections and combating fraud.
Multinational clients often standardise their operations globally on Experians tools These are all driving a need for more data, and software, helping to improve strategic more segmentation, more consultancy and control and operating effectiveness as well as more execution support.
helping to satisfy regulatory obligations.
Bu Bus si in ne ess o ss ov five er rv vi ie ew w Bu Bus si in ne ess re ss rev vi ie ew w G Go ov five er rn nanc ance e Fi Financial financial s stta attements ements Decision Analytics success story: Tackling fraud and error in the welfare system 13 HMRC expects our partnership to save the Government at least 800 million.
These are testing times for the UK public sector as the Government reins back on spending and promotes an agenda of reform and efficiency savings.
One of the most widely publicised initiatives has been the Prime Ministers commitment to tackling fraud and error in the welfare system, using the expertise and information resources of credit reference agencies.
In July 2011, following a successful pilot, Experian was appointed by HM Revenue & Customs HMRC to help reduce losses due to fraud and error in the payment of tax credits.
Its estimated that the Government loses more than 3bn each year from incorrect payment of these tax benefits, which are designed to support people with low incomes or children.
Every month, Experian is applying an unrivalled view of consumers to some 65,000 tax credit claimants.
Using information such as financial associations, changes of address and declarations of income, were highlighting claims where the circumstances of an individual have changed since the benefit was originally granted.
Were then applying sophisticated analytics to the records to prioritise those claims where weve found a potential issue.
It means that HMRC can now focus their resources on those cases that are most likely to result in a saving.
Were also looking to apply technology from our recent acquisition of Garlik, which provides web monitoring services that will enable us to find relationships between individuals in cyberspace that could indicate a citizen is no longer entitled to a benefit.
By revealing information such as an undisclosed partner or changes in income, Experian is enabling HMRC to mount a concerted campaign to challenge a large number of payments, which is proving very successful.
During the life of this contract HMRC expects our partnership to save the Government at least 800 million.
Nick Mothershaw Experian Identity and Fraud Solutions UK and Ireland
