10 Experian Annual Report 2012 Business overview Our four global business lines Credit Services 47% Contribution to Group revenue At the core of Credit Services are the Consumer credit reports help lenders make automotive companies and  databases that Experian better informed and faster credit decisions consumer to help establish the market builds and manages, that hold the credit through access to detailed historical value of a used vehicle, the accuracy of the application and repayment histories of information about how consumers have odometer reading and whether or not the millions of consumers and businesses.
vehicle has changed owners, been damaged Globally, Experian holds credit payment in an accident, or been imported.
Business credit reports are used by clients to data on more than 740 million consumers set the credit terms for new accounts and to Clients and 70 million businesses, and historical manage existing account relationships with data on 650 million vehicles.
In total, Clients principally include organisations their customers and suppliers.
Experian operates 19 consumer credit that are extending or offering credit.
Experian continually freshens and augments bureaux and 14 business credit bureaux Examples include financial services, its bureau databases, adding new sources of around the world.
telecommunications, utilities, insurance data to further enhance the depth and quality companies, hospitals and automotive Consumer and business information of the credit reports.
A credit bureau is a database that includes To check the credit history of a consumer or Financial characteristics information supplied by lenders, and certain business and store information with a credit public records, such as liens, judgments and bureau, a company must have a legitimate Credit reports are sold on a transactional bankruptcies, by other third parties.
need for accessing the data and usually basis, priced per report delivered.
Pricing must notify the applicant of their intention is typically tiered, varying according to the Lenders and other subscribing members to contact a credit bureau.
The laws of each volume of reports delivered to the client.
provide us with credit application and country vary in respect of the hosting of such Typically, revenue for Credit Services recurs repayment data on consumers and data and access to it.
Experian maintains a comprehensive Experian augments that data with Competitive environment security programme to protect credit publicly available information.
It is then bureau data through its entire lifecycle, from Experian is the primary provider of aggregated, cleansed and sorted to form a collection, transformation and use, to storage consumer credit information to many credit report on a consumer or a business and then destruction.
financial institutions in the US: the other which comprehensively shows how credit credit bureaux are Equifax and TransUnion.
obligations have been managed in the past.
Experian does not make lending decisions In Brazil and the UK, Experian is the clear or offer any comment or advice on particular Credit reports vary by country, but typically market leader and has leading positions in applications, but simply provides factual include identification information, past and many other countries.
present credit obligations, court judgments, In business information, Experian is the bankruptcy information, suspected fraudulent Clients then use that information, often in market-leading provider in Brazil, the UK applications, collections data, previous conjunction with other information such as and a number of other markets.
In the US, addresses and, in the case of businesses, may that included in an application form or any Experian is second to Dun & Bradstreet, include company registration and ownership.
previous agreements with the applicant, to which is the only global competitor in this help decide whether or not to lend.
In developed credit markets, such as the US field.
and UK, a credit report includes information Automotive information on credit obligations, both positive and Market influences Experians automotive business supplies negative.
Positive data includes accounts P12 See page 12 for market influences on Credit vehicle history reports in the US, the UK, that have been paid on time, forming a Services and Decision Analytics.
Ireland and Italy to help organisations and complete picture of indebtedness and consumers understand the risk associated credit payment behaviour, while negative with used vehicles.
Reports typically information includes past-due payments, include data on title, registration, history collection accounts and public records and accidents, manufacturer recall and information such as bankruptcies.
The information is sold mature credit markets, bureaux often to automotive dealers, auction houses, contain only negative data.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Credit Services success story: Helping Oi Telecom in Brazil to maintain market leadership Weve provided Oi with the opportunity to capitalize fully on the convergence of consumer telecom services.
Oi is the leading provider of telecommunication services in Brazil and a pioneer of convergent services that include fixed and mobile telephony, broadband and cable television.
In July 2011, we began discussions with Ois senior management about how Serasa Experian could improve their business performance by using our data and analytics to help guide decision making at each stage of their relationship with customers.
Working closely with Oi, we undertook analytical studies to prove Experians capabilities.
We then developed more than 50 business models as part of a comprehensive portfolio management solution that would embrace customer prospecting and acquisition, customer management and collections.
The project has provided Oi with the opportunity to capitalize fully on the convergence of consumer telecom services and to drive greater customer loyalty using its vast array of products and services to create unique competitive offerings that can strengthen its market position.
This is a long-term partnership and well be working closely with Oi to support its key strategic objectives of expanding its subscriber base, driving higher average customer revenue and creating greater loyalty by targeting the right product bundles to the right consumer groups across Brazil.
The Serasa Experian solution will also provide Oi with the added benefits of greater operational efficiencies and reduced bad debts, which will have a positive impact on its financial performance.
No other company could have put together a solution like this, with all the inherent advantages of a one-stop-shop.
Weve worked with Oi for over ten years and they trusted us to get it right.
Rosane Bensusan Serasa Experian Latin America
