Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Overview Directors Report Governance Other Statutory Information ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES Mark Abrahams Chairman The directors submit their management In accordance with the recommendation in the Substantial shareholdings report and the audited Group financial UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors As of 7 November 2012, the following statements for the financial year ended will be offering themselves up for re-election interests in shares have been notified to the on an annual basis.
Company: appointed to the Board on 11 January 2012 % of issued Principal activities and offers herself up for election, this being Interested party share capital her first opportunity to do so since her Fenner PLC is a holding company which is a appointment to the Board.
The performance public limited company listed on the London Standard Life Investments Limited 8.43 of each of the directors continues to be Stock Exchange and is incorporated and Threadneedle Asset Management effective and they continue to demonstrate domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The address Holdings Limited 7.56 commitment to the role and the Company.
of the registered office is Hesslewood Country Lloyds Banking Group plc 4.95 Office Park, Ferriby Road, Hessle, East Legal & General Group Plc 4.32 Directors indemnities and Yorkshire, HU13 0PW.
The principal activities Kames Capital 3.63 of the Group are detailed in the Business insurance cover Blackrock, Inc 3.15 Review on pages 7 to 28.
A qualifying third party indemnity QTPI, as permitted by the Companys Articles of Directors and their interests Results and dividends Association and the Companies Act 2006, has The names of the directors in office during the been granted by the Company to each of the 2012 2011 year and their brief biographies and other directors.
Under the provisions of the QTPI, m m details, including other significant the Company undertakes to indemnify each commitments, are as shown on pages 29 to 30. director against claims from third parties in Group profit for the year 62.4 49.4 respect of certain liabilities excluding Details of the directors beneficial interests in criminal and regulatory penalties arising out the ordinary shares of the Company, in share Dividends: of, or in connection with, the execution of their options over the ordinary share capital of the Interim 3.5p per share powers, duties and responsibilities as Company and in the Performance Share Plan directors of the Company or any of its 2011: 2.65p payable 6.8 5.1 are given in the Board Remuneration Report subsidiaries.
The Group also holds on pages 43 to 49. appropriate Directors and Officers Liability Final 7.0p per share Insurance.
Save as disclosed in the Board Remuneration 2011: 5.35p proposed 13.5 10.3 Report: Supplier payment policy no director has any interest beneficial or Given the international nature of the Groups Total dividend 20.3 15.4 non-beneficial in any share or loan operations, the Group does not operate a capital of the Company or any of its standard code in respect of payments to subsidiaries: suppliers.
Individual operating units are Donations responsible for agreeing the terms and During the year, the Group made donations of no change in the interests of directors has conditions under which transactions with 102,000 2011: 151,000 to charitable, social occurred between the end of the financial their suppliers are conducted, including the and community related organisations.
It is the year and 7 November 2012: and terms of payment.
It is the Groups policy that Groups policy that no donations are made to there were no contracts of significance payments to suppliers are made in political parties.
subsisting during or at the end of the accordance with these terms.
The average financial year in which a director of the creditor days for the Group during the year Company was materially interested.
ended 31 August 2012 was 54 days Fenner PLC Annual Report 2012 40 Directors Report Governance Other Statutory Information continued 2011: 55 days.
The Company does not have are fully paid up on that share.
In addition, no The Group Environmental Policy can be any trade creditors.
member shall be entitled to vote if he has been viewed at www.
com served with a notice after failure to provide the Employment policy Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be The Group operates worldwide and its Financial risk management provided under the Companies Act.
employment policies are designed to meet Details of the Groups financial risk local conditions and requirements, but are management policies are given in the Deadline for exercising voting rights established on the basis of the best practices Business Review on page 25 and note 20 to the Voting rights may be exercised in person, by in each country and support the principles of Group financial statements on pages 81 to 83. proxy or by a Corporate Representative.
The the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
deadline for submission of proxy forms is not Wherever the Group operates, it encourages Other statutory information less than 48 hours before the time appointed the provision of equal employment Set out below is a summary of certain for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting.
opportunities, thereby ensuring a competent provisions of the Companys current Articles and diverse workforce.
Variation of rights of Association the Articles and the Subject to the provisions of legislation, the Companies Act 2006 Companies Act.
If The Groups policy is to secure good relations Articles specify that rights attaching to any further information is required, the relevant between management and all employees, to class of shares may be varied or abrogated, provisions of the Articles and the Companies promote a better understanding of all the either with the consent in writing of the holders Act should be consulted.
issues, both internal and external, that of three-quarters in nominal value of the influence the Groups business performance Share capital issued shares of the class being varied or with and to improve performance and productivity.
Details of the Companys issued share capital the sanction of a special resolution passed at a Formal and informal meetings are used to as at 31 August 2012, together with details of separate General Meeting of the holders of the consult employees and to keep them informed shares issued during the year, are set out in shares of that class.
about the performance of the Group.
The note 9 to the Company financial statements on practices of consultation and involvement vary Transfer of shares page 104.
Each ordinary share of the Company All transfers of certificated shares may be in from country to country according to local carries one vote.
The Company has a single any usual form or in any other form which the customs, legal considerations and the size of class of share capital which is divided into the operation.
The regular worldwide issue of Board may approve.
The instrument of transfer ordinary shares of 25p each.
shall be signed by or on behalf of the a Group magazine assists the process of Dividends and distributions transferor and, unless the share is fully paid, by communication, as do briefing meetings, Subject to the provisions of the Companies information bulletins and meetings with or on behalf of the transferee.
An instrument of Act, the Company may, by ordinary resolution, transfer need not be under seal.
from time to time declare dividends not shares which are in uncertificated form are The Group continues to recognise its social and exceeding the amount recommended by the effected by means of the CREST system.
statutory duties to disabled persons and does Board.
The Board may pay interim dividends, The Board may refuse to register the transfer of a all that is practicable to meet this including fixed rate dividends, whenever the share which is not fully paid, provided that the responsibility.
Full and fair consideration is financial position of the Company, in the refusal does not prevent dealings in shares in given to the recruitment, training, career opinion of the Board, justifies such payment.
the Company from taking place on an open and development and promotion of disabled Dividends will be paid pro-rata to the amounts proper basis.
In the case of uncertificated shares, persons, bearing in mind the aptitude and paid up on the shares.
In specie and scrip the Board may exercise its discretion to refuse to ability of the individual concerned.
If an dividends can be authorised at a General register a transfer of a share to the extent employee becomes disabled whilst employed Meeting at the Boards recommendation.
permitted by the regulations and the facilities and by the Group, wherever possible, he or she will Voting rights requirements of the relevant system.
continue to be employed in the same job.
If this Subject to any rights or restrictions attaching action is not practicable or possible then every The Board may also refuse to register the to any shares by or in accordance with the effort will be made to find suitable alternative transfer of a certificated share unless the Articles, at a General Meeting, every member employment.
In these circumstances, instrument of transfer is lodged, duly stamped who is present in person or by proxy shall have retraining would be made available using if stampable at the office or at another place one vote and, on a poll, every member present Group resources as well as by contact with the appointed by the Board, accompanied by the in person or by proxy shall have one vote for local disabilities employment advisor.
certificate for the share to which it relates and each share.
In the case of joint holders of a such other evidence as the Board may A detailed review of the Groups share, the vote of the senior holder who reasonably require to show the right of the employment policy is set out in Corporate tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, transferor to make the transfer and, if the Responsibility on pages 52 to 53 shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes instrument of transfer is executed by some other of the other joint holders.
person on his behalf, the authority of that person Environmental policy For this purpose, seniority shall be determined to do so : is in respect of only one class of shares: The Group recognises and accepts that by the order in which the names of the holders and is in favour of not more than four transferees.
concern for the environment is an integral stand in the register.
If the Board refuses to register a transfer of a and fundamental part of the Groups Restrictions on voting share, it shall send the transferee notice of its corporate business strategy.
Unless the Board determine otherwise, no refusal together with reasons for the refusal A detailed review of the Groups member shall be entitled to vote at a General within two months after the date on which the environmental policy is set out in Corporate Meeting, either in person or by proxy, in instrument of transfer was lodged with the Responsibility on pages 53 to 54 Company.
respect of any share held unless all moneys Fenner PLC Annual Report 2012 41 Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Overview Appointment and replacement of directors As far as each director is aware, there is no Unless varied by ordinary resolution, the relevant audit information of which the number of directors other than alternate Companys auditors are unaware.
Each directors shall be not less than two nor more director has taken all the steps that they ought than 15 in number.
to have taken as a director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit At each AGM, all directors shall retire from information and to establish that the office and be eligible for re-election, in line with Companys auditors are aware of that best corporate practice.
The Board may appoint a director either to fill a Annual General Meeting casual vacancy or as an additional director provided that the appointment does not cause As special business at the forthcoming AGM, resolutions will be proposed to renew the the number of directors to exceed the directors authority to allot shares, to disapply maximum prescribed by the Articles.
A director so appointed shall hold office only until the the statutory pre-emption rights to a limited next following AGM.
If not re-elected at such extent and to make market purchases of ordinary shares in the Company subject to AGM, the director shall vacate office at its conclusion.
Resolutions will also be proposed to hold General Meetings on 14 days Powers of directors notice.
The proposed resolutions and further Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act details regarding these proposals are set out and Articles and to any directions given by in the Chairmans explanatory letter special resolution, the business of the Company accompanying the Notice of Annual General shall be managed by the Board which may Meeting.
exercise all the powers of the Company.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money, to mortgage or charge all or any part of its undertaking, property, assets present or future and Mark Abrahams uncalled capital and to issue debentures and Chairman other securities whether outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or 7 November 2012 obligation of the Company or of any third party.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act and Articles, at a General Meeting, the Board may request authority to allot shares and the power to disapply the statutory pre-emption rights and the authority to buy the Company's own ordinary shares in the market.
Currently the Board requests such consent at each AGM.
The details of requested authorities and powers in connection with the AGM to be held on 16 January 2013 are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Significant agreements: change of control All of the Companys current share plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
Amendment to Articles of Association Any amendments to the Articles may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act by way of special resolution.
Independent auditors A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as independent auditors to the Company will be proposed at the AGM.
