Directors Report Business Review Chief Executive Officers Review continued STRATEGY IN ACTION Strong Kwinana Expansion - ECS Australia Work progresses on time and on budget at Western Australia have responded positively Fenner Dunlop Australias $20 million to our construction of a substantial and expansion that will double the capacity of the state-of-the-art heavyweight conveyor belt Kwinana plant which is currently operating plant in their own backyard.
Civil engineering work is Some of the worlds most efficient iron ore complete and the major equipment mines are in Western Australia and there are deliveries will be made over the coming excellent prospects for long-term growth in months, with the plant in production by June demand for replacement conveyor belt.
The expansion involves construction of a second press line that will increase production capacity to approximately 200,000 metres per annum.
Mining companies in Growing Enabling Technology Award - AEP USA Developers of medical textiles are constantly Frost and Sullivan, a global research challenged to find the optimum balance organisation, recently recognised Secants between various design constraints.
achievements and presented the North American Enabling Technology Award to the Components must be devised which offer Pennsylvania based business.
the correct combination of physical properties, whilst also meeting the This independent recognition of Secants customers requirements for tissue ingrowth expertise in materials science and textile and rate of absorption by the body once engineering acknowledges their leadership implanted.
in the field of implantable biomedical structures.
Secant Medical is expert at providing this capability to medical device companies and has grown substantially in recent years.
Resilient Belt Mega Lapping - ECS Chile Minera Escondida is the largest copper mine and can then be moved by road to the mine in the world and is located over 3,000m over 150km away.
Dedicated remote above sea level in the Atacama Desert.
The controlled winders were temporarily mine needed to replace 32km of belt which installed in the conveyor system to pull on carries the entire output of the mine.
Fenner the new belt while simultaneously winding Dunlop Chile used its unique belt mega up and removing the old, worn belt.
This lapping technique and devised custom process minimised the number of people procedures and equipment to complete the working at high altitude: nobody was allowed task.
Mega lapping involves splicing together near while the belts were moving.
The whole standard rolls of belt under factory task was completed in 10 days.
conditions which can then be x-rayed to ensure quality.
The belt is then loaded onto platforms that carry 100 tonnes of belt each Fenner PLC Annual Report 2012 9
