Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements Directors Report The Directors present their report to shareholders for the financial year Directors ending 31 December 2012.
The Directors of the Company who served during the year were: Michael Abrahams The Company was incorporated under the name Ferrexpo plc as a Oliver Baring public company limited by shares on 22 April 2005.
Ferrexpo plc listed Lucio Genovese on the London Stock Exchange in June 2007 and is a member of the Wolfram Kuoni FTSE 250 index.
Chris Mawe Ihor Mitiukov Business Review Mike Salamon A review of the business, its principal activities and likely future Kostyantin Zhevago developments can be found in the sections listed below which are incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
The pages In compliance with the 2010 Code all of the Directors will retire referred to incorporate all requirements of section 417 Companies Act at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, will offer themselves 2006 the Act, including details of the principal risks and uncertainties for re-election.
facing the Group and analysis using Key Performance Indicators as set out in the Business Review.
Further details about the Directors and their roles within the Group are The Chairmans and Chief Executive Officers Statement on pages given in the Directors biographies on pages 48 and 49.
Details of the 10 to 19 remuneration of the Directors, their interests in shares of the Company The Operational Review on pages 24 to 33 and their service contracts are contained in the Remuneration Report The Financial Review on pages 34 to 37 on pages 56 to 66.
The Risks section on pages 20 to 23 The Corporate Social Responsibility Review on pages 38 to 47 Appointment and Replacement of Directors Directors may be elected by the shareholders by ordinary resolution Directors Duties or appointed by the Board.
A Director appointed by the Board holds The duties of Directors are set out in sections 170 to 177 of the Act.
office only until the next following AGM and is then eligible for election The duties that are specifically referred to in the Corporate Governance by the shareholders.
Report on pages 50 to 55 include the duties under section 172 to promote the success of the Company, section 175 to avoid conflicts Powers of the Directors of interest, section 176 not to accept benefits from third parties, and Subject to the Companys Articles, the Act and any directions given section 177 to declare any interests in existing or proposed by special resolution, the business of the Company will be managed transactions or arrangements with the Company.
by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company.
Results and Dividends Directors and Officers Insurance Results for the year are set out in the Consolidated Income Statement The Company maintains Directors and Officers Liability Insurance on page 73. in respect of legal action that may be brought against its Directors and Officers.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 3.3 US cents per Ordinary Share.
Subject to shareholders approving this recommendation at the Directors Indemnity Provision AGM, the dividend will be paid in UK Pounds Sterling on 31 May 2013 During the period under review, the Group had in force a qualifying to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 3 May 2013. third-party indemnity provision in favour of one or more of the Directors Shareholders may receive UK Pounds Sterling dividends by direct bank of Ferrexpo plc against liability in respect of proceedings brought by transfer, provided that they have notified the Companys registrars in third parties, subject to the conditions set out in the Act.
Shareholders may also elect to receive dividends in US Dollars the procedure for this is set out in the Notice of the AGM.
Share Capital and Rights Attaching to the Companys Shares The Company has a single class of Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each.
In recognition of the opening of the Yeristovo mine the Directors have also announced a special dividend of 6.6 US cents per share, Subject to applicable statutes and other shareholders rights, shares amounting to US$40 million, for payment on 28 March 2013 to may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company may shareholders on the register at the close of business on 22 March 2013. by ordinary resolution decide, or if there is no such resolution or so far The dividend will similarly be paid in UK Pounds Sterling with an election as it does not make specific provision as the Board may decide.
each AGM, the Board proposes to put in place annual shareholder authority for the Companys Directors to allot new shares in accordance with the Institutional Investor Guidelines.
Details of the issued share capital of the Company are shown in note 28 of the financial statements.
67 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Directors Report continued Variation of Rights Dividends and Distributions Subject to the provisions of the Act, the rights attached to a class of Subject to the provisions of the Act, the shareholders may by ordinary shares may be varied or abrogated either with the consent in writing resolution, from time to time, declare dividends not exceeding the of the holders of at least three-quarters of the nominal amount of the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may pay interim issued shares of that class excluding any shares of that class held dividends and also any fixed rate dividends whenever the financial as treasury shares or with the sanction of a special resolution passed position of the Group, in the opinion of the Board, justifies their at a separate meeting of the holders of the issued shares of that class payment.
validly held in accordance with the Articles.
Under the Companys Articles, the Board may withhold payment of all Transfer of Shares or any part of any dividends or other monies payable in respect of the Any share in the Company may be held in uncertificated form and, Companys shares from a person with a 0.25% or greater interest as subject to the Articles, title to uncertificated shares may be transferred defined in the Articles if such person has been served with a notice by means of a relevant system.
Registration of a transfer of an under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 and has failed within uncertificated share may be refused in the circumstances set out in 14 days to provide the Company with information concerning interests the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 and where, in the case in those shares required to be provided under the Act.
of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to whom the uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four.
Voting At a general meeting of the Company, every member has one vote on Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all or any of his a show of hands and on a poll, one vote for each share held.
Under the certificated shares by an instrument of transfer in any usual form or in Act, members are entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to exercise all any other form which the Board may approve.
The Board may decline or any of their rights to attend, speak and vote at a general meeting.
to register a transfer of a certificated share if it is not in the approved A member that is a corporation may appoint one or more individuals form.
The Board may also decline to register any transfer of any share to act on its behalf at a general meeting as a corporate representative.
which is not a fully paid share.
The Board may decline to register a transfer of any of the Companys certificated shares by a person with a Restrictions on Voting 0.25% or greater interest if such a person has been served with a notice No member is entitled to vote at any general meeting in respect of any and has failed within 14 days to provide the Company with information shares held by him if any call or other sum outstanding in respect of concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the that share remains unpaid.
Currently, all issued shares are fully paid.
In Act, unless the transfer is shown to the Board to be pursuant to an addition, subject to the Articles no member shall be entitled to vote if he arms length sale.
has failed to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Act.
Repurchase of Shares Subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, the Company may Shares Held in the Employee Benefit Trust EBT purchase its own shares in accordance with the Act.
Any shares which The trustees of the Companys EBT may vote or abstain from voting have been bought back may be held as treasury shares or cancelled on shares held in the EBT as they think fit and in doing so may take into immediately upon completion of the purchase.
account both financial and non-financial interests of the beneficiaries of the EBT or their dependants.
The Company was given authority to make market purchases of up to approximately 10% of its existing Ordinary Share capital by a resolution Deadline for Voting Rights passed on 24 May 2012.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not the Companys 2013 AGM.
A special resolution to renew the authority less than 48 hours before the meeting.
The Directors will also specify in will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Details of the resolution the notice of any general meeting a time, being not more that 48 hours renewing the authority to purchase Ordinary Shares are set out in before the meeting, by which a person must be entered in the register the notice of AGM enclosed with this report.
of members in order to have the right to attend and vote at the meeting The Directors may decide, at their discretion, that no account should The Company did not make use of the authority mentioned above be taken of any day that is not a working day when calculating the during 2012.
68 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements Substantial shareholdings As at 31 December 2012, the Company had been advised in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following notifiable interests in its voting rights.
There were no changes in these interests between 31 December 2012 and the date of this report.
% of the Companys total voting Number of voting rights at date of Name of shareholder Ordinary Shares rights notification 1 Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. 300,198,313 300,198,313 51.00% 2 Wigmore Street Investments No.
3 Ltd 147,156,035 147,156,035 24.99% 1 Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. is a wholly-owned subsidiary of The Minco Trust of which Kostyantin Zhevago is a beneficiary.
2 BXR Group Ltd is the ultimate parent undertaking and indirect controller of Wigmore Street Investments No.
3 Ltd, which holds 147,156,035 shares through its nominee Lynchwood Nominees Ltd. Free Float On 14 December 2011 the FTSE Group announced that the FTSE Policy Group had approved a change to the Ground Rules of the FTSE UK Index Series, increasing to 25% the minimum free float as calculated by FTSE for a company to be eligible for inclusion.
The FTSE Group also indicated that Ferrexpo does not currently satisfy this requirement as it calculates that Ferrexpos free float is approximately 24%.
Companies not currently satisfying this requirement have been given a time frame of 24 months from 1 January 2012 to reach this free float level if they are to continue to be included in the UK Index Series.
Ferrexpo is considering with its advisers the options available to it.
Significant Agreements Change of Control The Company does not have any agreements with Directors or employees that would provide for compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover.
There are no circumstances connected with any other significant agreements to which the Company is a party that would take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid, except those referred to below: LTIP The rules of the Companys LTIP set out the consequences of a change of control of the Company on employee rights under the plan.
Generally, such rights will vest on a change of control to the extent that the performance conditions have been satisfied and on a time pro-rated basis, subject to the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Participants will become entitled to acquire shares in the Company, or in some cases, to the payment of a cash sum of equivalent basis.
Bank Loan Facility Under the US$420 million revolving pre-export finance facility with ING Bank N. V. Uni Credit Bank AG, Socit Gnrale and other banks entered into in September 2011, if Kostyantin Zhevago ceases to own directly or indirectly at least 30% of the issued and allotted share capital of the Company, or any person other than Kostyantin Zhevago becomes the beneficial owner of the shares in the Company carrying more than 50% of the voting rights normally exercisable at a general meeting, then the lenders are not obliged to fund a drawdown.
Corporate Bond Due 2016 Under the conditions of the Notes issued in April 2011, if Kostyantin Zhevago ceases to own directly or indirectly at least 30% of the issued and allotted share capital of the Company, or any person other that Kostyantin Zhevago becomes the beneficial owner of shares in the Company carrying more than 50% of the voting rights normally exercisable at a general meeting, then any Noteholder will have the right to require the repurchase of its Notes at a purchase price in cash equal to 101% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest.
Relationship Agreement Details of the Relationship Agreement entered into between Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. Kostyantin Zhevago, The Minco Trust and the Company can be found in the Corporate Governance Report page 51.
The Relationship Agreement ceases to apply if the holding of Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. The Minco Trust or Mr Zhevago individually or collectively falls below 25% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Events Since the Balance Sheet Date Information on events since the balance sheet date is provided in note 41 to the financial statements on page 129.
Market Value of Land and Buildings Land is carried in the balance sheet at deemed cost resulting from a valuation undertaken on 1 January 2003 as part of the Groups transition to reporting under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
It is not practicable to estimate the market value of land and mineral reserves and resources at each balance sheet date.
69 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Directors Report continued Policy on Derivatives and Financial Instruments Statement on Disclosure of Information to Auditors The Group does not hold any derivative financial instruments.
Group The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors policy on financial instruments is set out in note 37 to the Notes to Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 120 to 128. audit information of which the Groups auditors are unaware, and that each Director has taken all reasonable steps to make himself aware of Creditor Payment Policy and Practice any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditors It is the Groups policy that payments to suppliers are made in are aware of that information.
accordance with the terms and conditions agreed between the Company and its suppliers, provided that all relevant trading terms A Statement of the Responsibilities of the Directors for preparing the and conditions have been complied with.
The average creditor payment Group and Company financial statements is set out on page 71. period for the period ended 31 December 2012 for the Company was 25 days 2011: 24 days.
Amendments to Articles of Association The Articles may be amended by special resolution in accordance with Charitable and Political Donations the Act.
The Group made no political donations during the year.
Group donations to charities worldwide were nil 2011: nil, with UK charities AGM receiving nil 2011: nil.
For community support donations, please see The AGM of the Company will be held at 11.00am on Thursday 23 May note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
2013 at The Dorchester, Park Lane, London W1K 1QA.
A separate letter from the Chairman summarising the business of the meeting and Risk Management Policies the Notice convening the AGM will be sent to shareholders with this Full details of the Groups policy on risk and uncertainty and an Annual Report.
overview of the Groups exposure to credit, liquidity and market risks are set out in note 37 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Auditors Information on pages 120 to 128.
Further references to risk are made Having reviewed the independence and effectiveness of the auditors, in the Risks section on pages 20 to 23 and in the Internal Control the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that the existing section of the Corporate Governance Report on pages 54 to 55 auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, be reappointed.
Ernst & Young LLP have which provides a summary of the internal control procedures put in indicated their willingness to continue in office, and an ordinary place by the Board to identify key risks and review risk management resolution reappointing them as auditors and authorising the Directors and its effectiveness.
to set their remuneration will be proposed at the 2013 AGM.
Going Concern This report was approved by the Board on 12 March 2013.
The Groups business activities, together with the risk factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out David Leonard on pages 20 to 23 and 34 to 37.
The financial position of the Company Secretary Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 34 to 37.
In addition, Ferrexpo plc note 37 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 120 to 128 sets out the Groups objectives, policies and Registered office: processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management 24 King Street objectives and details of its financial instruments: and its exposures to London SW1Y 6QL credit risk, liquidity risk as well as currency risk and interest rate risk.
Registered number: 5432915 The Directors are of the opinion that the Company will continue to operate and, as such, the accounts have been prepared using the Headquarters: Going Concern principle.
Bahnhofstrasse 13 CH6340 Baar Corporate Governance Statement Switzerland The Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 7.2 require certain information to be included in a corporate governance statement set out in a companys Directors Report.
In common with many companies, Ferrexpo has an existing practice of issuing, within its Annual Report, a Corporate Governance Report that is separate from its Directors Report.
The information that fulfils the requirements of DTR 7.2 is located in Ferrexpos Corporate Governance Report on pages 50 to 55 and is incorporated into this Directors Report by reference, with the exception of the information referred to in DTR 7.2.
6, which is located in this Directors Report.
