g n i n i M t n e m p o l e v e D P r o c e Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Business Model Iron Ore Producer Value Chain A sustainable high quality iron ore producer through the cycle Development Ferrexpo Key Strengths Large Brownfield Resource Adding value Ferrexpos significant resource base is situated along a single ore body, which allows for efficient expansion through brownfield developments.
The FPM mine has consistent geology and allows for a long-life production profile.
The development of the FYM mine fully utilises known and existing technology and infrastructure, as well as the Groups skill base.
As of 1 January 2013, Ferrexpo had estimated resources of approximately 6.8 billion tonnes classified according to the JORC Code and a further 13.2 billion tonnes of resources estimated under the FSU Classification.
08 s s i n g g n i t e k r a M s c i t s i g o L Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements Mining Processing Logistics Marketing Low Cost Pellet Producer High Quality Output Integrated Logistics Customer Relationships On a cost of production basis, Ferrexpo produces iron ore An integrated and well-invested Ferrexpo remains committed Ferrexpo is a competitive cost pellets, which are a premium logistics system is an essential to long-term framework producer of iron ore concentrate input used in the steel industry.
and a key competitive advantage agreements with customers that with relatively low pelletising costs Ferrexpos product improves for a bulk commodity producer.
are focused on producing high on global basis.
The cornerstone blast furnace productivity in the Ferrexpo transports its finished value added steel products.
It of the cost reduction strategy is steel production process due to products by rail to border has supplied many of its existing to maximise production outputs its form, substance and low level dispatch points, predominantly customers for a number of and continually implement of impurities.
Approximately half using its own rail cars.
The Group is focused efficiency enhancements of the Groups products contain the border points, means of on supplying a geographically through the Business 65% iron content, which the transportation include barges diversified customer base and Improvement Programme.
market considers to be premium and rail to customers in Eastern allocates a proportion of sales content, and thus commands a and Central Europe and capesize to potential new customers premium to the benchmark price.
vessels, through its 49% owned through trial spot cargoes.
