Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Board of Directors and Executive Committee 1.
Michael Abrahams, CBE DL 75 1 2 Non-executive Chairman Michael Abrahams joined the Board on 14 June 2007.
He is chairman of the Prudential Staff Pension Scheme.
He was deputy chairman of Prudential plc until May 2000, and has served as chairman and as a director of a number of quoted and unquoted companies.
He was chairman of the London Clinic until March 2012.
Kostyantin Zhevago 39 Chief Executive Officer 3 4 Kostyantin Zhevago joined the Board as a Non-executive Director on 14 June 2007 and was appointed Chief Executive on 1 November 2008.
He is ultimately the controlling shareholder of Ferrexpo.
He has been a member of the Ukrainian Parliament since 1998.
He is currently a member of the Parliamentary Committee on Law Policy.
From 2002 until 2012 he was a member of the permanent delegation of the Ukrainian Parliament in the Parliamentary Assembly 5 6 of the European Council and a member of the Ukrainian faction of the Committee for Parliamentary Cooperation between Ukraine and the European Union.
He has previously served as chairman of the management board and deputy chairman of the supervisory board of CJSC Commercial Bank Finance and Credit Bank F&C.
Between 1993 and 1996, he was financial director of F&C Group of companies.
He is a non-executive director of New World Resources plc, a subsidiary of BXR Group Limited.
He graduated from 7 8 the Kyiv State Economic University in 1996, specialising in international economics.
Christopher Mawe, FCA 51 Chief Financial Officer Chris Mawe joined the Board on 7 January 2008.
He qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Coopers and Lybrand in 1991, having gained a First Class Honours degree in Engineering.
He has held senior financial positions for the past Executive Committee 16 years, first with IMI plc in both the UK and Europe, and then with Carclo plc as finance director.
Before joining Ferrexpo he was finance director of UK Coal plc.
Oliver Baring 68 Senior Independent Non-executive Director Oliver Baring joined the Board on 1 December 2007.
He has been chairman of Mwana Africa plc since its reverse takeover of African Gold plc in September 2005.
He retired from UBS Warburg in 2001, having led the International Mining Group with responsibility for Africa and Europe.
Previously he had been head of the 3 5 2 1 7 4 6 UBS Warburg mining equity sales team and 48 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 overview business review governance financial statements was responsible for its respected coverage in Brussels.
In 1994, he was deputy governor He became the Chief Financial Officer of FYM and sales capability.
He was a partner in of the National Bank of Ukraine and then upon its formation in July 2008, and from 1 Rowe and Pitman before its merger with SG Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine for Banking November 2012 the General Director of FYM.
He is non-executive chairman of and Finance.
Prior to that, he held various He is a graduate of the Kyiv Institute of National First Africa Holdings Limited, and is a nonpositions at Agrarian-Industrial Bank Ukraine, Economics, specialising in Industrial Planning.
executive director of BlackRock World Mining and was appointed as its deputy governor Trust plc, and a member of the Advisory in 1992.
He graduated from the Cybernetics 4.
Jason Keys 41 Council of Sentient Resources Fund.
Department, Kyiv State University and has a Chief Marketing Officer PhD in Economics 1985 from the Institute of Jason Keys joined Ferrexpo in July 2011.
Raffaele Lucio Genovese 51 Economy, Academy of Sciences Ukraine.
He held sales and marketing posts at Rio Independent Non-executive Director Tinto Coal and Iron Ore and at BHP Billiton Lucio Genovese joined the Board on 14 June 8.
Miklos Salamon 58 Coal for 12 years, and then led BHP Billitons 2007.
He is the chief executive officer of Nage Non-executive Director Iron Ore commercial marketing team for Capital Management, a Swiss-based advisory Mike Salamon joined the Board on 27 March five years before joining Ferrexpo.
He holds and proprietary company specialising in the 2009.
He is a non-executive director of Central a Bachelor of Commerce degree from metals and mining sector.
He is the nonRand Gold, Gem Diamonds and Minera the University of Western Australia and is executive Chairman of Firestone Diamonds las Cenizas.
He was executive chairman of a Certified Professional Accountant.
plc and serves on a number of other boards New World Resources plc, a subsidiary of of directors.
He has previously served as BXR Group Limited and managing director 5.
Nikolay Kladiev 40 investment officer and a member of the board of AMCI Capital, a private equity fund from Chief Financial Officer, FPM of Taj Investment Limited with responsibility 2007 until 2012.
With a career spanning more Nikolay Kladiev joined the Ferrexpo Group for its Indian public and private investment than 30 years, recently with BHP Billiton, he in June 2005 and FPM in October 2007. portfolio.
Prior to that, he held a number of has extensive knowledge of the international Over the course of his career Nikolay Kladiev positions with Glencore International, including mining and extractive industries.
Between spent several years as an audit manager senior member of the Copper Division, CEO 2003 and 2006, he served as an executive with Ernst & Young and CFO of a large of CIS Operations, manager of the Moscow director of BHP Billiton with responsibilities for Russian factory.
He holds a Masters in office and trader in the Ferrous Division.
He the aluminium, copper and nickel businesses.
International Economic Relations from the is a Chartered Accountant South Africa.
From 2001 to 2006, he also chaired BHP Kyiv National University of Economics.
Billitons Operating Committee, which was 6.
Wolfram Kuoni 46 accountable for inter alia the BHP Billiton 6.
Viktor Lotous 48 Independent Non-executive Director groups health, safety and environment, Head of Managing Board and Chief Operating Wolfram Kuoni joined the Board on 14 June projects, purchasing and operating excellence.
He is the founder and senior partner of In 2001 he oversaw the merger integration Viktor Lotous joined FPM in 1986.
He became Kuoni Attorneys-at-Law, Zurich, Switzerland, of Billiton plc and BHP Limited.
He was a chief engineer in 1997, and Head of Managing and serves on a number of boards of co-founding director of Billiton plc in 1997, and Board and Chief Operating Officer in April directors.
He has over 12 years of experience oversaw the companys listing on the London 2007.
He is a graduate of Kryvyi Rih Mining in investment banking.
Prior to 2005, he held Stock Exchange in 1997.
Before 1997 he held and Ore Institute, and of the Kyiv State a number of positions within UBS Investment a number of positions, first at Anglo American Economic University, specialising in Finance.
Banking Zurich and New York, including head and later in the coal divisions of Shell and of the European Export and Project Finance Gencor Ltd.
He also originated and structured University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg Group Chief Operating Officer cross-border acquisitions and equity capital with a degree in Mining Engineering Cum Brian Maynard joined the Group in January markets transactions.
He graduated with a Laude and obtained an MBA from the London 2011.
He spent 30 years with Vale Inco & Vale law degree from the University of Berne, and Business School, University of London in 1981.
Australia in their nickel and coal operations holds a doctorate in law from the University respectively, working in technical, operations of Zurich and an MBA from INSEAD in management, and executive roles.
He is a member of the Zurich Bar.
Executive Committee he was appointed Vice President, Mining in the Vale Inco Ontario, Canada operations.
Kostyantin Zhevago He moved to the Presidents role in the Independent Non-executive Director Chief Executive Officer Manitoba, Canada operations in 2008 and Ihor Mitiukov joined the Board on 14 June See profile under Board of Directors was accountable for the fully integrated mining, 2007.
He is the managing director and head milling, smelting and refining complex.
Most of country for Ukraine, Morgan Stanley.
Christopher Mawe, FCA recently he was the Global Coal Director was the general director of the Financial Policy Chief Financial Officer Technical & Administrative Support including Institute until March 2008.
From 2002 to 2005 See profile under Board of Directors finance, sustainability, logistics, technical he served as Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary services in the Brisbane head office of the Ambassador of Ukraine in the United 3.
Nikolay Goroshko 53 Vale Australia operations.
He also represented Ukraine in the General Director, FYM 1981 from the University of Manitoba, Canada International Maritime Organisation.
From 1997 Nikolay Goroshko joined FPM in 1984.
He was with a BSc in Geological Engineering.
to 2001 he served as Minister of Finance of Chief Financial Officer of FPM until April 2007 Ukraine and, from 1995 to 1997, as Ukraines and Chief Commercial Officer in charge of the Special Representative to the European Union Groups Growth Projects in December 2007.
