Fidessa group plc 05 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Outlook Fidessa will maintain its commitment share has continued to grow with In recent months there has been a to the financial industry and to deals signed for over 90 new buy-side marked and positive change of developing the solutions the industry or sell-side platforms.
Fidessa has also sentiment in the market, with the needs over the coming years pushed forward with its multi-asset weekly flow of funds into the equity throughout the regions.
platform where it is rapidly growing its markets reaching one of the highest market share.
In this area it has signed 1 levels ever recorded.
Whilst it is clearly Market review 11 new deals including substantial too early to know whether this Introduction global ones with Newedge and represents a turning point, it reinforces During 2012, the difficult conditions Nomura adding to the global deal Fidessas view that a floor will in the financial markets continued, signed with Citi in 2011.
Fidessas eventually be reached in the decline of with widespread uncertainty about growing presence in the derivatives equity markets which will allow its core the state of the global economy and segment of the market was also end markets to gradually return to a an uncertain regulatory environment.
acknowledged by the industry when more stable state.
This would enable This resulted in significantly reduced Fidessa was voted Independent the growth generated through sales levels of activity across the financial Software Vendor of the Year at the of Fidessas derivatives platforms, markets with the total value of Futures & Options World magazine its service based platforms and its equities traded on exchanges and awards for the first time.
regional expansion to flow through alternative platforms down by into overall revenue growth rather around 20% compared to the Overall, across the business, new than being masked by the decline in previous year across all major customer wins have continued to traditional equities.
Inevitably, this resulted in offset the losses due to consolidation expected that this process may start further pressure across Fidessas and business failures so that the during 2013, Fidessa does not believe customer base with it being felt number of customers using Fidessa that it will happen quickly enough to most acutely by smaller firms where services has remained broadly stable, have a material benefit to 2013 Fidessa is continuing to see both although the overall number of users revenue.
This combined with Fidessas consolidation and business failures.
has reduced by around 4% to just continued investment programme over 25,000. means that performance in 2013 is Against this backdrop, Fidessa has expected to be similar to that seen maintained its strategy of helping Buy-side trading in 2012. its customers reduce their costs, Sentiment within the buy-side extending the range of asset classes community has remained mixed, with Looking further ahead, Fidessa it supports and extending its regional many firms focused on streamlining believes that it will see stability and coverage.
Fidessa has also continued their businesses and controlling costs opportunity returning to the markets to invest in its sophisticated to keep them aligned with reduced fee and that reduced headwinds, coupled infrastructure and data services income.
Coupled with concerns about with further openings as its multiallowing it to operate complex the increasing regulatory burden, this asset initiative gains momentum, will platforms for its largest customers in has meant that there has been little enable it to return to growth levels a very cost efficient manner.
Fidessa appetite from the buy-side for new closer to those it has seen in the past.
believes this ability is becoming large-scale investment management Fidessa remains excited by the increasingly important in the markets deployments.
However, to achieve potential of its service based offerings and is an area which it is particularly efficiencies and keep abreast of across all asset classes and believes well placed to serve.
Fidessas market compliance needs, firms are keen to that it will continue to play an important role as the markets focus 1The Market Review addresses the structure of the marketplace and therefore differs from the IFRS on efficiency, transparency, segment reporting which reflects the structure of the business operations focused on the method of compliance and performance.
Fidessa group plc 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report continued leverage and enhance their existing This provides buy-side firms with a Substantial global systems.
Fidessa has worked closely simple, cost-effective solution which deals with Newedge with its buy-side customers over the operates globally across multiple and Nomura adding to year to ensure they have access to the asset classes and removes the costs the global deal signed latest features of its software and to and management overheads of with Citi in 2011. roll-out additional services.
This has looking after and maintaining their included helping a number of tier 1 own systems.
asset managers that have expanded into additional regions and increased With more regulation, such as MiFID II asset class coverage, as well as using and Dodd-Frank, expected across the Fidessas business expertise to industry, and compliance increasingly redesign and implement industry best under the spotlight, there has been a practices across trading flows and focus by buy-side firms on these regulatory compliance.
The buy-sides own customers are also far more aware of regulations Saving cost and improving operational as well, and often demand that their efficiency is high on customers fund managers demonstrate that they agendas and this is leading to an are meeting their compliance openness to explore new operating obligations in an accurate and timely models.
Fidessas history in delivering manner.
For this reason buy-side firms and managing large, complex increasingly see compliance as being installations on a service managed an instrumental part of them both basis, along with its technology winning and maintaining business, infrastructure and consulting services, and no longer look at it as solely a are consequently particularly regulatory burden but also see it as important assets and allow Fidessa to fundamental to achieving competitive engage with customers looking at this edge.
As a result, Fidessas Sentinel more cost-effective operating model.
compliance product has become an even more important element of its Buy-side firms are also increasingly buy-side product suite.
During the facing a connectivity challenge as year this product was extensively access to a broad range of multi-asset overhauled so that it could be made broker services, hubs, crossing available as a fully-managed, service engines and post-trade systems all based business solution covering around the world is becoming global regulatory rule analysis, coding commonplace.
Leveraging its existing and monitoring for preand postdata centre and network trade compliance.
Winning Best Asset infrastructure, Fidessa transformed Management Solution at the 2012 the connectivity service it offers to the Compliance Register awards as well as buy-side during 2012 to combat this Best Compliance Product for the fifth challenge, by taking over the hosting, year running at the Buy-side management and operational aspects Technology awards, Sentinel provides of their FIX and non-FIX based firms with the protection they need connectivity and technology.
and helps them to automate and enhance their compliance process.
Fidessa group plc 07 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 During the year work has continued to the challenges of using existing fund support of the electronic trading evolve and enhance Fidessas award accounting systems to assist front process, has enabled the Fidessa winning Buy-side Workstation office investment decision, cash network to become a key element of product, which offers an  and risk control.
Being able the market infrastructure.
box, SaaS Software as a Service to leverage the full breadth of its order routing and trading service.
community to help individual During 2012 Fidessas global This system has seen a fundamental segments, such as the buy-side, is connectivity network community overhaul of its look and feel, as well as testament to the strong position that continued to grow with over 750 the addition of improved analytics and Fidessa now holds within the financial brokers, 3,500 buy-sides and 200 performance benchmarking tools.
trading venues generating around Fully integrated with Fidessas global $850 billion of transactions per month.
connectivity network, the product has The buy-side business is now a Increasingly the network is being used also had major enhancements to fundamental and integral part of the to handle a greater diversity of asset extend its multi-asset capabilities, Fidessa community and an important classes, with derivatives as well as along with the expansion of global strategic area for the Group as a fixed income and foreign exchange venues available for trading foreign whole.
With the challenges that still transactions becoming more exchange, fixed income, futures, face the industry, the ability to offer significant.
Fidessas recent successes options and equities.
Fidessa expects new delivery models allows Fidessa to in providing global derivatives trading to see further expansion in the address the key challenges that solutions, as well as providing number of alternate trading venues, buy-side firms face, enabling them to enhanced connectivity solutions to dark pools and crossing networks reduce their total cost of ownership buy-side firms, are helping to drive across all asset classes around the for investment management solutions these new flows.
world, and consequently believes the and do more with the assets that they only way buy-sides can keep pace is have in place.
Electronic trading is also extending by leveraging an independent, its foothold in emerging regions of venue-neutral, SaaS trading service.
Global connectivity and market data the world and this inevitably brings Despite the overall decline in trading interest from firms wishing to Fidessas valuable community of volumes during the year, the pressure participate in those markets, as well both buy-side and sell-side firms on trading firms to operate more as from local players looking for global places it in a unique position to gather efficiently has continued to drive reach.
In support of this, Fidessas information and help drive strategic more flow onto the leading electronic network has been expanded with discussion.
In 2012 Fidessa started a connectivity networks.
This trend has new data centres opening in Brazil, number of buy-side focused initiatives benefited Fidessa which has seen the to support the Latin American that leverage this community with the value traded across its network marketplace, Chicago, in support of aim of delivering innovative solutions increase by 6% during 2012.
Fidessas the derivatives market, and in India.
to them for the real business global, multi-asset community New trading destinations have also challenges they face.
During the year includes not only the customers that been added during the year, primarily Fidessa has worked closely with the take Fidessas platform solutions, but in the derivatives space, and Fidessas industry looking at the efficiencies of also the ever-increasing universe of global infrastructure was upgraded allocation processing in light of the buy-sides, sell-sides, trading venues providing resilient, high-performance, industry moving towards FIX and and partners that link to one another low-latency connectivity across the SWIFT confirmations: liquidity across its worldwide connectivity globe that is capable of scaling to discovery in the current challenging network.
Connecting investment firms handle the capacity requirements conditions that exist in the fixed to brokers, routing order flow to expected in the future.
income and equity markets: and markets and handling a broad range real-time position keeping to address of preand post-trade activities in Fidessa group plc 08 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report continued As well as connectivity to the worlds information and reporting, mean Fidessa has seen the financial markets, Fidessa also the development of the network value traded across provides fast, reliable and technology and data warehouse is its network increase comprehensive market data to its an ongoing activity.
Fidessa plans to by 6% during 2012. customers supporting their trading continue to invest in its offerings in activities.
Fidessas network delivers this area to allow it to create and both real-time and reference data for deliver new services to its customers, global markets, and in 2012 the and to ensure that it continues to breadth of this coverage was meet the evolving needs of the expanded further in line with the expanding and valuable community trading venue expansion with a it has created.
number of new derivatives markets coming on stream.
Fidessas suite of Sell-side trading value-added information services also Fidessas sell-side customers have expanded throughout the year, some seen particularly difficult conditions delivered through its corporate during 2012 with the unstable global website with others fully integrated markets resulting in lower values of into its trading solutions.
A Japanese trading, pressure on commissions language version of its web-based further hitting their revenue and an liquidity Fragmentation Index service uncertain regulatory environment.
was launched, as well as a real-time As a result, Fidessas sell-side version of its award-winning customers are especially focused on Fragulator tool.
In addition, a new cost, with many carrying out extensive Regulation Matters website was reviews of their operations.
In some launched to inform and garner cases these reviews have resulted in discussion from Fidessas growing firms pulling out from the markets community around the likely impact altogether, sometimes pulling out of of the range of new regulations that certain regions but in many cases they are currently being proposed and have resulted in a simple focus on the discussed.
These initiatives create efficiency of their operations.
valuable proprietary information and strengthen the value members get Against this backdrop, Fidessa has from being a part of the Fidessa made progress in a number of key community, and Fidessa is areas.
In expanding its multi-asset committed to expanding and solution Fidessa has seen a strong enhancing these services.
take-up with 11 additional customers signed for its derivatives solution and Fidessa believes the trading landscape related revenues have more than will continue to evolve, driven by new doubled as more customers deploy regulations, regional expansion and the platform.
Fidessa has also seen cost pressures across the industry.
strong interest from larger customers New venues and new interfaces to for service based solutions which has existing venues will continue to helped to drive a 5% increase in appear and these, along with everFidessas revenue from this area of the increasing requirements for market.
In addition, Fidessa has also been successful in supporting the Fidessa group plc 09 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Fidessa has also seen strong interest from larger customers for service based solutions.
regional expansion of its customers, has also resulted in significant will see Fidessa provide Daiwa with particularly in Asia and Latin America.
extensions with large customers in the a single trading platform across its cash equity space.
One example has Asian operations including Hong In expanding its multi-asset class been a deal with CIMB, a Malaysian Kong, Singapore and Taiwan.
support, Fidessa has continued to bank covering the ASEAN area, which A number of other Japanese firms make progress with its support for acquired the operations of RBS in the extended their use of Fidessa into derivatives.
The deal will see Fidessas the multi-asset proprietary trading signing two large global deals with service based trading platform, space alongside their existing agency Newedge and Nomura which, added which was already used by CIMB, trading platforms.
In Latin America to the deal signed with Citi in October extended to cover Thailand, Indonesia, Fidessa has continued to deploy 2011, confirms Fidessas position as a Taiwan, Korea and India to deliver a new platforms with the first formidable global competitor in this consolidated pan-Asian sell-side customer going live in its new space.
This position was further trading solution.
This deal, which is So Paulo data centre.
acknowledged by the industry at the viewed by CIMB as strategic and helps Futures & Options World magazine them build on their acquisition of Fidessas customers still face an awards where Fidessa was voted RBSs assets while they advance their uncertain regulatory situation with Futures Commission Merchants position, demonstrates Fidessas much of the new regulation that was Independent Software Vendor of ability to support large-scale, multiproposed following the financial crisis the Year.
The global developments region platforms effectively.
In todays in 2008 being further delayed.
At this required to support sophisticated markets, with the heavy burden of time there are still only a very small derivatives workflows have been rapid change and prospect of number of areas, such as the French progressing well, with hubs now live in increasing regulation, the focus that Financial Transaction Tax, where five major centres providing seamless Fidessa can bring to delivering these there are defined rules that can be routing for derivatives transactions complex global trading services much implemented within software.
The platform also faster, more reliably and more costUntil more rules are defined, Fidessas allows full global risk management effectively than traditional enterprise ability to develop products to help its and includes support for around 50 solutions makes this a compelling customers in this area will remain member markets around the world proposition.
Further regulations still with additional markets available for seem to be progressing very slowly non-member trading.
Fidessa has continued to be with timescales likely to stretch well successful in its expansion across the into 2013 and beyond.
However, Fidessa has continued to develop its regions, in particular seeing strong despite the delays, there does now global infrastructure to enable it to growth from its operations in Asia and seem to be a more general offer its largest customers a costLatin America.
Whilst some smaller acceptance that new rules are likely effective multi-asset platform on a customers who have attempted to set to come into force during the next 24 fully service managed basis.
Building up regional operations have found months, particularly with respect to out the new infrastructure has conditions difficult, a number of larger greater transparency across asset involved the addition of new markets, firms have used the extensibility of classes, and Fidessa is starting to see data services and data warehouse Fidessas platform to access more some areas where these might feed facilities, and has also included markets and build out their global into products.
Fidessa will continue additional data centre and network operations.
For example, Daiwa, a to keep a close involvement with capacity, particularly across Asia and Japanese bank, extended its use of these discussions as they progress Latin America.
This infrastructure the Fidessa trading platform into and expects that the regulatory investment, which has been critical to Korea supporting both its domestic environment will gradually start to Fidessa winning the new derivatives and international order flow.
The move get clearer, creating some new deals at Citi, Newedge and Nomura, was part of a broader initiative that opportunities.
