Fidessa group plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report continued Corporate information The directors present their report and the audited financial statements for Fidessa group plc company number 03234176 for the year ended 31st December 2012.
These will be laid before the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 30th April 2013.
1 Directors The Board comprised a Chairman, three independent non-executive directors and two executive directors until 23rd October 2012: since that date it comprised a Chairman, four independent non-executive directors and two executive directors.
The Board considers its current overall size and composition to be appropriate, having regard to the experience and skills which the Board members bring together and the fact that the Board considers the four nonexecutive directors to be independent of management.
The serving directors are: John Hamer age 53, Chairman John Hamer joined the Group in January 1983.
in Computer Science from Leeds University and was Chief Executive of the Group between 1992 and July 2001 when the Group had multiple divisions, each division having its own Chief Executive.
John became Chairman of the Group in July 2001 when the Group focused on the Fidessa business by divesting the help desk and call centre software businesses.
The Board considers the Chairman role to be similar to that performed prior to July 2001 when there were multiple businesses and there to be no conflict with Chris Aspinwall, the Chief Executive, who was already the Chief Executive of the Fidessa business prior to July 2001.
He currently has no other material business commitments.
Chris Aspinwall age 49, Chief Executive Chris Aspinwall joined the Group in August 1986 as a software engineer and was appointed to the Board in 1992.
He became Chief Executive of the Fidessa business in 1992 and has grown it to its current world leading position.
In July 2001 he became Group Chief Executive.
in Computer Science from York University.
Andy Malpass age 51, Finance Director Andy Malpass joined the Group in 1995 as Finance Director and has over 25 years experience in the software industry, with both private and public companies.
in Accounting and Finance from Lancaster University and is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
Ron Mackintosh age 64, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Ron Mackintosh was appointed to the Board in June 2004.
Ron has held a number of senior executive positions in European technology companies.
Between 1992 and 2000 he was chief executive of Computer Sciences Corporations CSC European business which had revenue of $2.5 billion.
He is Chairman of CSR plc, a multifunction connectivity, audio and location platforms company that is a UK listed FTSE 250 company as well as being quoted on NASDAQ.
He is also the former chairman of each of Smartstream Technologies Limited, Northgate Information Solutions plc and Differentis Limited and a former director of Gemplus SA.
He is currently Chairman of AlertMe.
Philip Hardaker age 65, Independent Non-Executive Director Philip Hardaker joined the Board as a non-executive director in February 2005.
Philip is an experienced Chartered Accountant who previously served for 20 years as a partner in KPMG UK.
As a partner he led teams providing audit, advisory and transaction due diligence services to a broad portfolio of clients.
In addition, he held a series of managerial and leadership positions in KPMG, both in the UK and overseas.
Philip is a Trustee of Charities Aid Foundation, chairing the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee, and is a director of CAF Bank Limited.
Until June 2012, he served as Chairman of The St. John of Jerusalem Eye Hospital.
Fidessa group plc 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Elizabeth Lake age 70, Independent Non-Executive Director Elizabeth Lake was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director in October 2008.
Until June 2009, Elizabeth was a director and president of Securities Processing Solutions International, a subsidiary of Broadridge Financial Solutions, Inc Broadridge, a global provider of technology based outsourcing solutions to the financial services industry.
She continues as a strategic adviser to Broadridge.
She was a partner in the consultancy practice of KPMG and has also held senior executive positions at CSC Index consultancy within the financial services sector and at Ziff Davis Technical Information Company, where she was responsible for software products and services for the financial services industry.
Mark Foster age 53, Independent Non-Executive Director Mark Foster was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director in October 2012.
Mark was Accentures Group Chief Executive, Global Markets and Management Consulting where he had overall responsibility for Accentures global management consulting practice consisting of some 15,000 professionals and $4 billion of revenues.
Mark is also an independent director of Heidrick & Struggles International Inc, the NASDAQ-quoted global search organisation.
Mark is one of four commissioners of the newly formed Independent Commission for Aid Impact, charged with overseeing the circa 8 billion of UK International Aid spend to ensure value for money on behalf of the UK Parliament and the tax payer.
In addition, Mark is Chairman of the International Business Leaders Forum, an NGO dedicated to engaging business leaders in global development issues, and he has been on the board of the Royal Shakespeare Company since 2005.
7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all the directors will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The biographies of the directors are set out above.
Following formal performance evaluation of Chris Aspinwall, Andy Malpass, Ron Mackintosh, Philip Hardaker, Elizabeth Lake and Mark Foster, the Chairman confirms that the performance of each of them continues to be effective and that they continue to demonstrate commitment to their roles, bringing their considerable commercial experience to the Company: accordingly their re-election is recommended.
The senior independent director, Ron Mackintosh, confirms that following formal performance evaluation of John Hamer by himself and the other non-executive directors, the performance of the Chairman continues to be effective and his re-election is accordingly recommended.
Directors interests in shares and share incentives in the Company are detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
At the date of this Directors Report, indemnities are in force under which the Company has agreed to indemnify the directors and the Company Secretary to the extent permitted by law and by the Companys Articles of Association in respect of all losses arising in their capacity as officer of the Company or of any member of the Group.
In addition the Group has purchased and maintained, throughout the financial period, directors and officers liability insurance in respect of itself and its directors and officers.
2 Principal activities Fidessa is a global business with scale, resilience, ambition and expertise.
It is recognised as the thought leader in its space.
Fidessa sets the benchmark with its unrivalled set of mission-critical products and services and, uniquely, serves both the buy-side and sell-side communities.
Ongoing investment in its leading-edge, integrated solutions ensures it remains the industrys number one choice.
Fidessa group plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report continued Trade Improving productivity Fidessas advanced products and services cover the whole life cycle of the trading process for both the buy-side and sell-side, from low latency trading tools to settlement, compliance and risk management.
By automating the entire workflow, Fidessa can improve a customers productivity, competitiveness and efficiency, while at the same time reducing both costs and risk.
Fidessa offers a seamless, resilient and integrated approach that can help smaller operators punch above their weight and yet still be effortlessly scaled up to match even the highest volumes and the most sophisticated needs.
Comprehensive connectivity to an unrivalled global community of buy-side institutions, brokers and trading venues comes as standard.
Invest Setting new standards From the decision to buy or sell, through executing the order, to clearing and settling the trade, Fidessa has the tools that can make the whole process simpler, smarter and more efficient.
Wherever you are in the investment cycle, Fidessa has the leading-edge systems to help do the job better.
Fidessa can automate all preand post-trade compliance checks, make portfolio analysis sharper and asset allocation more robust.
Fidessa also helps your trading desk identify and execute the best possible deal.
Fidessas trading systems have always been a benchmark for the best: its investment tools are now setting the standard for the rest.
Inform A clearer view Fidessas systems are a rich source of real-time market news and prices which will help you make the right decisions at the right time, but for Fidessa there is a lot more to information than that.
For Fidessa, inform means harnessing the latest technology to turn raw numbers into expert knowledge.
It means providing navigation and analysis tools that can interpret data and allow you to measure your performance and costs on a like-for-like basis.
It means using new social media tools to add value by sharing the unique market insight Fidessa gains from having tens of thousands of users all over the world.
When it comes to value-added information, no one has a broader perspective or a clearer view.
3 Business review The Company is required to set out in this report a fair review of the business of the Group during the financial year ended 31st December 2012 and of the position of the Group at the end of the financial year along with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, constituting the business review.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the business review can be found in this Directors Report in the Corporate Information, Overview, Market Review and the Finance Review sections.
Details of the Groups compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code are set out in the Corporate Governance section of this Annual Report.
4 Risk factors This Directors Report contains certain forward looking statements which by their nature involve risk and uncertainty.
The forward looking statements are based on the knowledge and information available at the date of preparation and on what are believed to be reasonable judgements.
A wide range of factors may cause the actual results to differ materially from those contained within, or implied by, these forward looking statements.
The forward looking statements should not be construed as a profit forecast.
Identification and management of risk is an integral part of the day-to-day activities of the Group: please refer to the paragraph headed Internal Control in the Corporate Governance section of this Directors Report for more detail on the Groups risk management systems.
Fidessa group plc 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 There are a number of potential risk factors which could have a material, adverse financial effect on the business as well as on the value and liquidity of the Companys securities, some of which have been identified below although the list may not be exhaustive.
There may also be risks that we do not currently consider to be serious or which are currently unknown to us.
Where reasonably possible, the Company or the Group as applicable has taken steps to mitigate the risks or potential risks of which the Company or the Group is aware but it cannot entirely safeguard against all of them.
The Groups suite of products is limited in range in so far as all its products are financial software related.
It could fail to retain existing customers or attract a new client base, which would impact the growth rate and potentially profits.
Factors beyond its control such as instability of the financial system, a material downturn in financial markets, recession, reduced stock market valuations, market disruptions or suspensions, or factors such as the insolvency, consolidation or nationalisation of parts of its customer base could adversely affect the sales of the Groups products due to the consequential reduction in the budgets of financial institutions for expenditure on technology products and their reduced ability to pay for, or requirement for, such products.
In the event of turmoil in financial markets or adverse regulation change, there could be a reduction in the types of financial instrument traded or a reduction in trading volumes of financial instruments globally.
These could negatively affect Group profits because it could reduce sums billed under the Groups contracts with its customers.
It is also possible for regulation change to present the Group with an opportunity to develop and market new products or services to provide to its customer base.
The Groups products are dependent on the rapid transmission of data either using dedicated communications lines or over the internet in order to provide financial information to its customer base and to enable customers to effect trades in financial instruments.
A major power outage, network failure or network interruption whether caused by failure of the network provider, network infrastructure, power provider or power infrastructure, interference with, inappropriate access to or destruction of one or more of the Groups data centres or errors in or lack of sufficient protection of its software, IT viruses, terrorist attack or sabotage could result in the failure of data transmission or lack of access to its service.
Such issues could have an adverse impact on the Groups customers, on the Group financially or on its reputation in its markets.
The Group takes these issues very seriously and takes appropriate measures to manage the risk: it has a business continuity plan under which it invests heavily in multiple secure, highly resilient data centre facilities.
It takes steps to ensure it has sufficient power supplies and resilience in the premises in which it operates and that its systems have reasonable protection against sabotage.
The Groups products are fully integrated, complex software solutions that automate the workflow for trading financial assets domestically and internationally.
As software cannot be guaranteed to be bug free, and due to the complexity of the solutions, there is a risk of failure in the software.
This could manifest itself in the failure for an individual customer during implementation or across single or multiple customers when upgrades are being installed.
Such failure could result in an inability to operate or access the system, the incorrect processing of trades or the inaccurate display of market data or positions.
Under the Groups software testing protocols, it takes steps to prevent test trades from being executed live and to limit the impact of such an eventuality by using a separate test site and imposing conditions on the testing, such as limiting the size of test trades.
However, it is possible that such an event could take place and prove costly to the Group.
The nature of financial market data is such that it needs to be constantly updated which may mean that the Groups network capacity could at some point become saturated and as a consequence adversely affect its service and network performance.
While the Group has implemented measures to mitigate this risk by contracting for sufficient network capacity using market leading providers of network services, there can be no guarantees that the Group and its communications network providers will be able to accommodate rapid growth in traffic volumes or avoid network failures, bottlenecks or interruptions.
Fidessa group plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report continued The Groups products include tools that support investment decisions, from asset allocations through what-if scenarios to implementation.
The tools are high performance but have to operate in a fast moving environment which creates timing risk.
There is also some risk to the Group and its product and services in the event that implementations or deployments were to be delayed or fail.
The Group mitigates this risk by employing appropriate project management processes and conducting internal audits and rigorous testing procedures.
The Group is exposed to contractual risk under its contracts with its customers and suppliers but it endeavours to ensure that it has processes in place to reduce these risks.
Templates and contracts are carefully prepared, reviewed, negotiated and approved in line with internal processes.
However, the Group has signed agreements with overseas exchanges for the provision of financial data where the suppliers have a monopoly position and refuse to provide their data on terms other than their standard terms which can contain onerous provisions, including, but not limited to, unlimited liability, liability for consequential loss and the application of local law which the Group would not accept under normal circumstances.
The Groups employees are vital to the success of the business.
If the Group were unable to attract adequate skilled staff to meet its requirements or were to lose key managerial, sales, professional or technical staff this could seriously affect its business.
Succession planning is taken seriously by the Board and it is believed that long-term incentives under the share plans have aided staff retention.
The Group endeavours to ensure that employees are motivated by the nature of the business of the Group and the work that they carry out in their roles as employees.
They are regularly appraised and encouraged to develop their skills and where appropriate are promoted in line with their potential.
Although careful steps are taken to minimise the risks posed by disaffected employees, such as protecting and limiting access to the Groups systems and trying to resolve any potentially volatile human resource issues, disaffected employees with access to sensitive information could be inclined to harm the Group.
It is possible that they could do significant damage to the business and the reputation of the Group by impairing its systems, misappropriating the Groups intellectual property by attempting to reveal its source codes or trade secrets or allocating passwords or access to its systems to third parties for financial gain or to cause financial loss or reputational damage to the Group.
As a software group, infringement of the Groups intellectual property rights by third parties or the Groups failure to defend infringement claims from third parties could cause damage to the business although it has taken reasonable steps to ensure that its intellectual property rights are appropriately protected by law and that it does not infringe the intellectual property rights of others.
Being a provider of software products and services the Group is office-based and therefore dependent on its office facilities.
A continued inability to access an office location would cause disruption to the business including the support of customers, development of software and other key operations.
The Group mitigates this risk through having separate office locations in several countries, having the infrastructure established to allow employees to work from home and being able to support customers internationally.
The Group invests its cash deposits with highly rated financial institutions and spreads its risk.
Credit limits are set for each financial institution that the Group deposits funds with.
However, in the event that one of the institutions holding the Groups deposits were to collapse, there is a risk of the Group being unable to access some of its cash deposits or losing that part altogether.
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign currency risk on transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency and on the translation of the balance sheet and income statement of foreign operations into Sterling.
The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily US Dollars, Canadian Dollars, Euros and Japanese Yen.
The Group has both cash inflows and outflows in these currencies that create a degree of natural hedge.
In managing currency risks, the Group aims to reduce the impact of short-term fluctuations on the Groups cash inflows Fidessa group plc 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 and outflows in a foreign currency.
The Group has not entered into hedging contracts for either cash or net investment positions denominated in foreign currencies.
Over the longer term, however, permanent changes in foreign exchange would have an impact on consolidated earnings.
The Group invests heavily in research and development of new products, yet it is possible that at a future date the Group may not have the resources to respond rapidly enough to market changes or to changes in customer requirements.
The strategy it adopts in developing new products may not be on target and resource may be channelled into products that are ineffective or surplus to market requirements.
The cost of compliance by the Group and its products and services with changes in laws or regulations by governments and other regulatory authorities in the countries in which it does business, such as for example financial services, anti-bribery and corruption, employment, environmental or data protection legislation, could have an adverse financial effect on the business, as could prosecution of the Group for any alleged breaches of laws or regulations due to the potential resulting defence costs and penalties involved.
The Group endeavours to comply with any such changes with the help of its financial and legal advisers where necessary.
In the future the Group may decide to acquire new businesses or companies and or dispose of companies or businesses.
Any given acquisition or disposal will entail costs whilst also having the potential to increase the profitability of the Group.
Although in depth due diligence would be carried out by the Group and its advisers prior to undertaking such a transaction, an acquisition could have a negative effect on the profits of the Group in the event that a target acquired could not be successfully integrated into the Group, was unable to adapt to the Groups culture, if disaffected staff from the acquired company were to leave the Group or if the acquisition did not prove as valuable to the Group as anticipated.
5 Results and dividends The financial results and position are shown in the financial statements.
A fuller explanation of the results and position is provided in the Overview, the Finance Review, the Market Review sections of this Directors Report and the notes to the financial statements.
An interim dividend of 12.5p per ordinary share was paid on 24th September 2012.
The directors propose a final dividend of 24.5p per ordinary share, 9,064,000, and a special dividend of 45.0p per ordinary share, 16,648,000.
These will be payable on 10th June 2013 to shareholders on the register on 10th May 2013, with an ex-dividend date of 8th May 2013.
The final and special dividends are subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and have not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
6 Research and development The Group has continued its commitment to research and development and places a high priority on maintaining, expanding and improving the functionality, quality and competitive position of its business software products.
During the year the total expenditure on research and product development was 32,037,000 2011: 29,584,000.
This is measured on a direct cost only basis with no overheads allocated.
7 Employees and equal opportunities The Group is a service provider with its employees as key stakeholders in the business.
The Group therefore aims to maintain an attractive place to work, where employees can develop successful careers for themselves.
Effective employee communications and openness with staff are vital and the Group promotes the understanding and involvement of all employees in its business aims and performance.
The policy of providing employees with information about new products, operations and the performance and development of the Group has continued through the Groups intranet site, product seminars and regular staff meetings at which progress updates on the Group are given by the directors and senior management.
Fidessa group plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report continued The Group is committed to continuing to be a diverse and inclusive place to work and its employment policies, including the commitment to equal opportunity, are designed to attract, retain and motivate the very best staff regardless of colour, nationality, sex, marital status, sexual orientation, age, religion, disability or any other characteristic protected by law.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
Wherever possible the employment of employees who become disabled will be continued and appropriate training and career development will be offered.
The Group has a number of written policies specific to each country, designed to ensure that it operates in a legal and ethical manner.
These include policies that are related to health and safety, whistle blowing, anti-bribery, grievance, maternity, paternity, adoption and parental leave, flexible working, learning and career development, security and IT.
8 Health and safety The health and safety of the Groups employees, customers and visitors is of primary importance.
The Group is committed to maintaining a safe and healthy working environment by managing its activities so as to avoid unnecessary or unacceptable risks.
Health and safety audits and risk assessments, including fire risk assessments, are carried out regularly along with workstation assessments.
Appropriate information, training and supervision are provided by the Group in support of this policy.
9 Environmental policy The Group recognises the importance of meeting globally recognised corporate responsibility standards as illustrated by Fidessa group plc being a constituent company in the FTSE4Good Index Series.
It is important to its staff, its customers and its suppliers that the Group acts in an environmentally responsible manner and the Group has endeavoured to manage the effect that it has on the environment and to support sustainability.
The Groups environmental policy is regularly reviewed and is published on its website and intranet.
As a software product and services office-based provider the Group has no activities that pose major environmental issues.
Usage of energy to facilitate the computing requirements of its data centres and its staff, as well as international travel, are considered to be the greatest environmental impacts associated with daily operations in the Group.
Other factors include the use of electrical and electronic equipment, the consumption of water, the use of paper and the disposal of waste.
The Group aims to minimise energy and resource usage, support the reduction and recycling of materials and ensure the legal disposal of all waste arising from the activities of the business throughout the Group.
Measures undertaken in the Groups offices to reduce electricity consumption include switching off air-conditioning in most offices outside of normal office hours, using energy efficient computer terminals and servers and ensuring computer and electrical equipment is switched off when not in use.
The Group maintains a tight control on employee travel and encourages the use of video conferencing facilities where appropriate.
Staff are encouraged to use public transport whenever possible.
10 Corporate social responsibility and charitable donations Employees are encouraged to follow good principles of social behaviour which are reflected in the Groups internally published social and ethics policy.
The Board believes the Group has a relatively low social impact but nevertheless sees the value that can be added through corporate social responsibility.
Participation in activities with local communities where it carries out its business helps to integrate the Group with local communities.
Employees are encouraged to nominate charities they would like to raise funds for and to participate actively in raising money for these charities through internal fundraising events, several of which are typically held each year.
In addition, the Group sponsors charity events, such as for example charity runs or bicycle rides, and also gives sponsorship to individual staff who undertake activities for charity.
Fidessa group plc 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 The total amount of charitable donations made by the Group during 2012 was 24,000 2011: 44,000.
Donations were made to various charities and there were no political donations.
11 Customers as stakeholders The Groups customers are important and valued stakeholders because the business has been built on their support for its products and services.
The Group endeavours to provide excellent levels of service and to work closely with its customers to assist them in developing their businesses.
Although they comprise almost exclusively financial institutions on both the buy-side and the sell-side, they vary greatly in their business models, structures and size.
The Group has worked closely with them to endeavour to ensure it meets their immediate business needs and support them where practical, by being adaptable in finding solutions that fit their businesses, as their needs change from time to time.
12 The Fidessa group plc Employee Benefit Trust The Fidessa group plc Employee Benefit Trust is a discretionary trust established for the benefit of the Groups employees.
It has an independent, professional trustee, RBC cees Trustee Limited, and the trust has been financed by advances from the Company.
The shares held by the trust rank pari passu with all the other shares in issue and have no special rights.
The rights to dividends and to vote the shares have been waived by the trust.
The costs of administering the trust are charged to the income statement as incurred.
The trust acquired its shares in the Company for use in connection with the Companys Performance Related Share Plan at the time of the placing for the flotation in June 1997.
The trust can also satisfy awards and grants from any share plan operated by the Group.
Please see the Directors Remuneration Report for further details of the plans.
13 The Fidessa group plc Share Bonus Trust The Fidessa group plc Share Bonus Trust is a discretionary trust established for the benefit of participants in the Fidessa group plc Share Bonus Plan, the final award under the Fidessa group plc Share Bonus Plan was in 2010.
It has an independent, professional trustee, Kleinwort Benson Jersey Trustees Limited, and was financed by advances from the Company.
All rights to dividends and voting the shares have been waived by the trust.
The trust purchased shares to match and provide a National Insurance Contribution hedge against purchases of ordinary shares by participants in the Fidessa group plc Share Bonus Plan at the same time as the participants acquired their participating shares.
Please see the Directors Remuneration Report for further details.
14 The Fidessa group plc Share Incentive Plan The Fidessa group plc Share Incentive Plan SIP is a share plan established for the benefit of participants in the SIP.
It has an independent, professional trustee, Killik & Co Trustees Limited, and is financed by advances from the Company.
The costs of administering the share plan are charged to the income statement as incurred.
The share plan purchases shares to match purchases of ordinary shares by participants in the SIP at the same time as the participants acquired their participating shares.
15 Payments to creditors It is the Companys and the Groups policy to agree terms and conditions for business transactions with their suppliers.
The Company and the Group value their suppliers and recognise the benefits to be derived from maintaining good relationships with them.
They therefore seek to abide by the payment terms agreed whenever satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods and services in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
As at 31st December 2012 the number of days of annual purchases represented by the year-end creditors for the Company amounted to 51 days 2011: 30 days and for the Group amounted to 26 days 2011: 26 days.
Fidessa group plc 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report continued 16 Off-balance sheet arrangements The Group does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.
17 Disclosure of information to auditors The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
18 Auditors In accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006 a resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit plc as auditors of the Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board Anil Shah Company Secretary 8th February 2013
