Fidessa group plc 02 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report Although we expect that we may see Overview We have continued this process start during 2013, we do For the financial markets, conditions our investment not believe that it will happen quickly in 2012 were more difficult than programme, enough to have a material benefit to expected with the global value of expanding our 2013 revenue.
This combined with our equity trading falling by around 20% capability across continued investment programme on top of the already depressed levels assets, services means that we expect performance in seen in 2011.
This has meant further 2013 to be similar to that seen in 2012. and regions.
stress for our customers resulting in continued attrition and price pressure, Looking further ahead, we believe therefore making it challenging for us to deliver the growth levels we have that we will see stability and opportunity returning to the markets been used to.
Despite these pressures we have continued our investment and that reduced headwinds, coupled with further openings as our multiprogramme, expanding our capability across assets, services and regions asset initiative gains momentum, will enable us to return to growth levels and winning significant new deals.
This, combined with the very strong closer to those we have seen in the past.
We remain excited by the growth that we have achieved for our potential of our service based new derivatives offering, has enabled offerings across all asset classes and us to continue to deliver growth in believe that we will continue to play recurring revenue.
However, the more an important role as the markets discretionary consultancy revenue has focus on efficiency, transparency, suffered as customers seek to reduce compliance and performance.
We their costs and this reduction has maintain our commitment to the offset the growth in recurring revenue.
financial industry and to developing the solutions it needs over the coming In recent months there has been a years throughout the regions.
marked and positive change of sentiment in the market, with the Results weekly flow of funds into the equity In 2012, Fidessa achieved revenue of markets reaching one of the highest levels ever recorded.
Whilst it is 278.6 million, consistent with that delivered in the prior year 2011: clearly too early to know whether this represents a turning point, it 278.3 million.
The changes in foreign currency exchange rates reinforces our view that a floor will eventually be reached in the decline provided a small benefit to revenue and at constant currency it would of equity markets which will allow our core end markets to gradually return have reduced by 1%.
Underlying the flat revenue was continued impact to a more stable state.
This would enable the growth we are generating from the difficult conditions in the equity markets which impacted through sales of our derivatives consultancy and this offset the platforms, our service based platforms growth achieved in recurring revenue.
and our regional expansion to flow The revenue generated from through into overall revenue growth derivatives has more than doubled rather than being masked by the and represented almost 3% of total decline in traditional equities.
Fidessa group plc 03 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 We remain excited by the potential of our service based offerings across all asset classes.
Further strong The deferred revenue in the balance second half of the year when the growth is expected in the derivatives sheet at the end of the year was operating margin was 14.9%.
The deferred The effective tax rate has improved The rate of consolidation, revenue balance represented 18% to 27.6% 2011: 29.5% due to the restructuring and closures across of annualised revenue.
decrease in the UK corporation tax the customer base has continued to rate and the strongest growth arising be significant and the direct impact At the beginning of last year Fidessa in Asia.
Further decreases in the UK of these events on the growth rate flagged that increased expenditure corporation tax rate have been for the year was seven percentage on expertise and infrastructure was announced and these are expected to points.
These events were expected in 2012 as part of the provide a further reduction in the concentrated in the smaller customers investment in the derivatives effective tax rate in 2013. and the rate of events was constant opportunity.
In the year expenditure throughout the year.
From what is on data centres, the global network Diluted earnings per share, adjusted currently known, this turbulence will and provision of data increased by to exclude acquired intangibles have a continued impact in the approximately 3.0 million.
Also, as amortisation, was the same as 2011 current year although at a slightly expected, the expenditure on product at 82.4 pence.
The directors believe lesser level than that seen in 2012. development increased resulting in a this measure of earnings per share 12% uplift in the value capitalised, provides a better long-term indication Recurring revenue increased by 2% being 25.0 million 2011: 22.3 of the underlying performance of the and represented 84% of total revenue, million.
The unadjusted diluted being 233.6 million 2011: 228.7 increased slightly to 236.4 million earnings per share was consistent with million.
The breakdown of recurring 2011: 235.8 million.
revenue generated by market sector was 139 million 2011: 139 million EBITDA earnings before interest, tax, The business continued to be strongly from sell-side trading, 16 million depreciation and amortisation was cash generative, closing the year with 2011: 15 million from buy-side the same as for 2011 at 52.7 million, a cash balance of 72.1 million and no trading, 53 million 2011: 50 million being an EBITDA margin of 18.9%.
debt 2011: 70.9 million and no from connectivity and 26 million Both adjusted and unadjusted debt.
During the year, annual and 2011: 24 million from market data.
operating profits decreased by 1% in special dividends totalling 30.2 Consultancy revenue continued to 2012.
Adjusted operating profit was million 2011: 28.8 million were paid be impacted by the difficult market 42.4 million 2011: 42.9 million, and capital expenditure of 10.1 conditions and non-recurring revenue this being measured before acquired million represented 3.6% of revenue decreased by 9%, being 45.0 million intangibles amortisation.
unadjusted operating profit was As reported in the interim results, cash 41.7 million 2011: 42.1 million.
collection in the first half of the year On a regional basis, Asia showed The operating profit benefited from was slow due to the difficult market the strongest revenue growth with an changes in foreign currency exchange conditions.
The collections improved increase of 12% and accounted for rates and at constant currency the as the year progressed with much of 17% of total revenue, whilst the operating profit would have the shortfall being recovered.
The net Americas grew by 5% and accounted decreased by 3%.
The investment in cash generated from operating for 38% of total revenue and Europe the derivatives opportunity resulted activities was 66.9 million 2011: decreased by 7% and accounted for in a fall in the operating margin to 70.5 million, representing an 45% of total revenue.
15.2% 2011: 15.4%, the impact of operating cash conversion rate of this being more marked in the 159% 2011: 166%.
Fidessa group plc 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report continued The ordinary dividend for the full year Risk factors is being increased to 37.0 pence As with all businesses, the Group is 2011: 36.5 pence.
The final dividend, affected by certain risks, not wholly 45p if approved by shareholders, will be within its control, which could have a 24.5 pence, to be paid on 10th June material impact on the Groups special dividend 2013 to shareholders on the register performance and could cause actual proposed.
on 10th May 2013, with an ex-dividend results to differ materially from date of 8th May 2013.
In addition, a forecast and historic results.
special dividend of 45.0 pence 2011: 45.0 pence is proposed and, if The principal risks and uncertainties approved by shareholders, will be paid facing the Group include: the current at the same time as the final dividend.
state of the worlds financial markets, regulatory issues affecting Fidessa 2012 important events and or its customers, customers During 2012 the key event in the financial stability and ability to pay, Groups development has been the M&A activity within the customer implementation of the Groups base and within the technology business plan against the background sector, dependence on Fidessas of difficult markets and an unstable core technology, competition, macroeconomic environment.
The levels of operational spending versus unpredictable nature of the markets revenue, other economic and market has increased the level of risk faced by conditions, volatile exchange rates, the Group compared to prior years.
continued service of executive Despite this environment, the Group directors and senior managers, hiring has continued to deliver a solid and retention of qualified personnel, performance through focus on market product errors or defects, lawsuits and requirements, delivering lower cost of intellectual property claims.
ownership whilst still allowing customers to maintain their position In addition to the foregoing, the in the market.
In particular, the Group primary risk and uncertainty related has expanded its multi-asset class to the Groups performance for 2013 offerings, provided solutions allowing is the challenging macroeconomic its customers to participate within the environment caused by the global more fragmented liquidity financial crisis and its impact on environment, expanded its data Fidessas customers, which could services, provided increased have a material impact on the Groups connectivity to electronic trading performance over the year and could flows and extended its support within cause actual results to differ materially new regions.
from expected and historical results.
A continued downturn in buy-side Other important events are as noted trading or in company market elsewhere in this Annual Report.
valuations, or an increase in discount rates, could result in an impairment to the carrying value of goodwill from the LatentZero acquisition.
