Group at a glance How we do it Our objective is to create long term value forour shareholders through the provision ofsustainable, integrated transport services across our five main operating divisions.
Diverse portfolio Strategy With market leading positions The strength of the Group lies in the breadth The Groups strategy is to provide high quality wehave created an unrivalled and diversity of its operations, with different and attractive services that are safe, reliable scaleand breadth ofknowledge businesses moving at different stages through and meet the needs of customers and the which gives us the expertise and the economic cycle.
This diversity helps to communities we serve.
capabilityto deliver efficient, ensure that the Group is not dependent on any We will generate sustainable, long term growth reliabletransport networks to one market.
Weaker performance in one area is through operational excellence, organic growth, more likely to be offset by stronger performance meetthe needs of customers in selective acquisitions and contract wins and in other parts of the portfolio.
It also gives us the thelocalcommunities we serve.
renewals that deliver an attractive economic return.
benefit of a range of expertise and management capability that enables us to share and deliver Values best practice.
We have established and are introducing new values for the Group that define our culture The Groups business model varies across and will support consistent behaviours.
By its divisions, reflecting our diverse business harnessing the expertise and talent within the portfolio with a balanced mix of contracted and Group through a clear purpose and direction, non-contracted revenues and varying degrees we will create increasing opportunities for our of regulation.
The flexibility of the cost bases organisation to provide the solutions that enable across the divisions also varies.
These variations the communities we serve to thrive and prosper influence the way in which each business is in an increasingly congested world.
managed, the range of KPIs that management work to and the strategies that are applied.
Committed to our customers: we keep our customers at the heart of everything we do However, there are a number of common themesthat run through all of our businesses: Dedicated to safety: always front of mind, safety Market leading positions is our way of life We are the leading passenger transport Supportive of each other: we trust each other companyin the UK and North America, to deliver and work to help one another succeed operatingin local markets with different commercial and regulatory features.
Our market Accountable for performance: every decision leading positions in the UK local bus and rail matters, we do the right thing to achieve markets and in student transportation, transit ourgoals andintercity coach markets in the US and Canada, all operating within differing regulatory Setting the highest standards: we want to regimes, give us an unrivalled breadth of be the best, continually seeking a better way knowledge and experience of many different todothings.
They also provide us with considerable scope to enhance our existing operations and also to identify and develop new opportunities as theyarise.
06 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements s e c G i o v y v r g e e e r t n s a a r t t n r S c o e p s n a r r t e C s f s o p o e r o p u n l n o a s o r i V b a i i t s l i e i t v y o r Sustainable long term growth Our people them to react to changes in the economic Governance As well as a provider of critical transport services environment that may affect local demand.
We We are committed to high standards of we are a major local business and employer believe that this, supported by our Group level corporate governance in respect of leadership, in the communities in which we operate.
Our monitoring and control processes, provides a effectiveness, accountability, remuneration employees are fundamental to our business good platform for growth in the future.
and relations with shareholders, as identified success and the key to ensuring we provide by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
As Our assets consistent high standards of service and outlined later in this report, we have a robust We own a wide variety of assets across our maintainhigh levels of customer satisfaction.
risk framework in place to help us identify and businesses.
For example, our extensive property manage risk across all of our businesses.
Employee engagement portfolio includes depots, maintenance facilities, We aspire to be the employer of choice in terminals, bus stations and offices and our range our industry.
We are committed to continued of different vehicle fleets consists of around Stakeholder engagement engagement with our employees, making sure 64,000 vehicles.
Managing these assets, from Our businesses involve interactions with FirstGroup is a great place to work and that our vehicle maintenance to property development, awide range of different stakeholders customers receive a high standard of service.
We onour own behalf or for others, is a core skill including customers, local and central have made great strides in the area of employee anda key feature of our businesses.
governments, US school boards, city engagement and will continue to roll out further This experience also allows us to provide transportation authorities and other plans and initiatives to monitor and enhance our management services in respect of assets contracting parties.
Part of our strength progress in this key area over the coming year.
owned by other parties and to deliver transport liesin the focus we place on engaging Recruitment and retention solutions under agreed customer contracts and withthese different stakeholders, building Given our scale, we hire and train more employees franchise agreements.
effective relationships and creating than any other company in our sector.
We partnerships that provide transport solutions.
Corporate responsibility employ experienced, professional and dedicated We have for many years promoted a strong culture people to make sure our passengers get to their of corporate responsibility which has become destination and back safely and on time.
We offer integral to our organisation and our activities.
our employees a comprehensive programme encompassing pay, benefits and opportunities for Our approach to corporate responsibility covers learning and development, and we recognise our five key areas: employees for their contribution to the success of Safety the business through a range of award schemes at a local, regional and national level.
Our customers Management Our employees Across the Group we have strong management Environment teams with in-depth knowledge and experience of transport and their local markets.
allows management to deal with the particular requirements of their customers and enables FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 07 p g n s e i O n d h u o a t i r e t l i h a s t s g e o s k p u e r t a o s r M h t e o u i l l o f O a f o t u v r h r o t g p p g e n n e o e i s t r p r t l a e S e e v i r d C
