Directors report The Directors have pleasure in submitting their Annual Report and Authority for the Company to purchase its own shares Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2012.
At the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2011 authority was granted for the Company to purchase up to 10% of its ordinary shares.
Principal activity During the year, no ordinary shares were purchased.
Under the existing The principal activity of the Group is the provision of passenger authority, the Company may purchase up to 47,800,000 ordinary shares.
This authority remains in place until the 2012 Annual General Meeting, Review of the business when it is intended to seek a further renewal.
Reviews of the business and principal events and likely future Directors developments are given in the Chairmans statement and the operating The Directors of the Company who served during the year were Martin andfinancial review set out on pages 22 to 38.
Our review of the principal Gilbert, Tim OToole, Sidney Barrie resigned 31 March 2012, Jeff Carr risks and uncertainties of the business is set out on pages 39 to 41. resigned 11 November 2011, Audrey Baxter resigned 31 December Results and dividends 2011, David Begg, John Sievwright, Colin Hood, Martyn Williams The results for the year are set out in the consolidated income statement resigned 31December 2011 and Mick Barker appointed 1 January 2012. on page 62.
The Directors recommend payment of a final dividend of Biographical details of all the serving Directors are set out on page 45.
77.2m 16.05p per share which, with the interim dividend of 36.6m With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the 7.62p per share paid on 1 February 2012, gives a total dividend of Company is governed by its articles of association, the Code, the 113.8m 23.67p per share for the year.
The proposed final dividend, Companies Acts and related legislation.
The Company is managed by ifapproved, will be paid on 17 August 2012 to shareholders on the register theDirectors, who may exercise all powers of the Company which are at the close of business on 13 July 2012. notrequired to be exercised by the shareholders of the Company by Share capital votingin general meeting.
Details of issued share capital, together with details of the movements in Senior executives of FirstGroup America and its operating units have been the Companys issued share capital during the year, are set out in note provided with executive employment agreements that provide, in part, 28 to the financial statements.
The Company has one class of ordinary some compensation for any termination other than a termination for cause.
shares which carry no right to fixed income.
As at 23 May 2012, there were Severance payments range from one to two years in duration.
This is 482,067,170 ordinary shares of 5p each in issue including 261,429 ordinary customary practice in the US market.
There are no other agreements between the Company and its Directors Shareholders who are present at a general meeting and duly appointed or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment proxies present at a general meeting can vote on a show of hands.
They whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that will have one vote each.
On a poll, every shareholder present in person occurs because of a takeover bid.
or by proxy will have one vote for every share he she holds.
The Notice of the 2012 Annual General Meeting accompanying this document specifies Details of the fees and remuneration of the Directors and their service the deadlines for exercising voting rights.
All proxy votes are counted and contracts or terms of appointment are set out in the Directors the number for, against and withheld in relation to each resolution are remuneration report on pages 52 to 57. announced at the meeting and published on the Companys website after Directors interests the meeting.
The Directors who held office at the end of the year had the following There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer interests in the ordinary shares of the Company which are all beneficially of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of the articles owned see table below.
of association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any At agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in 1 April restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
2011 At At or date of Details of employee share schemes are set out on pages 53 and 54 and in 23 May 31 March subsequent note 35 to the financial statements.
Director 2012 2012 appointment Kleinwort Benson Guernsey Trustees Limited, as trustee of FirstGroup Mick Barker appointed 1 January 2012 4,007 3,368 2,423 plc Employee Benefit Trust, holds shares in the Company in trust in order to satisfy awards made to participants in the Companys LTIP, ESOS and Sidney Barrie resigned 31 March 2012 N A 20,678 20,678 EABP and abstain from voting.
David Begg 61,666 28,507 21,762 Under the rules of the FirstGroup plc Share Incentive Plan BAYE, Martin Gilbert 240,530 186,767 159,161 employees buy shares and receive free matching shares in the Company.
Colin Hood 22,929 21,860 12,948 In order to preserve certain tax benefits these shares are held in a trust by Yorkshire Building Society for employees.
Whilst these shares are held in John Sievwright 54,190 53,191 45,861 trust, the voting rights attached to them are exercised by the trustee but Tim OToole 120,938 118,273 6,226 only at the direction of the employees.
The trustee does not vote on the shares if no direction is given to it.
Standing arrangements exist whereby all Non-Executive Directors have elected to No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share receive 40% except for David Begg and Colin Hood who have elected to receive 100% of their monthly fees in the form of shares in the Company.
Tim OToole has elected to capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
receive part of his remuneration each month in the form of shares.
Tim OToole purchased 100,000 additional shares on 10 November 2011.
David Begg purchased 31,847 additional shares on 23 May 2012 and Martin Gilbert purchased 50,000 additional shares on 23 May 2012.
Details of the Directors share awards are set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 52 to 57.
58 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements No Director has any material interest in any significant contract The Group is committed to wide employee share ownership.
During the oragreement with the Group, other than their service contracts.
year, employees continued to have the opportunity to participate in the Groups Save As You Earn and Buy As You Earn schemes, details of which Significant interests are set out in note 35 to the financial statements.
At 23 May 2012, the Company had been notified of the following interests in its shares which represent 3% or more of the voting rights Over the past 12 months the Group has made progress towards its goal intheCompany: of achieving a balanced and diverse organisation to ensure we have the right mix of capability and experience to deliver and drive business Ordinary performance.
We recognise that we need to improve the balance and Institution 5p shares % diversity of our workforce and whilst there is further work to be done we Majedie Asset Management Limited 25,287,428 5.25 are pleased to be moving towards that goal.
BlackRock, Inc. 24,297,017 5.04 We have seen an increase in the percentage of female applicants looking to join the Group and our aim is to continue to improve this percentage.
Capital Research and Management Company 23,939,612 4.97 We are also focused on increasing the percentage of women in senior Lloyds Banking Group plc 23,464,316 4.87 roles, which is currently over 17%.
The most recent intake for our graduate development programme reflects almost double our present percentage of Standard Life Investments Limited 23,409,623 4.86 women in senior roles, which should deliver further progress in attaining a AXA S. A.
22,235,746 4.62 balanced workforce in future years.
Artemis Investment Management Limited 20,586,417 4.27 We are undertaking a number of actions to build the balance and diversity of the workforce including detailed and robust succession planning to Legal & General Group Plc 19,264,804 4.00 identify and develop talent across the organisation.
We have also piloted Capital Group International, Inc. 19,233,573 3.99 and will roll out a development programme for women, which is based on learning from across a range of industries and sectors.
The Group Employees is committed to equality of opportunity in all its employment practices, Our employees are the foundation of our Company and the Group is policies and procedures.
To this end, within the framework of the law, committed to ensuring their involvement in the business through an we are committed wherever practicable to achieving and maintaining a informative and consultative approach to employee communication across workforce which broadly reflects the local catchment area within which our business.
As well as written communications such as newsletters we operate.
We aim to ensure that no employee or potential employee will and notices, employees can also access online communications such receive less favourable treatment due to their race, nationality, ethnic origin, as intranets and extranets, and email updates.
This is mixed with various religion, gender, sexual orientation, marital status, trade union membership, forms of face-to-face communication at every level of the organisation.
Senior management teams within each division meet regularly to discuss Corporate responsibility current issues and they then work with their own teams to ensure that The Group publishes a separate Corporate Responsibility Report covering they are communicating these important messages onwards.
Equally, social, environmental and health and safety issues, which will be available employees are encouraged to discuss any issues with management at any on our website at www.
time, and events are arranged at regular intervals to allow employees the chance to discuss issues that matter most to them with their businesses Charitable and political contributions most senior management.
Each division also operates a confidential The Group made various donations to UK charities totalling approximately hotline which staff can use to report health and safety, employment-related 254,000 during the year 2011: 260,000.
No payments were made for and other issues.
The Group also has a regular dialogue with employees and representatives Creditors from trade unions.
Most operating companies have either an elected It is the Groups policy to abide by the payment terms agreed with Company Council or, more typically, an Employee Director on their boards.
suppliers wherever it is satisfied that the supplier has provided goods This principle extends to the plc Board where one member is an Employee and services in accordance with agreed terms and conditions.
A number Director, who is elected by his or her peers to represent employees across of significant purchases including fuel, tyres and commitments under the Group.
hire purchase contracts, finance leases and operating leases are paid by direct debit.
At 31 March 2012, the Group had the equivalent of 40 days Each division has its own information and consultation arrangements 2011: 33 days purchases outstanding, based on the ratio of Group trade and levels of employee involvement in the business differ.
However, in creditors at the end of the year to the amounts invoiced during the year the UK, the Group has worked with trade unions to set up a number by trade creditors.
The Company does not have any trade creditors in its of joint schemes, including workplace learning, credit unions, national balance sheet.
policies on assaults, drugs and alcohol, and the restructuring of Group pensionschemes.
Audit information In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the Company at As well as gathering feedback throughout the year through formal and the date when this report was approved: so far as each of the Directors informal opportunities, all employees are also given the opportunity to is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys make their voice heard through the Groups employee survey Your Voice.
auditors are unaware: and each of the Directors has taken all the steps that The survey provides a useful insight into what our employees like best he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant about working for us and where they would most like to see improvements audit information as defined and to establish that the Companys auditors made.
These priorities, as identified by our own people, help to shape the are aware of that information.
future employee strategy in our business.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 59 Directors report continued This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with The Group has a diversified funding structure which is largely represented section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. by medium term unsecured committed bank facilities and long term unsecured bond debt.
The Group has US$1,250m of banking facilities of Forward-looking statements which US$1,011m was undrawn at the year end.
These facilities expire in Where the Directors Report contains forward-looking statements these December 2015 and the Directors believe that there is every likelihood that are made by the Directors in good faith based upon the information they will be replaced by similar financing arrangements.
available at the time of their approval of this report.
These statements will not be updated or reported upon further.
Consequently, such statements The Groups management of exposure to financial risk, including liquidity, should be treated with caution due to the inherent uncertainties, including currency, interest rate and commodity risks, is disclosed in note 25 to both economic and business risk factors, underlying such forward-looking the financial statements.
statements or information and nothing in this report should be construed The Directors have carried out a detailed review of the Groups 2012 13 as a profit forecast.
budget and medium term plans, with due regard for the risks and Annual General Meeting uncertainties to which the Group is exposed which are set out on pages The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Aberdeen Exhibition and 39 to 41, the uncertain economic climate and the impact that this could Conference Centre, Bridge of Don, Aberdeen, Scotland AB23 8BL on have on trading performance.
The Notice of Annual General Based on this review, the Directors believe that the Company and the Meeting is contained in a separate letter from the Chairman accompanying Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for this report.
Accordingly, the financial statements have been Going concern prepared on a going concern basis.
The Directors have acknowledged the guidance on going concern By order of the Board and financial reporting published by the Financial Reporting Council in October2009.
Whilst the Group is not wholly immune to macroeconomic developments, Paul Lewis 395 King Street it has established a strong balanced portfolio of businesses with Company Secretary Aberdeen approximately 50% of Group revenues secured under medium term 23 May 2012 AB24 5RP contracts with government agencies and other large organisations in the UK and North America.
While any changes in economic activity will impact UK Bus and Rail passenger numbers this potential risk is reduced by the availability of revenue support for certain rail franchises and, in UK Bus, by the ability of the Group to modify services giving 56 days notice 90 days in Scotland of such modifications.
In North America, the First Student business is highly contracted and, whilst Greyhound is more susceptible to the economy, its costs are largely variable.
60 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012
