Our markets First Transit First Transit is one of the largest private sector providers of public transit management and contracting in North America, managing fixed route and shuttle bus services, paratransit operations, call centres for accessible transportation andotherlight transit activities.
First Services is the largest private sector provider of vehicle maintenance andtransport support services in the US.
Where we operate Total transit market approximately $22bn Outsourced 30% In-house 70% Alaska Seattle Approximate share of outsourced transit market Detroit FirstGroup 14% Chicago NewYork Others 86% SanFrancisco Washington Cincinnati LosAngeles Approximate revenue by type Fixed Route 34% Miami Paratransit 26% Shuttle 17% Vehicle Services 11% Support Services 6% Call Centre 5% PuertoRico Transit Management 1% First Transit Find out more online Market features Changes in market during 2011 12 Contracted revenue US economy improving, potential for some easing on public spending budgets, although Typically low capital investment contracts typically fixed for up to five years.
Depends on established credentials and strong track record High level of customer service and retention New entrants into market www.
com or Range of technologies operated.
com Brad Thomas President, First Transit & First Services 14 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements The market Competitors The transit contracting and management services First Transits largest competitors are MV market includes fixed route bus services, Transportation, Inc. and Veolia Transdev paratransit bus services, airport, university and Transportation.
The transit market is fragmented private shuttle services.
The North American and together these three companies operate transit market is estimated to be worth $22 billion around 35% of the total outsourced market.
per annum with approximately 30% in the private It is estimated that First Vehicle Services is the outsourced sector.
third largest in the highly competitive outsourced We estimate the vehicle maintenance market fleet maintenance market behind Penske and to be worth $2.9 billion per annum in total with Ryder: however there are a number of small and approximately 38% contracted out to private medium sized companies that represent nearly sector providers.
a quarter of the outsourced market.
Our business First Transit Our customers First Transit manages, operates, maintains and We operate in approximately 236 locations organises transportation services under contract in 38 US States: Puerto Rico: the US Virgin to customers including Transit Authorities, Islands and four Canadian Provinces Federal, State, and local agencies, as well as First Transit carries around 310 million Key statistics private institutions.
Public authorities operating passengers a year across 350 million miles fixed route transit are required by the Americans Revenue with Disabilities Act to provide complementary We have approximately 270 contracts paratransit services for eligible citizens.
Contracts 778.6m We operate and manage 10,600 buses that FirstTransit undertakes are typically for three tofive years.
Our operations include fixed route, paratransit, Operating profit shuttle services, call centres for accessible First Vehicle Services provides fleet vehicle transportation and transit management maintenance services under contract to 55.8m private and public sector clients including We are the largest provider of college and the Federal Government, cities and Fire and university campus transit services and one of PoliceDepartments.
Employees the largest providers of airport shuttle services in the US.
First Support Services provides operations 19,000 and maintenance services, including facilities Our business First Services management and warehousing and supply to We operate in around 86 locations in 23 agencies of Federal, State and local governments US States and four international locations as well as to businesses in the private sector.
We maintain approximately 38,000 vehicles Labour The majority of First Transits approximately We provide fleet maintenance services for 19,000 employees are represented by trade public and private sector customers unions.
The proportion of unionised staff is We provide support services including logistics higher in heavy transit our fixed route and support and facilities management to public paratransit contracts than in other segments and private sector clients including the US Navy of the business.
Fewer than 10% of First Services and Air Force.
employees are represented by a union.
First Transit carries around We are the largest provider of college and university campus bus services and one of the largest providers of airport shuttle services in the US.
310m passengers a year across 350 million miles.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 15
