Our markets UK Rail We are the UKs largest rail operator, carrying more than 300 million passengers a year and operating almost a quarter of the rail market.
Wehave a diversified portfolio of long distance, regionaland commuter rail companies.
Where we operate Approximate share of rail market FirstGroup 24% Others 76% UK Rail Public Performance Measure % MAA 95 90 85 First Capital Connect 80 First Great Western 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 First Hull Trains First Great Western First TransPennine Express First ScotRail First ScotRail First Capital Connect First TransPennine Express Find out more online Market features Changes in market during 2011 12 Regulatory environment Government capped Passenger revenue growth as a result of regulated fare increases at RPI 1% marketing initiatives and additional services in some franchises and macro-economic factors Passenger journeys at historic highs including economic recovery and employment Operational performance improving growth, particularly in central London Government investment in major The Government set out its new franchising infrastructure projects.
programme including the start of the InterCity West Coast, Great Western, Thameslink and Essex Thameside refranchising competitions www.
com uktrain Publication of the McNulty Rail Value for MoneyStudy.
Building on this, Network Rail has entered into strategic alliances with several operating companies, of which First ScotRail Vernon Barker was one of the first tobeagreed.
Managing Director, UK Rail 20 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Our passenger rail operations consist of four companies.
The Office of Rail Regulation ORR is franchises: FirstCapital Connect, First Great the independent safety and economic regulator: it Western, First ScotRail and First TransPennine grants and enforces a licence under which Network Express and one open access operator, First Rail operates, and also supervises the relationship Hull Trains.
We also operate the London Tramlink between Network Rail, franchised operators and network on behalf ofTfL.
Our business The market Following privatisation in the mid-1990s, there is a We are the UKs largest rail operator competitive market between transport operators Our operations are diversified by sector and by for the award of passenger rail franchises customer and journey purpose contracts with the DfT and other franchising We operate four rail franchises and one open authorities for the provision of services and access passenger rail service also between rail services and other modes for passenger journeys.
Revenue comes directly We operate the London Tramlink service on from farepaying passengers or from franchising behalf of TfL authorities.
Total franchised passenger revenues Through our joint venture with Danish State in the UK are over 6 billion per annum.
Typically Railways we operate passenger rail services train operators share revenue risk with franchising in the Oresund region of Denmark.
Key statistics authorities this is referred to as revenue support Competitors orrevenue share but bear cost risk.
We bid against operators of current UK Rail Revenue The Government set out its plans during the year franchises and rail operators from other for the next generation of rail franchises, which countries, principally from within the European 2,506.1m will typically be longer and with greater incentives Union and also Hong Kong.
FirstGroup is the only for operators to increase efficiency and invest operating company to pre-qualify for all Operating profit in the improvements passengers want.
The UK fourfranchise competitions currently open.
market has entered a period which will see a 110.5m The main competitor to rail services is the car but large amount of activity: eight franchises are on some passenger flows there is competition dueto be let over the next two years.
from other rail services and, to a lesser extent, Employees Rail markets vary but are often grouped into three long distance coach and airlines.
sectors London and south east commuter Our customers 13,000 services, regional and long distance.
Some For our franchises in London and the south east passenger rail franchises pay a premium to the of England, the majority of our passengers are franchising authority.
Some receive a subsidy from commuters to and from London.
First Great the franchising authority.
In some franchises the Western also has a large proportion of long distance premium increases or subsidy decreases over the and leisure travellers.
First ScotRail and First duration of the franchise and in some franchises TransPennine Express also carry a large number of the level of premium or subsidy is constant.
commuters into the major towns and cities on their networks but also serve a significant leisure market.
Operators are responsible for the day-to-day management of train services.
Many elements of Labour the service provided to passengers are mandated A high percentage of our 13,000 employees as part of the contract: other features are left to inthe division are represented by trade unions, the commercial judgement of operators.
Network withwhom we maintain constructive relationships.
Rail manages track and infrastructure: and rolling Our employees are represented by organisations stock is owned and subleased by third party including ASLEF, RMT and TSSA.
Publication of the DfT Command Paper Putting During the year we successfully Customers First and consultations on fares extended the First TransPennine and ticketing and devolution Express franchise for a further Government investment in rail projects three years to 2015 with margins including the High Speed 2 line: the Thameslink closer to the industry average.
Programme: the Northern Hub around Since we started operating the Manchester and electrification of the Great Western and TransPennine routes franchise in 2004 passenger numbers have increased from The DfT began the process of planning for the next Control Period CP5, setting out 13million to 24milliona year.
the options and range of costs facing the Government in specifying the outputs of the railways for the fiveyears from 2014 15 onwards.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 21
