Our markets UK Bus We are one of the largest bus operators in the UK with afleet of 8,000 vehicles, and operate more than a fifth of localbus services.
We carry approximately 2.6 million passengers every day.
The majority of our operations are in urban areas where the bus is the most effective means of tackling traffic congestion.
Where we operate Approximate share of deregulated market outside London London depots FirstGroup 24% Others 76% Aberdeen Uxbridge Willesden Junction Alperton Atlas Road Stirling Lea Interchange Westbourne Greenford Dagenham Glasgow Park Edinburgh Hayes Approximate share of London market Go-Ahead 24% Arriva 19% Stagecoach 14% Comfort Delgro 13% York FirstGroup 11% Bradford Leeds RATP 9% Dublin Manchester Shefeld Abellio 6% Chester Kildare Others 4% Portlaoise Stoke-on-Trent Source: TfL Birmingham Norwich Cashel Leicester Worcester Approximate revenue by type Northampton Cork Ipswich Passenger 50% Chelmsford Concessions 20% Bristol Cardiff Slough Bath London tenders 19% Southampton Exeter Portsmouth Non-London tenders 11% Weymouth Plymouth UK Bus operations Penzance Find out more online Market features Changes in market during 2011 12 Local markets with individual characteristics Lower passenger revenue growth, particularly in the north of England and Scotland, as a Partnerships with local authorities result of economic weakness andstakeholders Reductions in Government funding for local Investment in new vehicles authorities leading to pressure on budgets for Innovation in ticketing, marketing socially necessary bus services and reduced andinformation.
funding for concessionary fares in certain areas Publication of the Competition Commissions www.
com ukbus market study into local bus services in the UK Publication by the Department for Transport DfT ofGreen Light for Better Buses, incorporating the Governments response to the Competition Commissions report and advocating Giles Fearnley greaterpartnership with transport authorities.
Managing Director, UK Bus 18 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Local bus services in the UK operate on two very Our business different models.
Outside London the market We are one of the UKs largest bus operators is deregulated and within London the market We operate over one in five of all local bus isregulated and competitively tendered.
services The market We operate in communities across the country Outside London including 40 of the largest towns and cities Local bus services in the UK, outside London, were deregulated in the mid-1980s.
The market Average fleet age is 8.8 years is highly competitive between commercial bus We operate Greyhound UK providing regular operators large and small but the largest intercity coach services on routes between competitor to the bus is the private car.
Revenue London and the south coast: London and principally comes directly from farepaying Glasgow and within South Wales passengers and indirectly from reimbursement by local authorities for concessionary passengers.
We also operate some yellow US-style school Bus operators take revenue risk and cost risk.
buses and have a fleet of coaches available Bus markets are local and are affected by for charter.
local issues from demographics to politics to Competitors topography.
Local bus services operate on a Key statistics The main competition to buses in the UK is the flexible model with bus operators setting fares, private car.
The UK bus market, outside London, frequencies and routes on a commercial basis Revenue is deregulated and very competitive with over to meet customer demand and also running 1,250bus operators and in all markets in which socially necessary local bus services under 1,157.2m we operatewe face competition.
Some multi contract to local authorities.
regional operators have increased market share London Operating profit through acquisition and a number of local bus Bus services in London are operated on behalf operators have both entered and left the market.
134.4m of Transport for London TfL.
Contracts are Our customers gross cost and typically five years in length.
TfL Our UK Bus customers are diversified by specifies fares, routes, timetables and vehicles: Employees journeypurpose with significant proportions takes the revenue risk and pays operators for using bus services for commuting to work, running services with a bonus and penalty 22,500 school, college or university for shopping and regime linked to service quality.
Labour Around 90% of our 22,500 UK Bus employees are members of a trade union, predominantly Unite but with significant representation by otherunions, including the RMT and Unison.
We operate a fleet of We operate in communities across the country, including 8,000 40 vehicles, delivering around of the UKs largest towns a fifth of local bus services.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 19
