Our vision and values Our vision is to provide solutions for an increasingly congested world... keeping people moving and communities prospering.
Tim OToole Chief Executive Our vision FirstGroup has grown to becomethe leading transport operator in the UK and North America.
Every day on both sides of the Atlantic we are relied on to connect communities, making it easier formillions of people to leadtheirlives.
Our services open up opportunities and experiences and help to create strong, vibrant and sustainable local economies.
Our opportunity is to be the organisation to solve the problems of our increasingly congested world and to help people, communities and society to prosper.
08 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements From our roots as a local bus company The scale we have created has provided us with We shall continue to work with our stakeholders a wealth of expertise in the best organisation of to ensure our solutions, investment and delivery in Aberdeen, we have grown rapidly our equipment, systems and people to deliver the caters to their emerging needs.
We shall take andambitiously to create the largest most efficient transportsolutions.
At FirstGroup, advantage of our scale to identify and spread surface transport group in the UK and we know transport: we design and operate more best practice across the Group, while ensuring North America.
Every day we transport networks, we hire and train more employees, the delivery of our services is responsive to local 2.5 billion passengers across our First we procure, maintain and deploy more vehicles needs and markets.
We shall invest in equipment Student, First Transit, Greyhound, UK and we work with more local communities than and people to support all of our businesses while Bus, and UK Rail networks.
Each ofour any other company.
This breadth of experience maintaining a focus on delivering consistent free divisions enjoys a market leading position and wealth of knowledge has created a source cash flow over the long term.
because of the hard work of 124,000 safe, of management capability that when harnessed Each of our businesses is a local business, creates a competitive advantage for us.
and the insights and knowledge of our local We can provide transport solutions that open colleagues hold the key to our success.
While Over the years we have responded to two historic upopportunities and experiences for our wemust take advantage of our size, we must also changes in transport markets: a need for greater customers and create strong, vibrant and apply the expertise that exists at the local level.
efficiency and rapid urban growth.
The need for sustainable local economies.
efficiency and innovation in local, regional and We are First and our solutions will keep national transport has become more critical and To serve our vision we focus on the core peoplemoving and communities prospering more complex with the continuing growth of large elementsof community partnerships, inanincreasingly congested world.
For the first time in human history,  and financial discipline.
more people live in cities than elsewhere.
Every week, one million people move into urban areas.
With ever more people living closer together, the We can provide transport problems of congestion multiply and the need forthe solutions that we can offer increases.
solutions that open up opportunities and experiences for our customers and create strong, vibrant and sustainable local economies.
Our values Committed to Dedicated Supportive Accountable Setting the tosafety highest standards ourcustomers ofeach other forperformance always front of we want to be the we keep our we trust each every decision mind, safety is best, continually customersat the othertodeliver matters, we do ourwayof life.
seeking a better heartof everything andwork to help theright thing waytodo things.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 09
