Our markets Greyhound Greyhound is the only national provider ofscheduled intercity coach transportation services in the US and Canada.
This iconic company provides passenger services to 3,800 destinations throughout theUS and Canada, with 20 million passengers travelling 5.6 billion miles every year.
Where we operate Approximate passenger revenue split USA vs Canada USA 81% Canada 19% Approximate revenue by type Passenger 82% Package Express 9% Food Service 2% Charter 1% Other 6% Greyhound Express Approximate distribution of sales and Greyhound network passengers by mileage band in the US 1-200 miles 45% 201-450 miles 33% Greyhound network 451-1,000 miles 15% in Canada 1,000 miles 7% Affiliated carriers in Mexico Find out more online Market features Changes in market during 2011 12 Passenger, package, charter and food Economic and consumer confidence servicerevenues trends improving Highly flexible operating model ability to Rollout of Greyhound Express to markets along match services to changing passenger the east coast, from Massachusetts to Miami, demand, particularly in the US as well as into Texas, Georgia, the Midwest andCalifornia Value for money Right sizing and relocating our city terminals where Main reason for travel is to see family necessary, including taking advantage of multiandfriends www.
ca modal opportunities when they are available Competition from private car, air, rail and other Further agreements with Canadian Provinces to bus operators reduce mileage or receive financial support to run Long distance coach travel has been the certain, low-utilised services in specific areas.
fastestgrowing intercity travel sector for Dave Leach thelastfour years.
President and CEO, Greyhound 16 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Greyhound also operates routes from the Competitors southern United States into Mexico through three Intercity coach transportation competes with operating subsidiaries Crucero USA, Americanos many other modes of mid to long distance travel, USA and Valley Transit Company.
including a number of other coach operators as well as budget airlines.
The north east of the US BoltBus, a joint operation with Peter Pan Bus is the most dense travel corridor in the country Lines, runs between key city pair destinations and sees a highly competitive intercity coach inthe north eastern United States.
market competing with air and rail services.
Introduced in December 2010, our Greyhound Our customers Express service now accounts for around 20% Greyhound serves a diverse, value-oriented of the business.
Combining the convenience of customer base by offering scheduled passenger BoltBus with the legacy of the Greyhound brand, services with an unrivalled network and route Greyhound Express provides short distance noncoverage.
Our customers have a range of stop or one-stop services originating from major reasons for travelling but the primary journey Greyhound hubs including New York, Washington purpose is to visit friends and family.
Traditionally, DC, Chicago, Atlanta, Dallas and Los Angeles, Greyhound customers bought walk up tickets, and now offers around 700 city pair journeys.
primarily with cash but increasingly customers The market are buying tickets in advance through our website Key statistics Greyhound is the only national provider of www.
com or through our innovative scheduled intercity coach transportation in the US partnership with 7-Eleven.
The majority of revenue is generated Our Greyhound Express and BoltBus brands from passenger services but Greyhound also 657.2m attract users back to bus travel as well as a provides package express services, charter different customer demographic.
Greyhound and tour organisation and, inmany terminals, Express features modern buses with a guaranteed Operating profit catering outlets.
Greyhound has partnerships seat, free Wi-Fi, power outlets, extra legroom and with a number of independent bus lines across 50.6m leather seats.
Greyhound Express also provides the United States.
These bus companies provide private waiting areas in terminals and the ability complementary service to Greyhounds existing totake advantage of yield managed prices schedules and link to many of the smaller towns Employees offered online.
in Greyhounds national route system.
In addition, Amtrak passengers use Greyhound to make Labour 8,000 connections to cities not served by rail on Amtrak The majority of our 8,000 Greyhound employees Thruway service, by purchasing a ticket for the are represented by a trade union, principally the bus connection in conjunction with the purchase Amalgamated Transit Union.
A number of other of their rail ticket.
Our business We are the only national provider of scheduled intercity coach transportation services in the US and Canada, serving 48 US States and nineCanadian Provinces and Territories We carry approximately 20 million passengers per annum We operate approximately 2,000 vehicles with an average fleet age of 9.9 years.
We carry some Approximately 700 city pairs are now served byGreyhound Express, which features modern buses with guaranteed seat reservation, free Wi-Fi, 20m poweroutlets, extra legroom passengers a year travelling andleather seats.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 17
