Board of Directors 2 1 3 4 5 6 7 44 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements 1 Martin Gilbert 4 Professor David Begg Advisors LLD MA LLB CA DSc BA 1,2, 3 Chairman Non-Executive Director 3 Chairman of the Nomination Committee Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Corporate brokers A Chartered Accountant, he is one of the Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive J P Morgan Cazenove Limited founders and Chief Executive of Aberdeen Asset Director in August 2005, he is Chief Executive of 10 Aldermanbury Management PLC.
He was appointed to the Transport Times and a Non-Executive Director of London Board of FirstGroup plc in 1995.
He is a director BAA Limited.
He is also Chairman of the Business EC2V 7RF of a number of investment trusts and NonInfrastructure Commission and a Director of Executive Director of Primary Health Properties Portobello Partnership.
He was until 2010, Goldman Sachs PLC, British Sky Broadcasting Group plc and Chairman of Tube Lines Limited.
He is a visiting Peterborough Court Aberdeen Football Club plc.
professor at Plymouth University and an adviser 133 Fleet Street to Greater Manchester Passenger Transport 2 Tim OToole Executive.
Until 2005 he was Chairman of the London CBE JD Commission for Integrated Transport and a NonEC4A 2BB 4,5 Chief Executive Executive Director of the Strategic Rail Authority.
Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Auditors Director in May 2009, he was subsequently 5 Colin Hood Deloitte LLP appointed as Group Chief Operating Officer in BSc MSc FIET 1,2, 3 2 New Street Square June 2010 and as Chief Executive in November Non-Executive Director 2010.
He was, until the end of April 2009, Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive London Managing Director, London Underground.
Director in May 2009, he was, until November EC4A 3BZ Hejoined Transport for London in 2003 prior 2011, a Director and Chief Operating Officer Solicitors towhich he was President and Chief Executive of Scottish and Southern Energy plc.
Heis of Consolidated Rail Corporation.
He is a NonChairman of Southern Water Services Burges Salmon LLP Executive Director of CSX Corporation, a rail Limited, a Non-Executive Director of HS1 1 Glass Wharf freight transportation company in North America.
Limited and is on the Board of Glasgow 2014 Bristol CommonwealthGames.
3 Nick Chevis BS2 0ZX FCMA 6 John Sievwright 4 Paull & Williamsons LLP Acting Finance Director DHC MA CA 1,2, 3 Union Plaza Appointed Acting Finance Director in November Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 2011, prior to which he was Director of Financial Chairman of the Audit Committee 1 Union Wynd Performance, and previously Group Financial Appointed to the Board in May 2002, he was, Aberdeen AB10 1DQ Controller.
He joined the Group in 1997 as until 2008, a Senior Vice President and Chief Slaughter and May Finance Director of one of the Groups train Operating Officer of International for Merrill Lynch operating companies.
He was subsequently & Co. A Chartered Accountant, he has held One Bunhill Row appointed Finance Director of the Groups rail various senior management positions in banking London division following the acquisition of Great Western in London, New York, Dublin and Japan.
He is EC1Y 8YY Holdings in 1998 and was also responsible for a member of the North American Board of the the Groups light rail operations.
During this time Michael Smurfit Business School, Dublin and he was also a key member of the Groups rail aNon-Executive Director of ICAP plc.
franchising team including the bidding for and 7 Mick Barker integration of the Groups new rail businesses.
Non-Executive Employee Director Hehas held senior finance and planning Appointed to the Board as Employee Director positions in a number of sectors including inJanuary 2012, he has been a railwayman for atVolvo Car UK and Revlon Max Factor.
36years and is currently employed as a train driver for First Capital Connect Limited, one ofthe Groups train operating companies.
1 Member of the Audit Committee 2 Member of the Remuneration Committee 3 Member of the Nomination Committee 4 Member of the Executive Safety Committee 5 Member of the Executive Committee FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 45
