com Directors Report Simon OHara, Company Secretary The Directors submit their Annual Report GOING CONCERN Company have adequate resources to together with the audited accounts of continue in operational existence for the Information on the business environment the Group and of the Company, Alent foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they in which the Group operates, including plc, registered in England and Wales continue to adopt a going concern basis in the factors that are likely to impact the No.
8197966, for the year ended preparing the financial statements of the future prospects of the Group, is included 31 December 2012.
in the Chief Executives Statement and the Where we Operate: Our Markets section.
The Chairmans Letter, the What We Do ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT The principal risks and uncertainties that section, the Where We Operate: Our the Group faces throughout its global A responsibility statement of the Directors Markets section, the Chief Executive's operations are shown on pages 26 to 29. and a statement by the Auditor about its Statement, the Business Unit Review, The financial position of the Group, its cash reporting responsibilities can be found on the Financial Review, the Directors ows, liquidity position and debt facilities pages 74 to 75 and 78 respectively.
The Remuneration Report, the Corporate are described in the Financial Review.
Directors full the responsibilities set out Governance Report, the Approach to In addition, note 26 to the consolidated in their statement within the context of Risk Management, the Approach to financial statements sets out the Groups an overall control environment of central Corporate Social Responsibility, the objectives, policies and processes for strategic direction and decentralised Business Model and Strategy, the Key managing its capital: financial risks: operating responsibility.
Performance Indicators and Board sections financial instruments and hedging of the Annual Report, together with the activities: and its exposures to credit, DIVIDEND information on financial risk management market both currency and interest rateThe Board is recommending a final objectives and policies contained in notes related and liquidity risk.
Further details of dividend in respect of 2012 of 5.5p per 21 and 26 of the consolidated financial the Groups cash balances and borrowings ordinary share which, if approved, will be statements, are each incorporated by are included in notes 14, 15 and 26 to paid on 13 June 2013 to shareholders on reference into, and form part of, this the consolidated financial statements.
The Directors have prepared cash ow forecasts for the Group for a period in DIRECTORS This Directors Report also represents excess of 12 months from the date of Mr Butterworth was appointed a Director the management report for the purpose approval of the 2012 financial statements.
on 10 September 2012 and resigned on of compliance with DTR 4.1.
8R of the UK These forecasts reect an assessment of 31 December 2012 upon the appointment Listing Authority disclosure rules.
current and future end-market conditions of Mr Egan as Group Finance Director on and their impact on the Groups future 1 January 2013.
Mr Butterworth received 2013 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING trading performance.
The forecasts no payment from Alent plc for his services The AGM of the Company will be held at completed on this basis show that the as a Director.
10.00 am on Tuesday 21 May at the ofces Group will be able to operate within the of UBS, 1 Finsbury Avenue, London, current committed debt facilities and show In order to complete various legal EC2M 2PP.
continued compliance with the Companys formalities in advance of the demerger, financial covenants.
On the basis of the two former Cookson Group plc senior The notice of the 2013 AGM is exercise described above and the Groups managers, Bryan Elliston and Richard contained in the circular to shareholders available committed debt facilities, the Malthouse served as statutory Directors accompanying this Annual Report, Directors consider that the Group and together with an explanation of resolutions to be considered at the meeting.
70 Annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2012 of the Company from the date of CHANGE OF CONTROL PROVISIONS This Directors Report was approved by incorporation on 31 August 2012 until the Board and is signed on its behalf by: The terms of the Groups committed bank the formal Board was appointed on facility contain provisions entitling the 31 October 2012.
Neither of Messrs Elliston counterparties to exercise termination or and Malthouse received payment from other rights in the event of a change of Alent plc for their services as a director.
control on takeover of the Company.
A Simon OHara number of other arrangements to which Company Secretary Peter Hill and Steve Corbett were similarly the Company and its subsidiaries are party, 28 March 2013 appointed statutory directors of the such as other debt arrangements and share Company on 10 September 2012. incentive plans, may alter or terminate on a change of control in the event of a Simon OHara served as Company takeover.
In the context of the Group as a Secretary from the date of incorporation whole, these other arrangements are not on 31 August 2012. considered to be significant.
Biographical information for all the OTHER INFORMATION RELEVANT TO current Directors of the Company is given THE DIRECTORS REPORT MAY BE on pages 44 to 45.
All the Directors will FOUND IN THE FOLLOWING SECTIONS retire at the AGM and offer themselves OF THE ANNUAL REPORT: for election.
Further information on the Business review contractual arrangements of the Executive The review of the business of the Directors is given on pages 65 and 66. company and the description of the The Non-executive Directors do not have principal risks and uncertainties facing the service agreements.
Company, prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, comprises the AUDITOR following sections of the Annual Report: Resolutions for the reappointment of KPMG LLP as Auditor of the Company Chief Executives Statement on pages and to authorise the Directors to 14 to 15: determine its remuneration are to be Business Unit Review on pages 16 to 17: proposed at the AGM.
The What We Do and Where We Operate: DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO THE Our Markets section on pages 4 to 11: AUDITOR The Financial Review on pages 18 to 25: As at the date of this report, so far as each The Corporate Social Responsibility report Director of the Company is aware, there on pages 30 to 35: is no relevant audit information of which The Business Model and Strategy the Companys Auditor is unaware and on pages 38 to 39: each Director hereby confirms that they The Key Performance Indicators have taken all the steps that they ought on page 40 to 41: to have taken as a Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant This Directors Report on pages 70 to 71: audit information and to establish that The Corporate Governance Report on the Companys Auditor is aware of that pages 46 to 55: and information.
The Approach to Risk Management section on pages 26 to 29.
STOCK CODE: ALNT 71 OUR GOVERNANCE
