com What We Do We supply high performance consumable products and services which create value by enabling superior end-product performance in the areas of functionality, reliability and longevity.
WHAT ALENT OFFERS Highly engineered and customised specialty { chemicals and materials: enabling applications serving fast growing { segments in the electronic, automotive and industrial end-markets: technically advanced products which enable { customers to produce next generation devices: { Just in time delivery from a global manufacturing base of 23 facilities strategically located around the world: and { relationships with our customer base that develop a deep understanding of our end customers manufacturing processes and future material needs.
WHAT ALENT PRODUCES { Semiconductor fabrication materials, such as damascene copper electroplating chemistry which provides the wires within a semiconductor integrated circuit chip: { semiconductor packaging materials, including solder spheres for ball grid arrays and chip-scale packages, die attach adhesives and copper pillar electroplating chemistry: interconnect materials, principally electroplating { chemistries for fabrication of printed circuit boards: page 06 page 07 assembly materials, comprising solder in a variety of { forms, including bar, wire, solder paste and preforms: For more detailed For more detailed information on information on and Assembly Materials Surface Chemistries non-electronic electroplating products and services, { principally for automotive applications which include QR decorative, wear-resistant and corrosion-resistant applications.
To view this page online scan with your media device 04 Annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2012 ASSEMBLY MATERIALS Provides innovative materials for use in electronic products such as smartphones, tablets, laptop computers, at screen TVs and digital cameras.
OUR PRODUCT ITS FUNCTION END APPLICATION END MARKET SURFACE MOUNT ASSEMBLY Solder paste Used in surface mount assembly process using a stencil to place small deposits of Electronic equipment Electronics solder onto a printed circuit board Wire solder Used in touch-up and rework applications Electronic equipment Electronics Preforms Solder components engineered into specic shapes forms Electronic equipment Electronics Stencils Used to apply adhesive and solder paste onto a printed circuit board Electronic equipment Electronics OUR PRODUCT ITS FUNCTION END APPLICATION END MARKET WAVE SOLDER ASSEMBLY Bar solder and Flux Used in mature wave soldering process Electronic equipment Electronics OUR PRODUCT ITS FUNCTION END APPLICATION END MARKET MICRO-ELECTRONICS Electronic polymers Used for packaging, sealing and conductive adhesives Semiconductors Electronics Solder spheres Used for integrated circuit and printed circuit board connections Semiconductors Electronics Die attach Used to attach the semiconductor chip to the package Semiconductors Electronics PV ready ribbon A pre-uxed solder coated copper ribbon used for connecting solar cells within a solar Solar power Electronics panel OTHER ITS FUNCTION END APPLICATION END MARKET Reclaim Metal recycling business reclaim of waste solder, used again in solder manufacturing Electronic equipment Electronics processes Water treatment Produces chemicals for industrial markets Household plumbing Industrial SURFACE CHEMISTRIES Provides specialty chemistry coatings and materials for use in electronic, automotive and industrial products which enhance wear and corrosion protection, enable electronic performance and improve appearance.
OUR PRODUCT ITS FUNCTION END APPLICATION END MARKET PERFORMANCE COATINGS Decorative coatings Decorative electroplating chemistries developed to enable plating directly onto plastic Industrial automotive Industrial in industrial and automotive markets Automotive Wear resistant coatings Chromium electroplating chemistries used in industrial applications and for use on auto Industrial automotive Industrial parts such as engine valves and shock absorber cylinders Corrosion resistant Zinc alloy electroplating chemistries used in industrial, building and auto markets e. g. Industrial automotive Industrial coatings on brake calipers and fasteners OUR PRODUCT ITS FUNCTION END APPLICATION END MARKET ELECTRONICS Damascene copper Electroplating chemistry used to create the wires within a semiconductor integrated Semiconductor Electronics circuit chip Wafer bumping chemistries Electroplating for connections within the integrated circuit Semiconductor Electronics Interconnect materials Electroplating chemistries for fabrication of printed circuit boards Printed circuit boards Electronics STOCK CODE: ALNT 05 OUR COMPANY OUR COMPANY www.
com What We Do continued We add value to our customers businesses by providing products, processes and services which allow them to increase the efficiency and quality of their operations and products.
ASSEMBLY MATERIALS predominantly electronics market focused NSV ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT NSV MARGIN 208.0m 58.7m 28.2% 2011: 214.1m 2011: 53.7m 2011: 25.1% constant currency 2.3% constant currency 9.9% constant currency 2.0ppts ASSEMBLY MATERIALS printed circuit boards and to form the printed circuit boards : wire form used necessary electrical and physical connection for touch-up and repair work : paste Our Assembly Materials business is a global between the board and its components.
form used in the more modern and leader in the development, manufacturing technologically advanced surface mount and sales of innovative materials used in Assembly Materials products enhance technology for assembling printed circuit electronic assembly processes.
With a the connectivity and are essential to the boards : powder form: sphere form: or unique worldwide presence in 50 locations longevity, reliability and functionality as preforms.
Solder paste can also be throughout the Americas, Europe and the of the ultimate electronic device i. e. a supplied in leaded and lead-free options.
Asia Pacic region, Assembly Materials broken solder joint can stop the electronic supplies a full line of solder paste, stencils, device from functioning.
As importantly, Semiconductor packaging bar solder, wire solder, and wave soldering Assembly Materials products are also The Assembly Materials product line also uxes.
We also manufacture enabling critical to the cost and efficiency of the supplies the semiconductor packaging technology products for the power process by which the electronic devices are industry with solder products, including electronics, LED opto-electronics and manufactured.
These are typically highly solder spheres which are used to connect photovoltaic industries.
automated and use mass manufacturing the package to the printed circuit board and techniques so productivity and reducing to provide electrical and thermal insulation.
Assembly Materials has been committed reject rates and wastage are very cost to developing and manufacturing the sensitive issues for customers.
The Non-electronics market highest quality soldering materials.
That technical specication of the product Assembly Materials also manufactures tradition continues today through our combined with the consistency and and markets a respected range of leading innovative products, including our line reliability of supply are therefore vitally products and services globally to the of environmentally friendly, lead-free important to customers.
plumbing, automotive and water treatment electronic assembly products.
Our current product portfolio Printed circuit board assembly covers traditional chemical water treatment PRODUCTS In printed circuit board assembly, the and heat transfer uids for renewable Assembly Materials is one of the principal product lines include solder, technologies, solders and uxes, lters and leading global suppliers of materials to uxes, adhesives, cleaning chemistries equipment.
assemblers of printed circuit boards and and stencils.
Solder can be supplied to the semiconductor packaging industry.
customers in either bar form i. e. solid, These products of which solder represents and sold as an ingot, which is used nearly 80% of revenue are used primarily predominantly in the more mature wave to attach electronic components, such soldering technology for assembling as semiconductors and capacitors, onto A full denition of non-GAAP measures is outlined on page 87 06 Annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2012 KEY MARKETS Smartphones Aerospace Tablets Automotive LED Industrial SURFACE CHEMISTRIES Serving mainly the electronics and automotive markets NSV ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT NSV MARGIN 208.7m 46.0m 22.0% 2011: 219.2m 2011: 48.2m 2011: 22.0% constant currency 2.7% constant currency 4.4% constant currency 0.4ppts SURFACE CHEMISTRIES PRODUCTS Automotive coatings include hexavalent chrome-free, lead-free, cadmium-free, and A global supplier of high performance Surface Chemistries specialty chemicals are cobalt-free solutions.
Automotive industry specialty chemistry, coatings and materials used by a wide range of industries and feature professionals trust Surface Chemistries to to the electronics and surface nishing a robust and patented technology portfolio provide the widest portfolio of productionindustries, our Surface Chemistries that provides function, value, reliability proven, OEM approved coatings for business makes everything you see, and and style to a diverse range of electronic, wear resistance, corrosion protection many things you dont see, last longer, functional and decorative components.
work better and look more beautiful.
Our processes extend product life on Semiconductor interconnect materials powertrains, chassis, fasteners, decorative Our coatings add value to a diversity include copper damascene chemistry trim and electronics components.
of metals, plastics and other substrates and wafer level technologies that are by improving or changing performance used to fabricate wafers and package Industrial nishes characteristics, and extending product life.
Both meet Surface Chemistries functional coatings Leading OEMs worldwide depend on our the manufacturing challenges of shrinking deliver corrosion protection and wear products to enhance wear and corrosion device geometries, while enabling greater resistance, and include electroless nickel, high protection, enable electronic performance memory and logic reliability.
efficiency hard chrome, and zinc alloy systems and improve their product appearance.
to meet exacting manufacturing standards.
Printed circuit board fabrication chemistries Each system optimises quality, provides Surface Chemistries delivers enabling are environmentally friendly by reducing water durability and increases product life.
technologies that create customer value, usage and energy consumption.
Surface meet ever-changing market dynamics and Chemistries lead-free final nishes combine Surface Chemistries decorative coatings address environmental compliance issues high reliability and cost-effectiveness, with feature copper-nickel-chrome and plating associated with the following technology exceptional performance.
on plastics processes, engineered for requirements: lead-free, hexavalent stability and long lasting beauty on a chrome-free, cyanide-free, halogen-free, Connectors and leadframes materials allow diversity of plastics and metals.
manufacturers to substantially decrease costly metal consumption while increasing productivity.
Molded Interconnect Device technologies offer manufacturers high efficiency and increased throughput.
STOCK CODE: ALNT 07 OUR COMPANY
