Annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2012 could provide significant additional means that further opportunities for OUR STRATEGY sources of revenue in the future.
The mix improvement will arise.
In addition, The key elements of our strategy are to: opportunity comes both from leveraging we plan to further roll-out and develop existing products and technologies operational excellence programmes Focus on high growth end-markets in these new markets and through increasing productivity and reducing costs.
The electronics market is forecast to developing new product solutions, We have been incorporating Six Sigma experience strong growth in terms of as well as potentially through bolt-on practices into our operations since 2001. value, but even higher growth in terms acquisitions.
of unit volumes, which are driven in Further develop our technology and part by the trend towards multiple Expand our value-add and OEM sales innovation leadership electronic devices per individual e. g. strategy We have invested signicantly in R&D mobile phone and tablet.
We have We continue to focus on developing facilities and will continue to do so to leading positions in the smartphone and the value sales competencies across ensure that we remain able to fronttablet markets in which strong growth all our people so as to realise the full run emerging trends, and maintain is expected to continue.
Unit growth is margin potential of the products and our leadership position in terms of the more important driver of our growth, technologies we offer.
In addition, innovation and product development and, therefore, we are well positioned we intend to increase the service in our market niches.
Indeed, R&D is to benefit from this trend.
Similarly, the element of revenue through technical critical to our continued success.
The global automotive market is expected process support and customer training drive for smaller, smarter and faster to produce over 100 million vehicles academies, which improves margins electronics in particular, and the pace by 2015, which represents a CAGR of and further deepens the customer of change, means that only those approximately 6%, from 2011-2015.
We will continue to players with the required scale and is a trend in the automotive industry leverage our strong OEM relationships technical expertise are able successfully towards increased electronic content to further increase OEM qualication to take advantage of these market in cars, and increased use of functional and specication of our specialty opportunities.
Historically, we have been coatings for both decorative and antimaterial chemistries and technologies.
at the forefront of market developments corrosion applications, which is benefiting and we remain confident that we will both of our strategic businesses.
We also Continue to develop higher-margin continue to be successful in leading the intend to further enhance our presence products and improve mix and world in key new developments.
in key geographical growth regions and operational efficiencies markets.
We have pursued a strategy of moving away from lower-margin commoditised Further develop new markets and products e. g. solder bar and focusing on products higher-margin, more innovative products With our global presence and leading such as novel alloys, damascene copper technologies, we are constantly additives, solder preforms, immersion identifying new opportunities in high tin printed circuit board surface nishes, growth complementary segments such as wafer plating, and plating on plastics.
Although these markets process will continue, and the constant are still at relatively early stages of their evolution through product innovation development, our Board believes they STOCK CODE: ALNT 39 OUR STRATEGY
