com Our Board A STRONG AND DIVERSE BOARD Ultimate responsibility for the management of Alent rests with the Board of Directors.
Our Board comprises the Chairman, two Executive Directors and five Non-executive Directors.
The primary focus of the Board is on strategic and policy issues.
PETER HILL, CBE, Chairman and Chairman of the Nominations Committee Peter Hill was appointed as a Director on 10 September 2012, and further appointed as Chairman and Chairman of the Nominations Committee of Alent plc on 31 October 2012.
Peter served as Chief Executive of Laird PLC from 2002 until he stepped down from the board in November 2011.
He previously held senior management positions with BTR plc subsequently Invensys plc and was an executive director of Costain Group PLC.
He was previously a non-executive director of Cookson plc, Meggitt PLC and Oxford Instruments plc, and was a non-executive board member of UK Trade and Investment.
Peter Hill is a British citizen.
STEVE CORBETT, Chief Executive Steve Corbett was appointed as a Director of Alent plc on 10th September 2012.
He was previously at Cookson plc from 1990 and held various senior management roles within its joining technologies businesses before, in 2002, being appointed President of Enthone, the then newly acquired surface chemistries business.
He was promoted to President and Chief Executive officer of Cooksons Performance Materials division in 2004 and served as an executive director of Cookson from May 2012 until he resigned from the Board in October 2012 following the announcement of the proposed demerger of Cookson Group plc.
He previously held senior roles with Heraeus GmbH and Corning Glass.
Steve Corbett is a US citizen.
DAVID EGAN, Group Finance Director David Egan was appointed as a Director of Alent plc on 1 January 2013.
He was previously the Chief Financial officer at ESAB, which was the largest division of Charter International plc which was itself acquired by Colfax Corporation in 2012.
Prior to joining ESAB in 2008, David was Group Financial Controller of Hanson plc based in London, and prior to that Chief Financial officer, Hanson Asia Pacic based in Singapore.
He has extensive international experience of businesses in Europe, including the Russian Federation, Asia, Australasia, and the Americas.
David Egan is a qualied Certied Practising Accountant CPA, Australia and is a dual British and Australian citizen.
DR EMMA FITZGERALD, Non-executive Director Emma FitzGerald was appointed as a Director of Alent plc on 31 October 2012.
Emma is VicePresident, Global Retail Network for Shell International.
She joined Shell in 1992 and has worked in a variety of technical, strategic and general management roles based in Asia and Europe, including the position of Managing Director of Shell China Hong Kong Lubricants based in Beijing.
She has also served on subsidiary boards in both Korea and China.
Emma holds a DPhil in Solid State Physics and Surface Chemistry, is a Trustee of The Windsor Leadership Trust, and sits on the leadership development advisory panel for the Prime Ministers Ofce of the Singapore Government.
She was previously a non-executive director of Cookson plc.
Emma FitzGerald is a British citizen.
44 Annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2012 It approves the Group strategy, oversees the allocation of resources and monitors the overall performance of the Group.
Biographies for each of our Directors are set out below.
LARS FRBERG, Non-executive Director Lars Frberg was appointed as a Director of Alent plc on 31 October 2012.
Lars is a managing partner of Cevian Capital, which holds over 20% of Alents issued share capital.
Lars co-founded Cevian Capital in 2002.
In 1997, he joined AB Custos, the Swedish investment company, ultimately becoming Chief Investment officer.
Prior to AB Custos, he had been an investment manager and a partner of Nordic Capital.
Lars is a non-executive director of Danske Bank and the Swiss headquartered freight-forwarding company, Panalpina.
He also sits on the nominations committee of: Metso Corporation, the global Finnish technology and services company: Tieto Corporation, the Finnish IT service company: and AB Volvo, the Swedish truck and construction equipment manufacturer.
Lars Frberg is a Swedish citizen.
NOL HARWERTH, Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Nol Harwerth was appointed a Director of Alent plc on 31 October 2012 and is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Nol spent 15 years with Citicorp, latterly as Chief Operating officer of Citibank International, having previously been with Dun and Bradstreet and Kennecott Copper Corporation.
She is currently Chairman and non-executive director of Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation Europe, a nonexecutive director of Standard Life plc, non-executive director and chair of the remuneration committee of Avocet Mining PLC and a non-executive director of Harry Winston Diamond Corporation Inc. She was a nonexecutive director and Chairman of the remuneration committee of Logica plc until 2012 and was previously a non-executive director of the London Metal Exchange, Impellam Group plc, Corus Group plc, RSA Insurance Group and TFL Group.
Nol Harwerth holds dual British and US citizenship.
JAN OOSTERVELD, Non-executive Director Jan Oosterveld was appointed as a Director of Alent plc on 31 October 2012.
Jan spent 32 years with Royal Philips Electronics, where he was a member of the group management committee with responsibility for corporate strategy, the Chief Executive of Philips Asia Pacic and the Chairman of LG Philips LCD.
He is a non-executive director and chairman of the remuneration committee of Candover Investments plc and a non-executive corporate director of Barco N. V. He served as Chairman of the supervisory board of Crucell N. V. until December 2011 and was previously a nonexecutive director of Cookson plc.
Jan is also a professor at IESE Business School in Barcelona.
Jan Oosterveld is a Dutch citizen.
MARK WILLIAMSON, Non-executive Director, Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee Mark Williamson was appointed as a Director of Alent plc on 31 October 2012 and is Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Mark was formerly Chief Financial officer of International Power plc.
He joined International Power in 2000 as Group Financial Controller and was appointed to the board as Chief Financial officer in 2003, stepping down in 2012.
Previously, he was Group Financial Controller and Group Chief Accountant at Simon Group plc, the engineering and bulk chemicals group.
He is deputy chairman and senior independent non-executive director of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC, having previously served as chairman of the audit committee, and is a non-executive director of National Grid plc.
Mark qualied as a Chartered Accountant in South Africa.
Mark Williamson is a British citizen.
STOCK CODE: ALNT 45 OUR GOVERNANCE
