com Additional Statutory Disclosures PENSIONS In each country in which the Group operates, the pension arrangements in place are considered to be consistent with good employment practice in that particular area.
Independent advisers are used to ensure that the plans are operated in accordance with local legislation and the rules of each plan.
Group policy prohibits direct investment of pension fund assets in the Companys shares.
Outside the US, the majority of pension plans in the Group are of a dened contribution nature.
Current active employees in the UK are offered membership of a dened contribution plan, which is operated on a contract basis, with oversight by a governance committee.
All US retirement plan assets are held in trust for the exclusive benefit of plan participants and their beneciaries.
An independent financial institution acts as the Trustee.
The trust assets are protected by law and by Federal Government Regulation and are subject to annual audit by an independent accountant, the Internal Revenue Service and the Department of Labor.
Further details of pension arrangements are given in note 27.
DONATIONS Donations of the Company in the UK for charitable purposes totalled nil 2011 nil.
In accordance with Company policy, no political donations were made in either 2012 or 2011.
CREDITOR PAYMENT POLICY Each operating company in the Group is responsible for agreeing the terms and conditions under which business transactions with their suppliers are conducted.
It is Group policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with these terms, provided that the supplier is also complying with all relevant terms and conditions.
In the accounts of the Company as at 31 December 2012, the number of days purchases outstanding was 30 2011: 27.
ESSENTIAL CONTRACTS OR ARRANGEMENTS WITH CUSTOMERS, CONTRACTORS AND SUPPLIERS The Company is required to disclose any contractual or other arrangements with customers, contractors and suppliers which it considers are essential to its business.
The Company has a number of contractual arrangements in support of its business activities.
Whilst the loss of some of these arrangements may cause temporary disruption, none is considered to be essential in the context of Alents business as a whole.
SHARE CAPITAL As at the date of this report, the Company had an issued share capital of 278,448,752 ordinary shares of 10p each, being the total number of Alent plc shares with voting rights.
The Company currently has three classes of shares.
Further information relating to the Companys issued share capital can be found in note 7 to the Company financial statements.
The Company operates a number of share-based incentive plans further details about these are given in the Directors Remuneration Report.
For these plans, the Company can satisfy entitlements either by the acquisition of existing shares or by the issue of new shares.
No ordinary shares have been issued in relation to the exercise of options granted under the Companys share option schemes.
Resolutions giving the Directors the authority to allot shares and make allotments of shares to persons other than existing shareholders in certain circumstances will be proposed at the AGM.
THE COMPANYS ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION The Companys Articles of Association are available on the Investor Relations Corporate Governance section of the Companys website, and may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of the Company.
APPOINTMENT AND REPLACEMENT OF DIRECTORS The Directors shall not be fewer than five nor more than 15 in number.
The Company may, by ordinary resolution from time to time, vary the minimum number and or maximum number of Directors.
The Board may appoint any person to be a Director so long as the total number of Directors does not exceed the limit prescribed in the Articles.
Any such Director shall only hold ofce until the next AGM and shall then be eligible for election.
72 Annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2012 INTERESTS IN VOTING RIGHTS The following information has been disclosed to the company under the FSAs DTRs in respect of notiable interests in the voting rights of the Companys issued share capital exceeding the 3% notication threshold: 31 Dec 15 March 2012 2013 % % Cevian Capital II G. P. Ltd 20.00 20.00 Artisan Partners 7.89 8.30 Pelham Capital Management CFD 5.88 5.88 Franklin Templeton 1.59 5.77 LSV Asset Management 4.93 4.92 Governance for Owners LLP 4.20 4.20 Dimensional Fund Advisors 3.69 3.69 Legal & General Investment Management 3.50 3.45 T Rowe Price Global Investments 3.19 3.39 BlackRock Inc 3.09 3.02 Information provided to the company pursuant to the FSAs DTRs is published on the Regulatory Information Service and the Companys website www.
The interests of Directors and their connected persons in the ordinary shares of the Company as disclosed in accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority are as set out on page 69 and details of the Directors long-term incentive awards are set out on pages 68 and 69.
STOCK CODE: ALNT 73 OUR GOVERNANCE
