24 Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 www.
com Market Overview F Fresniiillllllo p plllc iiis a majjjjor siiilllver and d d g gollld d d miiiniiing g c c c co o o om m m mp p p p pa a a an n n ny y y y y, w w w wiiiiit t t th h h h h t t t th h h h he e e e m m m ma a a ajjjjjjo o o or r r riiiiit t t ty y y y y o o o of f f f f o o o ou u u ur r r r p p p p pe e e eo o o op p p p pllllle e e e a a an n nd d d do o op p p pe e er r ra a at t t tiiiio o on n ns s s llllo o oc c ca a at t t te e ed d d d iiiin n n M M M Me e ex x xiiiic c co o o.
Competitive environment The market factors to which we have Revenues for mining companies primarily depend on the prevailing exposure are those common to the prices for the metals contained in the mineral concentrates they precious metals industry, as well as produce.
These metals are globally traded, and like its competitors, Fresnillo plc does not control the prices it receives for its products thosespecic to companies operating and does not hedge exposure to gold and silver prices.
Amongst major precious metal mining companies, Fresnillo plc is unique in that silver and gold contribute approximately half of net revenues each.
In silver, we consider our peer group to be other primary silver miners, although much of global output is derived asaby-product of gold, lead, zinc and copper mining.
Irrespective, Fresnillo plc has long been amongst the top three global producers of silver, both by-product and primary.
In gold we benchmark our performance against global miners with similar annual production proles, which are the medium-sized gold companies.
Advancing our market position The precious metals market Global silver producers Demand for silver and gold 2008 2012 For silver, demand is driven by fabrication industrial applications, 3rd jewellery, coins and medals, photography and other applications and investment bullion and Exchange Traded Funds, or ETFs.
Production 35moz Fabrication still constitutes the largest demand for silver, although its signicance declined in 2012 compared to 2011, whilst investment Production 41moz demand rose.
Underlying the change in demand mix is a long-term trend of decline for both photographic use of silver and silverware, combined with Medium-size gold producers the current slowdown in industrial demand due to weak economic growth and industrial production, and a reduction in certain 2012 2008 applications such as photovoltaic silver due to lower silver use per 6th unit.
In contrast, jewellery posted modest growth in 2012 as healthy gains in emerging markets more than offset losses in western Production 264koz countries.
The rise in retail and institutional silver investment, in which ETFs have been instrumental, has outpaced all other demand in recent years, making it a key driver behind the rise in silver prices.
Production 473koz For gold, demand is largely driven by its status as a safe haven, with consumers and investors buying the metal to protect their savings and purchasing power in an environment of high ination and low interest rates, and as a means to diversify away from the US dollar.
In some markets gold has strong cultural allure, with China and India leading the demand for gold jewellery.
ETF investors and central banks also continue to support demand for gold.
Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements www.
2 Source: Thomson Reuters GFMS, Copyright: Thomson Reuters GFMS, 2013.
26 Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 www.
com Market Overview continued Silver and gold supply Silver price Mine output provides the majority of silver supply, and recycling and The price of silver uctuated signicantly over the year, from a low of scrap provide much of the remainder, with government sales a minor US$26.7 per ounce in July to a high of US$37.2 in February.
An estimated 797.0 million ounces of silver the average realised silver price decreased by 9.8% from 2011, to were produced globally in 2012 compared to 763.8 million in 2011, $31.4per ounce.
Physical purchases by investment funds provided driven by a strong project pipeline, high precious metal prices and support for silver prices, whilst lower industrial demand, the debt crisis healthy performance by the base metal sector.
Approximately onein the euro zone and weak economic growth in the United States thirdof mined silver comes from primary silver mines, with the majority limited its recovery.
as a by-product from base metals and gold mining.
Scrap supply was marginally higher in 2012, whilst government sales were minimal.
Gold price In gold, mine output accounts for approximately two thirds of the global The price of gold also uctuated over the year, ranging from a low of gold supply, with the remainder coming from recycling and central bank US$1,540.0 per ounce in May to a high of US$1,791.7 in October.
Gold mine production remained stable as compared to 2011 average realised gold price increased by 5.6%, to US$1,674.1 per ounce, despite disruptions in output caused by labour unrest in South Africa with ETFs and central banks remaining committed to the metal.
and reduced supply from Indonesia.
Central banks were net buyers Our outlook ofthe metal, although at a slower pace than in the previous year.
For silver, we believe the long-term trend points to continued demand for the metal as industrial demand follows economic growth, whilst Global silver production million of ounces investment appetite should remain healthy while interest rates remain low.
In gold, rising incomes in key developing countries should drive 797.0 demand for jewellery, whilst persistent low interest rates and continued accumulation of gold reserves by central banks is likely 800 tosustain investment appetite.
750 At the same time, there is clear indication of a tightened supply scenario.
No new large-scale discoveries of silver or gold have been 700 identied in recent years, despite significant outlays in exploration.
Thediscovery process has grown more challenging because of 650 regulatory requirements, the need to go deeper and farther, and search harder every year often in remote, unstable or insecure areas 08 09 10 11 12 of the world, and growing investor pressure to deliver better returns.
Source: Thomson Reuters GFMS, Copyright: Thomson Reuters GFMS, 2013 Global reserves have marginally increased, but the rise in demand andaccelerated production in the current high metal price Global gold production thousands of ounces environment has led to a fall in average mine life worldwide.
com Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 27 Industry trends Country environment The global mining industry faces a number of common challenges.
Mexico is amongst the worlds largest metal producers.
With a mining These include: history that spans more than 500 years, the country provides a favourable environment for mining in terms of its environmental legislation, political climate, skilled workforce and solid infrastructure.
Governmental actions resource nationalism Mexico ranks as the fifth most attractive country in the world for As governments seek to derive additional value from the mining and 4 mining investment.
The geological potential in Mexico remains strong, metals sector, many have gone beyond taxation to introduce other and more than 300 mining companies and private exploration groups mandates, levies and limits on foreign ownership.
Global mining have projects and facilities in Mexico, with operations concentrated companies have been subject to a range of new taxes, royalties, inthe northern states of Durango, Sonora, Zacatecas and Chihuahua.
lawsand regulations by the governments of the countries where Mining is an important source of foreign currency in Mexico.
In Mexico, revived governmental discussions of Presidential and congressional elections were held in 2012 and the miningroyalties indicate such a measure may be forthcoming.
new president, Enrique Pea Nieto, took ofce on 1 December 2012.
His stated priority is economic growth, with energy and tax reforms Competition for skilled labour, ascentral to that effort.
Whilst there is broad political consensus on equipment and material the need for comprehensive reform, no detailed proposals have yet The significant expansion of mining activity in recent years has led been brought forth.
toaglobal shortage of skilled and experienced mining professionals.
New labour laws were passed in November, the first major changes InMexico, this extends to exploration activities and mining operations inmore than 40 years.
The reforms ease legal constraints on a and the availability of competent and reliable contractors.
Global companys ability to hire and dismiss personnel, lifts a ban on capital expenditures on mining have driven the continued escalation part-time employment, allows probationary periods for new hires, of costs over the past year and were not offset by metals price gains.
caps the amount of money that companies must pay to laid-off Cost ination will continue to be a challenge across the industry.
workers, and provides criteria for classifying relationships as either being outsourcing or employment in nature, amongst other measures.
Capital allocation Fresnillo plc is currently analysing any potential impact on its The uncertain economic environment, changes to expected rates operational practices or labour agreements as a result.
ofreturn, and the cost of debt and equity have impacted capital Unlike other countries in Latin America with a strong mining sector allocation in the mining industry, with a stronger focus on organic such as Chile and Peru, Mexico does not currently levy any mining growth and cost-cutting to enhance returns on investment.
Past proposals for royalties on the industry have not been are increasingly looking at all-in cash costs as a means to evaluate successful but members of Congress from all parties have indicated management performance in this area.
they will push to implement such a measure.
The Mexican Mining Our outlook Chamber, of which Fresnillo plc is a member, will continue to lobby Our view on a mining tax royalty in Mexico is discussed below.
against any mining tax royalty and to ensure that scal regulations Wehave numerous initiatives to attract and retain talent and to donot curtail growth or investment.
develop contractors into the skilled workforce we require.
The security situation in Mexico remains poor: crime and violence, Ourstrategyhas always focused on creating value in the form much of it fuelled by drug cartels seeking to control access routes to ofsustainable and profitable growth: in 2012, for example, we the United States, affect many parts of the country.
The government undertook a comprehensive resource allocation review regarding has deployed federal police and military troops and has taken processing capacity in the Fresnillo district, and determined that significant steps to strengthen its law enforcement capabilities.
further analysis was required to ensure that timing, investment Theseefforts have begun putting organised criminal networks on andlocation best meet the needs of all our mines and projects thedefensive, and for the first time in five years the murder rate fell in intheDistrict.
Fresnillo plc has put in place policies and procedures to protect its personnel, operations and assets, and whilst the frequency of overall incidents has increased, there have been no major securityrelated incidents or impact on our performance and production.
Our outlook The new government is taking a different approach towards security and it is unclear what the impact will be.
Overall, however, we believe that Mexico will continue to provide an extremely favourable environment for our operations.
We see significant and untapped precious metals resources, a stable business environment and still favourable mining regulations as all benefiting the long-term viability ofour business.
4 Source: Behre Dolbear Group, Inc. 2012 Ranking of Countries for Mining Investment.
