142 Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 www.
com Other Statutory Disclosures Principal activities Suppliers The Fresnillo Group is a leading precious metals group with significant The Group considers suppliers and contractors to be strategic experience and expertise in all aspects of mining, from exploration partners.
It often signs long-term purchase agreements in order to through to mine construction and operation.
It is the worlds largest secure better pricing and ensure timely availability of key equipment primary silver producer and Mexicos second largest gold producer.
Contractors are integrated into the Groups employee management systems and training programmes.
To align practices and performance with strategic objectives, training on Group safety Results and dividends policies and procedures is given.
Results for the year are set out in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 149.
The Group contracts Servicios Administrativos Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. SAPSA, a Peoles subsidiary, to supply administrative services.
An interim dividend of 15.5 US cents per share was paid on Therelationship is regulated by a Services Agreement NSA, or New 11September 2012 to shareholders on the register on 17 August 2012.
Services Agreement, ensuring that all services are delivered at arms The Directors have recommended a final dividend for the year ended length and on normal commercial terms as per the Relationship 31 December 2012 of 42.4 US cents per Ordinary Share, which will be Agreement with the Peoles Group.
paid on Wednesday 8 May 2013 to shareholders on the register on Friday 19 April 2013.
The dividend will be paid in UK pounds sterling Customers unless shareholders elect to be paid in US dollars.
Substantially all of the primary products originating from Fresnillos mines in 2012 were sold to the Met-Mex Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. significant relationships and agreements Met-Mex rening and smelting facility in Torren, Coahuila Mexico Section 417 5 of the Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to under a series of supply agreements the Met-Mex Arrangements disclose information on contractual or other arrangements which are thatenable the Group to benefit from relatively low transport costs essential to the business of the Company.
Details of the agreement associated with the proximity of their operations.
The terms of the between Peoles and the Company the Relationship Agreement supply agreements with Met-Mex are set on an arms length basis canbe found on page 120 in the Corporate Governance Report.
The Group has sold to other Othersignicant relationships and agreements are set out below: reners and smelters in the past and may do so in the future if conditions warrant.
Employees Fresnillos ability to select, recruit, train and retain personnel with Shareholders knowledge, skills and experience is fundamental to the Groups ability The major shareholder in Fresnillo plc is Industrias Peoles S. A.
B. fide to achieve its strategic goals.
The Group provides extensive personal C. V. Peoles which holds approximately 77% of the issued share and professional development opportunities, competitive wages capital of the Company.
Peoles has been the principal investor in andcompensation packages and a workplace culture that fosters theFresnillo Group assets for over 50 years and is committed to teamwork.
It strives to maintain mutually respectful relations with the thelong-term growth and development of the Group.
Peoles is also local labour unions through continuous dialogue and collaboration, asignicant supplier of services to the Fresnillo Group, as described including yearly contract negotiations with the unionised workforce.
Todate, Fresnillo plc has never experienced a work stoppage or industrial action as a consequence of labour disputes with the Approximately 23% of Fresnillo plc shares have been trading on the Company.
The Group is committed to providing a safe, equitable London and Mexican Stock Exchanges since 2008.
The Companys andfair work environment, with a Board-level commitment to listing provides visibility to the Groups approach and activities which sustainable development.
Information relating to employees would help it secure sources of finance, should they be required, isgiveninnote 8 to the Financial Statements on page 168 and forits strategic development.
The Group maintains a regular dialogue intheSustainable Development Report on pages 92 and 93. with its independent investors as described in the Corporate Governance Report.
Communities Silverstream Healthy community relations require a deep respect for and knowledge of the customs, cultures, needs and expectations of In December 2007, the Fresnillo Group entered into long-term eachcommunity.
Engagement efforts begin at the earliest phases arrangements with the Peoles Group in relation to the by-product ofexploration and continue throughout the life cycle of a project, silver output from the Peoles-owned Sabinas polymetallic mine in including beyond mine closure.
Every year the Group invests directly Zacatecas, Mexico.
Under the Silverstream Contract, the Fresnillo through multi-stakeholder partnerships in a range of initiatives that Group is entitled to all of the proceeds before deduction of treatment aim to enhance the quality of life and long-term sustainability of the and rening charges in respect of the payable silver produced by communities where it is present.
The Group focuses on environment, Sabinas during its mine life.
The Silverstream Contract is accounted education, health and social integration, entrepreneurship, and foras a derivative financial instrument asset.
Overview Strategic Review Performance Governance Financial Statements www.
com Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 143 Partners Articles of Association Under an agreement with Newmont USA Limited, the Group holds Any amendments to the Articles of Association of the Company may 56% of Minera Penmont S. fide R. L. fide C. V. Minera Penmont.
be made by Special Resolution of the shareholders.
TheHerradura and Soledad-Dipolos mines and the Noche Buena project are held within Minera Penmont.
The Group has a 56% interest Share capital structure, rights and restrictions in the Juanicipio project, while MAG Silver Corporation MAG Silver Details of the Companys share capital are set out in note 18 to the hasa 44% interest.
The agreement with MAG Silver was entered into Financial Statements on page 176.
The Company has two classes of for the development of the Juanicipio concession.
The Group also share capital: 717,160,159 ordinary shares of US$0.50 Ordinary Shares partners with a number of junior exploration companies to conduct and 50,000 deferred shares of 1.00 each Sterling Deferred Shares.
early stage prospecting, such as the association agreement signed The Ordinary Shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and the in2012 with Orex Minerals Inc. Orex to explore and develop our Mexican Stock Exchange.
The rights and obligations attaching to these respective mineral concessions in the Coneto gold-silver mining shares are governed by UK law and the Companys Articles district in northern Durango State, Mexico.
Ordinary shareholders are entitled to receive notice and to attend Authorities and regulators andspeak at any general meeting of the Company.
On a show of In Mexico and Peru, the Group has to secure mining concessions hands every shareholder present in person or by proxy or being a fromthe federal government in order to explore for and exploit corporation represented by a duly authorised representative shall mineral deposits: it is subject to the statutes and regulations have one vote, and on a poll every shareholder who is present in governingall companies, and those for natural resources and mining person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he is companies in particular, that are promulgated by various branches the holder.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting species deadlines ofthe government.
These include environmental and construction for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies.
permits and the use and handling of explosives, among others.
The Group is also subject to state and municipal laws and ordinances in There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Ordinary Shares the specic localities where it operates.
otherthan: t he standard restrictions for a UK-quoted company set out in article As a publicly traded company on the London and Mexico stock 32 of the Articles of Association: and exchanges, the Company is subject to issuer requirements from these exchanges as well as financial and regulatory oversight from the w here, from time to time, certain restrictions may become imposed securities bodies in the UK and Mexico.
by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and p ursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority Change of control significant agreements whereby certain Directors, ofcers and employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the Ordinary Shares.
As required by section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, the following represents the likely effect on significant agreements with the No shareholder holds securities carrying special rights as to the Company were it to be subject to a change of control: control of the Company.
There are no limitations on the holding T he Penmont Herradura and MAG Silver Juanicipio agreements ofsecurities.
There are no restrictions on voting rights or any each contain provisions ensuring that the interests of the arrangements by which, with the Companys co-operation, shareholders may be transferred in accordance with their nancialrights carried by securities are held by a person other respective bye-laws, subject to preferential rights of existing thanthe holder of the securities.
There are no agreements shareholders.
betweenholders of securities that are known to the Company whichmay result in restrictions on the transfer of voting rights.
T he New Services Agreement contains a discretionary provision forServicios Administrativos Peoles, S. A. fide C. V. to terminate The Sterling Deferred Shares only entitle the shareholder to payment theagreement should they so wish if there is a change of control of the amount paid up after repayment to Ordinary Shareholders on ofFresnillo plc.
winding up or on a return of capital.
The Sterling Deferred Shares do T here are no formal change of control provisions within the not entitle the holder to payment of any dividend, or to receive notice Silverstream Contract or Met-Mex Arrangements.
or to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company.
TheCompany may also at its option redeem the Sterling Deferred T he Groups mining concessions are held by several of its Mexican Shares at a price of 1.00 or, as custodian, purchase or cancel the subsidiary companies.
As long as the companies holding the mining Sterling Deferred Shares or require the holder to transfer the Sterling concessions remain Mexican resident companies, there are no Deferred Shares.
Except at the option of the Company, the Sterling provisions within the concession agreements which would be Deferred Shares are not transferable.
triggered by a change of control of the Company.
The Company does not have any agreements with any Non-executive Director, Executive Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of ofce or employment resulting from achange of control.
144 Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 www.
com Other Statutory Disclosures continued Authority to purchase own shares Directors indemnities The Company was authorised by a shareholders resolution passed The Company has deeds of indemnity in place with the Directors atthe Annual General Meeting held in May 2012 to purchase up to inrespect of liability arising against them in connection with the 10% of its issued Ordinary Share capital.
Any shares which have been Companys and any associated companys activities and if relevant bought back may be held as treasury shares or, if not so held, must where Directors act as pension trustees.
These deeds are in place becancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase, thereby atthe date of this report and operate subject to the conditions set out reducing the amount of the Companys issued and authorised share in the Companies Act 2006. capital.
This authority will expire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and a resolution to renew the authority for a further year Directors and Ofcers Liability Insurance willbe proposed.
No shares were purchased by the Company during Directors and Ofcers Liability Insurance cover is in place at the date the year.
A review of the cover, particularly by reference to the Companys mining peer group among London-listed companies, Directors interests wascarried out in July 2012.
The Board remains satisfied that an The number of Ordinary Shares of the Company in which the Directors appropriate level of cover is in place and a review of cover will take were beneficially interested at 1 January 2012, or date of appointment place on an annual basis.
if later, and at 31 December 2012 was: Major interests in shares 1 January 2012 As at 11 March 2013, the Company had been advised, in accordance or date of with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services appointment if later 31 December 2012 Authority, of the following notiable interests whether directly or 1 1 Alberto Baillres 552,595,191 552,595,191 indirectly held in its voting rights: Lord Cairns 15,000 15,000 Number of Mara Asuncin 2 Notication received from: voting rights % Aramburuzabala Peoles 552,595,191 77.05 Javier Fernndez 1 BlackRock, Inc 51,399,264 7.16 Fernando Ruiz 30,000 30,000 1 Includes interests held by BlackRock Global Funds.
Fernando Solana Guy Wilson 15,000 15,000 Creditor payment policy 2 Alejandro Baillres At 31 December 2012 the Company had no trade creditors 2011: nil.
Juan Bordes 15,000 15,000 Itis the Companys policy to agree terms of trading, including payment Arturo Fernndez terms, with all suppliers.
Provided suppliers perform in accordance with the agreed terms, payment will be made in accordance with the Jaime Lomeln terms.
The Companys suppliers all have standard commercial Rafael MacGregor arrangements with the Company.
1 Alberto Baillres holds an indirect interest in the Company.
Mr Baillres and companies controlled by Mr Baillres hold, in aggregate 61.3 per cent of the issued share capital and voting rights of Peoles.
Peoles holds 552,595,191 ordinary shares 77.1 per cent of the issued share capital intheCompany.
No Director had any dealings in the shares of the Company between 31 December 2012 and 11 March 2013.
com Fresnillo plc | Annual report 2012 145 Market value of land and buildings Audit information Land is carried in the balance sheet at deemed cost.
It is not practical Each of the Directors at the date of the approval of this report to estimate the market value of land and buildings at each balance conrmsthat: sheet date.
However, the Directors are confident that there is no s o far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information material difference between the carrying value and the market value ofwhich the Companys auditors are unaware: and of land and buildings.
h e she has taken all the reasonable steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant Political and charitable donations audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are No donations were made to political organisations during the year aware of the information.
The Company has no intention of making political The conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance donations anywhere, and, accordingly, the matter will not require with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. consideration at the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
The Group made charitable donations of US$0.7 million 2011: US$5.0 million during the Auditors year.
Further information concerning the community initiatives within the Fresnillo Group are included within the Sustainable Development The Auditors, Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to Report set out on pages 78-95. continue in ofce and a resolution seeking to reappoint them will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Financial risk management Annual General Meeting The Companys objectives and policies on financial risk management including information on the Companys exposures to Market risk, The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held at Linklaters, including foreign currency, commodity price, interest rate, ination OneSilk Street, London, EC2Y 8HQ on 2 May 2013 at 11.00a.
m. Details rate and equity price risks: Credit risk and Liquidity risk can be found in of the meeting venue and the resolutions to be proposed are set out in note 30 to the Financial Statements.
a separate Notice of Meeting which accompanies the Annual Report.
Going concern Approval of Directors Report The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to The Directors Report of Fresnillo plc for the year ended 31 December affect its future development, performance and position are set 2012, which the Directors are required to prepare by the Companies outinthe Strategic Review on pages 17-55.
The financial position of Act, 2006, is set out in the Overview, Strategic Review, Performance the Group, its cash ows and liquidity position are described in the and Governance sections on pages 2-107.
In particular, mandatory Financial Review on pages 96-107.
In addition, note 30 to the financial disclosures are set out in the following sections: statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes Section Pages Requirement formanaging its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its Overview 2-16 Fair review of business exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Main trends and factors likely toaffecttheGroup After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation Strategic 44-45 Analysis using financial key that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational Review performance indicators existence for the foreseeable future.
In making this assessment they have considered the Company and Group budgets, and cash ow 50-55 Description of principal risks forecasts for the period to 31 December 2014, including the anduncertainties exploration and capital expenditure plans and sensitivities around Performance 78-95 Environmental and employee matters those plans.
They have also considered the sensitivities of the cash with KPIs ow forecasts to movements in metal prices.
The Company has Sustainable growth considerable financial resources, negligible liquidity risk and is operating within a sector that is experiencing relatively stable demand Fresnillo plc for its products.
The Directors therefore have a reasonable Registered Ofce: expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate 28 Grosvenor Street resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable London W1K 4QR future.
Thus they continue toadopt the going concern basis of United Kingdom accounting in preparing the annualnancial statements.
Company No: 6344120 The Directors Report has been approved by the Board of Directors ofFresnillo plc.
Signed on behalf of the Board Lord Cairns Senior Independent Director 11 March 2013
