Governance Board of directors Nick Buckles John Connolly Mark Seligman Executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Chief executive Chairman of the board Deputy chairman Member Risk Committee Chairman Nomination and Risk Chairman Audit Committee Committees Member Remuneration Committee Key strengths: Long experience of the group and its predecessor companies with Key strengths: Extensive experience of Key strengths: Extensive financial and a background as a commercial manager working in a global business environment management experience having worked before taking on line management roles and in sectors of strategic importance to in the financial services sector, with a and then divisional and group executive the group.
particular focus on investment banking.
In addition to his board Takes particular interest in the financial Strong relationships with major investors role, participates regularly in Nomination performance of the company, including and wide involvement within G4S at group and Remuneration Committee meetings, itsnancing and transactional activity.
Joined G4S board: January 2006 Developing the board and its governance Joined G4S board: May 2004 of the group.
Previous experience: Qualied as Previous experience: Joined Securicor a chartered accountant with Price Joined G4S board: June 2012 in1985.
Became managing director of its Waterhouse.
Senior roles at SG Warburg UK cash solutions business in 1996, chief Previous experience: A chartered & Co Ltd and Barclays fide Zoete Wedd: executive of its security division in 1999 and accountant, John spent his career until May Head of UK Investment Banking at was appointed to the board of Securicor plc 2011 with global professional services rm CSFB: Chairman of UK Investment in 2000 before becoming its chief executive Deloitte, was Global Chairman between Banking at Credit Suisse: member of the in 2002.
He was the companys deputy chief 2007 and 2011, and prior to that, Global Credit Suisse Global Investment Banking executive and chief operating officer from its Managing Director between 2003 and Executive Board and senior advisor formation in 2004 and was appointed chief 2007.
He was Senior Partner and CEO toCredit Suisse Europe.
He also served as anonof the UK partnership from 1999 until his executive director at Arriva Groupplc Current external commitments: retirement from the partnership.
Alternate member of the Panel on Current external commitments: Takeovers and Mergers: member of the Current external commitments: Chairman of AMEC plc and of a number Regional Growth Fund Advisory Panel: Chairman of the Ligue Internationale des of private companies: beyond commercial non-executive director of BG Group Socits fide Surveillance, the international business roles, he is also on the Board of plc and senior independent director of association of leading security companies.
Governors of London Business School: a Kingsher plc.
member of the CBI Presidents Advisory Council and of the British American Business International Advisory Board.
Heis also chairman of the appeal board for The Centre for Childrens Rare Disease Research at Great Ormond Street Hospital.
54 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic review Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Trevor Dighton Lord Condon Grahame Gibson Executive director Non-executive director Executive director Chief financial officer Senior independent director Regional CEO Americas Member Risk Committee Chairman Remuneration Committee Key strengths: Extensive knowledge of the group and its predecessor companies in Key strengths: Wide knowledge of both the Key strengths: Extensive experience of many different markets and in a number of group and other service businesses as well high prole security issues, the workings executive functions.
In addition to his board as the accountancy profession.
Inaddition of the public sector and law making.
Has role, is also CEO of the Americas region.
to his board role, participates regularly in broad involvement with the UK businesses Audit Committee meetings as well as sitting within the group, particularly those serving Joined G4S board: April 2005 on the Executive Committee.
Previous experience: Joined Group 4 Joined G4S board: May 2004 Joined G4S board: May 2004 in1983, starting as finance director UK followed by a number of senior roles, Previous experience: An accountant, he joined Previous experience: Senior including deputy managing director UK, Securicor in 1995 having previously worked appointments in the UK police force, vice president corporate strategy, vice in the accountancy profession and inindustry, including Chief Constable of Kent and president finance and administration, including five years in Papua New Guinea, Commissioner of the Metropolitan vice president operations central and three years in Zambia and seven years with Police, as well as at the British Security south eastern Europe and UK and BET plc.
After joining Securicors vehicle Industry Association and the International chiefoperating officer of Group 4 Falck services division in 1995, was appointed Cricket Councils anti-corruption unit.
A S. In 2004 he became the companys finance director of its security division in Current external commitments: Cross divisional president for Americas and 1997 and became its deputy group finance New Markets and became chief operating bench member of the House of Lords: director in 2001.
Appointed to the board occasional advisor on sports integrity to officer in 2005. ofSecuricor plc as group finance director the International Olympic Committee and in2002, he became the companys CFO Current external commitments: Board Deputy Lord Lieutenant for Kent.
when it was formed in 2004. member of the Ligue Internationale des Socits fide Surveillance, the international Current external commitments: None association of leading security companies.
G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 55 Governance Board of directors continued Clare Spottiswoode Adam Crozier Paul Spence Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Member Remuneration and CSR Member Audit and Nomination Member Audit, CSR and Risk Committees Committees Committees Key strengths: Considerable experience Key strengths: Wide-ranging experience Key strengths: In-depth knowledge in the public sector, the energy markets of business transformation in a number of of outsourcing in both the public and and the financial services sector as well public and private sector organisations in private sectors and extensive international as setting up and managing her own the media, logistics and retail sectors.
experience in key developing countries businesses.
Has particular involvement such as India, Chinaand Brazil.
Joined G4S board: January 2013 with the groups businesses in the UK Joined G4S board: January 2013 andAfrica region.
Previous experience: Started his career with Mars before joining the Daily Previous experience: A graduate of Joined G4S board: June 2010 Telegraph followed by Saatchi and Saatchi, the Wharton School at the University of Previous experience: A mathematician where he became joint chief executive.
Pennsylvania with a degree in economics and and economist by training, worked for the He then became chief executive of the decision sciences: served a 30-year career UK Treasury, director general of Ofgas, the Football Association and was subsequently with Capgemini and its predecessors.
Having UK gas regulator: policyholder advocate for appointed chief executive of the Royal started in the US and become managing Norwich Unions with-profits policyholders Mail Group where he oversaw an partner of mid-Atlantic information and at Aviva: non-executive director of Tullow extensive programme of modernisation technology for Ernst & Young, he went on Oil plc: and a member of the Independent and change to enable the business to to gain significant international experience Commission on Banking and the Futureof compete in the UK and international for 16 years as managing partner of Ernst Banking Commission.
Since April 2010 he has & Young Consulting Australia, CEO of been chief executive of ITV plc and was a Capgemini Ernst & Young in Asia and CEO Current external commitments: non-executive director of Debenhams plc Capgemini Ernst & Young UK.
He then Chairman of Gas Strategies Group, until 2012. spent eight years serving on Capgeminis Energetix Group and Magnox Limited: executive management committee during non-executive director of EnergySolutions Current external commitments: Chief which time his roles included deputy Inc. Ilika plc, Enquest plc and RBC Europe executive of ITV plc.
group CEOand CEO of Capgemini Global Limited: and independent director of the Outsourcing Services.
56 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic review Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Bo Lerenius Winnie Kin Wah Fok Mark Elliott Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Member Audit and CSR Committees Member CSR and Remuneration Chairman CSR Committee Committees Member Nomination and Key strengths: Extensive international board Remuneration Committees and executive management experience.
Has Key strengths: International board and a great deal of knowledge of the ports sector senior management experience with Key strengths: Extensive international and of many European markets.
extensive knowledge of Asian markets board and executive experience having and strong involvement in Scandinavia.
Has particular involvement with the held a number of senior management groups businesses in Europe.
positions in IBM, including leadership of Has particular involvement in the groups businesses in Asia.
IBMs operations in Europe, the Middle Joined G4S board: May 2004 East and Africa with responsibility for Joined G4S board: October 2010 Previous experience: Chief executive of operations in more than 110 countries.
Ernstromgruppen AB, a Swedish building Previous experience: An auditor by Has particular involvement with the materials company: chief executive and training, was involved in management groups businesses in the Americas region.
chairman of Stena Line AB: group chief positions in finance, audit and corporate executive of Associated British Ports advisory work and a wide range of roles Joined G4S board: September 2006 Holdings plc: non-executive director of in asset management rms investing with Previous experience: General Manager Land Securities Group plc: non-executive a focus in Asia.
Senior partner of EQT IBM Global Solutions: Managing Director director and chairman of Mouchel Group and CEO of EQT Partners Asia Limited: of IBM Europe, Middle East and Africa: plc: non-executive director of Thomas managing director of CEF New Asia member of the board of IBAX, a hospital Cook Group plc.
software company jointly owned by IBM Current external commitments: and Baxter Healthcare: chairman of Current external commitments: Senior Non-executive chairman of Knight advisor to Foundation Administration the Deans Advisory council of the Kelly Infrastructure II, holding company of School of Business, Indiana University.
Management Sweden AB: non-executive Koole Tanktransport B. V. : non-executive director of Volvo Car Corporation: Current external commitments: chairman of Brunswick Rail Limited: and non-executive director of AB SKF, Kemira Non-executive chairman of QinetiQ senior advisor to the infrastructure fund Oyj and HOPU Investments CoLtd.
Group plc: non-executive director of of Swedish venture capital group EQT: Reed Elsevier PLC and chairman of Reed member of the board of the Swedish Elseviers remuneration committee.
Chamber of Commerce for the UK: non-executive director of Bishop Infrastructure 11, holding company ofWestway Group LLC.
G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 57
