Overview Strategic review Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic review Key business objectives Drive organic growth 1 2 3 4 Context In normalised market conditions, our business should be able to grow ahead of global GDP growth.
Depending on contract phasing and the economic environment, we target organic growth of between 6% and 8% per annum in the long term.
Key objectives and progress Drive outsourcing in all markets Focus on high growth markets where A key element of our business model is to drive security and safety are key outsourcing in all of our markets, whether it be in secure By focusing on specic sectors where a greater emphasis solutions or cash solutions or with commercial customers is placed on security and safety we are able to provide or governments.
This leads to G4S becoming integral to expertise which is relevant to the specic needs of the its customers success, increased customer partnerships market which enables us to differentiate the G4S offer and longer term contracts, resulting in greater visibility of from that of our competitors.
This has proved successful future revenues.
in a number of key sectors such as aviation, ports, oil & gas and mining as shown in the charts below which give the compound annual growth rates CAGR.
See pages 18 and 19 for more detail on outsourcing opportunities by geographic region and by businesssegment.
Aviation sector Ports sector Revenue Revenue m m CAGR CAGR 14% 30% 298 73 275 240 58 202 37 33 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 Oil and gas sector Mining sector new in 2012 Revenue Revenue m m CAGR CAGR 20% 51% 338 112 287 230 74 172 2009 2010 2011 2012 2011 2012 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 21 Strategic review Key business objectives Drive organic growth continued Investment in international accounts Achieve strong customer retention Our continued investment in global account management Our focus on account management and retention has for international customers and a global business resulted in halving the rate of large customer contract development programme allows us to leverage our unique losses since 2010.
Overall the group contract retention footprint and service offering.
In 2012, as well as retaining rate is around 90% per annum.
We will continue to use all managed international accounts, our international our customer account management programme allied accounts revenue grew by 12% through a combination of to driving service consistency and standards to deliver existing accounts and some new wins.
Global service delivery frameworks for Target acquisitions which can accelerate service consistency organic growth potential One of the roles of the service excellence centres is to Our acquisition strategy focuses on acquiring businesses ensure best practice and consistent service are delivered which can help build share in key markets particularly to our customers.
This should ensure high levels of in high growth developing markets, improving market customer retention.
positions in the cash solutions services lines where this is a critical success factor and adding capability which helps to expand and extend contracts with existing customers Increased focus on large bids and as well as winning new business.
All of these factors are long-term customer partnerships significant contributors to long-term growth.
We continue to invest in recruiting and training high calibre business development resource at a country, Increased focus on regional and global level.
The deployment of multinational bid teams on our largest and most complex bids has  been successful such as those with DP World and Shell As part of our market development strategy, we aim to and we will continue to invest in our strategic account encourage more governments to outsource services to management programme as part of the G4S Way.
the private sector, enabling them to reduce costs and in many cases deliver a better service as a result of increased commercial competition.
Government contracts, which See page 26 for more detail on the G4SWay.
represented approximately 23% of group revenues in 2012, tend to be long-term strategic partnerships with recurring revenues.
Roll out of best practice sales, bidding and account management processes We introduced Salesforce.
com during 2011 and 2012 to ensure global collaboration on international accounts and help retain customers through best practice account management processes.
com gives visibility around the contract pipeline so we can deploy the best resources to the biggest opportunities and drive productivity of the sales organisation.
22 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic review Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Shiva Abu Dhabi, UAE As part of the event security team for the Abu Dhabi Grand Prix, I help to ensure the safety and security of 40,000 fans who enjoy this major motor sports event eachyear.
G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 23 Strategic review Key business objectives Deliver margin improvement 1 2 3 4 Context We target a long-term group PBITA margin of around 7%, depending on the business and geographic mix.
The group has minimum operating margin targets for the various service lines in different types ofmarkets.
In developed markets, we target margins of 5% for manned security businesses and 10% for businesses providing security systems, cash solutions, justice services and risk management and consultancy services.
In developing markets, margin targets are higher, with a target of 8% for manned security and facilities management and 12.5% for all other service lines.
Key objectives and progress Deliver procurement benets Conduct effective business reviews and Managing costs is a key element of our strategy and in have in place strong financial controls some cases our businesses procure similar products We have a standardised monthly trading review process and services across multiple markets.
During 2012 we across the whole group which goes down to branch level undertook a major review of procurement, addressing and we continually review the group finance manual to around 500m of external spend across areas such as enhance the business monitoring processes and to ensure vehicles, uniforms, communications and travel.
that financial controls are optimised.
Ensure overheads are appropriate to Divestment strategy for non-core or economic conditions non-value creating businesses A key element of the overhead review process which was Whilst the group continues to acquire businesses which conducted in 2012, was to ensure that, whilst we needed can add scale in key markets, drive outsourcing trends the right resources and skills in the right places of the or add key sector or service capabilities, we also have an organisation, we were able to better manage our costs, active policy of divesting businesses which do not meet particularly in markets which continue to face pricing and key financial or strategic targets or if better value can be margin pressures.
derived from an alternative parent.
Since 2006, we have divested businesses in France, Germany and Poland and specic service lines such as cash solutions in Taiwan and See page 26 for more detail on the overhead Sweden, and a home alarms business in Norway.
We savings achieved during this process.
also announced in March this year that we are divesting our US Government Solutions business as we felt an Deliver service excellence and operational alternative parent would not face the same challenges as a non-US parent such as G4S.
best practice In 2012, we invested around 10m in sales and marketing and establishing a series of service excellence centres Target increased growth in higher SECs, created to focus on service standards, operational marginbusinesses best practice and the best use of technology to manage We focus on key geographies, sectors and services our business efficiently and effectively.
This effort is which have higher margin potential.
For example, we are focused on retaining customers through high quality targeting an increase in our business in developing markets service, but is also key to us improving our gross margins where margins are higher than more commoditised across the business.
In recent years, during the economic developed markets.
We focus on key commercial downturn, gross margins have come under increasing sectors such as ports and oil and gas where security is pressure, primarily in the manned security businesses across a key requirement and where we can add value to our Continental Europe.
We encourage outsourcing in areas such as cash management and facilities management where we can take greater responsibility for a broader range of services and increase the number of long-term customer partnerships where we are more able to control costs and drive continuous margin improvements.
Targeting increased growth in specic higher margin businesses such as these, enables us to continue to improve group margins over the longer term.
24 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic review Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Andreza Menino Jesus Hospital, So Paulo, Brazil I provide specialist hospital cleaning services to protect 400 young patients from superbugs and infections supporting their return to health.
G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 25 Strategic review Key business objectives Optimise organisational development 1 2 3 4 Context We see organisational development as key to achieving the strategy both in terms of making sure we have the right skills, capabilities and experience and we are developing our talent in line with strategic objectives, and also ensuring that business units are structured appropriately and have the right resource to deliver for ourcustomers.
Key objectives and progress Ensure appropriate organisational design Embed the G4S Way across the country for strategy delivery operating model During 2012 we reviewed our organisation from top As our cash solutions and secure solutions businesses to bottom, trying to ensure we have the right level of have different business models and market development overheads at each level within the group structure this phases see pages 16 to 19, we report their financial resulted in a reduction in group and regional overheads performance separately.
Our primary operational model of approximately 1,500 positions, reecting an annual is based on a country model, however there are a number cost saving of around 35m.
As part of that process, we of important group level standards and practices which integrated the former cash solutions division into our we expect businesses to adopt everywhere.
regional structure to ensure a greater focus on customers at a local market level and to achieve certain back office The so-called G4S Way incorporates a number of key synergies.
We will keep overheads under constant review standards and practices which are shown below.
Each to ensure that we have the appropriate organisational element of the G4S Way is owned and championed by a design to deliver on the groups key business objectives.
member of the Group Executive team.
The six standards and practices of the G4S way: Target optimum business unit design andoverheads t Service excellence service standards and best We conducted an exercise during 2012 to compare operational systems similar businesses operating in markets with comparable characteristics.
This enabled us to assess current t Business review processes and financial controls operational and cost structures and recommend what the t Sales and business development processes appropriate structures should be for these businesses.
t Senior talent management and human This enabled us to create a series of best practice resourcesprocesses operational models for businesses against which they t Legal frameworks and approvals processes can assess their structures and relative performance.
In 2013, we will look to drive further operational t Ethical standards, reputation and crisis management standardisation and right-sizing through the next phase of thisprogramme.
26 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic review Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Constantly improve employee stability Transfer expertise from more developed andsatisfaction markets into developing markets Ensuring that our employees are fully engaged and We have an unrivalled geographic footprint which has involved in their work is key to delivering high levels of been developed over many years and is unique amongst customer service and customer retention.
Our service standards and expertise are also labour turnover is an important factor in ensuring a usually superior to those of local competitors.
About 70% of our workforce has we are a trusted partner for our customers, which are over one year of service with the group and we aim to keen to secure their people and assets and comply with keep employee stability at or above this level through a local standards and regulations.
This has meant that the variety of engagement initiatives which include training, range of services supplied to customers has broadened to employee communications, appraisals, regular feedback a multi-service offering, covering manned security, security from employees and various forms of interaction with systems, cash solutions, systems integration, monitoring employee representatives.
We have well established and response and facilities services.
HR standards that our businesses must meet in their management of employees.
These help to drive a culture Ensure high standards of HR, succession of respect and trust.
planning and talent management Attracting and developing the right talent is key to our Focus on recruiting and retaining the success.
We have co-ordinated processes for identifying bestpeople high potential employees and plan suitable career paths We take great care to ensure that we only employ the for their development and movement into more senior best people for our business through the use of rigorous positions.
Our aim is to ll 70% of line management recruitment, selection and screening techniques.
We are positions internally and in 2012 we lled a vacancy at Group always aiming to improve the efficiency and effectiveness Executive team level through an internal promotion from of these processes and technology and social media is used our talentpool.
increasingly to attract and engage with suitable candidates.
We recruited over 260,000 employees in 2012.
See page 51 of the 2012 CSR Report for more detail on Securing our People.
G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 27 Surender Delhi, India Every day I help more than half a million people to travel safely on the Delhi Metro.
28 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic review Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic review Key business objectives Build and protect reputation 1 2 3 4 Context Our standards of ethics and integrity are core to the philosophy of the group and are a key differentiator, particularly in less developed markets.
The business we are in means that we can be exposed to physical and financial risks and we work hard to make sure that we have in place actions to mitigate risks to the groups performance and reputation.
Key objectives Ensure high standards of business ethics Ensure robust crisis response processes and group policy compliance and procedures are in place We play an important role in societies across the world and We have a comprehensive crisis response process in place we believe it is important that the impact we have in those which is adopted by all countries.
This ensures that in the societies is a positive one.
We have in place high ethical event of a crisis, be it physical or reputational, we are standards which we expect our managers and employees able to react promptly and appropriately to minimise any to achieve across the group.
Those standards and policies impact on the business or its reputation.
are reinforced at every opportunity and we monitor compliance with those standards through rigorous business Engage with key stakeholder groups to review, audit and whistle-blowing processes.
build awareness of, and loyalty towards, theorganisation Have in place strong legal frameworks and Engagement with key internal and external stakeholders approval processes helps us to improve our business, attract and retain more In order to ensure contractual compliance, risk customers, keep and motivate our staff and ultimately mitigation and legal compliance, we have in place strong be more successful.
We engage with employees through legal frameworks and approval processes across our local and global surveys as well as through day-to-day businesses.
The legal framework and approval processes interaction with supervisors and managers.
We have are implemented by the regional legal teams applying strong relationships with unions and other employee group legal policies and guidelines which are monitored by representative groups and work hard to ensure that we regular reporting and review by group internal audit.
collectively raise standards in the industry.
We focus on customers through strong account management and Focus on risk management and mitigation operational interfaces in addition to independent surveys.
As an international business sometimes operating in We participate in industry and business associations and complex environments, risk management and mitigation trade bodies to improve markets and raise standards.
is a key focus for the group.
Risk committees exist at a Wehave regular dialogue with ethical and other country, regional and group level and at the heart of our investment groups to ensure that the business is clearly risk management philosophy we have a risk assessment, understood and that we can attract the right investment control and self-evaluation process which enables managers for the future growth of the business.
We build to identify key risks and to ensure that processes are put partnerships with experts who can help us to develop our in place to avoid unnecessary risks or to deal with risks strategies and processes in key areas such as human rights should they occur.
In 2013, we are further developing our and health and safety.
approach to risk management through a new board level risk committee, which will become the responsibility of the See page 31 for a more detailed discussion on newly-created COO role.
See pages 46 and 47 for a more detailed discussion of our risk assessment and management process.
G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 29
