Governance Executive management team Nick Buckles Trevor Dighton Sren Lundsberg-Nielsen Chief executive Chief financial officer Group general counsel Nick has worked in the security industry Trevor has worked in the security Sren began his career as a lawyer in for 28 years, focusing throughout this time industry for 27 years.
After several years Denmark and since 1984 he has had a wide on the commercial and strategic aspects in both the accountancy profession and range of legal experience as general counsel of all areas of security services.
commerce working in the finance function for international groups in Denmark, and general management, he joined BET in Belgium and the US before joining Group 4 After a variety of commercial roles 1986 as finance director of its security and Falck in 2001 as Group General Counsel.
throughout the group, he was communications division.
responsible for driving significant profit Sren has been involved in a wide range improvements in many Securicor Trevor joined Securicor in 1995 and, of successful mergers and acquisitions businesses throughout the 1990s as a following a number of years as finance during his career, including the acquisition business unit managing director and director of the security division, he was of Wackenhut and the Group 4 Falck divisional chief executive of the security appointed to the board of Securicor plc in merger with Securicor.
He was also instrumental June 2002 as group finance director.
He Sren has overall responsibility in the development of Securicors became chief financial officer of G4S in for all internal and external legal security sector focus, becoming group July 2004. services for G4S as well as the groups chief executive in 2002, and in bringing Trevor is a Fellow of the Chartered insuranceprogramme.
together Group 4 Falck and Securicor to Institute of Management Accountants.
Nick became Sren is a member of the Danish Bar and chief executive of G4S in July 2005.
Law Society, a member of the advisory board of the Danish UK Chamber of Nick is chairman of the Ligue Commerce and author of the book Internationale des Socits fide Surveillance, Executive Management Contracts, the international association of leading published in Denmark.
58 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic review Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Irene Cowden Debbie Walker Group HR director Group communications director Irene has spent her career in Debbie is group communications director, HR management, specialising in heading the corporate communications employee relations, organisational team which focuses on the groups key development, talent management and audiences investors, media, government, compensationissues.
Debbie is also responsible for the groups CSR and She has been involved in major change human rightsstrategies.
projects including the cultural and integration aspects of mergers and Debbie has a broad range of experience acquisitions, as well as large scale in marketing, corporate communications, organisational change involving workforce brand development and implementation, restructuring, working in partnership with and crisis communications.
Prior to major trade unions.
the merger between Group 4 Falck and Securicor, Debbie was employed Irene has worked in the security industry in a number of senior marketing and for 35 years and has held director level communications roles within the Securicor positions at business unit, divisional and group from 1993 to 2004. corporate level.
She was appointed to the board of Securicor plc in 2002 as group Debbie is also vice chairman of the HR director.
CBI South East Regional Council the representative body for all CBI member Irene is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute companies based in the South East of of Personnel and Development FCIPD.
England and the Thames Valley, having previously served as chairman for twoyears.
G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 59 Governance Executive management team continued Graham Levinsohn Grahame Gibson Richard Morris Group strategy & Regional CEO Americas Regional CEO UK and Ireland development director Grahame has been involved in the security Richard joined Securicor in 2003 as a industry for 30 years, having joined Group commercial director, after spending the Graham has more than 19 years 4s UK operating company in 1983 as early part of his career in a variety of experience in the security industry, having finance director.
accountancy roles within Royal Mail and joined Securicor Cash Services in 1994 as subsequently the facilities management general manager marketing.
Since that time, Grahame has held a industry.
He was appointed as a business number of operational, management and Since then, Graham has held a number unit managing director in 2007 and was board positions in the UK, USA, Denmark, of commercial and line management responsible for driving significant growth the Netherlands and Austria.
positions in both the cash and security and profit improvement.
Graham was responsible His broad experience of the security In early 2011 Richard became group for the creation of the UK cash centres industry and management of businesses managing director for G4S Care and outsourcing business in 2001 as managing across a diverse range of cultures has Justice Services.
In October 2012 Richard director, before moving on to become been invaluable to the group throughout was appointed regional CEO UK divisional managing director for G4S Cash its development.
Services UK, and then regional president Nordics.
Grahame joined the board of G4S plc in Richard is an Associate of the Chartered April 2005.
He became group strategy and development director in 2008 and joined Grahame is a board member of the Ligue Internationale des Socits fide Surveillance.
60 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic review Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Willem van fide Ven Dan Ryan Regional CEO Europe Regional CEO - Asia Middle East Willem has served G4S and its corporate Dan joined G4S in August 2010, from predecessors in Holland for 20 years.
global logistics and transportation company Neptune Orient Lines NOL He started out in the former Randstad where he held a number of senior group where he became regional director.
management positions including regional Willem then served as HR director and president for Greater China for NOLs managing director of the Netherlands APL and APLL divisions, regional president security company Randon which was for the Middle East for the APL division subsequently acquired bySecuricor.
and regional president for Europe for the groups APL Logistics division.
He In April 2003, Willem was appointed as was a member of the NOL group Securicors regional managing director executiveteam.
Africa, becoming the regional president for G4S Africa Sub-Sahara in 2004.
He also held various managing director positions for NOL including Middle East, In July 2010, Willem was appointed Hong Kong South China and Indonesia and Regional CEO Europe.
was a regional head for the Middle East a during his 20-year career with thegroup.
Dan is a charter member of the Middle East Logistics Supply Chain Management Forum, Hong Kong Liner Shipping Association and the American Chamber of Commerce Shanghai.
G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 61
