Overview Our business characteristics Our key strengths Our key strengths are what differentiate us in the market.
Integrated security solutions Strong developing markets presence G4S is able to design and manage security solutions that G4Ss global presence, market share and experience of bring together its capabilities in project management, working in developing markets constitute key strengths.
risk consultancy, secure facilities management, physical Relatively high levels of GDP growth in certain security, intelligent systems and high quality securitydeveloping markets, increasing demand for security trained personnel to address the security challenges services and G4Ss ability to export its experience faced by a broad range of customers around the world.
from its operations in more developed markets drive positive revenue and margin trends for the group in developing markets.
Cash solutions expertise Solutions approach Understanding and managing cash cycles is one of the Each individual area of the business is a driver of value groups core skills.
Central banks, commercial banks for the group.
But it is when they come together and retailers outsource their cash management to that they truly make a difference.
Exporting G4Ss G4S as the group has the capability and experience government expertise to new countries, leveraging todrive substantial efficiencies in the system and its cash solutions model across developing markets achieve better returns for its customers over and using its global risk management and security thelonger term.
capabilities to protect some of the worlds best known brands across international markets, drive even greater value for the group.
Government partnerships Government outsourcing is a strong, long-term source of growth as public sector spending remains under pressure and governments turn to the private sector to provide a number of outsourced services.
Government contracts, which represented approximately 23% of group revenues for the year ended 31 December 2012, tend to be long-term strategic partnerships, withrecurring revenues.
04 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic review Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Our investment attributes G4S creates shareholder value as a result of a number of core investment attributes.
G4S has delivered strong organic growth since its creation in 2004, Growth performing well above global GDP growth despite recent pressure on t Organic revenue growth the economic environment.
We are able to do this as a result of our significant and increasing exposure to higher growth developing markets t Developing markets exposure and leading market positions in key growth markets such as the UK t Major position in UK Government outsourcing sector, where growth is strong and expected  to continue.
Organic growth is supplemented by disciplined reinvestment t A GDP growth business of free cash ow in acquisitions focused on extending our developing t Disciplined M&A markets presence in key growth countries and adding capability to help address the needs of customers in growing sectors.
Our business is well diversied across more than 125 countries and Resilience numerous customer sectors, with no over-reliance on any single area.
t Well diversied business Security is at the core of our service proposition and is one of the areas onwhich governments and commercial customers focus for cost-savings t Defensive services and reductions during economically challenging times, creating opportunities t Structural growth through the cycle for outsourcing.
We have a growing number of long-term contracts coupled t High customer retention and with excellent customer relationships and a customer service culture which visibility of earnings result in strong customer retention rates and good earnings visibility.
Our track record of delivery has been achieved within a framework Strong financial disciplines of strong financial discipline focusing on operational efficiency to drive t Operational efficiency and margin expansion and a continual focus on high levels of cash generation.
margin expansion We look to achieve an appropriate balance in our capital structure between investment in acquisitions and investment returns through t Free cash ow generation aprogressive dividend policy.
cashconversion t Disciplined and coherent M&A capital return policy These attributes, combined with the growing reputation of G4S as the worlds leading security solutions provider, should result in superior returns for our investors over the longer term.
G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 05
