Our Business Model Genus is a world leader in the application of biotechnology to achieve animal genetic improvement, thereby improving dairy, beef and pork quality and affordability.
Astrong focus on customers is at our core: be it in the R & D programme that develops and enhances our market leading products: our global sales and distribution network: or our technical services that ensure customers have the right products and support to enable them to capture the full value potential of the products supplied.
VALUE CHAIN World demand for Developing Global Technical improved farming differentiated sales and services productivity products distribution WORLD DEMAND FOR IMPROVED Our dairy and beef product development FARMINGPRODUCTIVITY programme is designed to create elite bulls The world population is growing and whose characteristics meet our customers urbanisation is accelerating in most developing needs.
Our world-class bulls derive from a countries, especially in Brazil, Russia, India and range of progeny-testing and young-sire By making it our China BRIC.
This is leading to increased programmes that Genus conducts in the US, business to understand demand for food such as milk, pork and beef.
UK, Brazil, Australia and Italy.
Meeting this demand with limited resources customer needs, Genus In the beef articial insemination AI sector, requires improved farming productivity.
consistently strives to the main imperative is to coordinate the Genetics play a key role in achieving the provide outstanding different elements of the beef value chain.
Genus There is enormous scope for driving value in products and services world leading position means that it is well this way by reducing the high level of variation placed to improve the quality, safety and that improve milk, in the cost of production, mainly driven by feed affordability of milk, beef andpork.
At Genus, we are therefore adapting DEVELOPING DIFFERENTIATED PRODUCTS production.
our genetic selection programme to capture Successful R & D starts from the customers this opportunity and deliver a higher value to perspective.
By making it our business to the beef chain.
understand customer needs, Genus GLOBAL SALES AND DISTRIBUTION consistently strives to provide outstanding products and services that improve milk, Genus sells and distributes most of its porkand beef production.
products through 30 subsidiary companies across the globe.
In a number of other In porcine, we base our core genetic countries, sales are made through distributors.
improvement in two nucleus farms, located in Canada and the US.
We combine quantitative In porcine genetics, Genus PIC is the most sciences with leading edge biotechnology, recognised brand in delivering pigs that whilst at the same time adopting a no walls combine economical production costs with approach to considering and introducing thebest carcass value.
In order to capitalise on external genes where they can add to our the value our animals create for our customers, portfolio and meet the needs of our customers.
whilst minimising the impact of volatility in pig 12 Genus plc Annual Report 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY OVERVIEW The strong customer orientation, geographic GENUS CORE COMPETENCIES spread of our business activities and the Key enablers that set us apart: application of our royalty model in porcine all contribute to a robustness of performance even ` Marketing and sales Speed to market with fresh, relevant when our customers experience more difficult products enables Genus to meet, and agricultural markets.
Our ability to learn and adapt keeps us in the vanguard.
So does a distinctive sales, distribution and technical service infrastructure managed by a skilled and motivated workforce.
Strong prices that we experience, we outsource the customer segmentation and adherence to multiplication of animals either to third party global best practice strengthens our offering.
In addition, much of our business is under royalty contracts.
In ` Research and development such contracts, breeding animals are sold to Genus R & D is closely aligned to current and customers at or close to our cost to produce.
The result: In return, customers commit to pay a royalty leadership in next-generation proprietary fee on each of the offspring produced.
This technology platforms based on in-depth useof third party multipliers and customers in-house research as well as fruitful own multiplication under royalty contracts collaborations with leading external todisseminate genetics reduces volatility in technology partners.
All of this is driven by performance and therefore produces a more the Genus R & D philosophy of discovery robust and consistent profit stream and without walls.
mitigates the impact on Genus of cycles during which profitability is tested by price reductions ` Supply chain or increases in input cost.
Over 99% of the Genus understands the importance of Groups multiplication requirements are accelerating genetic improvement by ` Improved outsourced and 44% of porcine sales are increasing the pace of transferring the best made under royalty contract.
genes to our customers systems.
Our productivity efficient processes ensure seamless and By leveraging our third party multipliers in cost-appropriate product delivery.
` Shareholder local markets, we are able to distribute our ` Technical services improved genes into our customers systems return Genus carefully tailors service and stafng in more than 70 countries.
levels to each of our customer segments to best meet its needs in maximising sustainable In dairy and beef, Genus ABS leverages both milk, pork or beef production.
Our highly its sales and distribution networks directly skilled global technical services team help our with in-house employees, independent customers to achieve best results with our representatives or distributors to efficiently products.
This involves working closely with reach and serve our customers.
We take care customers on areas that include genetics, to ensure we understand what our customer production, health, nutrition services and expects and that we deliver a product and farm management.
service that meets these expectations.
For example, traditional dairy farmers rely on ` People development Genus products that provide consistent With a team of talented people who are results in an industry where high conception passionate about their work, at Genus rates are critical for success.
wearecommitted to making a positive difference for customers.
This means In the developing countries there is an ongoing skills development and strengthening increased demand for milk that is accelerating compensation and recognition schemes to the degree of technology used in dairy farming.
attract and retainthe right people for our In these markets, the products we supply have business.
We strive to create a meritocratic to meet two main goals: to enhance cow herd and performance driven culture where peopleleadership is highly valued.
productivity, with more milk per animal per year, and to expand the cow inventory.
TECHNICAL SERVICES Our sales and distribution efforts are supported by our experienced technical service teams.
Ensuring our products meet the expectations of our customers is critical for success.
Our global technical services teams not only ensure the product is right but also assist and advise our customers how to achieve the best results.
This creates a winning situation for both us and our customers and serves to enhance customer loyalty.
