Chief Executives Report Karim Bitar With a new vision, strategy and organisational structure now in place, we have made good progress in dening how Genus will seize the opportunity.
sei]ing tKe This is my first Chief Executives Report since together with a buoyant market in the first Ijoined Genus last September.
One of the key halfof the year, resulted in a 41% increase in factors that attracted me to the Company Asian profits.
wasmy belief that there was a significant STRATEGY opportunity for Genus in the world of animal During the past year, we undertook a genetic improvement.
A year into the role, Iam thorough review of the Groups strategy.
This as convinced as ever.
In fact, the scale of the involved an extensive analysis of our business: opportunity is larger and more exciting than examining the scale of the opportunity for Irst thought.
Genus and developing the strategy to seize that opportunity and the way in which we More importantly, with a new vision, strategy should be structured to deliver it.
Over 60 and organisational structure now in place, senior managers in the Group were actively wehave made good progress in dening how involved in this process.
Genus will seize the opportunity.
We have alsocreated a set of values that guide the As part of the process, we established a new Company in how we will operate in delivering We believe strongly vision for the Group: Pioneering animal on the new strategy.
in the philosophy genetic improvement to help nourish the world.
The vision confirms our intention to At the same time, we have been conscious of delivery through focus on our core strengths in animal genetic ofthe need to continue driving operational people.
performance in line with expectations.
Recordresults for the year to 30 June 2012 The strategy we developed to deliver on this demonstrate that we have achieved this.
vision is designed to take advantage of the very GROUP PERFORMANCE significant growth opportunities in the animal In a year in which market conditions were genetics markets: particularly in our existing generally favourable for Genus customers, dairy, porcine and beef animal genetics revenue for the year ended 30 June 2012 of markets, and especially in the BRIC countries 341.8m was up 10%.
Growth in volumes was Brazil, Russia, India and China.
To seize these the primary driver.
Porcine volumes were up opportunities, Genus will increasingly focus on 7% and bovine volumes up 8%.
Growth was the needs of its customers and adopt a particularly strong in Asia, Latin America and stronger marketplace orientation.
the porcine business in North America.
Important drivers in this strategy will be: Adjusted operating profit increased by 9% to ` 45.8m.
We achieved double digit growth in Accelerating Genus product lead profits in North America, Latin America and in overcompetitors: Asia.
In North America, the porcine business The R & D team now reports directly to performed particularly well, with royalty income me and will focus on quickening the up 10%.
Latin America benefited from good pace of genetic improvement and volume growth in both bovine and porcine.
ensuring that products meet specic Volumes also grew strongly in Asia.
08 Genus plc Annual Report 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY OVERVIEW ` Targeting key markets and segments: The Group will amend its segmental analysis of We will place particular emphasis results in the year ahead to align it to the new oncontinuing to grow in those large organisation structure.
Details of the results for markets and key segments in which the the year to 30 June 2012 in this new format are Group currently operates, as well as in available on the Genus website.
newer markets offering strong growth potential such as the BRIC countries.
Having established the new strategy, we are now focused on its execution.
A key part of ` Tailoring the business model: thestrategy is to take advantage of the strong We will ensure that our product and growth opportunities in the BRIC countries.
In service offering meets the specic the porcine market in China we envisage the requirements of the target market creation of joint ventures with leading integrated segment and that we implement best pork producers, who will utilise a significant practice in areas such as value capture proportion of the breeding animals produced across the Group.
by the joint venture to build their own pig production system.
We announced in July ` Strengthening core competencies: 2012the first such joint venture with BeSun, a We will place renewed emphasis on leading integrated pork producer in the Shaanxi strengthening core competencies Province.
We are also in discussions with other including marketing, key account potential partners for such joint ventures.
management, product development, OUR PEOPLE supply chain and technical services.
We believe strongly in the philosophy of delivery through people.
As a result, during Our prime focus will be on our existing the year we established a new global human markets of porcine, dairy and beef animal resources function and appointed Catherine genetics but we will also continue to explore Glickman as Group Human Resources HR opportunities in other species where we Director.
Catherine joined us from a 20-year believe we can add value.
career at Tesco, one of the five largest global retailers with over 500,000 employees in 14 As part of the strategy, we have also reviewed countries, where she was the Head of HR.
the way Genus is structured.
As a result, we Under her direction, we now have an implemented changes to the organisational extensive programme under way to ensure structure at the beginning of July 2012 to align wehave the right people in place to deliver the business with our customers and increase onour ambitions.
OUTLOOK The new structure involves three business Market conditions remained generally units: Genus PIC, Genus ABS and Genus favourable for Genus and its customers in the Asia covering the porcine and dairy AI beef year just ended.
However, towards the end of business in that region.
All three units report the period, markets became more challenging.
Genus PIC and Genus ABS This was in large part due to increased feed willfocus on meeting the unique needs of our costs in North America caused by drought porkcustomers and our dairy and AI beef conditions and by weakening global commodity customers respectively and ensure consistent dairy prices.
These conditions are likely to implementation of best practices.
Genus Asia impact a number of our customers in the year is a separate business unit which will drive ahead.
Although this may lead to some slowing growth in this fast-growing and increasingly in demand, we believe the strength of Genus important region.
In achieving this, Genus Asia business model will enable the Group to will collaborate closely with Genus PIC and continue to make progress in the year ahead.
Genus ABS, especially with their global supply chain, marketing and technical service teams.
Furthermore, with the new strategy and investments in R & D, the BRIC countries and In addition, R & D will continue to report to me core competencies to support delivery of the to ensure continued high focus on this critical strategy, we believe this strategy will enable area.
Working with me, the heads of these Genus to continue to make progress in the business units and the head of R & D together year ahead and will see an improving rate with the heads of the key support functions ofgrowth from 2014 onwards.
Finance, HR and Legal Company Secretariat will now form the Genus Executive Leadership Team GELT.
Its task is to lead thebusiness and implement the strategy KARIM BITAR goingforward.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE 3 SEPTEMBER 2012 Finally, as part of the strategy review, we have redened the values by which we will operate as a business.
More details of the values and strategy are set out on pages 10 to 11 and 14 to 19 respectively in this report.
Genus plc Annual Report 2012 09 Our Values Five principles and attributes guide everything we do.
Our values are integral to our role as a company that helps to meet a basic human requirement: nourishment.
customer-centric results-driven We are one team, dedicated We are proactive, to helping customers thrive.
determined to be the We anticipate their needs bestwe can and exceed and help them seize expectations.
We redene opportunities, acting as standards for ourselves, We held 40 focus partners to improve quality, ourcustomers and our groups around the efficiency and output.
Every one of us world with Genus not adding value to our takes pride in delivering the staff at all levels customers, we stop and highest level of performance.
If something can be improved, confirmed the five we nd a simpler, better way values that guide todoit.
KARIM BITAR CHIEF EXECUTIVE 10 Genus plc Annual Report 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY OVERVIEW pioneering people-focused responsible We are an innovative, We are a business rootedin We are ethical to our forward-thinking company.
science but built around our core.
Wefeel a deep We have the courage and people.
We inspire, challenge senseof responsibility to confidence to explore new andsupport everyone ourcustomers, colleagues, ideas andthe energy and toperform, develop and animals, communities and enthusiasm to deliver them.
We treat others with shareholders.
We are We are creative, tenacious respect and we invite views honest, reliable and and resourceful in every and feedback to help trustworthy.
whatwe say and do whatwe say.
