Directors Report The Directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Group, together with the Financial Statements and Auditors Report, for the year ended 30 June 2012.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES The principal activities of the Group comprise the global application of quantitative genetics and biotechnology to animal breeding in porcine and dairy articial insemination AI beef sectors.
The principal subsidiary and associated undertakings are listed in note 36 to the FinancialStatements.
BUSINESS REVIEW A review of the business of the Group during the financial year ended 30 June 2012, the position of the Group at the end of the year and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group can be found within the Company Overview and Business Review on pages 2to 37.
The Company Overview and Business Review also includes details of expected future developments in the business of the Group, an indication of its activities in the eld of research and development and details of the key performance indicators used by management, together with details of the Companys approach to corporate responsibility.
The Company Overview and Business Review also contain a description of treasury policies and financial instruments used by the Group, which should be read in conjunction with note 25 to the Financial Statements.
DIVIDENDS The Directors recommend an increase in the final dividend for the year ended 30 June 2012 of 10% to 10.1 pence per ordinary share.
Subject to shareholder approval at the Companys Annual General Meeting to be held on 8November 2012, this dividend will be paid on 23 November 2012 to ordinary shareholders onthe register on 9 November 2012 and, together with the interim dividend of 4.5 pence paid on 30 March 2012, makes a total dividend of 14.6 pence for the year 2011: 13.3 pence.
DIRECTORS The Directors, who served throughout the year and to the date of signing of this report were asfollows: Bob Lawson Non-Executive Chairman Karim Bitar Chief Executive appointed 1 September 2011 John Worby Group Finance Director Nigel Turner Senior Non-Executive Director Mike Buzzacott Non-Executive Director Barry Furr Non-Executive Director On 25 May 2011, the Company announced the retirement of Richard Wood with effect from 30 September 2011 and the appointment of Karim Bitar as a Director with effect from 1 September 2011 and as Chief Executive of the Company with effect from 30September2011.
In compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors will offer themselves for annual re-election at the next Annual General Meeting.
The Board considers that all Directors make an effective and valuable contribution to the Board and demonstrate commitment to their respective roles.
Biographical details on the Directors of the Company can be found on pages 38 and 39.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Acts and related legislation.
The articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The powers of Directors are described in the Matters Reserved for the Board, copies of which are available on request, and the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 47 to 51.
42 Genus plc Annual Report 2012 COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS INTERESTS The Directors who held ofce at 30 June 2012 had the following interests in the shares of theCompany: At 30 June At 30 June 2012 2011 Number Number Bob Lawson 5,150 5,150 Karim Bitar 17,551 John Worby 10,000 10,000 Nigel Turner 15,000 15,000 Mike Buzzacott 3,000 3,000 Barry Furr 8,000 8,000 Total 58,701 41,150 No changes took place in the interests of Directors between 30 June 2012 and the date of thisreport.
DIRECTORS SHARE OPTIONS AND SHARE AWARDS Details of Directors share options and share awards are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 64 to 66.
SUPPLIER PAYMENT POLICY The Companys policy is to settle terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, ensure that suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and ensure that the Company abides by the terms of payment.
Trade creditors of the Group at 30 June 2012 were equivalent to 26 days purchases 2011: 25 days, based on the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers during the year.
CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS During the year, the Group made no charitable donations 2011: 6,150.
CAPITAL STRUCTURE Details of the Companys authorised and issued share capital, together with details of the movements in the Companys issued share capital during the year are shown in note 30.
The Company has one class of ordinary share.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
There are no specic restrictions either on the size of a holding or on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
Details of the Companys employee share schemes are set out in note 29.
In connection with these schemes, the Genus plc Employee benefit Trust holds shares in the Company from time to time and abstains from voting in respect of any such shares held.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS As at 30 August 2012, the following material interests in the Companys issued ordinary share capital were held: Lansdowne Partners 12.67%, NFU Mutual 7.80%, Baillie Gifford & Co 7.21%, Standard Life Investments 5.48%, M&G Investments 5.37% and Legal & General Investment Management 3.83%.
No other person has notied an interest in the ordinary shares of the Company which is required to be disclosed to the Company.
AUTHORITY TO ACQUIRE THE COMPANYS OWN SHARES At the end of the year, the Directors had authority, under the shareholders resolutions of 10November 2011, until the earlier of 18 months after the passing of such resolutions or the conclusion of the Companys next Annual General Meeting, to buy back shares on the open market to a limit of 599,330 in nominal value, representing 10% of the Companys issued share capital as at the date of the resolution at a price between 10 pence exclusive of expenses and 105% of the average of the middle market quotation for ordinary shares in the Company for the five business days prior to the date of purchase exclusive of expenses.
No shares were bought back by the Company in the period since 11 November 2011 and the date of this report.
Genus plc Annual Report 2012 43 Directors Report continued CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Companys Corporate Governance Statement is set out on pages 47 to 51 and forms part of this Directors Report.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Details of the Companys approach to corporate social responsibility are contained in the Corporate Social Responsibility section of the Business Review on page 36.
ORDINARY AND SPECIAL BUSINESS AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 8 November 2012 resolutions 1 to 11 are termedordinary business, while resolutions 12 to 15 will be special business.
The ordinary business includes: ` approval of the Companys audited Financial Statements and Directors and Auditors Reports for the year ended 30 June 2012 resolution 1 ` approval of the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 June 2012 resolution 2 ` declaration of a final dividend of 10.1 pence per ordinary share resolution 3 ` re-election of Directors in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code resolutions4to 9 ` re-appointment of the Companys auditors and the agreement of their remuneration resolution 10 ` grant of authority to the Directors to allot authorised and unissued ordinary shares up to anaggregate nominal amount of 1,569,374 without having to obtain prior approval from shareholders on each occasion resolution 11 The special business covers the following matters: ` an amendment to the rules of the Genus plc 2004 Performance Share Plan the PSP resolution 12 ` partial disapplication of pre-emption rights attaching to the Companys shares resolution 13 ` renewal of the Companys authority to buy back the Companys shares resolution 14 ` the ability to convene general meetings other than Annual General Meetings on 14 days notice resolution 15 The resolutions are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting on pages 124 to 127.
The passing of resolution 11, as an ordinary resolution, will permit the Directors for a period expiring at the conclusion of the Companys next Annual General Meeting to allot shares up toamaximum aggregate nominal amount of 1,569,374 being 15,693,749 ordinary shares of10pence each representing 26% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company asat30 June 2012.
The Directors do not have an intention to exercise this authority at the presenttime.
The Company currently holds no shares in treasury.
The passing of resolution 12, as an ordinary resolution, will enable the Company to provide the Directors with the opportunity to earn an upper quartile total remuneration quantum, subject to the delivery of very demanding performance targets.
The performance targets have been set in light of the Companys above-market, long-term growth aspirations which were identied as part of the comprehensive strategic review undertaken by the Company.
specifically, the Remuneration Committee of the Company is proposing to amend the PSP to increase the aggregate market value of shares over which an individual may receive an award of shares in any one financial year from 125% of salary to 200% of salary.
All other aspects of the PSP will remain unchanged.
The Remuneration Committee has consulted with the Companys major shareholders on the proposed amendment to the PSP.
The following information is intended to provide further background for shareholders but is not subject to shareholder approval.
Further details in respect of the award policy that is anticipated to operate in the current financial year for the Executive Directors are set out on pages 60 and 61.
With regard to the 201213 financial year, the Company intends to grant awards under the PSP with a market value of 125% of salary to the Chief Executive officer and 100% of salary to the Group Finance Director, subject to the adjusted earnings per share growth targets described below, measured over three financial years ending 30 June 2015.
This range of targets is consistent with those that operated for the awards granted during the year under review.
44 Genus plc Annual Report 2012 COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Per annum growth % of additional Per annum growth % of additional inadjustedEPS award vesting inadjustedEPS award vesting RPI 4% Nil RPI 7% 60% RPI 4% 30% RPI 8% 70% RPI 5% 40% RPI 9% 80% RPI 6% 50% RPI 10% 90% RPI 11% 100% Growth in adjusted EPS over the three-year performance period will be computed based on a simple average annual growth rate.
A linear scale will be applied when performance falls between the bands.
The above range of targets is considered appropriate to continue to provide a clear incentive to deliver on our long established growth trajectory.
More demanding performance targets are intended to apply to the portion of the 2012 awards which is granted in excess of the Executive Directors awards described above, with both Executive Directors to receive additional awards of 75% of salary.
In other words, for the 201213 financial year, it is intended that, subject to receiving shareholder approval for the increase to the individual limit, the Chief Executive will be granted a total award of 200% of salary and the Group Finance Director will be granted a total award of 175% of salary.
The performance targets to apply to the additional 75% of salary awards are considered to be aligned with the higher and, in part, aspirational long-term growth rates that have been identied during the recent strategic review.
Their delivery is expected to require accelerated growth in a number of areas e. g. accelerating the pace of genetic improvements, operating a more tailored business model and further expansion in the large markets of Brazil, Russia, India and China.
However, it is considered appropriate to provide an incentive to align executives with delivery of the revised long-term strategy.
The targets set out below for the additional awards of 75% of salary therefore take due account of the conclusions of the strategic review and will be measured over three financial years ending 30 June 2015: Per annum growth % of additional Per annum growth % of additional in adjusted EPS award vesting in adjusted EPS award vesting RPI 9% Nil RPI 15% 64% RPI 9% 10% RPI 16% 71% RPI 10% 20% RPI 17% 78% RPI 11% 35% RPI 18% 86% RPI 12% 42% RPI 19% 93% RPI 13% 49% RPI 20% 100% RPI 14% 57% Growth in adjusted EPS over the three-year performance period will be computed based on a simple average annual growth rate.
In addition to the targets described above, the awards shall also be subject to an underpin thatrequires the Remuneration Committee to be satisfied that, in its opinion, the financial performance of the Company over the performance period fairly reects the progress made by the Company against its strategic business targets.
If this is not considered to be the case, the Remuneration Committee has the power to scale back the extent to which an award may vest.
The Remuneration Committee will review the ongoing appropriateness of the performance conditions prior to granting awards each year such that any revisions, in the reasonable opinion of the Remuneration Committee, do not result in a revised target that is any less challenging than those described above in light of the circumstances at the relevant time.
The passing of resolution 13, a special resolution, will permit the Directors for a period expiring at the conclusion of the Companys next Annual General Meeting to make issues of equity securities for cash by way of rights issue or similar pre-emptive offer.
In addition, they may issue equity securities for cash on a non-pre-emptive basis, provided the shares so issued are limited to shares with a nominal value of 301,478 being 5% of the equity share capital in issue as at 30June 2012.
Genus plc Annual Report 2012 45 Directors Report continued The passing of resolution 14, a special resolution, will permit the Directors, until the earlier of 18months after its passing or the conclusion of the Companys next Annual General Meeting to buy back shares on the open market to a limit of 602,956 in nominal value, representing 10% of the Companys issued share capital as at 30 June 2012.
The minimum price payable per share will be 10 pence exclusive of expenses and the maximum will be limited to 105% of the average of the middle market quotation for ordinary shares in the Company for the five business days prior to the date of purchase exclusive of expenses.
The passing of resolution 15, a special resolution, will allow the Company to call a general meeting, other than an Annual General Meeting, on not less than 14 clear days notice subject to certain conditions being satisfied as required by section 307A Companies Act 2006.
The annual passing of this resolution will allow the Company to continue to call general meetings on 14 clear days notice following the implementation of the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 that requires all general meetings of the Company to be held on 21 days notice unless such a resolution is passed.
We recognise that many shareholders are unable to attend the Annual General Meeting in person, so, in a departure from previous years, all resolutions will be decided on a poll rather than a show of hands, so that all votes tendered, whether in person, by proxy or through theregistered owner, are taken into account.
A poll reects the number of shares held by a shareholder, whether or not the shareholder is able to attend the Annual General Meeting.
For the above reasons the Directors believe that a poll is a more democratic procedure and is in accordance with the best practice adopted by many other major companies.
The results of the polls will be announced to the London Stock Exchange as soon as practicable following the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting and will also be published on the Companys website after the meeting.
Shareholders attending the meeting in person will have the opportunity to ask questions on the Annual General Meeting resolutions and the Companys business.
In the opinion of the Directors, the passing of these resolutions is in the best interests of the shareholders.
The Directors unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour of all the proposed resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
GOING CONCERN As described more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement on page 67, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the Board of Directors continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
PROVISION OF INFORMATION TO THE COMPANYS AUDITORS Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Annual Report confirms that: ` so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and ` the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section418 Companies Act 2006.
APPOINTMENT OF AUDITORS Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in ofce as auditors and a resolution toreappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Belvedere House Basing View Basingstoke RG21 4HG By order of the Board IAN FARRELLY GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY & GENERAL COUNSEL 3 SEPTEMBER 2012 46 Genus plc Annual Report 2012
