Our Strategy Genus has developed a robust strategy to capture the very significant growth opportunities in the animal genetics market, particularly in the BRIC countries.
To achieve this, Genus will increasingly focus on customer needs and adopt a stronger market place orientation.
The detailed strategies to support this call for continuing commitment to R & D and focus on key markets and segments while strengthening key competencies.
Genus new strategy focuses on 4 key elements We have developed 1.
Increasing genetic control and product differentiation a robust strategy Increasing our control over genetics to help us create differentiated products for customers built around a stronger market 2.
Targeting key markets and segments place orientation to Expanding into emerging markets and targeted customer groups, ensure we capture the whilststrengthening our position in core markets opportunities in global animal genetics.
Tailoring the business model Shaping our product and service around the needs of specic markets and customer segments.
Delivering the right product, right level of service, at the right time 4.
Strengthening the core competencies Making sure we have the right skills and systems in place across critical areas of our business STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK Our strategy provides the collective We have built our vision for Genus on a actionsthat determine how we will capture rmfoundation.
We are focused on providing animal genetic Guiding everything we do are our values: the improvement on a global basis and we already fundamental beliefs that enable people to have leading global market shares in each of make the right choices when faced with our three current business sectors, pork, difficult decisions.
There are very significant opportunities to grow in these three areas The result is a vision, strategy and values andbeyond.
that are unique to Genus: ones that will continue to set the Company apart from the competition and maintain our leadership in the years ahead.
14 Genus plc Annual Report 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY OVERVIEW Increasing genetic control Tailoring the business 1 3 and product differentiation model A top Genus priority is increasing control As we focus on target markets and segments, overthe genetics we market and ensuring we recognise that every geographic market or ourproducts maintain a lead over those of customer segment has its differences and ourcompetitors through increased product Genus remains sensitive to them.
The starting point is an For example, in the US, emphasis is on pigs obsessive focus on establishing our customers that produce good bacon, while Spain and requirements and then building a R & D France prefer leaner meat.
For the Chinese, programme and supply chain.
This ensures good avour prevails.
Through our porcine ourrapid ability to bring to market products development programme, we have the ability to and services that meet or exceed tailor our product offering and better meet the customerexpectations.
specic requirements of these differing markets.
To achieve this, we will explore through Our emphasis extends beyond the products universities and external research organisations we offer to factors such as the level and type of the latest developments in our chosen elds service we provide.
We are establishing global and will invest in proprietary technologies, technical service teams both in our porcine where relevant.
This includes the ability to andin our dairy and AI beef businesses.
breed resilience against the diseases that can Theseteams will ensure we offer the right impact commercial viability and productivity.
service at the right time to ensure we exceed Equally important are our efforts to leverage customer expectations.
and accelerate the use of genomics in our In our porcine business we evaluate carefully porcine and bovine breeding programmes.
when is the right time to use the royalty model Such technologies are widening the gap and when to continue with direct sales.
And in between Genus and our competitors and dairy and AI beef, we will continue to evaluate emphasising differentiation.
Through this when to operate an owned business and process, our technological advances are when to use distributors.
producing animals that have increased value for our customers in terms of factors such as prolicacy and feed conversion.
Strengthening core In addition, under the gender skew element 4 competencies ofour research programme we are actively pursuing sexed semen R & D to deliver an To implement our strategy, we are improved and moreefcient product offering.
strengthening each of the five following corecompetencies that set Genus apart: i marketing and sales ii product & Targeting key markets development iii supply chain iv technical 2 services and v people development.
and segments This involves gearing up our key account The success of Genus rests, in large part, on management on a global basis to offer the Companys ability to target the right key theimproved service our large enterprise markets and segments.
We are also sharpening In the porcine part of our business, we are our focus on product development through focusing on two links in the value chain: proprietary technologies.
integrators, who produce, slaughter and The strengthening of our world-class supply brand their products: and the farrow-to-nish chain in our porcine and dairy and AI beef segment, which delivers stock to third parties businesses is also a major priority.
On the for further processing.
We are ensuring that technical side, we are increasingly providing we have the right products for each of these the sort of service that allows customers to segments in each of the critical geographies.
extract the full potential of our products.
To In the dairy and AI beef business, we recognise ensure we achieve this consistently throughout and target the growth that is occurring in larger our business, we are establishing global dairy customers who focus more on the scale technical service teams.
We also seek continuing And, throughout Genus, we are enhancing the growth in the fast-expanding BRIC economies, skills and expertise of our people through while retaining strong links with reliable training and recruitment.
We are also using customers in places such as the US and our global presence to transfer people and Europe.
There, steady business will help skills well established in developed markets fundour expansion elsewhere.
into the teams we are building in the developing markets.
THE RESULT Our strategy envisages a higher level of capital investment to support the planned growth: however, we expect such investment to remain modest in the context of the Group as a whole.
We are also planning increased investment in our core competencies and people to ensure we are well placed to execute on our growth plans.
As a result of the planned investment, we expect the delivery of our plans to enable the Group to achieve an improving rate of growth from 2014 onwards.
Genus plc Annual Report 2012 15 Our Strategy in Practice Porcine At Genus PIC we are expanding our presence with the worlds largest integrated pork producers.
This involves a full understanding of varying customer needs and a passionate commitment todelivering the best products to meet them.
To succeed on a global basis, we are making Genus PIC understands customer economics every effort to attract the most talented team.
and uses genetics to deliver better, more efficient pigs with greater carcass value.
The porcine business, like any other, has cycles during which profitability, particularly for our customers, is tested by a reduction ofprices or increase on input cost.
At such times, it is imperative to drive better results through more resilient business models.
Increasing genetic control Tailoring the 1 and product differentiation 3 businessmodel WHAT WE PLAN TO DO IN 2013 WHAT WE PLAN TO DO IN 2013 ` ` We will continue investing in proprietary Improving our understanding of the different technologies that accelerate genetic progress and needs of our customer segments will enable us increase the value we deliver to our customers.
to continuously tailor our products and services and exceed customer expectations.
` Imputation in genomics will be used to further We are establishing ` improve our product differentiation.
Our We are establishing a global technical service a global technical genomics work to date shows impressive team that will assist in ensuring we deliver the results in economically relevant traits, with best product and service tailored to specic service team that accuracy of breeding values increasing by customers and markets.
This will include our willassist in ensuring 71%for litter size, and by 58% for pig mortality.
fast growing business in China.
we deliver the best ` ` We will start a two-year global programme to Large integrated customers have product and service reduce the dissemination lag the time it takes to enthusiastically adopted our royalty model for get the latest genetics to the market in the most cost effectively improving the performance of tailored to specific relevant markets and at our customers systems their pig production systems.
We will continue customers and worldwide.
Our target is to reduce the lag by expanding this model, already well established one full year.
throughout our customer base in North markets.
America, by extending it to other geographies tothe benefit of customers and Genus alike.
BILL CHRISTIANSON CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER, GENUS PIC Targeting key markets Strengthening core 2 4 and segments competencies WHAT WE PLAN TO DO IN 2013 WHAT WE PLAN TO DO IN 2013 ` ` With presence in more than 30 countries, we Our technical service group will continue to will continue solidifying our leading position in realise the full potential of our genetics.
most markets across the Americas, especially ` Genus PIC will continue to attract and retain the US.
We will expand our presence in Brazil, thebest talent in the industry.
Russia, Germany, Spain and China.
` Leveraging Genus strengths in the Americas will enable us to build success in the worlds largest integrated and production systems.
16 Genus plc Annual Report 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY OVERVIEW Dairy and AI Beef Genus ABS leads the world in dairy and AI beef semen genetics.
The Company has a strong and successful development programme and unrivalled global coverage.
By acting locally, Genus ABS leverages strengths in people and technology with the highest standards of innovation and service that transcend national borders.
In some countries, we are seeing an accelerated growth in the scale of dairy farming.
This offers exciting opportunities to achieve efficiency gains as well as the benets of specialisation.
Increasing genetic control Tailoring the 1 and product differentiation 3 businessmodel WHAT WE PLAN TO DO IN 2013 WHAT WE PLAN TO DO IN 2013 ` ` We are fully committed to deliver the best We acknowledge the differences among genetics of the industry.
The application of our customer segments and will tailor our product new technologies will drive a step change in our offers accordingly.
This will involve ongoing customers farms.
renement of our range as well as timely We are fully deliveries in required volumes.
` We expect to sustain the leadership of committed to deliver ` ourproduct line and to continue meeting We will establish a global technical serviceteam, demand for the highest ranked bulls in leveraging off our successful experience in the best genetics of theindustry.
markets such as Mexico, tobring a better all the industry.
` We will establish a global marketing team that will RICARDO CAMPOS facilitate further improved coordination between CHIEF OPERATING customer needs and product development.
OFFICER, GENUS ABS ` We will seize the opportunity to support the coordination of the supply chain with ever-better products and people dedicated to making a positive change in what remains a very traditional industry.
Targeting key markets Strengthening core 2 4 and segments competencies WHAT WE PLAN TO DO IN 2013 WHAT WE PLAN TO DO IN 2013 ` ` Genus ABS will expand presence in developing We are putting increasing emphasis on further markets, with the BRIC economies and Argentina developing skills in key account management, offering the mostpromising opportunities.
technical service, product development and the supply chain.
` At the same time we will sustain our successes in very competitive countries such as Mexico, Italy, France and the UK.
` We will continue to recognise and accommodate the differing needs of traditional farmers and large dairy systems, with a particular focus on ensuring we capture the growth in the latter through targeted product and service offerings.
` In North America, we will focus our efforts in the large enterprise segment.
Genus plc Annual Report 2012 17 Our Strategy in Practice Asia The worlds largest continent, extending across CASE STUDY GROWING OUR PORCINE BUSINESS INCHINA 30%of the globes land mass is home to 3.9 billion In Chinas pork business, we are looking people, or 60% of the worlds population.
And that into joint ventures with large food population is growing, as are incomes and appetites.
companies that are vertically integrating For Genus, the opportunities are unrivalled.
We are also considering alliances with feed companies that are moving downstream into production and later bringing their pork to the market.
Our recently-signed joint venture JV agreement with BeSun, a leading company inthe Chinese pork market, expands Genus porcine business in China and is in line with our new corporate strategy.
Genus will China alone accounts for almost 50% of the become a 49% partner in the JV through a pigs in the world.
India has 15% of the dairy cash investment of approximately 8.7m.
And Russia, which spans Europe and JV will own a recently completed state-of-theAsia, is one of the globes largest importers art nucleus farm.
We will provide, over the ofall animal protein.
next nine months, pure line porcine stock from Genus PICs global high-health Food availability, safety and quality are critical pyramidand we will manage the farm.
This objectives for each of these countries, with arrangement will safeguard the Companys self-sufciency in animal protein production intellectual property and form a framework for featuring as an important element of their a royalty revenue model similar to those in national plans.
Genus Asia is becoming an operation in other key porcine geographies.
increasingly significant feature in those plans, building our business in pork, dairy and beef.
The JV will produce grandparent sows, withthe output from the farm being used proportionally by the JV partners.
Once in full operation, the herd will underpin production of 10 million slaughter pigs per year.
Increasing genetic control Tailoring the We are well 1 3 and product differentiation businessmodel established but will WHAT WE PLAN TO DO IN 2013 WHAT WE PLAN TO DO IN 2013 continue topursue ` ` We will work to develop a differentiated product In China, we will continue to pursue joint venture growth in a number of pipeline for key countries such as Russia, India opportunities with large food companies that are and China.
In porcine, this will be through our integrating vertically in pork production, such as Asian markets.
In dairy, the recently agreed joint venture with BeSun.
we will ensure the product from our localstuds is ` JERRY THOMPSON In dairy, we will expand our distribution tailored to the individual market requirements.
CHIEF OPERATING incountries such as China to target large OFFICER, GENUS ASIA ` We will work to ensure that the latest genetics accounts.
In India we will continue the are available in specic markets, through more development of production and distribution rapid dissemination.
channels to serve this more fragmented market.
` Our focus on large customers will be leveraged through the targeted use of specialist technical services, calling on the global team where appropriate to ensure we bring our world leading expertise to our key customers in Asia.
Targeting key markets Strengthening core 2 4 and segments competencies WHAT WE PLAN TO DO IN 2013 WHAT WE PLAN TO DO IN 2013 ` ` We are well established but will continue We will leverage the knowledge and experience topursue growth in a number of Asian markets.
of the Genus Group global teams, including Genus is placing particular emphasis on China, internal staff transfer andassignments.
` We are rapidly building our teams in China, Russia and India to ensure we have the right resources in place to support our ambitious growth plans.
This includes putting emphasis onfurther developing skills in key account management and technical service.
18 Genus plc Annual Report 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY OVERVIEW Research and Development For Genus, R & D is crucial for growing our businesses and honing the Companys competitive edge.
The focus is on meeting, and anticipating, customer needs and aligning technical advances to business strategy in the areas of porcine, dairyand beef.
GENUS PRODUCT ADVANTAGE Just as Genus today is reaping the benets oftechnologies developed a decade ago, in The quality of Genus science is one of the five to ten years time, todays R & D efforts Companys great differentiators.
To determine will enable us to maintain Genus leadership precisely how R & D sets us apart from the inevery aspect of our operations.
We will competition, we regularly benchmark our continue to accelerate speed to market performance.
For example, in porcine, feed through close involvement with Genus costs represent about 75% of the cost of marketing, sales and technical service production.
At Genus, we regularly collect groupsand, of course, our customers.
feed efficiency differences from head-to-head trials in the marketplace.
Genus PICs Our research programme is focused on three products consistently rank first compared core platforms: tocompetitor products.
We continuously benchmark our value against Disease resilience our competitors.
1 FEED CONVERSION RATIO ` We understand the impact of major disease outbreaks in the animal world, including foot 3.0 and mouth, BSE, swine fever and Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome.
2.8 Genus is working on research projects to The quality of Genus deliveranimals that are more robust or less 2.6 science is one of the affected by diseases of this kind.
Gender skewing 2.0 DR DENNY FUNK 2 CHIEF SCIENTIFIC OFFICER ` There is an already established market Source: Genus 2010 product validation summary forsexedsemen that relies on third party technology.
Weare actively pursuing sexed Similarly, in dairy, Genus ABS has the most semen R & D to deliver an improved and more efficient product offering.
bulls at the top of the US TPI rankings.
And while the number of Genus top bulls is a sign ` Sexed semen offers even greater potential value of success, so is strike rate.
Ours is the best in countries like India.
There, demand for milk is in the industry.
Our aim is to double the number of heifers available for replacement or In dairy we have delivered product leadership.
herd expansion, while minimising the number ofmale calf births.
TOP 100 HOLSTEIN BULLS FOR TOTAL PERFORMANCE INDEX TPI, Genomic selection APRIL 2012 3 30 28 25 ` One of the most important tools in our core genetic 22 improvement programme, genomic selection, 20 21 enables the identication of genetic markers, that 15 can lead to significant breed improvements.
This 14 10 results in an increase in the frequency of identifying 10 4 5 elite individuals to use in breeding programmes.
2 0 ` Over a decade of development in this area has reduced costs and widened application to a much bigger proportion of the breeding population.
Genus plc Annual Report 2012 19 PIC A PIC B PIC C PIC D PIC E PIC F Competitor 1 Competitor 2 Competitor 3 Competitor 4 Competitor 5 ABS CRI Select Accel Alta Semex Others Market Overview Growth in demand is greatest in developing countries, with China, amongst other developing countries, at an inection point in pork and milk consumption and production.
The demand is primarily driven by an increase in urbanisation andeconomic growth.
GLOBAL TRENDS MILK PRODUCED PER COW YEAR Income growth is Demand for animal protein is outstripping KG supply and the world has shifted from an era fastest in countries 10,000 of structural surplus to structural shortage of with large populations, grain to sustain the growth in animal protein.
8,000 and this is driving This is leading to a period of higher meat 6,000 demand growth prices.
With limited and more expensive input 4,000 resources, animal production has to increase forfood.
yield by a better and higher use of genetics 2,000 and other key technologies.
0 Within these macro trends, milk, beef anddairy prices and feed costs uctuate Source: Genus 2010 according to short-term demand and other factors such as weather.
Inevitably, countries with local access to large MEETING INCREASING DEMAND volume of grains and or grass will continue Whilst grain prices have been volatile due leading the cost of production and capture toweather uctuations from year to year, theexport opportunity in milk, pork and beef.
theunderlying trend in recent years has Therefore, the US and Brazil are likely to beenfor grain prices to rise because of higher continue to lead in pork and beef exports.
demand and the additional use of grain as NewZealand, the US, Argentina and selected anenergy source to help reduce reliance on countries in EU will lead in whole milk powder, hydrocarbons.
Ethanol now demands about butter and cheese.
40% of the US corn production which is one third of the worlds total.
Before the year 2000, Income growth is fastest in countries with ethanol demanded less than 10% of the US large populations, and this is driving demand corn production.
Since then, corn prices growth for food.
For instance China has the havemore than doubled from a range of desire to be self-sufficient in the production of $2.50$4.00 per bushel to a new level pork.
The nation already accounts for almost of$5.00$8.00.
This aim will generate a higher demand for grains, putting Given such market constraints, one of the higher pressure on prices.
Within the other keysolutions is to increase yield through factors that contribute to efficiency in animal technologies such as improved genetics.
production, genetics plays the most significant There is enormous scope for this, with role in driving cheaper cost of production variations of more than 100% in productivity andbetter quality of proteins.
Genus will when comparing pork or milk yield across haveasignicant role in helping to redress different countries.
contribute to productivity rises include accessto greater use of advanced nutrition PORCINE and better production practices.
Pork consumption is growing annually in a CHINAS URBAN GROWTH range of 1.52.5% and China accounts for 19702020 estimated 8090% of that growth in the last decade.
TheUS accounts for over 35% of the worlds 40% 51% exports, and keeps growing, with competitive 67% 80% production cost unsurpassed.
As a result there 82% is a correlation between China and US market 80% 60% 49% prices.
We had higher prices in the first half of Rural our scal year but during the second half 33% 20% JanJune, pork prices fell back in most 18% 20% Urban exportand import markets.
Source: Data is from National Bureau of Statistics and Ministry of Public Security 20 Genus plc Annual Report 2012 US Netherlands Japan Great Britain Argentina China Russia New Zealand Brazil India 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2020 COMPANY OVERVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS REVIEW This trend was attributable to an increase inproduction in China, the US and Brazil.
It was particularly noticeable in China, where production is less efficient and pork prices are high and volatile due to disease-related supplydisruptions.
INTERNATIONAL PORK PRICES PIG CARCASS PER KG 3.3.
0 00 of commodity dairy products including cheese, The promotion of 0.50 butter and whole milk powder.
0.5 vertically integrated 0 0.0 The decline in China has been less dramatic, food systems is likely Jul 10 Jul 11 Jul 09 Jul 12 since the country is still importing large to continue and is product volumes to ll growing demand Brazil USA China EU driving strong demand formilk and its derivatives.
Source: China Swine, CIRCA, CME and IEA for porcine genetics.
As occurs with other commodities, lower Within the EU, new standards in sow housing pricesand higher input cost are driving supply are likely to cause a market readjustment.
adjustments of milk production in the short While some countries, including the UK, term.
Global milk prices are expected to recover Denmark and the Netherlands, already during 2013 and continue the upward trend comply with the new regulations, in others, seen over the last four years that is primarily such as Spain and Poland, the transformation explained by an increased demand from is more expensive.
This is likely to mean a importing countries like China and Russia.
decline in pork production of as much as 5%.
INTERNATIONAL DAIRY PRICES More significant is the transformation in PENCE PER LITRE China, which represents about half of world pork production and consumption.
There, 40 40 35 35 withurbanisation up to 50% that translates into 30 30 higher disposable income, demand for pork is 25 25 growing: pork is the preferred protein source.
20 20 To encourage increased supply to meet 15 15 demand, the government is supporting the 10 10 development of large integrated pork producers 55 to replace traditional small farmsteads.
Large 00 scale pig producers now account for 37% Jul 09 Jul 10 Jul 11 Jul 12 ofpigs to market: three years ago they represented only 25% of the total market.
Brazil USA China Russia EU Av Source: CEPEA, China MOA, CME, Dairy Co and Russian Ministry of Agriculture Thepromotion of vertically integrated food systems is likely to continue and is driving strong demand for porcine genetics.
Cattle prices have declined in Brazil over the last six months, a trend likely to change by DAIRY AND AI BEEF late2012 when Brazils short-term production International dairy prices have risen over recent increase comes to an end.
Prices in the US years from the lows experienced in 2008 and are expected to remain rm, supported by remained at relatively high but stable levels over theimpact of the hot weather and drought much of 2011 and into early 2012.
Much of the conditions in much of the US.
strength in the global dairy markets is attributed to a combination of strong demand in the INTERNATIONAL CATTLE PRICES Russian Federation and South East Asia, and LIVE CATTLE PER KG constrained supplies from New Zealand and 2.0 2.0 Australia.
Imports of milk powders to China 1.8 1.8 have soared, fuelled by rising income but also 1.6 1.6 1.4 1.4 food safety concerns, in the aftermath of the 1.2 1.2 milk adulteration incidents.
The global dairy 1.0 1.0 sector is entering a decade of relatively high 0.8 0.8 0.6 0.6 prices, continuing strong demand, but also 0.4 0.4 higher production costs and possibly 0.2 0.2 0.0 0 continued market variability.
Jul 09 Jul 10 Jul 11 Jul 12 During 2012, dairy prices have declined Source: CEPEA and CME overthe last six months to a level last seen in Brazil USA Genus plc Annual Report 2012 21
