GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Other statutory information.
EA The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
In Annual General Meeting addition, GKN has a sponsored Level 1 American Depositary Receipt The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 2.00 pm on ADR programme for which the Bank of New York Mellon acts as Thursday, 2 May 2013 at the Cavendish Conference Centre, 22 Duchess Depositary.
The ADRs trade in the US over-the-counter market where Mews, London W1G 9DT.
The notice of meeting, which includes the each ADR represents one GKN ordinary share.
special business to be transacted at the meeting, is included within the AGM circular.
The circular also contains an explanation of all the Rights and obligations attaching to shares resolutions to be considered at the AGM.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends when declared, to receive the Company's annual report, to attend and speak Dividend The Directors recommend a final dividend of 4.8p per ordinary share in at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
respect of the year ended 31 December 2012, payable to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 12 April 2013.
This, together On a show of hands at a meeting of GKN, every member present holding with the interim dividend of 2.4p paid in September 2012, brings the ordinary shares has one vote.
On a poll taken at a meeting, every total dividend for the year to 7.2p.
member present and entitled to vote has one vote in respect of each ordinary share held by him.
In the case of joint shareholders only the Issued share capital vote of the senior joint holder who votes and any proxy duly authorised In July 2012 the Company conducted an equity placing of 70 million by him may be counted.
Shares held in treasury carry no voting rights.
ordinary shares of 10p each at a price of 2 per share to raise a total of 140 million before expenses.
The trustee of the Trust does not exercise any voting rights in respect of shares held by the Trust.
Once the shares are transferred from the Trust At 31 December 2012, the issued share capital of the Company consisted to share scheme participants, the participants are entitled to exercise of 1,660,529,859 ordinary shares of 10p 2011: 1,590,529,859 shares, the voting rights attaching to those shares.
During the year a total of 9,145,783 ordinary The Trust waived payment of the 2011 final dividend in May 2012 and the shares were transferred out of treasury in connection with the exercise 2012 interim dividend in September 2012. of options by participants under the Companys share option schemes 2011: 176,194 shares.
Full details of the rights and obligations attaching to the Companys shares are contained in the articles of association.
GKN operates an Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust the Trust to satisfy the vesting and exercise of awards of ordinary shares made under Restrictions on the transfer of securities the Groups share-based incentive arrangements.
As at 31 December 2012, Whilst the Board has the power under the articles of association to the Trust held 3,111,998 shares 2011: 2,219,116 shares, being 0.19% of refuse to register a transfer of shares, there are no restrictions on the the Companys issued share capital 2011: 0.14% including treasury transfer of shares.
A total of 1,300,000 shares with a nominal value of 0.1 million Under the Companys articles, the Directors have power to suspend were purchased by the Trust in the open market during 2012 for a cash voting rights and the right to receive dividends in respect of shares in consideration of 2.7 million 2011: 2,213,306 shares with a nominal value circumstances where the holder of those shares fails to comply with a of 0.2 million were purchased for a cash consideration of 5 million.
notice issued under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006.
During the year 407,118 2011: nil shares were transferred out of the Trust to satisfy the exercise of awards.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
Substantial shareholders As at 31 December 2012, the Company had been notified of the following holdings of voting rights in its shares under Rule 5 of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority: Shareholder Nature of interest % of voting rights Standard Life Investments Ltd Direct 6.79% Indirect 4.18% Total 10.97% Ameriprise Financial Inc Direct 0.15% Indirect 4.98% Contracts for difference 0.02% Total 5.15% see footnote on page 75.
Governance Other statutory information continued.
EB Directors The Directors who served during the financial year were as follows: Name Position as at A1 December 2012 Service in the year ended A1 December 2012 Roy Brown N A Retired on 3 May 2012 Marcus Bryson Chief Executive Aerospace and Land Systems Served throughout the year Tufan Erginbilgic Independent non-executive Director Served throughout the year Shonaid Jemmett-Page Independent non-executive Director Served throughout the year a Richard Parry-Jones Senior Independent Director Served throughout the year Andrew Reynolds Smith Chief Executive Automotive and Powder Metallurgy Served throughout the year William Seeger Finance Director Served throughout the year John Sheldrick Independent non-executive Director Served throughout the year Nigel Stein Chief Executive Served throughout the year b Michael Turner Chairman Served throughout the year a Appointed Senior Independent Director on 3 May 2012. b Appointed Chairman on 3 May 2012.
Membership of the Board and biographical details of the Directors in during the year ended 31 December 2012 and remain in force.
The office at the date of this report are shown on pages 46 and 47.
Further indemnity provision in the Companys articles of association also details relating to Board and Committee composition are disclosed in extends to provide a limited indemnity in respect of liabilities incurred the corporate governance statement on pages 48 to 54. as a director, secretary or officer of an associated company of the Company.
Following his appointment to the Board in January 2013 and in accordance with the Companys articles of association, Angus Cockburn A copy of the deed poll of indemnity is available for inspection at the will retire and offer himself for election at the 2013 AGM.
With the Companys registered office during normal business hours and will be exception of John Sheldrick, who retires at the conclusion of the AGM, available for inspection at the Companys AGM.
all other Directors will retire and offer themselves for re-election in The Company has also arranged appropriate insurance cover for legal accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
action taken against its Directors and officers.
The articles of association provide that a Director may be appointed by Conflicts of interest an ordinary resolution of shareholders or by the existing Directors, Under the Companies Act 2006, Directors have a statutory duty to avoid either to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director.
Further information conflicts of interest with the Company.
As permitted by the Act, the on GKNs internal procedures for the appointment of Directors is given Companys articles of association enable Directors to authorise actual in the corporate governance statement.
and potential conflicts of interest.
The remuneration report, which includes details of service agreements Formal procedures for the notification and authorisation of such and the Directors' interests in GKN shares, is set out on pages 58 to 72. conflicts are in place.
These procedures enable non-conflicted Directors Copies of the service contracts of the executive Directors and the letters to impose limits or conditions when giving or reviewing authorisation of appointment of the non-executive Directors are available for and require the Board to review the register of Directors conflicts inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business annually and on an ad hoc basis when necessary.
Any potential hours and will be available for inspection at the Companys AGM.
conflicts of interest in relation to newly appointed Directors are considered by the Board prior to appointment.
Directors powers The Board of Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company Articles of association subject to the provisions of relevant legislation, the Companys articles The Companys articles of association can only be amended by special of association and any directions given by the Company in general resolution of the shareholders.
GKNs current articles are available on meeting.
The powers of the Directors include those in relation to the our website at www.
issue and buyback of shares.
Change of control At the 2012 AGM the Directors were authorised to exercise the powers of As at 31 December 2012, the Companys subsidiary, GKN Holdings plc, the Company to purchase up to 155,314,088 of its ordinary shares.
No had agreements with 17 banks for 24 bilateral banking facilities totalling shares were purchased under this authority in 2012.
The Directors were 837 million and an 80 million loan facility with the European also authorised to allot shares in the Company up to an aggregate Investment Bank.
Each of these agreements provides that, on a change nominal amount of 51,816,057.
These authorities will remain valid until of control of GKN plc, the respective bank can give notice to GKN the conclusion of the 2013 AGM or, if earlier, until 1 July 2013.
Resolutions Holdings plc to repay all outstanding amounts under the relevant to renew these authorities will be proposed at the 2013 AGM.
Directors indemnities On 8 August 2012 GKN Holdings plc established a euro medium term note Pursuant to the articles of association, the Company has executed a programme the EMTN Programme which provides the Group with a deed poll of indemnity for the benefit of the Directors of the Company standardised documentation platform for debt issuance in the eurobond and persons who were Directors of the Company in respect of costs of markets.
The maximum potential issuance under the EMTN Programme is defending claims against them and third party liabilities.
On 19 September 2012, the Company issued 450 million fixed provisions, deemed to be qualifying third party indemnity provisions rate notes paying 5.375% interest and maturing on 19 September 2022 pursuant to section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, were in force under the EMTN Programme the Notes.
Pursuant to the terms attaching GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012.
EC to the Notes, a holder of the Notes has the option to require GKN Auditors & disclosure of information Holdings plc to redeem or at GKN Holdings plcs option purchase the Resolutions to reappoint  LLP as auditors of the holders Notes at their principal amount if there is a change of control of Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their the Company and either i the Notes are unrated or do not carry an remuneration will be proposed at the 2013 AGM.
investment grade credit rating from at least two ratings agencies: or ii if Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of this the Notes carry an investment grade credit rating from at least two ratings Directors report confirms that, so far as he she is aware, there is no agencies, the Notes are downgraded to a non-investment grade rating or relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are that rating is withdrawn within 90 days of the change of control and such unaware.
Each Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to downgrade or withdrawal is cited by the ratings agencies as being the have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any result of the change of control.
relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors Companies in the Groups Aerospace division are party to long term are aware of that information.
supply contracts with customers which are original equipment This Directors' report comprising the inside front cover and pages 1 to 76 manufacturers of aircraft and aero engines.
Certain of these contracts has been approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by contain provisions which would entitle the customer to terminate the contract in the event of a change of control of the Company, where such change of control conflicts with the interests of the customer.
All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding options and awards normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control subject to the satisfaction of Judith Felton any performance conditions at that time.
Company Secretary The executive Directors service agreements provide for payment of a 25 February 2013 predetermined amount equivalent to one years salary and benefits on As at 27 February 2013, no changes had been notified to the Company under Rule 5 termination by the Company of a Directors service agreement on less of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
than due notice within 12 months of a change of control of GKN plc.
Further information is given in the remuneration report on page 64.
Payments to suppliers It is Group policy to abide by the payment terms agreed with suppliers, provided that the supplier has performed its obligations under the contract.
In line with this policy, the Company has confirmed that it will sign up to the UK Governments Prompt Payment Code.
GKN plc, as a holding company, did not have any amounts owing to trade creditors at 31 December 2012.
Branches GKN, through various subsidiaries, has established branches in a number of different countries in which the business operates.
Donations In 2012, charitable donations made by Group companies around the world totalled 616,400 of which 58,600 was to UK registered charities.
In addition, the GKN Millennium Trust, a UK charitable trust established in 1995, donated a total of 137,000 to the Engineering Development Trust and Young Enterprise in 2012.
The GKN Foundation, an independent US charitable body established in 1951, supported approximately 350 organisations in the US in 2012 with contributions totalling approximately US $720,000.
In accordance with the Groups policy, no political donations were made and no political expenditure was incurred during 2012.
The Groups US Aerospace business has a Political Action Committee PAC which is funded entirely by employees and their spouses.
No funds are provided to the PAC by GKN and any administrative services provided to the PAC by the US Aerospace business are fully charged to and paid for by the PAC, and the Company does not therefore consider these to be political donations.
Employee contributions are entirely voluntary and no pressure is placed on employees to participate.
Under US law, an employee-funded PAC must bear the name of the employing company.
