The Board Michael Turner, CBE Nigel Stein Marcus Bryson Angus Cockburn Chairman Chief Executive Chief Executive Aerospace Independent non-executive Director and Land Systems Tufan Erginbilgic Shonaid Jemmett-Page Richard Parry-Jones, CBE Andrew Reynolds Smith Independent non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director Senior Independent Director Chief Executive Automotive and Powder Metallurgy William Seeger John Sheldrick Judith Felton Finance Director Independent non-executive Director Company Secretary GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012.
4P Michael Turner, CBE 64 Nigel Stein 57 Marcus Bryson 58 Angus Cockburn 49 Chairman Chief Executive Chief Executive Aerospace and Independent non-executive Director N N E A R N Land Systems E Appointed to the Board in September 2009 Appointed to the Board in August 2001.
Appointed to the Board in January 2013. and became Chairman on 3 May 2012.
Appointed to the Board in June 2007.
Experience Experience Experience Joined GKN in 1994 and held a range of Currently Chief Financial Officer of Experience Has extensive experience of the aerospace commercial, general management and Aggreko plc.
He joined Aggreko in 2000 Joined GKN with the acquisition of the industry having worked for BAE Systems finance roles, including Group Finance from Pringle Scotland, a division of Westland Group in 1994.
He has extensive plc for over 40 years, and as Chief Director and Chief Executive Automotive Dawson International plc, where he was experience of the aerospace industry Executive from 2002 to 2008.
Former before becoming Chief Executive on Managing Director.
Prior to this he held having held a number of finance and President of the Aerospace & Defence 1 January 2012.
Prior to GKN, he gained a number of roles at PepsiCo Inc and commercial roles with Westland and Industries Association of Europe.
Fellow experience in the commercial vehicle and was latterly Regional Finance Director for senior positions in GKNs Aerospace of the Royal Aeronautical Society.
manufacturing sector and held senior Central Europe.
Former Chairman of the division.
Joined the Executive Committee financial positions with Laird Group plc Group of Scottish Finance Directors.
as Chief Executive Aerospace in January External Appointments and Hestair Duple Ltd.
Member of the 2006 and assumed responsibility for External Appointments Chairman of Babcock International Institute of Chartered Accountants of Land Systems in October 2011.
Group PLC and non-executive Director of Scotland and former non-executive Non-executive Director of Howden Joinery Lazard Ltd.
Member of the Governments Group plc.
External Appointments Apprenticeship Ambassadors Network.
Vice-President Aerospace of ADS Group Ltd External Appointments and co-Chairman of the Aerospace Director of the Society of Motor Growth Partnership.
Manufacturers and Traders Ltd and Member of the Automotive Council.
Tufan Erginbilgic 53 Shonaid Jemmett-Page 52 Richard Parry-Jones, CBE 61 Andrew Reynolds Smith 46 Independent non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director Senior Independent Director Chief Executive Automotive and A R N A R N A R N Powder Metallurgy E Appointed to the Board in May 2011.
Appointed to the Board in June 2010.
Appointed to the Board in March 2008 and became Senior Independent Director Appointed to the Board in June 2007.
Currently Chief Operating Officer for the Former Chief Operating Officer for Experience Experience Refining and Marketing division of BP plc CDC Group plc, the UK Governments Joined GKN in 2002 and has held a with specific responsibility for the global development finance institution.
She Has extensive experience of the number of senior positions across the lubricants, aviation and LPG businesses joined CDC from Unilever, where for eight automotive industry having previously Groups Driveline, Powder Metallurgy as well as all refining and fuels years she was Senior Vice-President worked for the Ford Motor Company for and OffHighway businesses.
Joined the operations outside the US.
He joined Finance and Information, Home and 38 years, latterly as Group Vice-President Executive Committee in January 2006 BP in 1997 and has held a number of Personal Care, originally in Asia and later Global Product Development and Group and became Chief Executive Automotive senior marketing and operational roles, for the group as a whole.
Her early career Chief Technical Officer.
Fellow of the and Powder Metallurgy on 1 October including Chief of Staff to the Group was spent at KPMG, latterly as a partner.
Royal Academy of Engineering, the 2011.
Prior to GKN, he held various Chief Executive.
His early career was Former non-executive Director of Institution of Mechanical Engineers and general management and functional spent at Mobil Oil.
the Royal Society of Statistical Science.
positions at Ingersoll Rand, Siebe plc Former Chairman of the Welsh Assembly now Invensys plc and Delphi External Appointments Government Ministerial Advisory Group.
Former Chairman Independent non-executive Director of of the CBI Manufacturing Council and Amlin plc, APR Energy plc and Close External Appointments former member of the Ministerial Brothers Group plc.
Non-executive Non-executive Chairman of Network Rail Advisory Group for Manufacturing.
Director and Vice Chairman of Origo Ltd and non-executive Director of Partners plc.
Chair of the Sustainability Cosworth Group Holdings Ltd.
Visiting External Appointments Committee of the Institute of Chartered Professor within the Department of Vice President of CLEPA the European Accountants in England & Wales and an Aeronautical and Automotive Engineering Association of Automotive Suppliers.
Joint Chairman of the Automotive Council.
William Seeger 61 John Sheldrick 63 Judith Felton Finance Director Independent non-executive Director Company Secretary E A R N E Appointed to the Board in September 2007.
Appointed to the Board in December 2004.
Joined GKN in 1980 and became Deputy He will retire from the Board at the Company Secretary in 1995 before being Experience conclusion of the 2013 Annual General appointed Company Secretary in 2009.
Joined GKN in 2003 as Senior ViceMeeting.
Fellow of the Institute of Chartered President and Chief Financial Officer of Secretaries and Administrators.
In June 2007 he became Experience a member of the Executive Committee as Former Group Finance Director of External Appointments President and Chief Executive Propulsion Johnson Matthey plc from 1995 to 2009.
Non-executive Director and Trustee of Systems and Special Products.
Appointed Prior to joining Johnson Matthey in 1990 Young Enterprise UK.
Prior he was Group Treasurer of The BOC Group to GKN, he held a number of senior plc.
He is also a former non-executive finance positions at TRW Inc spanning Director of API Group plc.
Fellow of the over 20 years, latterly as Vice-President Association of Corporate Treasurers and Financial Planning and Analysis.
Fellow of the Chartered Institute of A Member of Audit Committee Management Accountants.
R Member of Remuneration Committee N Member of Nominations Committee External Appointments E Member of Executive Committee Non-executive Director of Fenner plc and Low & Bonar plc.
