10 Our divisions GKN Driveline more about... p 26 a world leading supplier of automotive driveline systems and solutions As a global business serving the worlds leading vehicle manufacturers, Number of employees GKN Driveline develops, builds and supplies an extensive range of automotive driveline products and systems for use in the most sophisticated premium vehicles, that demand complex driving 22,350 dynamics, to the smallest ultra low-cost cars.
Products n Constant velocity jointed systems including CV joints and sideshafts.
56 locations in n All-wheel drive AWD systems including propshafts, couplings and final drive units.
22 countries n Trans-axle solutions including open, limited slip and locking differentials and electronic torque vectoring products.
n eDrive systems including electric rear axles and transmissions.
Strategy Rear drive unit TWINSTER Our strategy is to leverage our market leading presence and superior technology to: n provide innovative driveline systems and solutions, supporting developing market trends for more fuel efficient vehicles: n increase our business in high growth regions: and n serve the needs of strategic customers through a market leading global footprint.
GKN Powder Metallurgy more about... p 27 the worlds largest manufacturer of sintered components GKN Powder Metallurgy comprises Hoeganaes and GKN Sinter Metals.
Number of employees Hoeganaes is one of the worlds largest metal powder manufacturers and produces the metal powder that GKN Sinter Metals and others use to manufacture precision automotive components for engines, 6,600 transmissions, and body and chassis applications.
GKN Sinter Metals also produces a range of components for industrial and consumer applications.
34 locations in Products n Metal powders.
14 countries n Sintered components for engines and transmissions, as well as pumps, bodies and chassis, and compressors.
n Soft magnetic components for use in electric motors.
n Sintered components for numerous industrial applications.
Variable valve Strategy timing assembly Our strategy is to exploit powder metal technology, working closely with our customers to develop design for powder metal applications to: n meet the rapidly developing requirements for high efficiency engines, advanced transmission applications, weight reduction and evolving emissions standards: and n expand the business in high-growth markets, supporting customers globally.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012.
11 GKN Aerospace more about... p 28 a first tier supplier to the global aviation industry GKN Aerospace is a world leading global first tier supplier of airframe Number of employees and engine structures, components, assemblies and transparencies to a wide range of aircraft and engine prime contractors and other first tier suppliers.
It operates in three main product areas: aerostructures, 11,300 engine components and sub-systems, and special products.
Products n Integrated aerostructures, including wing empennage and flight 35 locations in control surface assemblies and fuselage structures.
n Fixed and rotating propulsion products for aircraft engines, fan cases, R countries engine components, exhaust systems and nacelles.
n Transparencies including specially coated cockpit and cabin windows.
n Niche products such as ice protection, fuel systems and flotation devices.
Turbine exhaust case Strategy Our strategy is to focus investment in core market technology development and application to: n exploit our strong positions on existing programmes for new aircraft platforms, and pursue long-term contracts on selective high-growth and long-running platforms: n deploy new technologies for future commercial and defence aircraft, to improve fuel efficiency, reduce emissions and minimise the environmental impact of aviation: n expand into adjacent markets with similar product technologies and manufacturing capabilities: and n expand our global footprint.
GKN Land Systems more about... p 30 a leading supplier of power management solutions and services GKN Land Systems is a leading supplier of technology differentiated Number of employees power management solutions and services.
It designs, manufactures and supplies products and services for the agricultural, construction, mining and utility vehicle markets and key industrial segments, 5,650 offering integrated powertrain solutions.
Products n Electro-mechanical power management devices such as electro- 39 locations in magnetic brakes, engineered flexible couplings, clutches, driveshafts and gear technology.
1O countries n Sensors, actuators and controls.
n Single and multi-piece steel and aluminium wheels.
n Aftermarket parts and remanufacturing for passenger cars, Dual clutch commercial trucks, agricultural and construction vehicles, and for industrial industry applications.
transmissions Strategy Our strategy is to be a global leader in high technology power management solutions to the worlds original equipment manufacturers on a platform of integrated powertrain systems and services, including: n developing capability in integrated electro-mechanical systems: n expanding the business for existing products into new markets through increased intelligent engineering: and n improving customer performance by offering safe, efficient and reliable power management, together with increased electrification and use of lightweight structures.
