0Q Our markets Automotive GKN operates in the global Key market drivers automotive, aerospace and n Macroeconomic trends, such as consumer income and confidence.
land systems markets including n Demand for smaller vehicles.
agricultural, construction and n Increasing vehicle driveline content.
GKN aims to maintain n Progressive electrification of the drivetrain.
n Demand for personal mobility in emerging markets.
its leading positions in these n Lower weight and a focus on new materials.
markets and deliver above n Customer preference for quality and safety.
Trends n Overall, global light vehicle production increased 6% in 2012 to 81.5 million vehicles 2011: 76.8 million, whilst sales of light vehicles increased by 5% to 79.5 million vehicles.
n North America, Japan and the ASEAN saw the largest production growth in 2012 due to their recovery from, respectively, recession, earthquake and tsunami, and floods.
In contrast, growth in Europe and some of the BRIC countries slowed as the year progressed.
n In Europe, demand for larger premium vehicles remained strong but demand for smaller vehicles was depressed as a result of economic uncertainties.
n Overall vehicle production in Europe benefited from strong export demand while in North America there has been a shift towards more fuel-efficient vehicles.
n Increasing prevalence of single global design platforms for vehicles.
Outlook n External forecasts indicate that global vehicle production in 2013 will increase by approximately 1.6% to 82.8 million vehicles.
n Most major markets are forecast to show only small growth, with the fastest growth expected in China 9% and India 8%.
n The European market is forecast to contract by 3% as a result of the current economic climate, and after a relatively slow first-half North America is forecast to grow by 3%.
"Light vehicle production Global light vehicle production million units million units          Europe North Brazil, India       America and China - actual  !-"" forecast  Source: IHS Automotive Source: IHS Automotive GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012."
0R Aerospace Land Systems Key market drivers Key market drivers n Backlog of aircraft orders for key customers.
n Population growth and consumer income.
n Introduction of and production rate increases of new aerospace n Urbanisation leading to infrastructure development and increased programmes.
n Levels of passenger air traffic.
n Crude oil jet fuel prices.
n Regulatory drive to cut emissions and increase energy efficiency, leading to alternative fuel and power management technologies.
n Drive to improve aircraft and engine efficiency.
n Need for significant increased safety, operational efficiency and n Environmental impact reduction programmes.
Trends Trends n The overall aerospace market in 2012 was strong, driven by n Recovery in European and US agricultural sectors continued increasing rates of civil aircraft production and a generally stable throughout 2012. defence sector.
n Construction and mining equipment sectors showed further n In the civil aerospace market, Airbus and Boeing reported recovery during the first half of 2012, which slowed from mid-year delivery, in aggregate, of a record 1,189 aircraft in 2012 and new due to weaker underlying demand exacerbated by inventory orders totalling 2,252 aircraft.
adjustments through the supply chain.
n Core European industrial markets did not strengthen in 2012, n Large commercial aircraft backlog is at a new high, as is the firm with PMI indices indicating contraction in manufacturing activity engine order book.
n Worldwide defence spending remains subject to budget cutbacks.
GKN has a stable and long term position on key multi-year programmes which provide a secure production base for the business despite this projected defence budget pressure.
Outlook n The global agricultural production required will be 70% higher 1 than current levels in order to meet demand in 2050. n The global agricultural equipment market is estimated to be worth Outlook around US$125bn and this is expected to grow at an annual rate n Passenger air traffic rose around 5% in 2012 and is projected to of approximately 6% through to 2021. grow at a similar pace throughout 2013.
Longer term, worldwide n The world population is likely to increase by two billion people passenger market demand is projected to grow at around 5% per from current levels, reaching over nine billion by 2050, driving annum with worldwide cargo traffic market growth at around 6% increased infrastructure spending and a requirement for higher per annum.
n Boeing and Airbus forecast that between 28,000 and 34,000 new n Mass urbanisation around the world continues, with the OECD single-aisle and wide-bodied aircraft will be required globally over estimating that in China alone, a further 300 million people will the next 20 years, with around 40% to support fleet replacement move from rural locations into urban areas by 2030. and approximately 60% to support market growth.
1 According to projections from the UN Food & Agriculture Organisation Global agricultural Civil aircraft market 2012201Q Military aircraft market 2012201Q World population equipment demand by aircraft type US$ billion by aircraft type US$ billion billion US$ billion  !
"                               E E Urban Regional aircra"" Trainers light attack  actual  actual Rural - forecast - forecast Commercial jetliners Military transports Source: Baird M&A Market Analysis, Agricultural Business aircra"" Source: Teal Rotorcra!"
Source: UN World Urbanisation Prospects: The  Revision Source: Teal Equipment Sector, Fall  Fighters Business review
