20 Strategy in action Driving operational excellence At the heart of GKN is a strong culture of operational excellence.
Based on innovative engineering and Lean manufacturing skills, this enables us to produce high quality components and systems that are efficient, 4 sustainable and cost effective for our customers.
Operating the cold-forming press at GKN Driveline, Operating the computer-controlled press to produce the forgings at A thinkSAFE!
briefing taking place at GKN Aerospaces Western Trier, Germany GKN Driveline, Trier, Germany Approach facility in the UK Automated flowline offers new efficiencies Increasing the focus on safety GKN Driveline has created a new high-speed flowline that automates the production of precision A programme known as thinkSAFE!
was rolled out forgings used in the manufacture of CVJ Systems, with an investment of over 16 million in its facility across GKN in 2012 to support the delivery of the in Trier, Germany.
highest standards of safety, a key priority for the Group.
Previously implemented in GKN Driveline, This investment helps minimise energy consumption and inventory levels, improve safety and efficiency it played an important role in helping to reduce by removing transportation needs, and allows GKN Driveline to be more responsive to its customers.
accidents, improving employee behaviour towards safety and engaging employees to create a safe The automated flowline takes steel bars and transforms them into completed forgings ready to dispatch to working environment.
The steel bars are heated to 950c and then passed into a new press where the actual forging takes place.
The flow then continues with controlled cooling and shotblasting processes, followed by a thinkSAFE!
is focused on establishing a safety cold-forming press, cleaning and quality control.
process and culture in all of our locations.
It helps employees identify hazards using various tools such as safety briefings, accident video animations and sharing of lessons learned.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012.
21 Probing the A400M spar to check material condition prior to machining Meeting extreme tolerances At its Western Approach site near Bristol, UK, GKN Aerospace produces composite wings spars using state of the art carbon fibre fabrication techniques.
These spars are 27 metres long with a tolerance of approximately the depth of two sheets of paper.
Continuous flow production at GKN Land Systems, Rockford, USA Lean manufacturing adds value In the quest to increase value for customers, GKN Land Systems Rockford has deployed Constant Velocity Joints manufactured by GKN Driveline Lean principles throughout its operation Managing an extensive supply chain involving all employees.
Continuous flow Every day, GKN Driveline buys around 10 million parts from over 1,000 suppliers in more than 40 countries.
production has replaced batch processing, It makes over two million components at 45 manufacturing sites globally, with a default rate of less than 0.001%, and with positive effects on quality and delivery.
ships more than 300,000 parts to some 200 different customer locations.
Employee involvement encourages continuous communication, involvement and feedback.
Improvements are easier to see in manufacturing areas but cross functional teams continue to play a pivotal role in office process improvements, resulting in exceptional performance on key metrics, such as a 30% increase in inventory turnover and positive customer feedback.
During 2012 the Rockford plant reached over 100 days with 100% on-time delivery.
Parts for shock absorbers following the sintering process at GKN Powder Metallurgy, Bonn Delivering billions of products GKN Powder Metallurgy manufactures around six billion parts per year for more than 3,000 customers at over 30 manufacturing locations on five continents.
