14 Strategy in action Leading in chosen markets Focusing on innovation and delivering exceptional customer service ensures we are able to lead in our markets, creating a 1 strong business with significant opportunities for growth.
GKN Driveline is a world leader All-wheel drive AWD in all-wheel drive AWD systems offering its customers a range of products spanning all aspects of AWD technology.
Following the acquisition of Getrag Driveline ECO Booster Products in 2011, GKN Driveline Power Transfer Unit has expanded its footprint in major geographic markets and continues to win business with vehicle manufacturers across Electro Magnetic Control Device EMCD the world.
Viscous Coupling This strong leadership platform, together with an increase in the production of AWD vehicles, means there are significant further growth opportunities ahead.
Propshaft solutions Final Drive Unit ECO TWINSTER GKN Drivelines AWD product range Assembling AWD products for testing in Lohmar, Germany GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012.
1N A GP7000 with engine parts manufactured by VVT rotor adapter assembly Unitised one-way clutch GKN Aerospace Engine Systems Creating a new world leader Design excellence A new global leader in aero engine components, GKN Proving itself a leader in its sector, GKN Powder Metallurgy Aerospace Engine Systems, has been created with received two Design Excellence Awards in 2012.
GKNs acquisition of Volvo Aero, the aero engine GKN was awarded the top prize for its variable valve timing division of AB Volvo.
VVT rotor adapter assembly, which facilitates a reduction GKNs composite leadership and Volvo Aeros strong in machining, minimised waste and higher strength, and metallic technology together provide a unique the highest prize in the automotive transmission category offering to customers who are focused on lightweight, for a unitised one-way clutch OWC module made for high performance engine solutions.
The newly formed Chrysler, in which production costs were reduced by 20% GKN Aerospace Engine Systems designs, engineers and the volume rate increased by 50%.
and manufactures components and sub-assemblies The Metal Powder Industries Federations awards recognise for aircraft engine turbines and supplies all the major designs with engineering benefits such as net shape, aero engine manufacturers.
precision, innovative fabrication methods, production Positions on existing platforms and new programmes, efficiency, energy and materials savings, and cost reduction.
together with a strong technology pipeline, offer a long-term platform for growth in this market.
Composite leadership GKN Aerospace is at the heart of developing advanced composite technologies that revolutionise the way aircraft structures are produced, dramatically improving performance and reducing environmental impact.
It is participating in a number of UK research programmes looking at advanced wing and engine structures for the aircraft of the future, ensuring GKN Aerospace remains at the forefront of composite technology development.
Using lasers to assist in the manufacture of a composite A400M rear outer spar at GKN Aerospace, Western Approach, UK Business review
