1O Strategy in action Leveraging a strong global presence Our strong global presence positions us well to serve our international customer base and creates a platform from 2 which we can access fast growing markets.
Changchun China Mengzhou Yizheng Danyang Taicang Shanghai Wuhan Chongqing Liuzhou Key GKN Driveline GKN Powder Metallurgy Testing at Shanghai GKNs Changchun plant GKN Land Systems Future development of GKN Powder Metallurgy GKN Driveline Other businesses GKN Driveline expanded two of its production Production facilities facilities in China during 2012.
The plants in Chongqing and Wuhan, both of which predominantly supply CVJ Systems to customers across China, had production capacity expanded.
The extension of the Wuhan plant, which China originally opened in 2009, covers over 80,000 square feet and involves the installation of two precision forging lines.
It is expected to start production during 2013 and will have an annual China is a key growth market for GKN.
capacity of 11 million precision forged parts.
It is expected to become the worlds largest GKN Driveline currently has seven plants in China which employ nearly 4,000 people, with a total production capacity of 12 million economy within the next 20 years.
the biggest car market in the world and production growth is forecast to continue at a rate of 6.5% per annum until 2020.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012.
1P GKN Land Systems GKN Wheels, part of the GKN Land Systems division, invested in its mining wheel production facility in Liuzhou, Southern China.
Production capacity and process capability at the facility have been optimised to meet the needs of its customers as the global mining industry continues to grow, offering improved efficiency, product performance and quality.
This improved capability, combined with newly launched Swift Wheel technology and a recently signed five year distribution agreement with Rimtec Pty Ltd in the Asia Pacific region, presents significant opportunities for growth in mining wheel sales.
GKN Powder Metallurgy The ground breaking for a new US$26 million plant in Yizheng signalled GKN Powder Metallurgys commitment to future development in China.
The manufacturing facility will cover an area of 30,000 square metres when construction is complete in 2013.
It will produce small precision parts for automotive applications in engine, transmission, body and chassis, as well as a range of components for other industrial and consumer applications.
Production is expected to start by Q4 2013 and, upon completion, the plant will have the capacity for 100 million components per year.
Quality engineering department at Sintered VVT stator being visually checked by an employee of GKN Powder Metallurgy, Danyang Shanghai GKNs Changchun plant Mexicali Mexico With vehicle production in North America growing rapidly, Mexico has become a significant growth market for GKN and the expansion of facilities in the country is allowing GKN to strengthen further its North American customer base.
Mexico GKN Driveline opened a new precision forge in Celaya in June 2012.
With an investment of US$11.5 million, the 28,300 square metre facility will produce annually over 15 million forgings, the basic building block of a CVJ System.
It is the third forge the division has built in Celaya since 1979.
Today, GKN Driveline San Luis Potosi employs 1,700 people at three facilities in Mexico and plans further significant Villagrn investment over the next three years.
Mexico City Celaya GKN Aerospace also extended its production activities in Mexico during the year, establishing a new facility manufacturing composite airframe structures.
Key GKN Driveline GKN Aerospace Business review
