12 Strategy and business model Our strategy What we do and how we create value GKN is a global engineering business.
We aim to create long-term and sustainable shareholder value in the form of steadily growing earnings and dividends through the delivery of sustained growth in sales, profitability and cash generation.
We have excellent positions in long-term global growth markets: automotive, aerospace and land systems, and we build strong relationships with global original equipment manufacturers and prime contractors.
We aim to create value and achieve growth that is greater than the growth of the markets in which we operate, through four strategic priorities: Leadership Global footprint Leading in our chosen markets Leveraging a strong global presence We aim to lead in our chosen markets through innovation, enhanced GKN is an international business with a global footprint from which we customer service and delivery, and scale to create a strong business serve our customer base.
By continually developing our geographic with significant opportunities for growth, both organically and spread we aim to expand into growing markets and build long-lasting through value-enhancing strategic acquisitions.
and mutually beneficial customer relationships that increase our market share.
see pages p 14-15 see pages p 16-17 Technology Sustainability Differentiating ourselves through technology Driving operational excellence GKN delivers innovative technologies that help our customers stay We aim to operate in a sustainable, ethical, efficient and safe manner.
ahead in their markets and help us maintain our competitive edge, We have a strong culture of operational excellence, based on innovative ensuring we can remain in higher value markets.
We work with our engineering and Lean manufacturing skills.
Through continuous customers to develop new technology, driven by global trends such improvement processes, we focus on delivering exceptional quality and as the low-carbon agenda, electrification, urbanisation and customer service.
At the same time, we aim to be an employer of choice population growth.
with a high-performance culture, motivated people and outstanding leaders.
Our goal is to have a positive impact on the environment and communities in which we operate.
