1Q Strategy in action Differentiating ourselves through technology Delivering innovative technology that helps our customers stay ahead in their markets and helps us to remain ahead of our 3 competitors, ensures we can remain in higher value markets.
Design for powder metallurgy Future wing technologies Future wing technologies are now focusing on achieving a step change in performance, cost and manufacturing rate for the next generation of aircraft.
GKN is taking part in a number of large scale technology projects for most major wing development programmes.
One of which is laminar flow wings, a completely new wing concept, being developed as part of the EU Clean Sky Programme, which changes the way air flows over the wing thus reducing aerodynamic drag Final automated quality check at GKN Powder Metallurgy, Bonn Integrated carrier housing and one way clutch assembly for Ford and fuel burn.
Motor Company GKN Aerospace is also involved in wing technology programmes that are developing composite wing Designing components and systems from powder An award-winning component structures for low-cost, high-rate metal allows engineers to work outside the A design for powder metallurgy approach was manufacture and advanced restrictions normally associated with traditional applied on a project for the Ford Motor Company metallic wing components using metal working technologies.
and resulted in weight savings, improved additive manufacture.
The result is increased product performance, transmission through the ability to handle higher With these technologies all with reduced weight and reduced complexity of torque loads, and reduced complexity by using reaching maturity for application manufacture, all made possible by applying fewer components.
over the coming decade, GKN is inventive processes to custom designed materials.
Producing an automatic planetary transmission well placed to take a leading To exploit the opportunities associated with carrier for the Ford F250 Super Duty truck six-speed position on the next generation powder metallurgy, components and systems are transmission, GKN Powder Metallurgy manufactured of wing development.
designed with the process in mind, moving away an integrated carrier housing and one way clutch from the build to print approach often applied assembly consisting of five powder metal parts.
As This award-winning part was one of the largest, most engineers become conversant with the extensive complex powder metal components ever created.
material, geometry and process options now available, they are able to optimise product design.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012.
1R Disconnecting for fuel efficiency Technology developed by GKN Driveline more efficiently disconnects virtually all the all-wheel drive AWD components from the drivetrain on a vehicle when they are not required.
Unlike permanent AWD systems, which distribute torque to all four wheels on a vehicle, this technology automatically recognises if AWD is required and, if it is, the seamless connection occurs in a fraction of a second.
This gives our customers the benefit of AWD with the efficiency of two wheel drive.
With the key driver for new AWD technology being the need to reduce both fuel consumption and CO emissions, GKN Driveline 2 PTU power transfer unit disconnect All-wheel drive testing rig at GKN Driveline in Lohmar, Germany is able to help manufacturers eliminate the traditional fuel economic penalty of an AWD vehicle through disconnect technology.
A new milestone in GKN Aerospace Engine Systems has transmission technology developed and will manufacture the The oil and gas industrys first double clutch technology for industrial gearboxes has Intermediate Compressor Case ICC for been developed by GKN Land Systems.
Created by GKN Stromag to meet the needs the Trent XWB 84K engine.
The ICC is a and requirements of a major engine manufacturer, it transfers high torque in a lightweight design provided by GKN compact design, handling up to 1200Nm input torque and up to 2mw of power.
Used fabrication technologies, introducing new in the oil and gas industry, between the diesel engine and oil fracturing pump, it is welding methods and featuring advanced the first of its kind.
The synchroniser multiplate design is much additive manufacturing technology.
stronger than the more traditional model.
Additional features were built into the design to improve shift performance and reduce noise and wear, thus increasing product life.
GKN developed the system and verification tests, provided prototypes and has been awarded its first order through its total solution approach to product design and manufacture.
Heavy duty synchroniser unit Business review
