16 GSK Annual Report 2012 Strategic review How we deliver Our strategy is designed to deliver sustainable growth, reduce risk and improve long-term financial performance and returns to shareholders How we will grow Gr ow Over the past five years we have At the same time, we have re-shaped created a more balanced business our US Pharmaceuticals and a diversied and product portfolio, capable of Vaccines business to reect the delivering sustainable sales growth.
changing market dynamics there global business This is centred on our three business and to prepare for the launch of areas of Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines multiple new products.
In Europe, and Consumer Healthcare, which we are restructuring to improve provide us with significant efficiency and focus resources to competitive advantages and growth opportunities in what opportunities for synergy.
continues to be a challenging market environment.
We have substantially increased our investment in higher-growth areas such as emerging markets and Japan and in our global Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare businesses.
Read more on page 18 How we will deliver Del iver We have changed our R&D We have broken up the traditional organisation so that it is better able hierarchical R&D business model more products to sustain a pipeline of products that and created smaller, more agile offer valuable improvements in groups of scientists who are of value treatment for patients and accountable for their projects.
All of this has been underpinned We have increased the externalisation with a focus on improving the of our research, allowing us to access rates of return in R&D and being new areas of science and to share more rigorous in how we allocate the risk of development with our investment across Pharmaceuticals, partners.
We have also changed our Vaccines and Consumer processes to make decisions earlier, Healthcare R&D.
so that only those medicines which are signicantly differentiated from existing therapies are progressed.
Read more on page 30 How we will simplify S implify As our business continues to Savings from this programme have change shape, we are transforming been generated across the business.
the operating how we operate so that we can As this programme comes to an end, reduce complexity and become we are continuing to examine ways model more efficient.
to simplify our operating model and increase efficiencies.
Over the past four years we have implemented a global restructuring We have therefore begun a programme designed to deliver new, major change programme significant savings to support across manufacturing, R&D and investment in our priority growth Europe to deliver further savings.
businesses as well as offset pressures The new programme includes a on the Groups margin resulting series of technological advances from changes in the shape and mix and opportunities to eliminate of our business.
complexities and improve our competitiveness further.
Read more on page 42 2-54 Strategic review 55-86 Financial review & risk 87-136 Governance & remuneration 137-223 Financial statements 224-248 Investor information GSK Annual Report 2012 17 Financial architecture Our values and behaviours bn 26.4 Our financial architecture is designed to As we work towards our goals, Group turnover support the delivery and execution of the how we deliver success is just as Groups strategy, and drive sustainable important as what we achieve.
There % growth in core earnings per share and are many ethical issues associated 26 free cash ow in order to maximise total with the research and development, of sales from returns to shareholders.
manufacture and sale of our products, emerging markets and our relationships with healthcare The architecture has established four key professionals, patients and regulators.
financial priorities for GSK in delivering Ethical conduct is a priority for GSK sustainable sales growth, improving and we put the interests of patients and our operating leverage, improving our consumers first and are driven by our financial efficiency and converting more values transparency, respect, integrity, of our earnings into cash.
patient-focus in everything we do.
By applying this framework we can We understand that without the drive better and more consistent application of these values by a talented, decision making across the company diverse and engaged workforce, we and improve delivery of our key cannot execute our strategy.
We are financial objectives of earnings per focused on supporting our employees share growth and free cash ow 6 and creating a culture where valuesgeneration.
This can then be returned based decision making guides all Key product lings to shareholders or reinvested in bolt-on business practices.
These values are acquisitions, wherever the most backed up by a clear Code of Conduct, attractive returns are available.
Our bn robust compliance systems, and training 1.4 decisions are rigorously benchmarked and support that help employees make using a cash ow return on investment New product sales the right decisions.
Our strong policy and compliance We have also improved our financial programmes help to embed these reporting to align it more closely with behaviours, as does the leadership our architecture.
We are providing more from our Board and Central Executive data and insights into the progress we Team.
Our board is active in ensuring are making in each of our businesses corporate governance that oversees and regions and on our progress against and informs sound decision making the key drivers of operational and by executive management.
In 2012 we transitioned our reporting to a core basis, enabling greater visibility of the underlying bn 2.5 performance of the business.
Annual benets from restructuring days 194 Working capital cycle down from 202 days in 2011 Read more on page 46 Read more on page 49 18 GSK Annual Report 2012 Strategic review Grow Deliver Simplify Gr ow a diversied global business Overview Over the past five years we have created a more balanced business and product portfolio, capable of delivering sustainable sales growth.
This is centred on our three business areas of Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare, which we believe offer significant competitive advantage and opportunity for synergies.
At the same time, we have re-shaped our US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business to reect changing market dynamics and to prepare for the launch of multiple new products.
In Europe, we are restructuring to improve efficiencies and focus resources on growth opportunities in what continues to be a challenging environment.
2-54 Strategic review 55-86 Financial review & risk 87-136 Governance & remuneration 137-223 Financial statements 224-248 Investor information GSK Annual Report 2012 19 Progress Reported turnover for the year was down 1% but was at adjusting for the disposal of our non-core OTC brands.
Overall, strong performances in EMAP and other growth businesses largely offset declines in the USA and Europe.
Total sales in emerging markets now account for 26% of our business and grew 10% during the year.
Our vulnerability to generic competition has been declining, with sales of White pills in Western markets now accounting for only 21% of turnover, down from 36% in 2008.
Group turnover bn White pills in Western markets bn 1 1 3 3 1 1 Reported growth CER % 17 8 10 Reported growth CER % 28.4 24 27.4 bn % 26.4 22 26.4 21 21 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Turnover in major growth areas bn Sales in emerging markets bn 51 53 54 % of Group turnover 21 23 26 % of Group turnover 14.6 6.8 14.4 bn % 6.4 14.3 14.3 26 6.1 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Priorities Our globally diversied sales base, coupled with strong R&D output, provides us with a platform for sustainable future growth.
We will continue to invest in our key growth businesses such as emerging markets and Consumer Healthcare to support this outlook.
In pro-innovation markets like the USA and Japan, our priority during the year is to prepare for the launch of multiple new products from the pipeline.
In Europe, our focus is on restructuring our pharmaceutical business to reduce costs and reallocate resources.
We are also considering other strategic options to maximise the value of our portfolio in the region.
See page 56 Financial Review See page 7 20 GSK Annual Report 2012 Strategic review Grow a diversied global business US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines Turnover bn In the respiratory market, sales of medicines The fundamentals of our US increased and our business grew 1% as the business are strong despite respiratory controller segment returned to bn overall prescription volume growth during 7.6 7.0 pressure from generics and the year.
This followed a decline in 2011 7.0 7.0 26% of Group turnover product discontinuations.
after the Food and Drug Administration revised its class labeling of controllers.
We remain confident in our Sales of Advair, our largest product, ability to deliver growth increased 1%, while Flovent sales declined 1%.
Sales of Ventolin were up 14%.
through our pipeline of new Strong performances by Lovaza up 5%, medicines and performance Lamictal up 18%, Promacta up 66%, of newly launched products.
Votrient up 59% and Arzerra up 23%, also helped us offset the loss of patent exclusivity for Arixtra and argatroban and Marketplace 2010 2011 2012 the loss of Avandia sales.
Our new The US healthcare market continued treatment for lupus, Benlysta, contributed to change rapidly in 2012 as patients, Operating profit bn sales of 65 million during the year.
providers and payers sought improved care and lower costs.
This drive for In our Vaccines business, turnover was at.
bn value, along with the implementation A decline in u vaccine sales was offset by 5.0 4.8 4.8 of healthcare reform, has spurred sales of Pediarix, which increased 32% and 4.6 consolidation among healthcare Boostrix which grew by 35%.
organisations and providers, including During the year, our pipeline continued hospitals, health maintenance its strong momentum with several organisations, preferred provider products receiving FDA approval organisations, home health agencies and including: Votrient for sarcoma, Promacta hospices.
This is changing the way care is for hepatitis C thrombocytopenia, provided and paid for in the USA.
MenHibrix vaccine for meningitis C&Y In this environment, decisions on and infuenza type b, raxibacumab for purchasing and prescribing increasingly anthrax inhalation and Fabior foam in are being made at a central point, and dermatology.
In addition during the year, 2010 2011 2012 the pharmaceutical industry is having to we submitted five medicines to the FDA: adapt its approach to product marketing respiratory medicines Breo and Anoro: Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover 2012 if it is to continue to work effectively with oncology medicines dabrafenib and healthcare providers and payers.
trametinib BRAF and MEK, and Growth albiglutide for diabetes.
m CER % Performance 1 Respiratory 3,388 1 The year was also significant as we 2 Anti-virals 57 42 Throughout the year, we have continued completed settlements with the US 3 Central nervous system 510 6 to transform our business so that we can Government on a broad range of long- 4 Cardiovascular and urogenital 1,461 5 effectively market and sell our medicines standing legal cases.
Over the past several 5 Metabolic 12 and vaccines and provide the value our years, we have taken actions at all levels 6 Anti-bacterials 20 63 customers demand in this challenging 7 Oncology and emesis 321 18 of the business to change our procedures healthcare environment.
8 Vaccines 826 for compliance, marketing and selling 9 Dermatology 228 14 to embed a new way for the business The business has demonstrated its 10 Rare diseases 117 10 to operate.
By instilling a values-based underlying strength with strong 11 Immuno-inammation 65 100 culture within our organisation, we are performance from products serving the committed to operating our business with respiratory, neuroscience, vaccine and transparency, integrity and respect and oncology markets.
Overall sales were to focus on the best interests of patients.
down 2%, although excluding the impact Throughout the year, we continued to of Avandia, sales were at.
Operating profit increased 1% to In 2012, we also provided 100 million 4.8 billion as a result of our continuing worth of GSK medicines and vaccines efforts to simplify our processes and to over 350,000 uninsured or under produce efficiencies in our operations.
insured patients enrolled in our patient assistance programmes.
2-54 Strategic review 55-86 Financial review & risk 87-136 Governance & remuneration 137-223 Financial statements 224-248 Investor information GSK Annual Report 2012 21 Grow Deliver Simplify Europe Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines Turnover bn In our Pharmaceuticals business, turnover The economic climate and declined 8%.
Sales by volume of Seretide, government austerity our asthma and COPD product, increased bn but revenue declined 4% because of price 6.5 5.0 measures continue to cuts.
Our oncology products Votrient, 19% of Group turnover 5.7 impact our performance.
Promacta and Arzerra performed well, and sales of Duodart and Avodart, which 5.0 We maintain our treat benign prostatic hyperplasia, grew determination to develop 9%, even though Duodart did not have market access approval in France and Italy.
our business and build on While gaining approval from the opportunity provided governments to market products by the ow of new products continues to be a challenge, we did see improvements in 2012.
treatment for osteoporosis, and Benlysta, 2010 2011 2012 for lupus, have now been launched in Marketplace almost all markets in Europe.
Operating profit bn The economic climate in Europe In our Vaccines business, reported continues to pose challenges for turnover declined by 4%, reecting pharmaceutical companies and a wide bn the austerity-driven price cuts and the range of businesses and industries.
3.7 2.6 introduction of national tenders in Austerity programmes are pressuring several countries.
3.2 governments to nd new ways of tightening healthcare budgets.
The Throughout Europe, we have sought 2.6 stringent austerity measures implemented to work with those governments by some countries affected not only the implementing austerity measures to nd pricing of medicines but also patients ways to manage both patient demand access to new treatments.
Over 2012, this partnership approach resulted in One particular concern is that the no interruption to supply to those operation of reference pricing, where countries and an overall reduction prices are set in reference to those charged in our overdue receivables.
in other countries, could create additional 2010 2011 2012 pressure if levels set for a country under Our support for charitable programmes severe austerity measures are adopted that strengthen healthcare in the Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover 2012 by others.
communities and regions where we Growth operate remains an important part of our m CER % Performance business.
Our financial support each year 1 Respiratory 1,906 5 totals more than 1 million in Europe Our European business continued to 2 Anti-virals 74 23 excluding the UK.
be affected by austerity measures, with 3 Central nervous system 386 15 overall sales down 7%.
4 Cardiovascular and urogenital 504 1 Following a review in 2012, we will 5 Metabolic 29 49 be further restructuring our European To respond to the challenging business 6 Anti-bacterials 403 17 business to reduce costs, improve climate, we continued to invest in our 7 Oncology and emesis 256 11 efficiency and re-allocate resource to products while reducing operating costs 8 Vaccines 980 4 support growth opportunities in Europe.
Despite 9 Dermatology 156 5 As we reduce our European cost base, these initiatives, operating profit fell by 10 Rare diseases 123 6 we will also be evaluating further 11 Immuno-inammation 4 100 11%, primarily owing to the loss of sales.
strategic options to ensure we are able to maximise the value of our current and future portfolio.
22 GSK Annual Report 2012 Strategic review Grow a diversied global business EMAP Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines Turnover bn Our Developing Countries Market Despite volatility across the Access DCMA unit, which manages our region, our Emerging commercial business in the worlds 50 bn poorest countries and focuses on volume 4.7 4.7 Markets and Asia Pacic 4.5 rather than profit growth, also performed 4.3 18% of Group turnover business continues to well.
DCMA unit sales increased 61% in 2012 to 158 million.
perform very strongly with Overall, EMAP Pharmaceuticals turnover growth across both vaccines increased 8%, with improved momentum and pharmaceuticals.
after a slow first quarter, as strong growth in respiratory combined with good performances in a number of established Marketplace brands and the newer oncology portfolio.
In 2012 overall market growth in the EMAP region slowed somewhat.
Sales of our innovative brands continue 2010 2011 2012 Global economic factors played a to outpace the market with Seretide, part, but increasing price controls, Avodart Duodart and Avamys all gaining funding constraints and aggressive market share.
We have also seen a Operating profit bn local competition also contributed.
number of very promising product launches across the region, with strong However, we believe the business bn uptake of Duodart in the Philippines and environment in the region remains 1.6 1.6 Prolia in Brazil, Russia and Argentina.
1.5 strong, with growing populations, expanding middle classes and higher Benlysta, our treatment for lupus, is 1.3 spending on healthcare, and we are now approved in ten countries in the confident that the region will continue region including Russia and Taiwan and to provide a significant contribution to launched in four.
We are also preparing growth in the pharmaceutical industry for the launch of several products within over the long term.
our late-stage pipeline, with regulatory lings completed for Relvar in the Performance Philippines, Taiwan and Brazil.
We have a strong presence in many highOur classic brands business grew 5% growth EMAP markets across both our with strong performances from Augmentin 2010 2011 2012 Vaccines and Pharmaceuticals businesses.
up 8% Ventolin up 10% and Zefx up 3% including successful tender wins for We made good progress in 2012 with Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover 2012 medicines such as Augmentin and Ventolin Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover Growth in Saudi Arabia, Russia, South Korea and growth of 10%.
Throughout the region, m CER % Kazakhstan.
growth was strong across the three main 1 Respiratory 858 13 pillars of our business: innovative brands Despite some quarterly volatility, 2 Anti-virals 360 2 up 15%, classic brands up 5% and 3 Central nervous system 329 8 Vaccines growth of 14% was driven vaccines up 14%.
4 Cardiovascular and urogenital 292 18 by Synorix, Rotarix and Cervarix.
5 Metabolic 65 10 Synorix has proven to be a particularly Regionally, we saw strong growth in Latin 6 Anti-bacterials 735 5 successful launch and we also saw solid America up 11% to 1,257 million, 7 Oncology and emesis 131 48 performance from our base paediatric China up 17% to 759 million and 8 Vaccines 1,107 14 Vaccines business.
India up 10% to 304 million partly 9 Dermatology 388 7 offset by the effect of mandatory price 10 Rare diseases 48 20 reductions in a number of markets, including Turkey and Korea.
2-54 Strategic review 55-86 Financial review & risk 87-136 Governance & remuneration 137-223 Financial statements 224-248 Investor information GSK Annual Report 2012 23 Operating profit grew 9% to 1.6 billion, This represents a substantial broadly in line with sales growth.
contribution to the United Nations Millennium Development Goal to Our commitment to increase access to reduce child mortality.
our medicines across the EMAP region while sustaining operating profit growth In the 49 least-developed countries was demonstrated by the continuing covered by our DCMA unit, we price GSK expansion of our exible pricing medicines at 25% of developed market initiatives and affordability partnerships.
prices for innovative brands and vaccines.
For example in 2012 we launched a new, We also reinvest 20% of the profits we lower-cost pack of four Ventolin rotacaps make in those countries back into local with a low-cost inhaler in Indonesia.
will provide patients with an affordable and effective treatment and will now be rolled out across other EMAP markets.
GSKs contracts with the GAVI Alliance are central to our strategy to increase access to vaccines in developing countries.
We anticipate that the programmes resulting from this partnership will vaccinate more than 75 million children against gastrointestinal diarrhoea caused by rotavirus over the coming five years, and 160 million children against pneumococcal disease by 2020.
See page 24 for more information on this programme in Yemen.
We have committed to supply to GAVI 132 million doses of Rotarix over five years and 480 million doses of Synorix over ten years.
During 2012, six new GAVI-eligible countries introduced Rotarix and two additional countries, Pakistan and Madagascar, introduced Synorix.
24 GSK Annual Report 2012 Strategic review Grow a diversied global business EMAP Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines continued Case study Wider access to vaccines In August the government of Yemen introduced rotavirus vaccines in its national immunisation programme to help prevent thousands of childrens deaths from severe diarrhoea.
This programme was made possible through our commitment to the GAVI Alliance.
We committed to supply GAVI with up to 132 million doses of our rotavirus vaccine over the next five years and a minimum of 480 million doses of our pneumococcal vaccine over the next ten years.
The vaccines are priced at a small fraction of developed world prices, as they are intended to reach children in the worlds poorest countries where the burden of illness is often the highest.
By partnering with GAVI, our vaccines can reach more children.
The arrangement provides us with security around high volume and long term supply, allowing us to operate a sustainable business model.
Pictured: Infant receiving a vaccine in Yemen.
GAVI 2012 Amira Al-Shairf Yemen 2-54 Strategic review 55-86 Financial review & risk 87-136 Governance & remuneration 137-223 Financial statements 224-248 Investor information GSK Annual Report 2012 25 Grow Deliver Simplify Japan Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines Turnover bn We benefited from this revision system, Despite scheduled with 23 compounds, 51 formulations government price receiving the premium.
bn 2.1 2.0 revisions and the Pharmaceuticals turnover grew 3% 2.0 2.0 with strong growth from the recently 7% of Group turnover completion of the cervical launched products, Lamictal, Avodart and cancer vaccine catch up Volibris, partly offset by the impact of the mandatory biennial price cuts, which programme in March, impacted growth by approximately 4 our Japanese business percentage points, and increasing generic competition to Paxil.
The respiratory performed strongly portfolio grew 6% to 624 million, with during 2012. strong contributions from Adoair sales 6% and Xyzal offsetting declines in Flixonase and Zyrtec.
Marketplace 2010 2011 2012 Japans pharmaceutical market grew Paxil, our leading CNS product, faced by about 2% in 2012, affected by the strong challenges from newly launched Operating profit bn governments scheduled reimbursement anti-depressants and from a generic price revisions, which take place every version entering the market in June.
While sales fell 20%, Paxil together with 1.2 1.2 1.2 1.2 newly introduced Paxil CR, remains a A state-funded cervical cancer leader in the anti-depressants market.
vaccination programme for girls, and Hib and pneumococcal vaccine for On the approval of ReQuip CR, the infants and young children, also had an Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare impact on pharmaceutical companies recommended switching patients from earnings during the year.
regular ReQuip based on the benets the new formulation offered.
Performance We have had 72 regulatory approvals The market in Japan continues since 2000, and six of those approvals to encourage innovation, and our coming in 2012.
New approvals business performed strongly.
While granted in the year include: Samtirel for 2010 2011 2012 our turnover fell 6% in 2012 to pneumocystis pneumonia, Paxil CR for 1,969 million, this largely reected depression, ReQuip CR for Parkinsons Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover 2012 an adverse comparison with 2011 disease, Votrient for soft tissue sarcoma, which benefited from particularly Growth Botox for hyperhydrosis and Malaron for strong Cervarix sales due to an HPV m CER % malaria.
New product lings were made vaccination catch up programme.
1 Respiratory 624 6 for Relvar in asthma COPD and Arzerra 2 Anti-virals 221 9 Excluding Cervarix, turnover for chronic lymphocytic leukemia.
3 Central nervous system 391 3 increased by 5%.
4 Cardiovascular and urogenital 116 32 Our Vaccines business recorded sales The price revision was conducted 5 Metabolic 72 20 of 176 million, boosted by the 6 Anti-bacterials 29 6 under the new provisional drug pricing government-funded immunisation 7 Oncology and emesis 56 38 system, which provides premiums to programmes, though the completion of 8 Vaccines 176 50 patent-protected medicines so that the HPV catch-up programme impacted 9 Dermatology 33 prices are maintained during the total sales.
Rotarix, which launched in late 10 Rare diseases 188 15 exclusivity period.
The new system 2011, contributed sales of 44 million.
means pharmaceutical manufacturers with off-patent products suffer a larger reduction in the reimbursement prices compared with manufacturers with strong innovation portfolios.
26 GSK Annual Report 2012 Strategic review Grow a diversied global business Japan Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines continued Operating profit of 1.2 billion fell 7%, Case study reecting the loss of sales compared with 2011.
Japan: a market rewarding innovation GSK and Daiichi Sankyo Co. Ltd started a new vaccines joint venture, Japan Japan is a market that rewards healthcare innovation and we have Vaccine Co Ltd JVC.
The venture, in signicantly grown sales and market share in the country over recent which GSK has a 50% stake, will hold years as we have launched multiple new products.
the commercial rights in the market In 2012, we had six approvals, bringing our total number of regulatory for existing vaccines from both parent approvals to 72 since 2000.
We have the potential for approximately 30 companies and is responsible for latemore launches in Japan over the next three years.
It creates significant economies of scale in the development A key focus for our Japanese business has been to reduce the time lag and distribution of vaccines in the between the submission of new medicines in the USA EU and submissions to Japanese market.
Previously, this time frame had been several years, but through better global collaboration on development and The country continues to recover from safety studies, we have been able to reduce this to a matter of months.
the earthquake and tsunami of March 2011.
Our employees volunteer team, Our new asthma COPD medicine Relvar, for example, was led in Japan only Team Orange, which formed following three months after its first western submission by taking this global approach.
the catastrophe, continued to provide If approved, it will add to our established respiratory medicine portfolio in help and support to people in the affected the country.
We also worked to raise funds for a scholarship programme targeting students impacted by the disaster.
The year ended with GSK Japan being designated 2012 company of the year by the British Chamber of Commerce in Japan.
2-54 Strategic review 55-86 Financial review & risk 87-136 Governance & remuneration 137-223 Financial statements 224-248 Investor information GSK Annual Report 2012 27 Grow Deliver Simplify Consumer Healthcare Turnover bn markets.
In 2012, our weight-loss product Our Consumer Healthcare alli experienced a major interruption business continues to from our supplier, impacting our sales.
bn 5.3 5.1 perform strongly, particularly Our smoking reduction and cessation 5.1 5.1 products also performed well in the year, 19% of Group turnover in emerging markets.
gaining share in both North America and Europe.
Another contributor was Marketplace our pain management category.
Sales in The market for consumer healthcare this category continued to benefit from products operated at two distinct speeds the roll-out of our patented Optizorb in 2012, with strong growth in emerging technology to Panadol concept brands, economies contrasting sharply with including Panadol in Europe, Asia and challenging environments in western Latin America, Dolex in Colombia and Europe and North America.
was intense as companies sought to 2010 2011 2012 The Oral care category led growth at 8% outpace market growth in developed versus market growth of approximately economies and improve their presence in 4%.
Sensodyne became the businesss first Operating profit bn the emerging markets.
billion-dollar brand in 2012, boosted by the global roll-out of Sensodyne Repair & Performance bn Protect and the launch of Sensodyne Repair 1.1 0.9 Our Consumer Healthcare business was & Protect Whitening and Extra Fresh.
restructured in late 2011 into four large, 1.0 Our denture care business also registered high-value categories: Total wellness, 0.9 strong growth in 2012 up 12%, Oral care, Nutrition and Skin health.
with particularly positive results from The benefit of this new structure began expansion in emerging markets up 17%.
Total turnover, In Nutrition, which registered global excluding the sales of the non-core OTC growth of 8%, Horlicks continued to grow brands, increased 5% to 5.1 billion with in the Indian sub-continent.
In 2012, the relatively consistent performance over Horlicks Family Nutrition range sold close the quarters.
This reected continued to 300 million sachets in India.
growth in Oral care, Nutrition and Total wellness, partly offset by a small decline The Maxinutrition range, which we 2010 2011 2012 in Skin health.
In addition, we took steps acquired in 2011, continued strong to increase the global availability of our growth in 2012 of 21%.
We have Breakdown of turnover brands with 44 innovations that reached announced a review evaluating strategic nearly 90 countries.
Growth options for our Lucozade and Ribena m CER % drinks brands, which are primarily On a regional basis, US sales grew 2% 1 Total wellness 2,008 10 marketed in established western markets.
and European sales were at, both 2 Oral care 1,797 8 These brands are iconic and the review impacted by continuing economic 3 Nutrition 1,050 8 will look at the best ways to ensure their pressures and the drag from supply 4 Skin health 255 1 continued growth.
interruptions to alli during the year.
The rest of world markets grew 12%, Our Skin health business registered a 1% with India, the Middle East and China decline in 2012.
Strong performances in making strong contributions.
By early wound care with Bactroban in China and 2013, we had completed our plans to good growth on lip care with Zovirax and increase our stake in our Indian Consumer the introduction of Abreva Conceal in the Healthcare subsidiary from 43.2% to USA were offset by declines on Hinds in 72.5%, increasing our presence in this Latin America and Oilatum in the UK.
Operating profit of 0.9 billion fell 9%, Sales from our Total wellness business reecting the disposal of the non-core fell 10%, but when sales from the OTC brands.
divested non-core OTC brands were excluded, sales grew 2%.
Within this business, our gastro-intestinal products registered 11% growth through the launch of Tums Freshers in the USA and strong performance of ENO in emerging 28 GSK Annual Report 2012 Strategic review Grow a diversied global business Consumer Healthcare continued Case study Reaching into rural communities Our Indian business is our fastest-growing Consumer Healthcare business, with average sales growth of 18% over the past five years.
The business generated revenues of over 400 million in 2012.
Operating across Nutrition, Total wellness and Oral care categories we have a number of leading brands in India, but the biggest by far is Horlicks.
In 2012, we sold close to 150 million drink sachets of Horlicks.
But in India, Horlicks is more than a drink.
We have evolved this iconic household brand into a range of nutritional products, including breakfast cereals, biscuits and instant noodles.
The original trademark product has diversied into specialised formulations for different consumers including Junior Horlicks, Womens Horlicks and Mothers Horlicks.
We have been increasing availability of Horlicks in rural markets, reaching an additional 10,000 villages in 2012.
In addition, harnessing the popularity and strong reputation with Indian consumers of the brand, we are working with community organisations, schools, mothers groups, local doctors, pharmacies, and mobile vans to provide advice and education on health and nutrition in remote rural communities where up to 70% of the population lives.
Through this network, we are also working with local healthcare providers to increase these communities access to key medicines to treat diseases that greatly worsen the blight of malnutrition.
We are concentrating efforts on improving access to medicines such as Zentel for worm infestations, Fesovit for iron deficiency, other vitamin and mineral supplements and treatments for respiratory problems.
2-54 Strategic review 55-86 Financial review & risk 87-136 Governance & remuneration 137-223 Financial statements 224-248 Investor information GSK Annual Report 2012 29 Grow Deliver Simplify ViiV Healthcare Turnover bn The new agreement enables ViiV Our HIV AIDS business Healthcare to advance the portfolio withstood generic most effectively and efficiently while bn maximising the full potential long-term 1.6 1.6 1.4 competition on a number value of the assets.
In return Shionogi 5% of Group turnover 1.4 of products, nishing the receives representation on the ViiV Healthcare board and becomes a 10% year with a significant ling.
Regulatory submissions for our Marketplace investigational integrase inhibitor In 2012 an estimated 34 million dolutegravir in Europe, the USA and people worldwide were reported as Canada were completed following receipt living with HIV.
of Phase III data from the comprehensive The market for HIV medicines is highly trial programme in naive and treatmentcompetitive with multiple new market experienced patients.
The FDA has now 2010 2011 2012 entrants and an increasing number of granted this priority review.
Submission generic competitors in the USA and of regulatory les for a dolutegravir Operating profit bn Europe.
scientific progress in HIV is xed-dose combination with Epzicom marked by new therapies that can provide Kivexa is anticipated in 2013. benets over existing medicines efcacy, bn Providing a comprehensive, sustainable tolerability and resistance proles.
0.9 0.9 0.8 approach to improving access to HIV 0.8 medicines remains a key priority for ViiV Performance Healthcare.
This commitment covers In 2012, turnover for ViiV Healthcare 135 countries including middle-income was 1.4 billion, down 10% from the countries, low-income countries, leastprevious year.
The decline in sales was developed countries and sub-Saharan anticipated as our mature product Africa.
We offer royalty-free voluntary portfolio including Combivir, Epivir and licences and not-for-profit pricing in all Ziagen in the USA experienced generic low-income and least-developed countries competition.
This impact was partly and in sub-Saharan Africa, where 75% offset by strong performances from of all people with HIV currently live.
In Epzicom Kivexa and Selzentry Celsentri.
middle-income countries, the approach 2010 2011 2012 is on a case-by-case basis, taking into Sales of Epzicom Kivexa grew by 10% to account the local needs, with a tiered- 665 million, while sales of Selzentry Breakdown of turnover pricing policy based on Gross Domestic Celsentri were 128 million, up 20%.
This Growth Product and the burden of the epidemic was driven by increasing early-line use in m CER % to improve affordability.
All marketed and the USA and broader uptake of genotypic 1 Combivir 179 43 pipeline HIV medicines are covered by our tropism testing in Europe.
expansion of Selzentry Celsentri continued 3 Epzicom Kivexa 665 10 in the international region with first- 4 Lexiva 127 9 ViiV Healthcare also spearheaded 5 Selzentry 128 20 line approvals in several large markets initiatives to address paediatric HIV 6 Trizivir 107 13 including Japan, Argentina and Australia.
These include a collaboration with the Clinton Health Access Initiative Despite the fall in sales, operating profit CHAI and Mylan Pharmaceuticals of 0.8 billion was at in CER terms, to produce a taste-masked, dispersible primarily reecting robust cost control medicine for paediatric use in resourceand changes in the mix of products sold.
significant unrestricted ViiV Healthcare was established by GSK educational grants were also provided and Pzer in 2009.
In October 2012 ViiV to five organisations to support the Healthcare and Shionogi agreed that collection of paediatric data, information ViiV Healthcare would acquire exclusive and research.
Through the Positive global rights to the co-developed portfolio Action programme and Positive Action of investigational integrase inhibitors, for Children Fund, ViiV Healthcare also including dolutegravir.
continued to make important progress in supporting the community response to HIV AIDS.
30 GSK Annual Report 2012 Strategic review Grow Deliver Simplify Del iver more products of value Overview We have changed our R&D organisation so that it is better able to sustain a pipeline of products that offer valuable improvements in treatment for patients and healthcare providers.
We have increased the level of externalisation of our research, allowing us to access new areas of science and to share the risk of development with our partners.
We have also changed our processes to make decisions earlier around pipeline progressions, so that only those medicines that are signicantly differentiated from existing therapies are progressed.
We have broken up the traditional hierarchical R&D business model and created smaller, more agile groups of scientists who are accountable for delivering their projects.
All of this has been underpinned with a focus on improving the rates of return in R&D and being more rigorous in how we allocate investment across Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare R&D.
2-54 Strategic review 55-86 Financial review & risk 87-136 Governance & remuneration 137-223 Financial statements 224-248 Investor information GSK Annual Report 2012 31 Progress During 2012, new vaccines were approved for u, meningitis and meningitis-Hib.
We received two significant new indications for existing medicines treating cancer and hepatitis.
We also led six key new products for approval with regulators, including treatments for respiratory disease, cancer, HIV and diabetes.
This is an unprecedented level of late-stage pipeline delivery for the company.
Overall, our return on R&D investment has been increasing and we remain confident we can reach our long-term goal of 14%.
Sales of new Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines products bn Core R&D expenditure bn bn bn 2.5 3.7 3.7 1.4 3.5 3.5 1.7 1.4 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 New product approvals in the USA Estimated rate of return in R&D % 14 3 12 11 2 1 Feb Feb Target 2010 2011 2012 2010 2012 Priorities A key focus for 2013 will be to successfully progress the six key product lings we have made, although clearly decisions on approval of these assets will be made by regulators.
We are increasingly confident in our ability to sustain pipeline delivery and we expect to receive Phase III data on a further 14 assets in 2013 and 2014.
Delivery of this data-ow over the next two years is a priority for the Group.
We will also continue to drive improvements in ways of working across the R&D organisation, so that the increasing levels of output can be maintained without increased expenditure.
32 GSK Annual Report 2012 Strategic review Deliver more products of value Investment in R&D Our primary goal in R&D is to develop In 2010, GSK became the first major Research and development our pipeline products safely and pharmaceutical company to publish an is critical to ensuring we efficiently to produce innovative new internal rate of return IRR on our R&D medicines that provide improved investment, to indicate the positive value have a sustainable business, treatments that are valued by both being realised from our choices within and that we can continue patients and payers.
IRR provides a measurement offering an insight into to offer new medicines, More than 12,500 people work across our how we manage our R&D business.
This R&D organisation, with many of these vaccines and consumer is based on a complex methodology based in our large R&D centres in the UK, that weighs the R&D costs incurred products that can help USA, Belgium and China.
In 2012, our to discover and develop our late stage R&D expenditure before non-core items people live longer and pipeline projects against the profits of was 3.5 billion, representing 13.1% of new medicines and vaccines as they healthier lives.
achieve regulatory approval and are made Our R&D expenditure is split into three available to patients.
It incorporates actual parts, with proportions devoted to our and predicted sales gures on probabilities Core R&D expenditure 2012 three areas of business: Pharmaceuticals, of success for medicines in the pipeline.
We We also take into account an estimate of 1 3 allocate R&D investment consistently attributable R&D costs, estimated profit and rationally across the three businesses.
margins, capital investment and working 2 Investment in R&D is based on where capital requirements.
we see the best opportunities in both the We have stated our long-term aim of market and the science, rather than as increasing our rate of return on R&D a xed proportion of sales.
In February 2012 R&D budget has remained relatively at we announced an IRR of around 12%.
1 Pharmaceuticals 2,821 This was an increase from an 11% IRR 2 Vaccines 498 The discovery and development process calculated in February 2010.
The IRR 3 Consumer Healthcare 155 is long, expensive and uncertain gure will be updated every 2-3 years, especially in Pharmaceuticals and with the next published gure in 2014.
Vaccines R&D and it is not possible The calculation at February 2012 of to predict which projects will succeed the estimated rate of return on R&D or fail.
Further information is discussed spending included products launched in pages 33 to 41. from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2011 and compounds in phases IIb Rate of return in R&D and III of the development process.
Declining R&D productivity is an issue The calculation is based on actual sales that the pharmaceutical industry as a from 2009 to 2011, and forecast sales whole has faced in the past decade.
As a up to 2032, adjusted to reect expected result it has become more important for failure rates, which are broadly in line companies to provide a greater level of with standard industry failure rates.
transparency on the returns that their The cost base used in this calculation R&D organisations make to determine comprises an estimate of attributable capital investment allocation.
R&D costs and actual and projected The returns generated from R&D are milestone payments where appropriate.
primarily determined by the commercial Estimated working capital requirements success of new medicines and vaccines are factored into the calculation, based as they achieve regulatory approval and on our historical performance.
We are confident we are on track to deliver our long-term goal to improve returns to around 14%.
Details of the full product development pipeline, made up of both pharmaceutical and vaccine assets, are set out on pages 225 to 228 and on our website.
The performance of marketed products is discussed in detail under Financial review 2012 on pages 57 to 59.
2-54 Strategic review 55-86 Financial review & risk 87-136 Governance & remuneration 137-223 Financial statements 224-248 Investor information GSK Annual Report 2012 33 Grow Deliver Simplify Pharmaceuticals R&D 2012 was a year of significant progress The process began in 2007, when all To be successful over for our R&D organisation.
therapy areas were reviewed to seek the long term, we need the most scientically promising areas In the course of the year, we received for drug discovery and to move the the investments we are two new significant indications for organisation from a culture predisposed existing medicines: Promacta for making in our pipeline to reinvest in existing areas.
In 2008, as thrombocytopenia associated with a result of this therapy area rebalancing to lead to new medicines hepatitis C and Votrient for the treatment process, we changed our business model, of soft tissue sarcoma.
In addition, we that will be valued by moving to smaller, more agile and submitted six key new medicines to focused Discovery Performance Units patients and those who regulators: respiratory medicines Relvar DPUs of between five and 70 scientists.
Breo and Anoro: oncology medicines pay for the treatments.
Each DPU works on a particular disease or dabrafenib and trametinib BRAF pathway, and is responsible for discovery and MEK : dolutegravir for HIV: and and development of potential new albiglutide for diabetes.
medicines through to early stage clinical Two new chemical entities moved into trials up to the completion of Phase lla.
Highlights Phase III development in 2012, while As part of this new model, DPUs were no assets were terminated from Phase III s 4WO NEW SIGNIlCANT INDICATIONS given their own budgets and a three-year development, as listed on page 40. for existing medicines Promacta window to complete specic tasks.
The and Votrient Our Core Pharmaceuticals R&D business plans of each DPU identied expenditure was 2.8 billion in 2012, a specic targets and investment across s &ILINGS FOR SIX NEW MEDICINES decline of 5% from 2011.
We continue to multiple years.
The plans also included treating respiratory disease, move towards sustainable replenishment opportunities for collaboration with cancer, HIV and diabetes, of our late-stage pipeline.
external organisations, such as large and submitted to regulators small companies and academia.
Our More than 10,000 people work in internal R&D expertise gives us a strong s. EW AREAS FOR EARLY STAGE Pharmaceuticals R&D, and we view our basis in identifying and forming these research identied following research projects as early stage discovery collaborations, which in drug discovery investment review or late-stage development.
are typically in-licensing or option-based.
Discovering new medicines The three-year mark for most DPUs was Our early stage R&D drug discovery reached in late 2011 early 2012 and Core Pharmaceutical R&D investment in 2012 seeks to identify the biological targets their business plans were reviewed by 1 involved with the development of the Discovery Investment Board DIB, 3 diseases, and then to create small which identied areas for improvement molecules or biopharmaceuticals that and suggested agreed progress targets interact with these disease targets, and investment levels.
Membership ultimately leading to new medicines.
of the DIB comprises senior R&D and 2 The sheer scale of scientific discoveries commercial management, and external makes it essential that we are highly individuals with expertise including selective in where we invest our drug life science investment experience and m discovery resources.
We focus on those understanding of payer perspectives.
1 Discovery 800 2 Development 1,655 areas we consider most likely to lead to It is chaired by the President of R&D.
3 Facilities and central support 366 significant medical advances.
The overall review of the DPUs was Over the last six years, we have positive and led to a number of new transformed our R&D organisation to investment allocations in discovery become more efficient and productive.
Over the course of 2012, four new DPUs have been created and three have been closed.
In addition, scientists submitted more than 50 proposals for new discovery performance units.
34 GSK Annual Report 2012 Strategic review Deliver more products of value Pharmaceuticals R&D continued This outcome is consistent with our The Portfolio Investment Board PIB Developing medicines for patients intentions of the DPU structure and assesses the technical, commercial and A compound that advances into lateDIB review to retain exibility in our investment case for each project to stage development typically after Phase discovery research investment and to progress in development.
The PIB is IIa will undergo much larger-scale ensure we remain focused on where the co-chaired by the Chairman of R&D studies in humans to investigate further scientific opportunity remains greatest.
and the President of North America its efcacy and safety.
This will be our way of working in the Pharmaceuticals, and includes the heads At the same time, we work to optimise future so we can remain exible as the of each pharmaceutical region along with the compounds physical properties and landscape changes.
the head of global manufacturing.
its formulation so that it can be produced Overall our discovery expenditure The PIB is accountable for investment efficiently and in sufficient quantities remained at at approximately decisions and funding allocation across through the manufacturing process.
No individual project all late-stage Pharma R&D investments then convert the results of these activities has annual expenditure of more Medicines Discovery and Development, into a regulatory le for submission to than 10% of the total annual R&D Biopharm R&D, Oncology, Stiefel, Rare regulatory agencies.
Investment decisions Diseases and Emerging Markets R&D.
Medicines Development Teams MDTs have been made where the science This allows investment decisions to are small units of six to ten people who presents a compelling case and there be made in a holistic way, ensuring a have responsibility for a compound remains a need for new treatments.
balance and diversity of assets of differing through the later stages of development risk prole, novelty, opportunity, We have learned a great deal from the to ling with the regulatory agencies.
development cost and potential to be first DIB review and we now expect to There are over 30 assets in late-stage reimbursed by payers.
deliver up to 30 assets to commit to development.
medicine development typically Phase Projects are reviewed by the PIB at certain We also actively seek opportunities to IIb over the next three years.
key decision points: Commit to Medicine add products to our pipeline through Development, Commit to Phase III and This increase in productivity would alliances with other companies.
For Commit to File and Launch.
Funding mean GSK is moving towards sustainable late-stage assets, these typically take the is generally allocated up to the next replenishment of its late-stage pipeline, form of in-licensing or co-promotion key decision point, typically between with no increase in cost.
arrangements and are most likely to two and four years ahead.
The PIB also be aligned to existing areas of therapy carries out an annual late-stage funding expertise or investment.
review, where investment in all projects is reviewed, adjusted if necessary and prioritised.
No individual late-stage project has incurred annual expenditure of more than 10% of the total annual R&D expenditure.
Timeline and development stages for pharmaceutical research Drug discovery Preclinical Clinical trials Regulatory Scale up to Post marketing review launch surveillance Phase I Phase II Phase III 5,000-10,000 compounds 250 compounds 1 approved 5 1 compounds new medicine 20-100 100-500 1,000-5,000 Number of patients subjects 3-6 years 6-7 years 0.5-2 years indefinite IND submitted NDA submitted Pre-discovery 2-54 Strategic review 55-86 Financial review & risk 87-136 Governance & remuneration 137-223 Financial statements 224-248 Investor information GSK Annual Report 2012 35 Grow Deliver Simplify Case study Concentrating on development It is estimated that it takes between nine and15 years to take a medicine from initial research to the point it is approved by regulators and made available to patients.
Our R&D organisation has been working to reduce this time.
Two cancer medicines recently submitted to regulatory authorities, dabrafenib, our BRAF inhibitor, and tramatenib, our MEK inhibitor, both for malignant melanoma have shown that this can be done.
Submissions to regulators took place less than seven years from the time our teams selected these compounds as potential anti-cancer treatments.
We were able to do this by developing a deep understanding of how these compounds worked so that we could design clinical trials to include patients whose tumours had a specic genetic mutation that made them susceptible to these investigational medicines.
Because both compounds worked against tumours with a genetic mutation, we collaborated with another company to develop a diagnostic test to identify tumours carrying this mutation.
Pictured: Representation of melanoma cells.
Random42 Medical Animation 36 GSK Annual Report 2012 Strategic review Deliver more products of value Pharmaceuticals R&D continued Sales of new pharmaceutical products Case study launched over the last 5 years grew by 34% and represented 7% of total Opening up access to trial data pharmaceutical sales.
Clinical trials are a vital part of the development process for all new medicines Governance and vaccines.
We recognise the importance of sharing research from trials to The R&D governance structure has help advance scientific understanding and inform medical judgment.
been developed to ensure clearer Access to patient-level data from clinical trials can be valuable for researchers accountabilities and product reviews.
who want to learn about existing medicines and improve patient care.
For a The oversight of strategic issues and number of years GSK has responded to external requests for patient-level data overall budget management across R&D is owned by the R&D Executive team on a case-by-case basis.
Now we will be more proactive, allowing researchers RADEX.
DIB and PIB control investment to request anonymised patient-level data from our published clinical trials of decisions in early and late-stage R&D, approved or terminated medicines.
This will enable researchers to examine trial data more closely or combine data from different studies to conduct as described above.
The scientific Review Board SRB is the Researchers will be able to submit their requests via a dedicated website.
governing body accountable for the To ensure these requests have a valid scientific basis we have established scientific assessment of the R&D portfolio a fully independent panel to oversee requests and grant access.
to support investment decision making at the Portfolio Investment Board PIB.
At Expanding on this, in 2013, we were the first company to sign up to the the SRB, there will be a debate, review and AllTrials campaign, which calls for registration of clinical trials, the disclosure endorsement of a unied R&D view on of clinical trial results and publication of clinical study reports which detail the the scientific aspects of all assets.
The SRB design, methods and results of clinical trials and form the basis of submissions establishes a view on the overall scientific to regulators.
promise of the asset: development plan to We also announced plans to make clinical study reports for our medicines deliver the asset: cost effectiveness of the publically available through the GSK Clinical Study Register once the medicines clinical plan: opportunities and risks to have been approved or discontinued from development and the results have the likely product prole: and gaps where been published.
We will put in place a dedicated team to work back over time evidence is missing or remains uncertain.
to post reports for all approved medicines dating back to the formation The SRB view is the formal R&D position of GSK, starting with those most commonly prescribed.
Patient data in the communicated at PIB.
clinical study reports will be removed to ensure patient condentiality is Two other important governance maintained.
boards in R&D are the Technology These steps further advance our long standing commitment to openness and Investment Board TIB, which makes transparency of clinical trials.
We already publish summary results whether investment decisions for new platform these are perceived to be positive or negative of every research trial on the GSK technologies and licensing or optionsClinical Study Register.
Almost 5,000 clinical trial result summaries are now based collaborations up to the point of available and the site receives on average almost 11,000 visitors each month.
entry into clinical trials: and The New Product Supply NPS Board, which is Individuals participate in our research in the hope they might bring advances the governing body accountable for the in healthcare.
Our new plans acknowledge their commitment and reect our technical feasibility and infrastructure desire to ensure that their contribution can lead to health gains, while assessments covering all aspects of the safeguarding their condentiality.
physical product and supply chain.
In 2012 we developed and launched a global regulatory board to enhance compliance with company-wide standards, make regulatory services more efficient and agile, and further align capabilities with business needs at global and local levels.
This organisation is led by the Chief Regulatory officer.
2-54 Strategic review 55-86 Financial review & risk 87-136 Governance & remuneration 137-223 Financial statements 224-248 Investor information GSK Annual Report 2012 37 Grow Deliver Simplify Vaccines R&D We invested 498 million in core We often work with academia and Our Vaccines R&D is vaccines R&D in 2012 and we have the biotech industry to identify these centred on discovering and more than 1,600 scientists working on new vaccine antigens.
In some cases, the development of new vaccines.
formulation of the vaccine into clinical developing prophylactic lots involves mixing antigens with GSK During the year three new vaccines and therapeutic vaccines proprietary adjuvant systems.
were approved: Nimenrix for meningitis to protect people against and MenHibrix for menigitis Hib and a Vaccine manufacturers use adjuvants to quadrivalent u vaccine.
improve the specic immune systems infectious diseases, cancers response to antigens contained in In addition we currently have around 20 and chronic disorders.
We have been innovating in vaccines in development for a range of the area of adjuvant systems for more diseases, from malaria to tuberculosis and than 20 years.
We currently have four vaccine candidates in late-stage development: Our proprietary adjuvant systems with trials in zoster, malaria, MMR USA combine adjuvants to give the most and our therapeutic vaccine MAGE-A3.
appropriate immune response to a Highlights specic antigen.
Our expertise allows us In November we published the latest to understand which combinations of s 4HREE NEWLY APPROVED VACCINES IN results from the Phase III study into our antigen and adjuvant system can help Nimenrix, MenHibrix and Fluarix adjuvanted malaria vaccine candidate the body mobilise the most effective RTS, S which is ongoing in seven Quadrivalent immunological pathway, and so provide countries in Africa.
maximum protection against specic s !DDITIONAL 0HASE DATA ON Our R&D effort is focused on the diseases in targeted populations.
malaria vaccine announced development of new prophylactic and Candidate vaccines are usually a therapeutic vaccines.
combination of several antigens, and the final composition of the vaccine Discovery research antigens and adjuvant may change over The discovery and development of a new time.
The preclinical research usually vaccine is a complex process requiring takes two to five years and later stage long-term investment.
Typically it takes clinical trials usually take another 1012 years to develop a new vaccine.
Vaccine discovery begins by identifying As well as the discovery of new vaccines in new antigens, which are specic early development projects, R&D supports structures on pathogens viruses, bacteria late-stage projects such as the inclusion of or parasites or on cancer cells that are new antigens in existing vaccines to create recognised by the immune system.
We then produce these pathogens in yeast, bacteria or mammalian cells and Traditionally, vaccines have been used genetically manipulate them so that they to prevent illness.
However, we are can be puried and formulated into a pioneering a different approach designed vaccine.
It is the antigen that creates the to programme the bodys immune bodys immune response.
system to ght existing diseases and so represents a new treatment model as a therapeutic vaccine.
We are evaluating the immunotherapeutic concept against a variety of tumour types.
38 GSK Annual Report 2012 Strategic review Deliver more products of value Vaccines R&D continued Oversight of these key decisions Governance rests with two bodies: the Vaccine In 2012 we further consolidated the Development and Commercial Board organisation of vaccine discovery and VDCB and the Vaccine Investment development teams, to simplify the Board VIB.
The VDCB reviews the infrastructure, focus on timely decision research project strategy and advises making and enhance clarity and on its scientific, technical and accountability.
Vaccines research and commercial feasibility.
development are led by Project Teams and Vaccine Leadership Teams, which The board has an overall view on all are responsible for day-to-day progress, projects, from early to advanced projects.
including identifying and developing The VDCBs core members come from new products.
The VDCB recommendation to progress a project is There are several key decision points submitted to the VIB.
in the vaccine development process: commit to research decide to initiate The VIB has the final decision on full research program, commit to whether to invest in a project, taking into candidate development decide to account the scientific and commercial invest resources to move to clinical perspectives reviewed by the VDCB.
The development : commit to early clinical VIB evaluates the public health benefit, development: commit to Phase III: business opportunity, development registration and launch.
costs and risks, the project timing and the overall evolution of our portfolio of vaccines.
The VIB is also responsible for assessing the overall t of the project in our vaccines portfolio.
Vaccines research and development cycle Identify Produce Pre-Clinical Phase I Phase II Proof of Phase III File Registration Antigens Antigens Testing concept Post marketing surveillance Research including Immunology Pre-clinical development Clinical development including Post marketing surveillance Transfer process to manufacturing 1-10 years 2-3 years 2-4 years 1 year 2-54 Strategic review 55-86 Financial review & risk 87-136 Governance & remuneration 137-223 Financial statements 224-248 Investor information GSK Annual Report 2012 39 Consumer Healthcare R&D Investment in our core Consumer Through our partnership with the While innovation timelines Healthcare R&D was 155 million in McLaren Group, our nutrition scientists in consumer healthcare 2012, up from 146 million in 2011. developed two bespoke Lucozade With more than 600 people in the formulations to support the specic products are signicantly UK, USA, India and China working nutritional needs of their Formula shorter than those in on consumer R&D, our intention is to One drivers.
The Lucozade Hydration develop innovative, category-dening Formulation contains a determined pharmaceuticals, satisfying products, differentiated by science and mix of essential hydration salts, the needs of the consumer informed by consumer insights.
carbohydrates and proteins to support optimal performance: the Lucozade Race remains our central focus.
Our innovation portfolio is a critical Formulation enhances performance element of our Consumer Healthcare in high temperatures while addressing strategy, ensuring a sustainable ow of needs for weight management, mental new,  products.
focus and speed of absorption.
These These often include new technologies formulations will be launched in 2013, and formulations as well as product targeting the unique needs of athletes, line extensions.
serious sports people, and those involved Highlights Sales from our innovative products in high-intensity endurance exercise.
launched in recent years were 13% of s NEW PRODUCT MARKET Given the importance of the Chinese Consumer Healthcare global sales in combinations market we have opened an R&D 2012, with key contributions coming Innovation Centre in the country that s 4OTAL PROPORTION OF SALES FROM from Sensodyne Repair & Protect, Panadol will be concentrating on developing new Extra Advance and Smoking reduction innovation products was 13% products for this fast-growing market.
Researchers will focus on innovations s. EW 2 $ CENTRE IN #HINA BASED Innovative new products launched in specifically developed to meet the needs on meeting the needs of the 2012 included: of consumers in China.
Chinese consumer market U Tums Freshers developed following consumer insights, this first-of-its-kind product combines the therapeutic benets of calcium carbonate for heartburn relief with effective breath fresheners.
U Abreva Conceal a clear, non-medicated patch that instantly conceals cold sores, met consumer desire to address appearance concerns from a troubling, recurring condition.
Designed to be used over Abreva cream, the patented MicroAir technology in the patch provides a protective barrier against contaminants for eight hours while allowing air in to promote healing.
U Horlicks Growth this new addition to the Horlicks range contains 100% milk protein, 30 micronutrients, a balanced macronutrient energy prole and other ingredients important for growth.
The formulation was developed following research on the impact of nutritional supplementation in children, including a major study testing the benets of Horlicks.
40 GSK Annual Report 2012 Strategic review Deliver more products of value Late stage pipeline summary We have a full and diverse product development pipeline We identied below projects comprising new chemical entities, biological entities or vaccines, new combinations and new indications for existing compounds that are in Phase III, have been led for approval or have been recently approved.
The most advanced status is shown and includes 2013 approvals.
86 14 2 approvals in USA or key medicines led Phase III assets new first Phase III EU since January 2012 since January 2012 delivered key data starts since January during 2011 and 2012 2012 U Fabior for acne vulgaris U L}`ivi U Anoro for COPD Ui Lviii USA diabetes asthma U L}`ivi U MenHibrix for N. meningitis U Anoro for COPD diabetes U L for C&Y and H. inuenza type rheumatoid arthritis U` L viLvi V U` L viLvi V b disease prophylaxis USA melanoma melanoma U Nimenrix for N. meningitis U`i} for HIV U`i} for HIV A, C, W &Y disease U Relvar Breo for COPD and U` ii for Duchenne prophylaxis EU asthma muscular dystrophy U Promacta for hepatitis C U iL for metastatic U Patrome IPX066 for induced thrombocytopaenia melanoma Parkinsons disease USA U} for Fabry disease U ` iy VVi U Mosquirix for malaria for seasonal inuenza prophylaxis USA Ui Lvi diabetes U L V Lvi i & prophylaxis of anthrax U Promacta for inhalation USA hepatitis C induced thrombocytopaenia U Sorilux for scalp psoriasis USA U Relvar Breo for COPD and asthma U Votrient for sarcoma USA & EU U iL for metastatic melanoma 0 U Tykerb for adjuvant breast medicines in Phase III cancer development or U Votrient for sarcoma registration terminated Key: Phase III Filed Approval Large comparative study compound Following successful Phase III trials, we Only when approval is granted can we versus placebo and or established treatment le the product for approval by the begin to market the medicine or vaccine.
in patients to establish clinical benefit regulatory authorities.
Our full pipeline is on pages 225 to 228 and safety.
In-licence or other alliance relationship with a third party 2-54 Strategic review 55-86 Financial review & risk 87-136 Governance & remuneration 137-223 Financial statements 224-248 Investor information GSK Annual Report 2012 41 Grow Deliver Simplify Phase III registration Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines pipeline summary Therapeutic area Compound Indication Phase III Filed Approved Biopharmaceuticals Arzerra ofatumumab chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, first line therapy & use in s relapsed patients Arzerra ofatumumab diffuse large B cell lymphoma relapsed patients s Arzerra ofatumumab follicular lymphoma refractory & relapsed patients s Benlysta belimumab systemic lupus erythematosus s Benlysta belimumab vasculitis s mepolizumab severe asthma s sirukumab rheumatoid arthritis s albiglutide type 2 diabetes s raxibacumab inhalation anthrax s Cardiovascular & metabolic darapladib atherosclerosis s Immuno-inammation vercirnon 1605786 Crohn's disease s Infectious diseases Relenza i. v. zanamivir inuenza s Neurosciences Patrome IPX066 Parkinson's disease s trametinib dabrafenib metastatic melanoma, adjuvant therapy s Oncology Tyverb Tykerb lapatinib breast cancer, adjuvant therapy s Tyverb Tykerb lapatinib gastric cancer s Tyverb Tykerb lapatinib head & neck squamous cell carcinoma resectable disease s Votrient pazopanib ovarian cancer, maintenance therapy s Votrient pazopanib renal cell cancer, adjuvant therapy s dabrafenib metastatic melanoma s trametinib metastatic melanoma s trametinib dabrafenib metastatic melanoma s Tyverb Tykerb lapatinib metastatic breast cancer, in combination with trastuzumab s Votrient pazopanib sarcoma s Revolade Promacta eltrombopag hepatitis C induced thrombocytopaenia s Respiratory & uticasone furoate 685698 asthma s immuno-inammation Relvar Breo COPD mortality outcomes s vilanterol uticasone furoate umeclidinium 573719 COPD s vilanterol COPD s Relvar Breo asthma s vilanterol uticasone furoate Relvar Breo COPD s vilanterol uticasone furoate Anoro umeclidinium vilanterol COPD s Paediatric vaccines MMR measles, mumps, rubella prophylaxis s Mosquirix Malaria RTS, S malaria prophylaxis Plasmodium falciparum s MenHibrix Hib-MenCY-TT Neisseria meningitis groups C & Y & Haemophilus inuenzae s type b disease prophylaxis Nimenrix MenACWY-TT Neisseria meningitis groups A, C, W & Y disease prophylaxis s Other vaccines Zoster Herpes Zoster prevention s Flu prepandemic pre-pandemic & pandemic inuenza prophylaxis s Flu vaccine seasonal inuenza prophylaxis s Antigen-Specic Cancer MAGE-A3 immunotherapeutic treatment of melanoma s Immunotherapeutic MAGE-A3 immunotherapeutic treatment of non-small cell lung cancer s Rare diseases drisapersen 2402968 Duchenne muscular dystrophy s 2696273 adenosine deaminase severe combined immune deficiency ADA-SCID s migalastat HCl Fabry disease s Dermatology alitretinoin chronic hand eczema s Duac low dose acne vulgaris s Fabior tazarotene foam acne vulgaris s Sorilux scalp psoriasis s HIV dolutegravir abacavir sulphate HIV infections xed dose combination s lamivudine dolutegravir HIV infections s In-licence or other alliance relationship with third party 42 GSK Annual Report 2012 Strategic review Grow Deliver Simplify Simplify the operating model Overview As our business continues to change shape, we are transforming how we operate so that we can reduce complexity and become more efficient.
Over the past four years we have implemented a global restructuring programme designed to deliver significant savings to support investment in our priority growth businesses as well as offset pressures on the Groups margin resulting from changes in the shape and mix of our business.
Savings from this programme have been generated across the business, including in R&D, manufacturing and through the centralisation and streamlining of our support functions such as finance, HR and IT.
As this programme comes to an end, we are continuing to examine further ways to simplify our operating model and increase efficiencies.
We have begun a new major change programme across manufacturing, R&D and Europe to deliver further savings and build capabilities.
The new programme includes a series of technological advances and opportunities to eliminate complexities and further improve our competitiveness.
2-54 Strategic review 55-86 Financial review & risk 87-136 Governance & remuneration 137-223 Financial statements 224-248 Investor information GSK Annual Report 2012 43 Progress Our restructuring programme has now delivered annual savings of 2.5 billion and remains on track to hit the target we set of 2.8 billion of annual savings by 2014.
Costs for support functions have been reduced by one-fifth since 2008.
We have also reduced our xed infrastructure R&D footprint by 50% while increasing productivity and output from the pipeline.
Despite reducing our carbon footprint from energy use by 15% since 2010, our total carbon footprint excluding that from raw materials increased by 7% compared to 2010 driven by higher inhaler sales.
However, current carbon reduction projects should enable us to reach our interim target to cut our value chain carbon footprint by 10% to 13.5 million tonnes of CO equivalent by 2015.
2 Major change programme Operational Excellence annual savings bn anticipated savings bn bn bn 2.5 0.9 1.0 2.5 2.2 by 2016 0.7 1.7 0.3 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2 Working capital days Pharmaceuticals R&D footprint 000m 2 m days 214 388 293,000 194 202 194 295 293 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Priorities Through our new major change programme, we have identied 1 billion of additional annual savings by 2016 across manufacturing, R&D and our European pharmaceutical business.
Delivering this programme is a key priority over the next three years.
During 2013 we will also be focused on the reform of our supply chain to simplify processes and reduce inventory, cost and complexity.
44 GSK Annual Report 2012 Strategic review simplify the operating model Reducing cost and increasing efficiency The transformation of our operating Core Business Services In 2012 we continued to model and processes has been a key transform our operating business strategy, enabling us to In early 2011, we created the Core Business standardise and streamline important Services CBS group to centralise our model to reduce costs and aspects of our business, including our support functions.
This brought together complexity, and improve supply chain.
functions such as facilities management, HR, IT, finance and procurement in one efficiency.
We have been implementing a centralised team, allowing us to streamline restructuring programme to deliver those elements and standardise processes.
significant savings to support investment Our intention was to increase our in our priority growth businesses as well productivity and free up time in the as offset pressures on the Groups margin businesses to focus on the execution of resulting from changes in the shape and business strategy in their local markets.
In 2012 there has been steady progress on Restructuring programme the implementation of the CBS platform.
A key element of the CBS strategy A key objective of the Operational is the creation of a series of regional Excellence restructuring programme that multifunctional business service centres we began in 2007 was to release resources BSCs to improve service delivery.
Three to invest in our growth strategy.
To of a planned six centres went online in date, the restructuring programme has 2012 and the remainder are expected to delivered approximately 2.5 billion be established in 2013.
This will mean of annual savings and remains on track we need fewer support staff globally to deliver 2.8 billion of annual savings while providing more standard and by 2014. cost effective processes to the Group.
A significant portion of the savings We have also been standardising our generated has been reinvested into processes through the introduction of business areas that offer potential an enterprise-wide resource planning for future profitable growth, such ERP system.
By the end of 2012, nine as emerging markets, Vaccines and European pharmaceutical markets were Consumer Healthcare.
Similarly, some enrolled on the commercial ERP system, of the savings in R&D costs have been equating to 43% of our turnover in reinvested back into discovery and Europe.
We anticipate adding further development research.
markets in 2013, covering most of the European markets by the end of the year.
The existing Operational Excellence programme is coming to a close and We also introduced improved forecasting will be superceded by a new major and planning processes to 40 Latin change programme.
This will focus American markets, with expected reduction on opportunities to simplify our supply in supply chain operating costs, reduced chain processes, as previously announced inventory levels and improved forecasting.
in 2012 and on building the Groups The roll-out of the platform across the capabilities in manufacturing and Group is being accelerated in 2013.
R&D, as well as restructuring our European business.
Supply chain and global 2012 also saw 165 million of manufacturing restructuring charges relating to the We have 87 sites in 34 countries acquisition of Human Genome Sciences manufacturing our vaccines, HGS.
Total restructuring charges related pharmaceuticals and consumer to HGS are expected to be approximately healthcare products.
A large part of our 204 million, of which most is expected network 74 sites is the responsibility to be a cash cost.
The majority of the of Global Manufacturing and Supply remaining HGS restructuring charges GMS with more than 27,000 people will be booked in 2013. involved in the manufacture and supply of our pharmaceutical and consumer healthcare products.
A further 13 sites are operated by our Vaccines business.
2-54 Strategic review 55-86 Financial review & risk 87-136 Governance & remuneration 137-223 Financial statements 224-248 Investor information GSK Annual Report 2012 45 Grow Deliver Simplify A key focus within our manufacturing Case study organisation has been supply chain restructuring to create better end-to-end Squeezing production times processes which reduce costs and are more responsive to customer demand.
Our manufacturing network is a lynchpin in our ability to both make and In 2012, our Consumer Healthcare distribute products around the world.
It also offers an important opportunity business established a fully integrated to make efficiencies, as work done at our toothpaste manufacturing plant in supply chain, a first for GSK.
Signicantly Maidenhead in the UK last year has demonstrated.
greater operating exibility is already apparent and has allowed the business Through a step-by-step analysis of the process involved in changing from to respond more effectively to some the manufacture of one product to another, our staff on the production supply related challenges during the line identied changes that could cut the time taken to changeover by 60%, year.
We are now extending this approach saving 250 hours of production time per year.
Shaving this time off freed-up to our pharmaceuticals and vaccines production time, helping to provide manufacturing capacity to produce an supply chains.
additional 6.7 million tubes of toothpaste per year.
Our Inventory Reduction Programme, Were now looking at ways that we can share this learning to create a which is focused on the improvement of standard of performance excellence across all of our supply chains.
our manufacturing and supply processes, helped to reduce our days inventory outstanding by 9% calculated on a CER basis over the course of the year.
Throughout 2011 and 2012 we have also sought to reduce cost through simplication of our product portfolio by removing small volume, least commercially important packs and standardising pack presentation formats.
We have now set a revised target to remove a further 25% of packs by 2016 and to achieve a 50% improvement in standardisation in the same period.
Over the past five years, our manufacturing organisation has restructured and rationalised its network, streamlined the operating model and improved site performance to deliver savings of approximately 930 million per annum.
Environmental efficiencies Environmental sustainability is a priority for GSK.
By reducing our footprint, using resources more efficiently, and working with others to tackle these challenges, we can reduce costs, build competitiveness and create trust in our business.
Despite reducing our carbon from energy use by 15% since 2010, our total carbon footprint excluding that from raw materials has increased by 7% from 2010 driven by higher inhaler sales.
Iain Crockart 46 GSK Annual Report 2012 Strategic review simplify the operating model Our financial architecture GSKs financial architecture has We continue to balance cost savings with Our financial architecture established four key financial priorities continued investment in the business is designed to support the for GSK in delivering sustainable sales to support preparedness to launch our growth, improving our operating R&D pipeline which will be a key driver execution of the Groups leverage, improving financial efficiency of future sales growth.
With increasing strategy, and to enhance and converting more of our earnings into pipeline sales contribution from the end cash.
By applying this framework we can of 2013, we remain confident that we can the returns it delivers drive better and more consistent decision drive improvement in the core operating to shareholders.
making across the company and improve margin over the medium term.
delivery of our key financial objectives of earnings per share growth and free Financial efficiency cash ow generation, which can then Despite the pressure on the operating be returned to shareholders or reinvested margin in 2012, financial efficiencies in bolt on acquisitions, wherever the delivered significant value in 2012 and most attractive returns are available.
Our contributed positive leverage to the decisions are rigorously benchmarked Groups reported earnings per share using a CFROI returns based framework.
Sales growth In 2011 we set out a target to reduce by 200 basis points our net funding costs Although reported sales for the year which were over 8% in 2010.
We have were down 1% for 2012, sales were at delivered this a year earlier than expected.
adjusting for the disposal of our nonOur net funding costs for 2012 were core Consumer Healthcare brands.
This around 6%, despite our net debt position reects continued strong performance growing from 9 billion to 14 billion.
from our growth businesses in the This has enabled net interest payments emerging markets helping to offset for the year to remain broadly at.
pressure in western markets, especially weaker than expected performance in We also continue to develop our Europe.
As we move into 2013 we expect tax strategy and a number of moves to deliver sales growth of around 1% CER.
to update our structure and settle outstanding claims have allowed us to Operating leverage reduce our 2012 core tax rate to 24.4%, a rate that delivered our target of 25% In 2012 the core operating margin two years earlier than expected.
We declined by 0.6 percentage points to expect a core rate of 24% in 2013.
31.5%, of which 0.3 percentage points We continue to focus on the alignment of was due to the expected impact of the our tax strategy with our future business HGS acquisition.
The remaining 0.3 and have implemented a number of percentage points was due primarily to measures to centralise our Pharmaceutical the impact of maintaining at SG&A intellectual property and product on lower turnover, partially mitigated inventory ownership in the UK.
We remain focused on managing our cost base more Earnings per share effectively.
Our Operational Excellence programme started in 2008 and has now In 2012, the significant progress in delivered annual savings of 2.5 billion.
improving our financial efficiency, We have also launched a new change together with our reinitiated share programme to deliver further annual buyback programme, enabled us to savings of 1 billion by 2016. maintain at core EPS compared with 2011 on a CER basis, despite the decline in sales.
In 2013, we expect to deliver core EPS growth of 3-4% CER, based on the IAS 19 Revised adjusted EPS for 2012 of 111.4p.
2-54 Strategic review 55-86 Financial review & risk 87-136 Governance & remuneration 137-223 Financial statements 224-248 Investor information GSK Annual Report 2012 47 Financial architecture to drive improved returns Focus on returns Sales growth EPS Operating leverage Returns to shareholders Financial efficiency Free cash ow Cash ow growth Cash conversion Returns to shareholders Measurement and reporting We see significant opportunity to Free cash ow is available to invest in We have improved our financial enhance cash conversion through the business or to return to shareholders reporting to align it more closely with our greater focus on cash generation and consistent with maintaining our targeted financial architecture.
We are providing capital allocation.
A particular focus is credit prole.
The priority is to cover the more data and insights into the progress on our working capital and in 2012 we dividend but we intend free cash ow we are making in each of our businesses made significant progress.
We reduced above and beyond this requirement to and regions and on our progress the working capital cash conversion be available for share buybacks or against the key drivers of operational cycle from 202 to 194 days.
We have bolt-on acquisitions, wherever the and financial efficiency.
From 2012, already made good progress on payables most attractive returns are available.
we transitioned our reporting to a core and receivables and are now focused The decision as to how to allocate such basis, enabling greater visibility of the on addressing the Groups inventory cash ow is rigorously benchmarked underlying performance of the business.
position in a sustainable and secure way.
using a returns-based framework based More details on the transition to core We are developing an end-to-end supply on CFROI comparisons.
reporting are provided on page 56. chain that joins our manufacturing and In 2012 we returned 6.3 billion of cash commercial businesses and increases to shareholders.
We paid 3.8 billion in visibility to improve exibility and dividends, with our ordinary dividend responsiveness, reducing the inventory up 6% to 74p per share.
In addition we required and releasing cash we can bought back 2.5 billion of shares as part reinvest in the business.
of the long term programme we started in 2011.
In 2013 we expect to deliver continued dividend growth and we are targeting share repurchases of 12 billion.
48 GSK Annual Report 2012 Strategic review simplify the operating model Identifying and managing risk Our risk management processes We manage risk to our business by embedding The Board is responsible for our system Board of clear processess to do of corporate governance, strategy, risk Directors management and financial performance.
this in our management practices.
T Th he B e Boa oard ha rd has s d fide elle eg gate ated re d res sp po on nsib sibili ilit ty y Audit & Risk C Audit & Risk Co ommit mmitt te ee e for reviewing and approving the adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls operated by the Group to the Audit & Risk Committee.
The CET supports the CEO in the Corporate Executive management of GSKs business and Team activities.
T Th he C e Co ouncil of uncil of s senior enior e ex xe ecutives cutives is is Risk O Risk Ov ver ersigh sight t and and authorised by the Board to assist the ARC Compliance Council in overseeing the risk management and internal control activities of the Group.
The ROCC meets regularly to review and assess significant risks and their mitigation plans and to provide oversight of internal controls to ensure compliance with applicable laws, regulations and our internal policies.
Leadership teams Business units TTh he R eRM MC CB Bs s ove overrsseeeem mana anag geem meent of a ntofallll Risk M Risk Ma an nag age em me en nt t and and risks that are considered important for Compliance Boards their respective business units, including those risks that are designated as significant to GSK as a whole.
We have a clear framework for U Viii identifying and managing risk, and regulations both at an operational and strategic U }}}L V `iVV level.
Our risk identication and conditions mitigation processes have been U }} Vi ` V designed to be responsive to the constantly changing environment.
U Viw V i} and disclosure requirements The Groups key risks are categorised as follows and full descriptions and U Vi ` }} specic mitigating activities are set out treasury investments on pages 78 to 86.
U Vi LLi ` U ii}ViV VViv corruption legislation new products U i } U iV}iiV i} U }}ii ]i ] vi U }`V and sustainability compliance U }`V U Vi v ii i U-iV} `i iV} ` U iV}v reimbursement Accountability through monitoring and reporting Delegation of authority
