12 GSK Annual Report 2012 Strategic review Our market While our environment remains challenging we are optimistic about the long-term future of the healthcare market In the USA, markets stagnated at the General overview Healthcare market end of the year, ahead of fears about the There remains a significant need for scal cliff created by federal budget While the healthcare industry remains medicines and healthcare treatments legislation.
Though the crisis was averted, one of the worlds largest industries, around the world, and we are optimistic significant uncertainty remains over the it has felt the effects of government about our ability to grow our business strength of the economy and over the austerity measures such as mandated in the long-term by researching, likely impact of legislation intended to price reductions in Europe, Japan and a manufacturing and selling innovative stimulate economic growth.
As a result healthcare treatments, especially given of these developments, companies faced In Japan, the economy contracted as the work we have done to re-shape and significant pressure in growing sales, demand for Japanese exports was impacted geographically rebalance our business.
although new products and growth by the global economic slowdown, elsewhere in the emerging markets Nevertheless, many factors can affect the particularly in Europe.
In the Eurozone, helped to partly offset the challenges.
performance and success of our sector economies continued to contract as the and our business.
The exact impact of recession deepened, and even revised Sales in the world pharmaceutical these is difficult to forecast.
For market were worth 516 billion at the first time since the single currency was constant exchange rates CER in the launched, the region failed to grow in any 12 months to the end of September Global economic overview quarter during the calendar year.
Growth 2012, increasing from 503 billion in The difficult market conditions stemming in emerging markets was weaker than the previous year.
The share of global from the international financial crisis expected.
China continued to grow, but sales grew to 42.8% in North America, continued to impact the worlds at 7.8% was the lowest level for more than which remained the top pharmaceutical economies during 2012, while sales a decade, according to the IMF.
market, and declined in Europe to growth in world pharmaceutical markets 23.3%, while emerging markets also Based on IMF assessments, the outlook showed significant regional variation.
for global economic growth in 2013 is Economies across the globe remained 3.5%.
There is no immediate sign of During the year many of the largest weak in 2012 as governments continued an end to the weak global economy pharmaceutical companies encountered to struggle with the long-term effects of or to improvements in budget deficits generic competition for a significant the 2008 financial crisis.
Overall growth among many of the worlds richest number of products.
It is estimated that for 2012 slowed to 3.2%, according to the nations.
Other factors such as political $35 billion in sales were lost as products International Monetary Fund IMF.
turbulence within the European Union lost patent protection and experienced and instability in the Middle East, are competition from generics.
likely to affect the international business environment.
Figure 1 World pharmaceutical market Value % of % compound growth by geographic region bn total Sep 2007Sep 2012 North America 221 42.8 3.4 Europe 120 23.3 2.6 EMAP 112 21.7 14.7 Japan 63 12.2 3.8 Total 516 100.0 5.1 Sales % of World market top therapeutic classes bn total Central nervous system 78 15.1 Antineoplastic Immunomodulatory 76 14.7 Cardiovascular 69 13.4 Alimentary tract and metabolic 63 12.2 Anti-infectives bacterial, viral and fungal excluding vaccines 52 10.1 Respiratory 36 7.0 Data for market share and market growth rates are GSK estimates based on the most recent data from independent external sources including IMS Health.
Values are based at CER constant exchange rate.
IMF data taken from World Economic Outlook Update, January 2013.
2-54 Strategic review 55-86 Financial review & risk 87-136 Governance & remuneration 137-223 Financial statements 224-248 Investor information GSK Annual Report 2012 13 Demand for medicines, vaccines and Population growth Price controls consumer healthcare products is expected According to the United Nations 2010 to continue to grow signicantly faster In many countries, the prices of revision to its population projections, than in more mature markets over the pharmaceutical products are controlled world population will peak at 10.1 next few years.
Governments may also influence billion in 2100 compared with 7 billion prices through their control of national in 2011.
While some countries are Lifestyle changes healthcare organisations, which can seeing declining birth rates particularly bear a large part of the cost of supplying As populations increase, people are also those in Europe and Japan many medicines to consumers.
living longer, partly aided by the success other regions have seen a sharp rise in of medical interventions treating and populations, particularly in the Middle In Europe, governments are responding preventing diseases that previously East and southern Asia.
caused significant mortality in infants Healthcare reforms in countries such These countries with rising populations see gure 2.
With this increasing age, as France, Spain and Germany have are the same economies that are comes increasing inrmity and illness.
restricted pricing and mandated experiencing improved economic Other lifestyle changes are affecting generic substitutions.
The IMF forecasts that health risks as well.
As people become emerging markets will grow 5.5% in In Japan the government implemented less physically active and alter their 2013 and 5.9% in 2014 compared with its mandatory bi-annual price review consumption of food, alcohol and gures of 1.4% and 2.2%, respectively, of pharmaceutical products in 2012. tobacco, there is a growing incidence of for developed markets.
chronic, non-communicable conditions In the USA there are no government price Governments in developing countries such as type 2 diabetes and heart disease.
controls over private sector purchases, are under pressure to improve healthcare but federal law requires pharmaceutical In emerging markets, where increasingly infrastructure and provide basic universal manufacturers to pay rebates on people are moving away from a coverage and many have made significant certain medicines to be eligible for subsistence agricultural lifestyle to nd commitments to do this.
However, reimbursement under several state and paid work in the cities, there is a growth where strong healthcare systems are federal healthcare programmes.
Those in disposable incomes and expansion of missing, people in developing countries rebates increased and were expanded the middle-class sections of populations.
As a result, in 2011 as an affect of the Affordable This is significant as a large proportion households in emerging markets spend Care Act ACA.
In 2012 and continuing of healthcare spending in these countries a signicantly higher proportion of their into 2013, the government is nalising comes directly from the patient.
personal income on medicines than is additional details for implementing the spent by richer countries.
Expansion of the governments report Perspectives from Emerging insurance programme for low-income Markets estimates this can be as high Americans, new health insurance as 40% in China and India, and 25% in marketplaces, and a financial penalty Brazil, for example.
for certain Americans who choose not to purchase health insurance are scheduled for 2014.
Figure 2 Estimated change to world population millions 200 014 years 2012 pop: 1,751m 1564 years 2012 pop: 4,413m 65 years 2012 pop: 536m 100 The world population is projected to increase substantially from the current levels, with the biggest proportional growth in the older age 0 group 2.9%.
Source: IMS 2013 2014 2015 2016 14 GSK Annual Report 2012 Strategic review Our market continued Additionally, cross-border trade, the Figure 3 The European Commission adopted acceleration of generics to market, US FDA approvals of new molecular entities proposals in July for a new regulation comparative effectiveness research, aimed at boosting clinical research in 40 value-based care delivery, pharmaceutical Europe by simplifying the rules for 39 pricing and other issues of importance to conducting trials.
The proposals are our industry are part of the continuing currently under review and industry will 30 healthcare debate in the USA.
be seeking to ensure that new legislation 20 26 24 expected to come into effect in 2016 21 will create a favourable environment for Regulatory pressures R&D in Europe.
The pharmaceuticals and vaccines 0 The new falsified Medicines Directive industry is highly regulated.
Regional 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 became effective on 2 January 2013 and and country-specic laws and regulations introduced measures to prevent the entry Nature Reviews Drug Discovery 12, 87-90 February 2013 are important in determining whether | doi:10.1038 nrd3946 of falsified medicines into the legal supply a product can be successfully developed chain.
These include requirements for the and approved.
USA importation of active substances into the The number and impact of regulatory In the USA, the fifth reauthorisation of the EU from third countries non-EU member agency requirements is increasing, Prescription Drug User Fee Act PDUFA states, which may present challenges to particularly across aspects of product was passed in 2012 with the signing into pharmaceutical manufacturers.
The evaluation of law of the Food and Drug Administration benefit and risk continues to be of Emerging markets Safety and Innovation Act FDASIA.
The paramount consideration in the approval law establishes new user-fee statutes for As the demand for patient access to of a new medicine, and regulatory generic medicines and follow-on versions new drugs in emerging markets grows, authorities are increasingly focusing of biopharmaceuticals, commonly referred so does the importance of conducting on the safety of medicines in the to as biosimilars.
It also equips the FDA clinical trials in these countries to post-approval phase.
with tools intended to accelerate the provide data on a medicines prole development and review of innovative in local populations.
Regulatory agencies criteria for new medicines, and gives the agency new evaluating benefit and risk can also A growing number of emerging markets authority concerning drug shortages.
vary widely, making it challenging for are requiring that studies be conducted pharmaceutical companies to meet the The FDA approved 39 new molecular in-country to assess any variation in requirements for each country.
entities in 2012 with the majority of ethno-sensitivity to new medicines.
This these representing the first market is in addition to evidence that a highly approval.
See gure 3. regulated authority such as the EMA or FDA has approved a new medicine before Europe they initiate their own review.
In the European Union EU, 2012 saw The regulatory requirements in these significant new legislation and regulatory markets can be challenging, both in requirements.
Implementation of the terms of the volume and pace of change, revised EU pharmacovigilance legislation, and the consistency of guidance.
which brings in new measures aimed at Nevertheless, we continue to take part strengthening the safety monitoring of in regional and national regulatory medicines, started in July 2012. initiatives that provide opportunities The European Medicines Agency EMA for scientific and regulatory dialogue approved 31 novel medicines in 2012. between industry, agencies and other Of these approvals, nine were medicines stakeholders.
We aim to include broader for rare diseases.
sets of patient populations from countries in medicine development programmes to increase global patient access to new innovative medicines, and optimise regulatory approvals.
2-54 Strategic review 55-86 Financial review & risk 87-136 Governance & remuneration 137-223 Financial statements 224-248 Investor information GSK Annual Report 2012 15 The life of a patent in most countries is Our principal pharmaceutical and Consumer Healthcare 20 years from the ling date.
However, vaccines competitors include: Abbott The consumer healthcare industry is the long development time for new Laboratories, Amgen, AstraZeneca, subject to national regulation comparable medicines can mean that a substantial Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, Johnson to that for prescription medicines for amount of this patent life has been & Johnson, Merck, Novartis, Pzer, the testing, approval, manufacturing, eroded before launch.
In some markets it Roche Holdings, Sano and Takeda.
labelling and marketing of products.
is possible to have some of this lost time High standards of technical appraisal The Consumer Healthcare market has restored and this leads to variations in the frequently involve a lengthy review become more challenging.
Consumers amount of patent life available for each and approval process, which can delay are demanding better quality and better product we market.
Retailers have consolidated and In addition all of our commercial globalised, which has strengthened Intellectual property products are protected by registered their negotiation power.
Our principle trademarks in major markets, and our competitors in these markets include: and trademarks trademarks are important for maintaining Colgate-Palmolive, Johnson & Johnson, The process of discovering and the brand identity of our products.
There Procter & Gamble, Unilever, Pzer developing a new medicine or vaccine may be local variations.
For example, in and Novartis.
takes many years and can cost up to the USA the trademark Advair covers the In addition, many other smaller 1 billion.
same product sold in the EU as Seretide.
companies compete with GSK in Intellectual property and the effective Trademark protection may generally certain markets.
legal protection of our intellectual be extended as long as the trademark property via patents, trademarks, is used by renewing it when necessary.
Outlook registered designs, copyrights and We enforce our trademark rights to GSKs globally diversied sales base and domain name registrations is critical prevent infringements.
improved R&D output provides a clear in ensuring a reasonable reward for platform for growth, with 2013 marking innovation and to fund R&D.
See pages Generic pressures the start of what should be a series of 33 to 38 for the pharmaceutical and When patents expire on medicines, these growth years for the Group.
medicines can be subject to competition specifically we expect to deliver core EPS Patent protection for new active from generic products.
The effect of this growth of 3-4% CER and sales growth of ingredients is available in major markets, is particularly acute in Western markets, around 1% CER during the year based and patents can often be obtained for where generic products can rapidly on the IAS 19 Revised adjusted EPS for new drug formulations, manufacturing capture a large share of the market.
We also expect to deliver processes, medical uses and devices for As generic manufacturers typically do not further strong cash generation in 2013 administering products.
incur significant costs for R&D, education and remain committed to using free cash or market development, they are able Emerging markets are not all aligned ow to support increasing dividends, to offer their products at considerably on their approach to recognising share repurchases or, where returns are lower prices than branded competitors.
The same pressures do not apply as Although we may obtain patents for signicantly to vaccines, or to products We are more confident than ever our products, this does not prevent where patents exist on both active that GSK is well placed to succeed in them from being challenged before they ingredients and the delivery device, emerging and pro-innovation markets expire.
Further, the grant of a patent such as inhaled respiratory medicines.
and that our R&D model is working.
does not mean that it will be held valid This is creating clear, long-term and enforceable by a court.
If a court Competition capacity for GSK to deliver continued determines that a patent we hold is innovation and benefit to patients, and invalid, non-infringed or unenforceable, Within the pharmaceutical industry, sustained performance and returns to it will not protect our innovation in that competition can come from other shareholders.
For risks to this outlook, legal jurisdiction.
significant litigation companies making patent-protected see Risk factors on pages 78 to 86. concerning such patent challenges is medicines with indications to treat summarised in Note 44 to the Financial similar diseases to our medicines, or statements, Legal proceedings.
from manufacturers making generic copies of our medicines following patent expiration.
