88 GSK Annual Report 2012 Governance & remuneration Our Board Our Board is responsible for the long-term success of the company, corporate governance, strategy, risk management and financial performance Diversity Experience International experience Number of directors with this experience % scientific Global 20 10 % Finance USA 27 15 % Industry Europe 53 14 EMAP 11 Composition Tenure % Non-Executives Executive 20 1 % % 1 03 years 33 Non-executive 80 % 2 46 years 25 % 3 79 years 42 % Male 67 The Board considers each of its Non-Executive % 2 2 Female Directors to be independent in accordance with 33 the UK Corporate Governance Code.
3 3 Skills and experience Sir Christopher Gent 64 Sir Christopher has many years experience of leading global businesses Chairman and a track record of delivering outstanding performance in highly competitive industries.
He was appointed Managing Director of Nationality British Vodafone plc in 1985 and then became its Chief Executive officer Appointment date in 1997 until his retirement in 2003.
1 June 2004 and as Chairman on External appointments 1 January 2005 Sir Christopher is a Non-Executive Director of Ferrari SpA, a Senior Adviser Committee membership at Bain & Co and a member of the British Airways International Business Chairman of the Nominations Advisory Board.
Sir Christopher was formerly a member of KPMGs and Corporate Responsibility Chairmans Advisory Group and a Non-Executive Director of Lehman Committees and a member of Brothers Holdings Inc. the Remuneration and Finance Committees Skills and experience Sir Andrew Witty 48 Sir Andrew joined GSK in 1985.
He has worked in the UK, South Africa, Chief Executive officer the USA and Singapore in various senior roles.
In 2003, he was appointed President of GSK Europe and joined GSKs Corporate Executive Team.
Nationality British He was appointed CEO in May 2008.
Appointment date While in Singapore, Sir Andrew was a Board Member of the Singapore 31 January 2008 and as Chief Economic Development Board and the Singapore Land Authority.
In Executive officer on 21 May 2008 2003 he was awarded the Public Service Medal by the Government of Committee membership Singapore and in August 2012 was also awarded the Public Service Star.
Member of the Finance Committee In the 2012 New Year Honours list, he was awarded a Knighthood for services to the economy and to the UK pharmaceutical industry.
He is currently a member of the Prime Ministers Business Advisory Group and was a board member of INSEAD Business School until January 2012.
External appointments Sir Andrew is currently the Lead Non-Executive Board Member for the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills.
He is also President of the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations and Chancellor of the University of Nottingham.
Iain Crockart 2-54 Strategic review 55-86 Financial review & risk 87-136 Governance & remuneration 137-223 Financial statements 224-248 Investor information GSK Annual Report 2012 89 Skills and experience Simon Dingemans 49 Prior to joining GSK, Simon had over 25 years experience in investment Chief Financial officer banking at SG Warburg and Goldman Sachs.
During this time, he advised a broad range of large corporates across a number of industry sectors, Nationality British including pharmaceuticals and consumer healthcare.
Simon advised GSK Appointment date for over a decade before his appointment and was closely involved in a 4 January 2011 and as Chief number of GSKs key strategic projects, including the establishment of Financial officer on 1 April 2011 ViiV Healthcare.
Committee membership External appointments Member of the Finance Committee Simon is a member of the Corporate Development Council for the National Theatre.
Skills and experience Dr Moncef Slaoui 53 Moncef joined GSK Vaccines in 1988 where he engineered the development Chairman, Global R&D of a robust vaccines pipeline.
He then led Worldwide Business Development & Vaccines for pharmaceutical products before his appointment to lead R&D in 2006.
He was given overall responsibility for GSKs Oncology Business in 2010: for Nationality Moroccan, GSK Vaccines in 2011: and for all Global Franchises in 2012.
He has a PhD Belgian & American in Molecular Biology and Immunology from Universit Libre fide Bruxelles Appointment date and has published more than 100 scientific papers and presentations.
Prior 17 May 2006 to joining GSK, Moncef was Professor of Immunology at the University of Committee membership Mons, Belgium.
Member of the Finance Committee External appointments Moncef is a member of the PhRMA and the Biotechnology Industry Organization boards in the USA and a member of the Advisory Committee to the Director of National Institutes of Health.
He is also an adviser to the Qatar Foundation.
Moncef has advised the US Presidents Council of Advisors on Science and Technology and he was a member of the Board of the Agency for Science, Technology & Research A STAR until January 2011.
Skills and experience Sir Robert Wilson 69 Sir Robert has had a long and distinguished career in industry, mainly Senior Independent with Rio Tinto, where he became Chief Executive officer in 1991 and Non-Executive Director then Executive Chairman in 1997 until his retirement in October 2003.
Sir Robert then became Non-Executive Chairman of BG Group plc from Nationality British January 2004 until May 2012.
He was also Chairman of The Economist Appointment date Group between 2003 and 2009.
He has been a Non-Executive Director 1 November 2003 at BP, Diageo and Boots.
Committee membership He will stand down as the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Member of the Nominations, Audit and as a member of the Audit & Risk Committee, on 1 May 2013.
& Risk and Finance Committees External appointments Sir Robert is a senior adviser to Morgan Stanley and Chairman of the Accenture Global Mining Executive Council.
Skills and experience Professor Sir Roy Professor Sir Roy is a world-renowned medical scientist with advanced Anderson 65 knowledge of infectious disease epidemiology and is currently Professor of Independent Infectious Disease in the Faculty of Medicine, Imperial College, London.
He Non-Executive Director & is a fellow and member of the Policy Advisory Board of the Royal Society, and fellow of the Academy of Medical Sciences and the Royal Statistical scientific Expert Society.
He is an Honorary Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries and a Nationality British Foreign Associate Member of the Institute of Medicine at the US National Appointment date Academy of Sciences and the French Academy of Sciences.
Professor 1 October 2007 Sir Roy brings scientific expertise to the Board and the Audit & Risk Committees deliberations.
Committee membership He will stand down as a member of the Audit & Risk Committee on Member of the Audit & Risk, 1 May 2013.
Nominations and Finance Committees External appointments Professor Sir Roy is a member of the International Advisory Board of Hakluyt & Co Ltd and he is a Trustee of the Natural History Museum, London.
90 GSK Annual Report 2012 Governance & remuneration Our Board continued Skills and experience Dr Stephanie Burns 58 Stephanie is a recognised global business leader, having served as Independent Chairman, President and CEO of Dow Corning Corporation until her Non-Executive Director retirement at the end of 2011.
She has a strong scientific background, with a PhD in organic chemistry with an organosilican speciality, Nationality American and is a staunch advocate for science education.
Appointment date External appointments 12 February 2007 Stephanie was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Corning Inc Committee membership in January 2012.
She sits on the US Presidents Export Council.
Member of the Corporate Stephanie is also an officer of the Society of Chemical Industry, Responsibility and Finance America Section, and is the past Honorary President of the Committees and, with effect UK-based parent society.
from 1 May 2013, a member of the Remuneration Committee Skills and experience Stacey Cartwright 49 Stacey is a Chartered Accountant and has extensive experience of global Independent consumer businesses and of corporate finance.
She is the Executive Vice Non-Executive Director President, Chief Financial officer of Burberry Group plc.
Prior to joining Burberry Group plc in 2003, Stacey held the role of Chief Financial officer Nationality British at Egg plc between 1999 and 2003, and from 1988 to 1999 she worked Appointment date in various finance-related positions at Granada Group plc.
1 April 2011 In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board Committee membership has determined that Stacey has recent and relevant financial experience.
Member of the Audit & Risk and The Board has also agreed that she has the appropriate qualications and Finance Committees background to be an audit committee financial expert as dened by the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Skills and experience Sir Crispin Davis 63 Sir Crispin has industry expertise in the food and beverage sector and Independent previously focused on industrial, consumer, restructurings and global Non-Executive Director businesses sectors, having served as Chief Executive officer at Reed Elsevier plc from September 1999 to March 2009.
Nationality British Sir Crispin served as Chief Executive officer at Aegis Group plc from 1994 to Appointment date 1999 and from 1990 to 1993, he worked at Guinness Group plc, where he 1 July 2003 served as Group Managing Director at United Distillers and was a member Committee membership of the Board.
In his earlier career, Sir Crispin served for 20 years at Proctor & Member of the Nominations Gamble, where he was President of North American Food Division.
He was and Finance Committees previously Chairman and Director of StarBev Netherlands BV.
He will retire from the Board at the AGM on 1 May 2013.
External appointments Sir Crispin is an adviser to CVC Capital Partners.
He also serves on the councils of Oxford University and of The National Trust.
Skills and experience Lynn Elsenhans 56 Lynn has a wealth of experience of running a global business and Independent significant knowledge of the global markets in which GSK operates.
Non-Executive Director She served as Chair, President and Chief Executive officer of Sunoco Inc from 2009 to 2012.
Prior to joining Sunoco in 2008 as President and Chief Nationality American Executive officer, Lynn worked for Royal Dutch Shell which she joined in Appointment date 1980 and where she held a number of senior roles, including Executive 1 July 2012 Vice President, Global Manufacturing from 2005 to 2008.
Committee membership External appointments Member of the Corporate Lynn is a Non-Executive Director of Baker Hughes Inc, a director of Responsibility and Finance the Texas Medical Center, and a director of The First Tee of Greater Committees Houston.
She is also a Trustee of the United Way of Greater Houston and a Trustee of Rice University.
Skills and experience Judy Lewent 64 Judy has extensive knowledge of the global pharmaceutical industry Independent and of corporate finance, having joined Merck & Co in 1980 and then Non-Executive Director served as Chief Financial officer from 1990 to 2007 when she retired.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board Nationality American has determined that Judy has recent and relevant financial experience.
Appointment date The Board has also agreed that she has the appropriate qualications 1 April 2011 and background to be an audit committee financial expert as dened by the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Committee membership Chairman of the Audit & Risk External appointments Committee and a member of Judy is a director of Thermo Fisher scientific Inc and Motorola Solutions the Remuneration and Finance Inc. She is also a Trustee of the Rockefeller Family Trust and Chairperson Committees of the Audit Committee of Rockefeller Financial Services, a life member of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Corporation and a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
Judy is a Non-Executive Director of Purdue Pharma Inc, Napp Pharmaceutical Holdings Limited and certain Mundipharma International Limited companies and a past Non-Executive Director of Motorola Inc, Dell Inc and Quaker Oats Company.
Iain Crockart 2-54 Strategic review 55-86 Financial review & risk 87-136 Governance & remuneration 137-223 Financial statements 224-248 Investor information GSK Annual Report 2012 91 Skills and experience Sir Deryck Maughan 65 Sir Deryck has a wealth of international corporate and investment banking Independent experience, having previously served as Chairman and Chief Executive Non-Executive Director officer of Citigroup International and of Salomon Brothers Inc.
He served as Vice Chairman of the New York Stock Exchange from 1996 to 2000.
Nationality British He will take over from Sir Robert Wilson as Senior Independent Appointment date Non-Executive Director on 1 May 2013.
1 June 2004 External appointments Committee membership Sir Deryck is a Senior Adviser to, and former partner of, Kohlberg Member of the Audit & Risk, Kravis Roberts & Co.
He is a Non-Executive Director of BlackRock Inc Nominations, Remuneration and and Thomson Reuters, as well as serving on the Board of Directors of Finance Committees the Lincoln Center, and is a Trustee of New York University Langone Medical Center.
Skills and experience Dr Daniel Podolsky 59 Daniel is a world-renowned researcher who has advanced knowledge of Independent underlying mechanisms of disease and new therapies for gastrointestinal Non-Executive Director disorders.
He was formerly Mallinckrodt Professor of Medicine and Chief and scientific Expert of Gastroenterology at Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, and previously served as the Chief Academic officer of Nationality American Partners Healthcare System.
Daniels current responsibilities in leading a Appointment date large academic medical centre give him relevant insight into healthcare 1 July 2006 delivery.
Daniel brings scientific expertise to the Board and the Audit & Risk Committees deliberations.
Committee membership Member of the Audit & Risk, External appointments Corporate Responsibility and Daniel is President of the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Finance Committees Center and holds the Philip OBryan Montgomery, Jr. M. D. Distinguished Presidential Chair in Academic Administration, and the Doris and Bryan Wildenthal Distinguished Chair in Medical Science.
He is a member of the Institute of Medicine of the US National Academy of Sciences, member of the Board of the Southwestern Medical Foundation and is a Director of Antibe Therapeutics, Inc.
Skills and experience Tom fide Swaan 66 Tom has had a long and distinguished career in the European banking Independent industry, having been a member of the Managing Board and Chief Non-Executive Director Financial officer of ABN AMRO.
Tom has held various executive positions at the Dutch Central Bank and was a Non-Executive Director of the Nationality Dutch Financial Services Authority from 2001 to 2007.
Appointment date In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board has 1 January 2006 determined that Tom has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee membership Board has also agreed that he has the appropriate qualications and Chairman of the Remuneration background to be an audit committee financial expert as dened by Committee and a member of the the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Audit & Risk, Nominations and External appointments Finance Committees Tom is Chairman of the Supervisory Board of VanLanschot Bankiers, Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors of Zurich Insurance Group and a Non-Executive Director of KPMGs Public Interest Committee.
He is also Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Royal Ahold and a member of the Supervisory Board of Royal DSM.
Skills and experience Jing Ulrich 45 Since 2005, Jing has been Managing Director and Chairwoman of Global Independent Markets, China at JP Morgan.
In her current role, she acts as an adviser to Non-Executive Director the worlds largest asset management rms and multinational companies.
She also advises Chinese institutions making investments overseas.
Nationality American From 2003 to 2005, Jing worked for Deutsche Bank as Managing Appointment date Director, Head of Greater China Equities.
She previously held financial 1 July 2012 positions, specialising in the Asia Pacic region, with CLSA and the Committee membership Emerging Markets Investors Corporation.
She was educated at Harvard Member of the Finance Committee and Stanford Universities.
and, with effect from 1 May 2013, External appointments a member of the Audit & Risk Jing is an independent director of Ermenegildo Zegna SpA.
Committee Skills and experience Hans Wijers 62 Hans has a broad range of business, economic and political experience, Independent having served as Chief Executive officer and Chairman at Akzo Nobel Non-Executive Director NV from 2002 to 2012.
Hans had a long and distinguished career in academia, public service and strategy consulting.
He served as a senior Nationality Dutch vice president of the Boston Consulting Group from 1998 to 2002.
Appointment date External appointments With effect from 1 April 2013 Hans is a Non-Executive Director and Chairman designate of Heineken Committee membership NV and also Deputy Chairman and Non-Executive Director of Royal Dutch Member of the Finance Committee Shell.
He is also Chairman of the supervisory board of AFC Ajax.
