2-54 Strategic review 55-86 Financial review & risk 87-136 Governance & remuneration 137-223 Financial statements 224-248 Investor information GSK Annual Report 2012 95 Board report to shareholders Oversight and stewardship in 2012 and future actions The Board The Board is pleased to report that it was in full compliance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board is responsible for the long-term success of GSK and is accountable to shareholders for ensuring that the Group is appropriately managed and governed and delivers GSKs strategy to Grow, Deliver & Simplify.
2012 Board programme The Board met six times in 2012 and each Board member attended all scheduled Board meetings with the exception of Judy Lewent, who was unable to attend one meeting due to personal circumstances.
She conveyed her views and comments to the Chairman on the matters to be discussed, which he shared with the other Directors at the meeting.
The Board agendas were shaped to create more time for strategic discussion and debate, including deep dive reviews of key issues for the business, to ensure focused consideration of our strategic priorities.
During 2012, the agendas for Board meetings included the following business: Month Strategy Board oversight Governance Risk oversight January Review expansion of Operational Excellence Review of 2011 financial results Review of external 2011 Review of risk and Restructuring Programme and outlook for 2012 Board evaluation report internal controls Review of Notice of AGM Secretarys report process Re-appointment of auditors March Review of Respiratory strategy Annual Global Manufacturing Secretarys report Review of Business Development projects and Supply GMS and US Deep dive future of animals in research Pharma business reviews May Annual European operations and Preparation for AGM Vaccines business reviews Secretarys report July Review of long range forecast Annual R&D review Secretarys report Corporate Integrity Review of changes to Finance strategy Review of capital and licensing Agreement training Review of funding and tax strategies proposals Review of talent and leadership development strategy October Review of output from the Annual Board & Annual business reviews of Review of projects and Corporate Integrity CET strategy meeting Consumer Healthcare, Emerging transactions approved by Agreement training Deep dive working capital Markets and Japan the Board Secretarys report December Review and approval of 2013-15 plan Review of investor activity Update on tax, GMS and R&D strategies and IR strategy Secretarys report 2012 Board performance During 2011, the Board identied certain actions as central to increasing its ability to add further value.
The performance of the Board in 2012 against these actions is set out below: Actions Progress Achievement i The external landscape Increase consideration of major external inuences and GSKs relative The Board programme was expanded to include consideration of major strengths and weaknesses to help expand the Boards knowledge.
Increase understanding and knowledge through individual NonThe Board visited India in October as part of the Board & CET strategy Executive Director and Board site visits.
Specic site visits for individual directors were arranged to the Groups sites at Stevenage, Wavre, Research Triangle Park RTP and Zebulon.
Ensure that Non-Executive Directors continue to engage both formally Directors were offered full access to senior executive meetings and enjoyed and informally with the company.
attending and meeting with GSKs executives to learn more about the business and its culture.
Management should demonstrate to the Board that it is embedding The Boards visit to India provided an opportunity to appreciate how risk the culture of risk awareness within Emerging Markets and how the management is embedded in the business and emerging risks are captured.
ii Board contribution and composition The Board to plan its composition over the next five to six years, to The Nominations Committee is focused on long-term recruitment of Nonoptimise its effectiveness.
Close two significant gaps identied in the Boards current composition: The Board was pleased to welcome two new Non-Executive Directors, Lynn global CEO experience and knowledge of, and experience in, emerging Elsenhans and Jing Ulrich, who add CEO and emerging markets experience markets.
These actions are set out in full on page 90 of GSKs 2011 annual report, which discusses the externally facilitated evaluation of the Boards activities by Dr Tracy Long.
"96 GSK Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance Board report to shareholders Oversight and stewardship in 2012 and future actions continued 2012 & 2013 AGMs Key highlights at a glance 2012 AGM held on 3 May 2012 at QEII Conference Centre, London 2013 AGM to be held on 1 May 2013 at QEII Conference Centre, London s &ULL $IRECTOR ATTENDANCE s 3IR #RISPIN $AVIS WILL STAND DOWN FROM THE ""OARD AFTER NINE YEARS SERVICE s TO BILLION VOTES CAST FOR EACH RESOLUTION OF ISSUED SHARE s, YNN %LSENHANS ING 5LRICH AND ANS 7IJERS WILL STAND FOR ELECTION TO capital the Board s AMESURDOCH STOOD DOWN FROM THE ""OARD s !LL OTHER $IRECTORS WILL STAND FOR RE ELECTION TO THE ""OARD s !LL OTHER $IRECTORS RETIRED AND WERE RE ELECTED TO THE ""OARD RECEIVING s %ACH $IRECTOR HAS BEEN FORMALLY EVALUATED BY THE #HAIRMAN BEFORE at least 96.9% of the votes cast in favour standing for re-election s 2EMUNERATION 2EPORT RESOLUTION PASSED WITH OF THE VOTES CAST s 4HE ""OARD BELIEVES THAT EACH $IRECTOR IS EFFECTIVE AND DEMONSTRATES in favour commitment to his or her role."
s Highest votes in favour: 99.9% to re-elect a number of Directors s Lowest votes in favour: 90.8% to reduce notice of a General Meeting.
Strategic focus Board & CET strategy meeting in Delhi, India Emerging markets provide a significant growth opportunity for GSK.
During 2012, turnover in the region grew by 10% and now accounts for 26% of Group turnover.
The Board chose to hold its 2012 annual strategy review meeting in India.
This gave the Board, who were joined by the CET, the opportunity to have a rsthand view of the Groups local business and its future potential.
The Board and CET were also pleased to be able to meet with highly respected government and business gures to gain further insight into the countrys political and economic outlook.
Induction programmes Lynn Elsenhans and Jing Ulrich i Individually designed and facilitated: by the Chairman and the Company Secretary.
ii Purpose: to orientate and familiarise Lynn and Jing, who were appointed to the Board in 2012, with our strategy to Grow, Deliver & Simplify and with the industry, our organisation and our governance arrangements.
iii Customised: to take account of their respective experience, different geographical backgrounds and business perspectives, together with the Committees on which they would serve.
Key elements of their one-to-one induction brieng sessions and site visits undertaken in 2012 are set out below: Contact Activity Induction content Executive Directors GSKs strategic, financial and R&D priorities CET members Wide spectrum of GSK operations, including Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare businesses, strategic development, investor relations, global communications and corporate responsibilty Senior Executives Focused on a number of core functions such as finance, tax, treasury, audit and assurance, risk management and investor relations Company Secretary Legal and regulatory duties of a UK listed company director and the corporate governance practices within GSK Site visits Tours of our GMS, R&D and Vaccines sites in RTP, Zebulon and Wavre Investor meetings Meetings with investors as requested The induction and training programmes for Lynn and Jing have continued in 2013, with a focus on internal management meeting attendance and operational site visits in order to give them a good perspective on how management operates and to provide them with opportunities to meet key talent and to deepen their understanding of key business issues.
Board performance action points for 2013 The agreed action points arising from the 2012 Board evaluation review facilitated by our Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Sir Robert Wilson, against which progress will be disclosed in GSKs 2013 Annual Report, are set out below: i The external landscape Board members were keen to supplement their understanding of the external landscape with teach-ins on a range of topics, such as various therapeutic areas, the design of Phase III trials, pricing, biopharmaceuticals, pharmacogenomics and emerging technology in R&D.
ii Oversight of strategy The Board wished to spend more time on business unit strategy, competitor analysis, pricing regimes, acquisition strategy and emerging issues.
iii Board composition The Nominations Committee was tasked with identifying further suitable candidates to replace Board members due to retire in the next few years.
2-54 Strategic review 55-86 Financial review & risk 87-136 Governance & remuneration 137-223 Financial statements 224-248 Investor information GSK Annual Report 2012 97 Senior Independent Director Leadership and effectiveness Sir Robert Wilson has been our Senior Independent Director SID The Board since 20 May 2009.
His role is to act as a sounding board for Sir Christopher and a trusted intermediary for the other Directors.
The Board met six times in 2012, with each member attending as He is also available as an additional point of contact for shareholders.
follows: His responsibilities include the evaluation of the performance of the Chairman, and at the request of the Chairman, evaluating the Board Number of Number of meetings held whilst meetings and its Committees in collaboration with the Committee Chairmen a Board member attended in years when the evaluation is conducted internally.
Sir Christopher Gent 6 6 6 The SID also works with the Chairman on the process for the Sir Andrew Witty 6 6 6 selection of a new Chairman as appropriate and he chairs the Simon Dingemans 6 6 6 Nominations Committee when agreeing the recommendation Dr Moncef Slaoui 6 6 6 to the Board for the Chairmans successor.
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 6 6 6 Sir Robert maintains an understanding of the issues and concerns Dr Stephanie Burns 6 6 6 of our major shareholders through meetings with them and reports Stacey Cartwright 6 6 6 from our investor relations team.
Sir Crispin Davis 6 6 6 Sir Deryck Maughan will succeed Sir Robert as SID with effect from Lynn Elsenhans 3 3 3 the end of the AGM on 1 May 2013.
Judy Lewent 6 5 6 Sir Deryck Maughan 6 6 6 CEO Dr Daniel Podolsky 6 6 6 Sir Andrew is responsible for the management of the business, Tom fide Swaan 6 6 6 developing the Groups strategic direction for consideration and Jing Ulrich 3 3 3 approval by the Board and implementing the agreed strategy.
He is Sir Robert Wilson 6 6 6 assisted by other members of the CET, which meets at least 11 times Larry Culp 4 4 4 a year and more often if required.
James Murdoch 3 3 3 Short biographies of the members of the CET are given under Our In addition to the scheduled meetings, the Board also met on a quorate basis Corporate Executive Team on pages 92 and 93. on four occasions.
Lynn Elsenhans and Jing Ulrich were appointed as Non-Executive Directors Company Secretary with effect from 1 July 2012.
The Company Secretary, Victoria Whyte, is a solicitor and a Fellow Larry Culp resigned from the Board on 30 September 2012.
James Murdoch retired from the Board on 3 May 2012. of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
Victoria was formerly Deputy Secretary and Secretary to the Remuneration Committee.
She has acted as Secretary to the Board and all the The Chairman Boards Committees since her appointment as Company Secretary Sir Christophers role as Chairman is to lead and manage the on 1 January 2011. business of the Board and to provide direction and focus, while Victoria supports the Chairman in designing the induction for new ensuring that there is a clear structure for the effective operation Directors, in the delivery of the corporate governance agenda, in of the Board and its Committees.
He sets the agenda for Board particular in the planning of agendas for the annual cycle of Board discussions to promote effective and constructive debate and to and Committee meetings, and in ensuring that information is made support a sound decision-making process, ensuring that the Board available to Board members on a timely basis.
She advises the receives accurate, timely and clear information, in particular about Directors on Board procedures and corporate governance matters, the companys performance.
and arranges for the Non-Executive Directors to attend internal Sir Christopher works closely with Sir Andrew Witty to ensure management meetings and make visits to our business operations that the strategies and actions agreed by the Board are effectively to enhance their knowledge and understanding of the business.
implemented and provides support and advice to Sir Andrew, while During 2012, Victoria responded to various consultations on the respecting his executive responsibility for managing the Group.
The evolving global governance and reporting agenda on behalf of the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the CEO has Group.
She also engaged with shareholders to ensure they fully been agreed by the Board and is set out in the governance section understood GSKs governance and remuneration arrangements.
Sir Christopher is responsible for the performance of the Group to shareholders and leads discussions and the development of relations with them.
Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors provide a strong, independent element on the Board.
They are well placed to constructively challenge and support management and to shape proposals on strategy and succession planning.
Between them, they bring independent judgement and a breadth of skills and experience gained at the most senior levels of international business operations and academia.
98 GSK Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance Corporate governance framework The Board has a coherent corporate governance framework with clearly dened responsibilities and accountabilities designed to safeguard and enhance long-term shareholder value and provide a robust platform to realise the Groups strategy.
Our internal control and risk management arrangements, which are described on pages 100 to 102, are an integral part of GSKs governance framework.
Board Chairman, 3 Executive Directors and 11 Independent Non-Executive Directors Audit & Risk Remuneration Nominations Chief Executive Committee Committee Committee officer Corporate Administration Corporate Responsibility Finance Corporate Executive & Transactions Team Committee Committee Committee Board Committees In order for the Board to operate effectively and to give full consideration to key matters, Board Committees have been established.
A summary of the role of each Board Committee is set out in the table below.
The full terms of reference of each Committee are available on our website and reports on the membership and work undertaken by the Audit & Risk, Remuneration, Nominations and Corporate Responsibility Committees during 2012 are given on pages 103 to 136.
Corporate Corporate Administration Audit & Risk Remuneration Nominations Responsibility Finance & Transactions Reviews: Reviews and Reviews and Reviews: Reviews and Reviews and recommends: recommends: approves: approves: Financial and internal External issues that To the Board the Structure, size and The Annual Report Matters in connection reporting processes, have the potential for overall executive composition of the and Form 20-F, the with the administration integrity of the serious impact upon remuneration policy Board and the convening of the of the Groups financial statements, GSKs business appointment of AGM, the preliminary business and certain system of internal To the Board the Oversight of: members to the Board, and quarterly results corporate transactions controls, identication appropriate fees for its Committees and announcements and management Reputation the Chairman the CET of risks and external management Approves: and internal audit Determines: Monitors: processes Certain major licensing Terms of service and Succession to the and capital transactions remuneration of Proposes: Board and CET and changes to the Executive Directors Groups Investment Appointment of and other members Instrument and external auditors of the CET Counterparty Limits Responsible for: Reviews and Initiating an audit approves: tender, the selection The Remuneration of external auditors, Report their remuneration and oversight of their work 2-54 Strategic review 55-86 Financial review & risk 87-136 Governance & remuneration 137-223 Financial statements 224-248 Investor information GSK Annual Report 2012 99 In May 2011, we announced our aspiration to increase the female Board induction, business awareness and training representation on the Board to at least 25% by 2013.
We were able The induction programmes for Lynn Elsenhans and Jing Ulrich to report in the 2011 Annual Report that encouraging progress had presented on page 96 illustrate the typical induction format for been made towards this target, with 20% of our Directors being a new Director.
As part of the continued refreshment of the Board, both Lynn Elsenhans and Jing Ulrich were appointed as new To ensure that Non-Executive Directors develop and maintain a Non-Executive Directors in July 2012, taking the cadre of women on greater insight and understanding of the business, they are invited our Board to 33%.
We are pleased to have delivered early on our to attend internal management meetings, including meetings of aspiration and to have exceeded the target we set ourselves.
This the CET, the Research & Development Executive, the Product places GSK rmly in the upper quartile of the FTSE 100 in terms of Executive, the scientific Review Board, the Portfolio Investment female Board representation.
Board, the Commercial Accountability Board and the Risk Oversight and Compliance Council.
They also meet employees informally Time allocation during visits to the Groups operations and receptions held around Board meetings.
Each Non-Executive Director has a letter of appointment which sets out the terms and conditions of his or her directorship.
The Board is kept up-to-date on legal, regulatory and governance matters through regular papers from the Company Secretary and Sir Christopher and the Non-Executive Directors are expected to presentations by internal and external advisers.
devote such time as is necessary for the proper performance of their duties.
No precise timings are given as this will vary from year to year During the year, the Board was briefed on various developments in depending on the companys activities.
Directors are expected to narrative reporting and executive remuneration, risk management, attend all Board meetings, and any additional meetings as required.
board diversity, the impact of the UK and EU reviews of the audit market, market abuse and insider trading, shareholder engagement They are also expected to attend meetings of the Committees of and other developments in corporate governance reporting, which they are members, part two of the Audit & Risk Committee including the publication of the September 2012 update to the meetings which are open to all Directors in furtherance of their risk UK Corporate Governance Code.
responsibilities and strategy sessions and to make visits to operational sites.
In addition, Board members are invited to attend The Board undertook specic training on the CIA in 2012.
Going at least one CET meeting a year and may attend certain Research & forward, the Board has committed to further refresher training Development Executive and other operational meetings.
Each new Board member will, as part of his or her induction programme, receive comprehensive training on the CIA.
2012 Board and Chairmans evaluation Sir Christopher also meets with each director annually on a The Board carries out an evaluation of its performance and the one-to-one basis to discuss his or her ongoing training and performance of its Committees every year which is facilitated development requirements.
The progress of the Board against the outcomes of the 2011 evaluation, which was externally facilitated Board composition by Dr Tracy Long, is reported on page 95.
The action points arising We seek to build an effective and complementary Board, whose from the 2012 evaluation of the Board by the SID, Sir Robert Wilson, capability is appropriate for the scale, complexity and strategic are disclosed on page 96. positioning of our business.
The process for Board appointments The Board has now entered a period of change with two Nonis led by the Nominations Committee and is described on pages Executive Directors departing in 2012 and two new appointments.
The Board believes that it continues to function well: it is wellWe are mindful of the need to balance the composition of the Board chaired: the culture is both open and inclusive: relations between and its Committees and to refresh them progressively over time so Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors are constructive that we can draw upon the experience of longer serving Directors, and mutually respectful, with Non-Executive Directors having a while tapping into the new external perspectives and insights which notably high level of confidence in the Executive Directors.
more recent appointees bring to the Boards deliberations.
Importantly, there are no domineering personalities and Board engagement and dialogue is constructive.
Non-Executive Directors are drawn from a wide range of industries and backgrounds, including pharmaceutical and healthcare, medical GSK is unusual in welcoming NonExecutive Directors to attend research and academia, retail and financial services, and have at its key internal management meetings.
This is appreciated by appropriate experience of complex organisations with global reach.
Non-Executive Directors and over time may give the Board a Some have considerable experience of the pharmaceutical industry different character to most of its peers.
It offers Non-Executive and the more recent appointees bring a new approach to the Group Directors the opportunity to witness management interaction and and to the Boards discussions.
culture rsthand and to see some issues debated or reviewed in much greater depth than is normally possible in the context of a Board diversity relatively rigid Board agenda.
We are committed to the diversity of our boardroom and we are The Board is now more balanced by gender and more diversied similarly committed to equal opportunities for all our employees at internationally.
all levels of the organisation and the diversity and inclusiveness of In terms of further improvement, the Board felt that it wanted to our workforce are promoted throughout GSK.
continue to focus on forward strategy and wished to spend more We believe that a key requirement of an effective board is that it time on business unit strategy, competitor analysis, pricing regimes, comprises a range and balance of skills, experience, knowledge, acquisition strategy, and emerging issues.
gender and independence, with individuals that are prepared to challenge as well as work as a team.
This needs to be backed up by a diversity of personal attributes, including character, intellect, sound judgement, honesty and courage.
100 GSK Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance The Board was keen to continue to supplement its understanding of Accountability the business and the industry, with voluntary teach-ins on a range of topics, including specic therapeutic areas, the design of phase III Internal control framework trials, pricing, biopharmaceuticals, pharmacogenomics and emerging The Board recognises its responsibility to present a balanced and technology in R&D.
understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
The Chairmen of each of the Board Committees undertook separate The Board has accountability for reviewing and approving the evaluations of their Committees and the outcome of each was adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls operated by the reported and discussed with the respective Committee and the Group, including financial, operational and compliance controls and Board.
A summary of the conclusions of each review is included in risk management.
The Board has delegated responsibility for such the respective Committee report.
review to the Audit & Risk Committee the Committee, which The Non-Executive Directors, led by Sir Robert, met separately, receives regular reporting aligned with our Assurance Programme.
without Sir Christopher being present, to discuss his performance.
It is the responsibility of management, through the CET, to They considered his leadership, performance and overall contribution implement Board policies on risk and control.
The CET is responsible to be of a high standard.
for identifying, approving, monitoring and enforcing key policies In addition, Sir Christopher met with all the Non-Executive Directors that go to the heart of how the Group conducts business.
independently of the Executive Directors.
The internal control framework includes central direction, resource allocation, oversight and risk management of the key activities of Relations with shareholders R&D, manufacturing, marketing and sales, legal, human resources, We work to engage effectively with shareholders through our regular information systems and financial practice.
As part of this communications, the AGM and other investor relations activities.
framework, there is a financial planning system with an annual budget approved by the Board.
The results of operating units are We announce our financial results on a quarterly basis.
The annual reported monthly and compared with the budget.
Forecasts are results are included in our Annual Report.
All shareholders receive prepared regularly during the year.
an annual summary leaet which advises them that our Annual Report and Notice of our Annual General Meeting are available Established procedures are in place to identify and consolidate on our website.
Our control activities include policies and practices covering appropriate authorisation and approval of transactions, Sir Andrew and Simon Dingemans give live presentations to the application of financial reporting standards and reviews of institutional investors, analysts and the media with the full year significant judgments and financial performance.
results, which are also available via webcast and teleconference.
After the first, second and third quarter results, we hold webcast Extensive financial, regulatory and operational controls, procedures teleconferences for the same audience.
Our results are available and risk activities are reviewed by the Groups internal auditors.
Responsibility for risk management and control is clearly delegated to local business units, supported by our regional management Our investor relations department, with ofces in London and structure.
These principles are designed to provide an environment Philadelphia, acts as a focal point for communications with investors.
of central leadership, coupled with local operating autonomy, as the Sir Andrew, Simon and Sir Christopher maintain a continuous framework for the exercise of accountability and control within the dialogue with institutional shareholders on performance, plans Group.
and objectives through a programme of regular meetings.
During the year they held over 100 individual meetings with investors and Importance is attached to clear principles and procedures designed they have also hosted approximately 30 group meetings with to achieve appropriate accountability and control.
A Group policy, investors and potential investors.
Risk Management and Legal Compliance, mandates that our business units establish processes for managing and monitoring Victoria Whyte acts as a focal point for communications on risks significant to their businesses and the Group.
We also have a small central Corporate Responsibility CR team which co-ordinates strategy, The business units and the majority of global support functions policy development and reporting specifically with respect to CR.
prepare reports annually, in collaboration with Global Ethics and The team communicates with socially responsible investors and Compliance see page 101, summarising risk management activities.
These reports are reviewed by the relevant Risk Management and Compliance Board RMCB for each operation and subsequently Sir Christopher also meets regularly with institutional shareholders reported to the Risk Oversight and Compliance Council ROCC to hear their views and discuss issues of mutual importance and and the Committee.
communicates their views to the other members of the Board.
The SID and all the Non-Executive Directors are available to meet with shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee Chairman, the Chairman, the Head of Human Resources and the Company Secretary hold annual meetings with major shareholders to discuss executive remuneration and governance matters.
We have a brieng process in place, managed by Sir Christopher, for Non-Executive Directors to focus on sector specic issues and general shareholder preferences.
2-54 Strategic review 55-86 Financial review & risk 87-136 Governance & remuneration 137-223 Financial statements 224-248 Investor information GSK Annual Report 2012 101 This global approach will ensure core compliance elements are Risk Oversight and Compliance Council proactively evaluated against common global expectations The ROCC is a council of senior executives authorised by the Board regardless of the business area, region or risk, while raising the to assist the Committee in overseeing the risk management and visibility of best practices across the compliance programmes.
internal control activities of the Group.
Membership comprises A global standard operating procedure was approved by Global several CET members, the Company Secretary and some of the Ethics and Compliance, Human Resources, Legal and Business heads of departments with internal control, risk management, Leaders to harmonise the coordination, conduct, tracking, reporting assurance, audit and compliance responsibilities.
The ROCC is and communication of internal investigations related to actual, chaired by the Head of Governance, Ethics and Assurance.
alleged or potential infractions of laws or regulations, GSK Policy, The ROCC meets on a regular basis to review and assess significant Code of Conduct or other wrong-doing.
risks and their mitigation plans and to provide oversight of internal To support the new procedure, a practical guide to undertaking controls to ensure compliance with applicable laws, regulations and investigations was implemented.
A significant training programme internal policies.
The ROCC, responding to our Group Risk was conducted to improve the technical and forensic investigative Management and Legal Compliance policy, has provided the business abilities of the Central Investigations Team.
Additionally, a new units with a framework for risk management and upward reporting Investigations Governance Board was formed in 2012 to enable of significant risks.
Each business unit assigns individual responsibility analysis of trends, root cause analyses and to make for the management of risks inherent to the business unit.
For recommendations to executive management for remedial enterprise emerging risks, mitigation planning and the identication enterprise-wide action.
of an individual with overall GSK responsibility is mandatory.
Global Product Quality Ofce Risk Management and Compliance Boards The Global Product Quality Ofce GPQO oversees the activities RMCBs have been established in each of the major business units.
of the GSK Quality Council GSK QC which serves as a forum to Membership often comprises members of the senior executive escalate emerging risks, share experiences of handling quality issues team of the respective business unit, augmented by specialists and ensure that the learnings are assessed and deployed across the where appropriate.
The RMCBs oversee the management of all organisation as appropriate.
This has included reviews and risks that are considered important for their respective business mitigations of regulatory inspections, major investigations relating to units, including those risks that are designated as significant to external suppliers, and harmonisation of company recall procedures.
GSK as a whole, thus increasing the number of risks that are The GSK QC has representation from the Executive Quality Councils actively managed across the Group.
in GMS, Vaccines and R&D, together with members of Audit & Each business unit and corporate function must periodically review Assurance, Legal, R&D and Supply Chain Leaders, and provides the significant risks facing our businesses.
This review generally insight to the ROCC and the Committee on product quality matters.
includes identifying operational risks, legal compliance risks and The GPQO has oversight responsibility for developing common risks to the achievement of strategic goals and objectives.
The quality standards and systems across GSK.
There is an ongoing reviews are scheduled at least annually and should be embedded review of GSKs Quality Management System to ensure that within, and aligned to, the annual planning process to ensure that its content is reective of the detailed requirements for the significant risks are identied with changes in management manufacture of pharmaceuticals, consumer healthcare products, direction and the external environment.
vaccines and investigative clinical trials materials, while providing Global Ethics and Compliance applicable and appropriate content for Quality Activities in Commercial Local Operating Companies.
The ROCC and the RMCBs are assisted by Global Ethics and Compliance, which is responsible for supporting the development Audit & Assurance and implementation of practices that facilitate employees Audit & Assurance has responsibility for independently assessing compliance with laws and Group policy.
the adequacy and effectiveness of the management of significant Global Ethics and Compliance provides assistance to help employees risk areas and reporting outcomes to the Committee in line with an meet our high ethical standards and comply with applicable laws agreed assurance plan.
The internal audit group comprises seven and regulations and corporate responsibility.
The thrust of Global principal teams focused in the following areas: Ethics and Compliances efforts is the promotion of ethical behaviour s Commercial and Financial internal audit and corporate responsibility in accordance with our values, due diligence to prevent and detect misconduct or non-compliance with s Information Technology internal audit laws or regulations and effective compliance systems.
s Manufacturing internal audit including Environment, Health, Global Ethics and Compliance is led by the Head of Governance, Safety and Sustainability Ethics and Assurance, a CET member, who reports directly to the s R&D internal audit CEO.
He has a further direct reporting line to the Committee that provides a mechanism for bypassing the executive management s Assurance excellence & operations should the need ever arise.
He also chairs the ROCC and provides s Anti-Bribery & Corruption summary reports on the ROCCs activities and the Groups significant risks to the CET and the Committee on a regular basis.
s Risk management In 2012, Global Ethics and Compliance completed a review of its All internal audit activity is conducted by a single organisation under global strategy in order to ensure consistency across all business the leadership of the Head of Audit & Assurance, who has a dual units and local operating companies.
Compliance strategies were Committee reporting line into the Head of Governance, Ethics and developed and agreed to ensure global alignment of inherent risks.
Assurance and the Committee Chairman.
102 GSK Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance Audit & Assurance undertakes a continuous process of risk Monitoring risk and effectiveness of controls assessment that contributes to the evolution of our audit strategies The internal control framework the Framework has been in and compilation and delivery of the audit schedule.
This approach operation for the whole of the year and continues to operate up allows Audit & Assurance to respond expeditiously to changes in to the date of approval of this report.
The Framework assists in the our business and risk environment and to ensure that our audit identication, evaluation, and management of significant risks as strategies are t-for-purpose.
The internal audit universe and audit required by the UK Corporate Governance Code UK Code and is programmes are managed using the Lead Audit Group principle designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of not achieving where each business unit is aligned with an audit group for business objectives.
The Framework provides reasonable, but not coordination and management of key communications.
Programmes absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
are reviewed and approved collectively by the Assurance Leadership Team, and the schedule is endorsed by the Committee.
The Committee receives reports on areas of significant risk to the Group and on related internal controls.
Following consideration of When issues or control deficiencies are identied during audit these reports and those received via the Assurance framework, the engagements, Internal Audit recommends processes for Committee reports annually to the Board on the effectiveness of improvement.
Business unit management develops corrective action controls.
plans to address the causes of non-compliance and gaps in internal controls.
These plans are tracked to completion and results reported There are areas of our business where it is necessary to take risks to executive management and the Committee.
to achieve a satisfactory return for shareholders, such as investment in R&D and in acquiring new products or businesses.
During 2012, Assurance reporting the Committee, in conjunction with the full Board, considered and reviewed the nature and extent of these risks and the risks Assurance reporting to the Committee follows a structured associated with achieving the companys strategic objectives.
programme, integrating reporting from business units and Audit & Assurance.
In these cases, it is our objective to apply expertise in the prudent management, rather than elimination, of risk.
The Boards review Business units and global support functions are required to present focuses on the company and its subsidiaries and does not extend reports annually to the ROCC and the Committee detailing their risk to material associated undertakings, joint ventures or other management and compliance approach, providing an assessment of investments, although it considers the risk of the companys the status of internal controls over key risks, and highlighting any participation in these activities.
Management must oversee risks that are considered important for their respective business units, The Board, through the Committee, has reviewed the assessment including those risks that are designated as significant to the Group.
of risks and the internal control framework that operates in GSK and Information regarding the controls in place to manage these risks is has considered the effectiveness of the system of internal controls in provided to assure the Committee that these risks are adequately operation in the Group for the year covered by this report and up to managed within the internal control framework.
the date of its approval by the Board.
The process followed by the Board in reviewing the system of internal controls accords with the In addition to business unit reporting, significant compliance issues guidance on internal control issued by the Turnbull Committee.
and internal audit results and investigations are escalated to the ROCC and the Committee at the earliest opportunity.
This is in accordance with the provisions of the UK Code, which provide that the Board is responsible for determining the nature and Anti-Bribery and Corruption extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
The Board provides oversight to ensure that The Anti-Bribery and Corruption Programme ABAC is part of GSK maintains sound risk management and internal control systems.
our response to the risk of bribery and corruption.
It builds on our values and existing standards to form a comprehensive and practical Remuneration approach to compliance in this complex risk area.
The programme is overseen by the ABAC team, who provide advisory support and Our Remuneration Report, which describes the level and routine audits of this risk.
To ensure the programmes independence, components of the remuneration of the Directors, is set out on it will be regularly audited by an external rm that specialises in pages 109 to 136. this risk area.
Details of our ABAC programme are available on our website.
Risk management Our risk management programme extends beyond legal and regulatory issues and considers our overall strategy and changes in the external environment.
Furthermore, risk management principles are embedded within management practices and are part of the business strategy and objective setting process.
The Head of Audit & Assurance acts as the Global Risk officer with support from the Director, Risk Management.
Risk Management is responsible for maintaining GSKs risk management framework and supporting the business in identifying key risks.
The management of risks is owned by the business with support from Compliance Business Partners.
For details of risks affecting the Group, see Risk FACTORS ON PAGES TO AND.
OTE TO THE lNANCIAL STATEMENTS Legal proceedings.
