2-54 Strategic review 55-86 Financial review & risk 87-136 Governance & remuneration 137-223 Financial statements 224-248 Investor information GSK Annual Report 2012 103 The reports of the Audit & Risk, Nominations and Corporate Membership Responsibility Committees, describing the activities of those The membership of the Committee, together with appointment Committees during the year, are set out below.
dates and attendance at meetings, is set out below: Audit & Risk Committee Report Attendance at full meetings Members Committee member since during 2012 Judy Lewent Chairman from 1 January 2013 1 April 2011 5 6 Professor Sir Roy Anderson 20 May 2009 6 6 Stacey Cartwright 1 April 2011 6 6 Sir Deryck Maughan 21 January 2005 6 6 Dr Daniel Podolsky 1 January 2007 6 6 Tom fide Swaan Chairman from September 2006 to Dear Shareholder 31 December 2012 1 January 2006 6 6 I would like to thank my predecessor, Tom fide Swaan, for his strong Sir Robert Wilson 12 December 2003 6 6 leadership of the Committee over the course of the last six years.
Tom continues to serve as a member of the Committee and I will The Committees meetings are split into two parts: value his wise counsel.
s Part one deals with the more fundamental aspects of internal The continuing effects of an uncertain global political and economic financial control and considers standing items, such as receiving environment make it even more important to maintain a sharp focus reports from the external auditors and GSKs Audit & Assurance on the robustness of the companys internal control and compliance team.
During the year, Global Ethics and Compliance concluded a s In furtherance of its risk responsibilities, the entire Board is invited review of its global strategy, which led to the establishment of One to attend Part two of the Committees meetings.
This usually Compliance, a single, consistent global compliance framework considers developments in the external risk environment and independent of the business.
One Compliance will champion receives legal updates, business unit and corporate function GSKs values and seek to foster values-based decision making across reports and reports on the outcome of Strategic Risk Evaluations the Groups business units and local operating companies.
During 2012, the Committees agenda has included the usual In addition to the six scheduled meetings, the Committee also met review of our financial results and controls, our business operations on a quorate basis on five occasions.
across the world and their management of risk, as well as focusing consideration on new emerging risks.
At each meeting, a proactive Other attendees at Committee meetings include: approach was taken to the identication and discussion of Regular Attends emerging risks.
Attendee attendee as required In 2012, GSK entered into a Corporate Integrity Agreement CIA Chairman with the US Department of Health and Human Services in relation CEO to past sales and marketing practices.
Under the CIA, the company CFO is building improvements into its existing compliance programmes.
Chairman, Global R&D & Vaccines The Committee has supported the Board in overseeing and General Counsel scrutinising the implementation of these improvements through the Financial Controller receipt of quarterly CIA compliance updates.
It also receives annual Head of Governance, Ethics & Assurance training on the CIA and its compliance obligations.
Head of Audit & Assurance In line with the Groups strategy to expand further and deeper into Company Secretary Secretary to the emerging markets, members of the Committee visited the Groups Committee Indian operations in Delhi and were pleased to have the opportunity Chief Medical officer Part two only to meet with locally based executives.
During this visit, the Chief Product Quality officer Committee members were able to gain a deeper understanding of External auditors the distinctive business and cultural dynamics of this emerging market and to learn at rsthand how risk management is embedded Main responsibilities in our operations in India.
4HE MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE #OMMITTEE ARE SET OUT ON PAGE In my role as the new Chair, I will increase my understanding of the Group by meeting with senior executives from GSKs operations The Committees oversight role requires it to address regularly the to discuss issues that have been brought to the Committee by relationships between management and the internal and external management.
I also intend to continue Toms work in making the auditors and to understand and monitor the reporting relationships Committee more visible to the Groups employees and to deepen my and tiers of accountability between them.
knowledge of the internal control and assurance framework through The Committee receives regular reports from members of the CET working with the CET members and connecting with the network of and senior managers covering key risk management and compliance Compliance Ofcers.
activities of the Group, including those covering R&D, manufacturing, sales and marketing and corporate functions.
Further details of the reporting framework to the Committee are set out on pages 100 to Judy Lewent 102 under Accountability.
Audit & Risk Committee Chairman 104 GSK Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance The Committee also reviews the quarterly results of the Group External auditors prepared by management and considers reports on key The Committee has primary responsibility for oversight of the accounting issues.
This includes deciding whether to seek to The Committee reviews its terms of reference on an annual basis.
re-tender the audit and making a recommendation to shareholders They were revised in December 2012 to reect corporate on the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the external governance best practice developments.
auditors by assessing, on an annual basis, their qualications, expertise, resources and independence and the effectiveness In 2012, the Committee worked to a structured programme of of the previous audit process.
activities, with standing items that the Committee is required to consider at each meeting, together with other matters timed to Effectiveness of external auditors coincide with key events of the annual financial reporting cycle.
In evaluating the effectiveness of the audit process prior to making a recommendation on the re-appointment of the external auditors, External auditors Reported on all critical accounting policies, significant judgements and practices used by the the Committee reviews the effectiveness of their performance Group, alternative accounting treatments which against criteria which it agrees, in conjunction with management, had been discussed with management and their at the beginning of each years audit.
resultant conclusion, material written As part of this process, the Committee considers feedback on the communications with management and any prior years external audit gathered through a client satisfaction restrictions on access to information.
survey facilitated by the auditors client service review team, which CFO Reported on the financial performance of the is independent of the engagement team that undertook the audit Group and on technical financial and accounting work.
The survey seeks feedback from the financial management matters.
team at corporate and business unit level.
Having reviewed the feedback, provided the Committee is satisfied with the effectiveness General Counsel Reported on material litigation.
of the external audit process, it will recommend the re-appointment of the auditors at the forthcoming AGM.
Company Secretary Reported on corporate governance, securities and disclosure practices.
Details of the current criteria for judging the effectiveness of the external auditors are set out below: Heads of Audit & The majority of the heads of these groups Assurance and the reported on the audit scope, annual coverage s deliver a smooth-running, thorough and efficiently executed audit Groups compliance and audit resources and on the results of audits s provide accurate, up-to-date knowledge of technical issues on and audit groups conducted during the year.
a timely basis Company Secretary Reported on matters that affected the quality and s serve as an industry resource, communicating best practice as Chair of the timely disclosure of financial and other material and industry trends in reporting Disclosure information to the Board, to the public markets Committee and to shareholders.
This enabled the Committee s adhere to all independence policies, including GSKs policies, to review the clarity and completeness of the ISA UK&I 220 and SEC requirements disclosures in the published annual financial s deliver a focused and consistent audit approach globally that statements, interim reports, quarterly and reects local risks and materiality preliminary results announcements and other formal announcements relating to financial s liaise with GSKs Audit & Assurance function to avoid duplication performance prior to approval by the Board.
of work and Head of Audit & Reported on the progress of GSKs global s provide consistency of advice at all levels.
Assurance assurance plan to review the assurance for each significant risk throughout the Group.
Fee review See Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 on page 242.
Before agreeing the audit fee proposed by the external auditors, which is reviewed by management, the Committee considers cost Qualications of Audit & Risk Committee members comparisons to ensure that it is fair and appropriate for GSK.
"Details of the members financial, accounting or scientific experience There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Committees ARE GIVEN IN THEIR BIOGRAPHIES UNDER @ UR ""OARD ON PAGES TO capacity to recommend a particular rm as external auditor to the Group."
Committee independence Qualications The Committee, management, internal auditors and the full Board work together to ensure the quality of the companys corporate In making its assessment, the Committee considers papers which accounting and financial reporting.
The Committee serves as the detail the relevant UK legislative, regulatory and professional primary link between the Board and the external and internal requirements relating to external auditors and evaluates reports auditors.
This facilitates the necessary independence from from the external auditors on their compliance with the management and encourages the external and internal auditors requirements, on the safeguards that have been established and to communicate freely and regularly with the Committee.
In 2012, on their own internal quality control procedures.
the Committee met both collectively and separately with the Consideration is also given by the Committee to the need to include external auditors, the Head of Audit & Assurance and the the risk of the withdrawal of the external auditors from the market Head of Governance, Ethics and Assurance without members in its risk evaluation and planning.
Both Judy Lewent and Tom fide Swaan are also members of the Remuneration Committee, which allows them to provide input on the Committees review of the Groups performance and oversight on any risk factors relevant to remuneration matters.
2-54 Strategic review 55-86 Financial review & risk 87-136 Governance & remuneration 137-223 Financial statements 224-248 Investor information GSK Annual Report 2012 105 Where possible, other accounting rms are engaged to undertake Audit partner rotation non-audit services.
The external auditors are required to rotate the audit engagement partner every five years.
The current audit partner commenced m HIS ENGAGEMENT ON ANUARY AND WILL STEP DOWN FROM HIS position after the audit of GSKs financial statements for 2012 17.3 17.3 has been concluded.
16.5 After a robust review process by the Committee, together with the involvement of the CEO and CFO to select his replacement, the Committee has approved the appointment of a new audit engagement partner with effect from the financial year commencing on 1 January 2013.
Audit rm tendering 6.4 5.9  LLP have remained in place as auditors 5.7 since the Groups inception in December 2000 and the audit contract has not been put out to tender in that period.
Their performance has been reviewed annually by the Committee since that time.
As part of its review of the implications of the end 2010 2011 2012 of the current audit partners five year term, the Committee considered the appropriateness of putting in place a tender Audit and assurance services process.
This included assessing the FRCs most recent guidance All other services, including tax, regulatory, compliance and on the subject, the level of change currently underway inside treasury-related services the Group and improvements to the auditors services, including fee levels proposed by the auditors.
The review concluded that a tender was not in the companys interests at this time and the Committee Code of Conduct and reporting lines consequently approved the appointment of the new audit partner.
However, the Committee agreed that this issue should be reviewed We also have a number of well established policies, including a Code regularly as part of the annual appointment process.
of Conduct, which is available on our website, and condential reporting lines for the reporting and investigation of unlawful Non-audit services conduct.
No waivers to the Code of Conduct were made in 2012.
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 prohibits the engagement of the Committee evaluation external auditors for the provision of certain services such as legal, actuarial, internal audit outsourcing, or financial information The Committees annual evaluation was carried out by the systems design.
Where the external auditors are permitted to Committee Chairman and concluded that the Committee continued provide non-audit services, the Committee ensures that auditor to operate effectively.
In particular, the Committees agendas were objectivity and independence are safeguarded by a policy requiring thought to be comprehensive with helpful presentations on each pre-approval by the Committee for such services.
The total fees for area of the business on a rolling basis that addressed risk and audit non-audit work can not exceed 50% of the audit fee, except in concerns.
The Committee felt that this provided a solid framework special circumstances where there would be clear advantage in within which it could continue to operate effectively to full its role.
the companys auditors undertaking such additional work.
These In terms of enhancements to the Committees deliberations, the services may include audit, audit-related, tax and other services.
Committee members felt it would be helpful to nd additional time Pre-approval is detailed as to the particular service or categories for, and apply greater focus on, particular issues such as pipeline risk, of service, and is subject to a specic budget.
vaccines, clinical practices and local regulatory requirements.
It was agreed that the business assurance reports could be simplied Provision of non-audit services further, with a clear focus on key risks and that management There are guidelines which set out the Groups policy on engaging presentations to the Committee should be more focused on risk.
the external auditors to provide non-audit services, which include: s ascertaining that the skills and experience of the external auditors make them a suitable supplier of the non-audit services s ensuring adequate safeguards are in place so that the objectivity and independence of the Group audit are not threatened or compromised and s ensuring that the fee levels do not exceed 50% of the annual audit fee.
The external auditors and management report regularly to the Committee regarding the extent of services provided in accordance with this pre-approval and the fees for the services performed.
The Committee may also pre-approve additional services on a case-by-case basis.
Fees paid to the companys auditor and its ASSOCIATES ARE SET OUT BELOW &URTHER DETAILS ARE GIVEN IN.
OTE to the financial statements, Operating profit.
106 GSK Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance In fullment of the specic observations made during the most Nominations Committee Report recent external evaluation of the Board and the Committee in 2011, the search process for new Non-Executive Directors to replace the retiring Non-Executive Directors gave priority to candidates with global CEO experience and or knowledge of, and experience in, emerging markets.
Egon Zhender and MWM, who specialise in the recruitment of high calibre executives and Non-Executive Directors, were engaged to ensure that the widest possible pools of Non-Executive candidates were available to select from.
Egon Zhender has a good Sir Christopher Gent understanding of GSKs business and also assists in the identication Nominations Committee Chairman of talented individuals to ll other executive roles in the Group.
A dossier of potential Non-Executive appointees was considered by Membership the Committee and candidates were short-listed for interview on The membership of the Nominations Committee the Committee, merit and against objective criteria, after assessing their relevant together with appointment dates and attendance at meetings, qualications and time commitments.
is set out below: After interviewing suitable candidates, the Committee was pleased to recommend to the Board Lynn Elsenhans and Jing Ulrich Attendance at as potential Non-Executive Directors.
They were both appointed full meetings Members Committee member since during 2012 to the Board with effect from 1 July 2012.
The Board considered Sir Christopher Gent that these appointments, together with the appointment of Hans Wijers, who will join the Board on 1 April 2013, achieved the Chairman since aim of appointing candidates who have either a deep knowledge 1 January 2005 9 December 2004 4 4 of emerging markets or experience of running a global company.
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 1 October 2012 2 2 Sir Crispin Davis 9 July 2009 4 4 It is currently intended that Sir Christopher will step down as Sir Deryck Maughan 9 July 2009 3 4 Chairman at the end of 2015 and the Committee has therefore Tom fide Swaan 1 October 2012 2 2 commenced the search for his successor.
Sir Robert WilsonARCH 4 4 Board and Committee changes Larry CulpARCH 2 2 The Committees proactive approach to the refreshment of the Larry Culp resigned from the Board on 30 September 2012.
Board has resulted in orderly changes in the composition of the Board and its Committees.
The changes are detailed below.
In addition to the four scheduled meetings, the Committee met on a quorate basis on two occasions.
James Murdoch did not stand for re-election at the AGM in May, Larry Culp decided to step down from the Board on 30 September Other attendees at Committee meetings may include: 2012 after almost nine years of service and Sir Crispin Davis will not Regular Attends stand for re-election at the AGM in 2013 after nine years of service.
Attendee attendee as required Given the number of recent appointments and that two longChief Executive officer standing Board members will have stepped down from the Board Head of Human Resources by May 2013, Sir Robert Wilson agreed to stand for re-election by Company Secretary Secretary to the shareholders for one further year before stepping down from the Board at the 2014 AGM.
Sir Robert has significant knowledge of Committee GSKs business affairs and will provide continuity as the new Board Appropriate external advisers members settle into their roles.
The Board has confirmed that Sir Robert continues to demonstrate the characteristics of Main responsibilities independence in carrying out his role.
Sir Robert will be succeeded by Sir Deryck Maughan as Senior Independent Non-Executive 4HE MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE #OMMITTEE ARE SET OUT ON PAGE Director, with effect from the closure of the AGM in May 2013.
Work of the Committee during 2012 Tom fide Swaan succeeded Sir Crispin Davis as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Judy Lewent succeeded Tom fide Appointment of new Non-Executive Directors Swaan as Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee on 1 January During 2012, the Committees particular area of focus was the 2013.
Tom has been a member of the Remuneration Committee search for new Non-Executive Directors to refresh the Board in since May 2009 and will continue to be a member of the Audit & advance of the planned retirements of long-serving Board members.
Risk Committee following Judys appointment.
Judy has been a member of the Audit & Risk Committee since April 2011.
When recruiting Non-Executive Directors, the Committee evaluates the particular skills, knowledge, independence, experience and Tom fide Swaan and Professor Sir Roy Anderson were both appointed diversity, including gender, that would benefit and balance the to the Nominations Committee and Lynn Elsenhans was appointed Board most appropriately for each appointment.
to the Corporate Responsibility Committee, all with effect from 1 October 2012.
Judy Lewent was appointed as a member of the During the search process, broad selection criteria are generally used Remuneration Committee on 1 January 2013, while Dr Stephanie which focus on achieving a balance between Continental European, Burns appointment to the Remuneration Committee will take effect UK, US and emerging markets experience on the Board, and having from 1 May 2013.
Finally, Jing Ulrich has been appointed to join the individuals with expertise and capabilities developed in various Audit & Risk Committee with effect from 1 May 2013 on the same sectors and specialities.
date that Professor Sir Roy Anderson will step down from the Audit & Risk Committee.
2-54 Strategic review 55-86 Financial review & risk 87-136 Governance & remuneration 137-223 Financial statements 224-248 Investor information GSK Annual Report 2012 107 CET succession Corporate Responsibility Committee Report In terms of Executive succession planning, the Committee also recommended the appointment of Christophe Weber and Roger Connor to the CET in May and September 2012 as President, Vaccines and President Designate, Global Manufacturing & Supply GMS, respectively.
Christophe Weber joined the Company in 1993 and has held increasingly senior commercial positions, including Chairman and CEO of GSK France and Senior Vice President and Regional Director, Asia Pacic.
He was appointed President Designate, Vaccines in Sir Christopher Gent January 2011 and he subsequently assumed the role of President, Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman Vaccines in May 2012.
2OGER #ONNOR JOINED '3 IN FROM !STRA:ENECA AND HAS Membership worked in a number of roles within finance and manufacturing The membership of the Corporate Responsibility Committee the strategy.
He was appointed Site Director of GMS site at Barnard Committee, together with appointment dates and attendance at #ASTLE IN AND 6ICE 0RESIDENT FlCE OF THE #% AND #ORPORATE meetings, is set out below: Strategy in February 2010, where he assisted the CEO with various projects.
To ensure an orderly succession in GMS, Roger was Attendance at appointed President Designate, GMS, with effect from 1 January full meetings 2012 and he assumed the role of President, GMS, in January 2013 Members Committee member since during 2012 in advance of David Pulmans retirement from GSK.
Sir Christopher Gent Chairman from Committee evaluation 1 January 2005 9 December 2004 4 4 The annual evaluation of the Committees effectiveness was Dr Stephanie Burns 6 December 2007 4 4 undertaken by the Chairman.
The responses were shared with the Lynn Elsenhans 1 October 2012 1 1 Committee and it was concluded that the Committee continued Dr Daniel Podolsky 1 July 2006 4 4 to operate effectively.
The Committee had successfully addressed James Murdoch 20 May 2009 0 2 the actions from the previous years review with the appointment of Lynn Elsenhans and Jing Ulrich.
Having mapped out the optimum James Murdoch retired from the Board on 3 May 2012. composition of the Board for the future, the Committees next challenge is to select suitable candidates for the roles identied.
Other attendees at Committee meetings may include: Regular Attends Attendee attendee as required Chief Executive officer Chairman, Global R&D & Vaccines General Counsel Head of Governance, Ethics & Assurance Head of Global Communications Head of Global Corporate Responsibility Company Secretary Secretary to the Committee Other Executives Main responsibilities The main responsibilities of the Corporate Responsibility Committee ARE SET OUT ON PAGE The Committee has a rolling agenda and receives reports from members of the CET and senior managers to ensure that progress on meeting GSKs Corporate Responsibility CR Principles is reviewed.
The Committee annually reviews progress on the following five CR Principles: s access to medicines s standards of ethical conduct s research and innovation s employment practices and s community investment.
GSKs other CR Principles are discussed at least once every two years.
The Committee also reviews and approves the Corporate Responsibility Report.
108 GSK Annual Report 2012 Corporate governance Work of the Committee during 2012 Work of the Committee in 2013 During 2012, the Committee focused its attention on several issues In 2013, the Committee will move to review progress on GSKs including: Corporate Responsibility CR commitments across four core themes, which reect the most important issues for responsible and GSKs CR Principles Committees area of focus during 2012 sustainable business growth: Access to medicines R&D investment, including diseases of the s Health for all: innovating to address currently unmet health developing world and open innovation needs: improving access to our products, irrespective of where strategy people live or their ability to pay: and controlling or eliminating New business models and performance, diseases affecting the worlds most vulnerable people including developing countries, s Our behaviour: putting the interest of patients and consumers middle-income countries and ViiV first, driven by our values in everything we do and backed by Healthcare robust policies and strong compliance processes Developing health systems for the future s Our people: enabling our people to thrive and develop as in the developing world individuals to deliver our mission Access challenges and performance in Europe and the USA s Our planet: growing our business, while reducing our environmental impact across our value chain.
Standards of ethical Patient First incentive compensation conduct programme and selling competency model Committee evaluation Further embedding ethical values in the The annual evaluation of the Committees views on its effectiveness organisation was undertaken by the Chairman.
The responses were shared with Reinforcing values-based decision making the Committee and it was concluded that the Committee continued in the business to operate effectively.
As part of the review, it was agreed that the Research and innovation Replacement, renement and reduction in Terms of Reference and Committee Programme would be updated use of animals in research and development to reect the four core themes of CR.
In addition, a further meeting would be added into the Committees annual programme.
Conduct and public disclosure of clinical research, transparency of detailed data behind trial results scientific engagement ensuring distinction between scientific dialogue and promotional activity by the business Enhancing the assessment of the safety and effectiveness of our medicines Employment practices Organisational change Employee relations and human rights Inclusion and diversity Leadership and employee development Employee health, safety and well-being Community investment Reinvestment of 20% of profits made in Least Developed Countries back into healthcare infrastructure Pulse volunteering programme Social impacts in supply Supplier standards, working practices and chain diversity Energy, water, waste reduction programmes in GMS Environmental performance of our suppliers Product formats, including sustainable packaging, reducing inhaler propellant and child-resistant packaging
