138 GSK Annual Report 2012 Directors statement of responsibilities Directors statement of responsibilities in relation to Disclosure of information to auditors the Group financial statements The Directors in ofce at the date of this Report have each confirmed that: The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Remuneration Report and the Group financial statements in s so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information accordance with applicable law and regulations.
of which the companys auditors are unaware: and Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements s he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with relevant audit information and to establish that the companys International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by auditors are aware of that information.
In preparing the Group financial statements, This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance the Directors have also elected to comply with IFRS, as issued by with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the Group financial Going concern basis statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and of the profit or loss Pages 1 to 86 contain information on the performance of the of the Group for that period.
Group, its financial position, cash ows, net debt position and borrowing facilities.
Further information, including Treasury risk In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are management policies, exposures to market and credit risk and required to: hedging activities, is given in Note 41 to the financial statements, s select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Financial instruments and related disclosures.
After making consistently: enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence s make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt and prudent: the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
s state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and IFRS as issued by the IASB, Internal control subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in The Board, through the Audit & Risk Committee, has reviewed the the Group financial statements.
assessment of risks and the internal control framework that operates The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting in GSK and has considered the effectiveness of the system of internal records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys control in operation in the Group for the year covered by this report transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the and up to the date of its approval by the Board of Directors.
financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that The UK Corporate Governance Code the Group financial statements and the Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the principles Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code maintained of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the by the Financial Reporting Council, as described in the Corporate prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Governance section on pages 94 to 108, and has complied with its provisions.
As required by the Financial Services Authoritys Listing The Group financial statements for the year ended 31 December Rules, the auditors have considered the Directors statement of 2012, comprising principal statements and supporting notes, are compliance in relation to those points of the UK Corporate set out in Financial statements on pages 140 to 223 of this report.
Governance Code which are specified for their review.
The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the Group financial statements are set out in the Independent Auditors Annual Report report on page 139.
The Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012, The Group financial statements for the year ended 31 December comprising the Report of the Directors, the Remuneration Report, 2012 are included in the Annual Report, which is published in the Financial statements and additional information for investors, hard-copy printed form and made available on our website.
The has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the behalf by Annual Report on our website in accordance with UK legislation governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
Access to the website is available from outside the UK, where comparable legislation may be different.
Sir Christopher Gent Each of the current Directors, whose names and functions are listed Chairman in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report 2012 5 March 2013 confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge: s the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and IFRS as issued by the IASB, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and s the Strategic review and Financial review and risk sections on pages 1 to 86 include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
