92 GSK Annual Report 2012 Governance & remuneration Our Corporate Executive Team Our Corporate Executive Team supports our Chief Executive officer in the management of the business and our activities Sir Andrew Witty Simon Bicknell Deirdre Connelly Roger Connor Senior Vice President, President, North America President, Global Chief Executive officer Governance, Ethics and Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing & Supply See Our Board on page 88.
Assurance Deirdre joined GSK as President, North Roger Connor is President, Global America Pharmaceuticals in February Manufacturing & Supply GMS.
He was Simon was appointed Senior Vice appointed to this role in January 2013, 2009 after working at Eli Lilly and President, Governance, Ethics and after working for a year as President Company for 24 years.
She held a Assurance in January 2011 and he Designate, GMS.
variety of positions including sales is responsible for risk management, professional, General Manager of compliance and strategic auditing.
Roger joined GSK in 1998 from Puerto Rico, Senior Vice President of AstraZeneca and has worked in a Simon joined the Company Secretariat Human Resources and, most recently, number of roles within finance and in 1984 and became Deputy Company President of US Operations.
manufacturing strategy, including at Secretary of Glaxo Wellcome in 1995.
GSK sites at Cork in Ireland and Ware A native of San Juan, Deirdre received He was appointed Company Secretary in the UK.
Prior to his role in GMS, a bachelors degree in economics and of GlaxoSmithKline plc in May 2000 Roger was Vice President, Ofce of marketing from Lycoming College in and combined this position with his role the CEO and Corporate Strategy Pennsylvania in 1983.
She graduated as Corporate Compliance officer from from February 2010. from the Harvard Universitys Advanced 2006 until his current appointment.
Management Programme in 2000, and He holds a degree in Mechanical After gaining his Law degree, Simon in January 2013 was appointed to the and Manufacturing Engineering qualied as a barrister in 1983 and is Harvard University Public Health Policy from Queens University Belfast and a a member of Middle Temple.
Masters in Manufacturing Leadership Deirdre is also a member of the Board from Cambridge University.
He is also of Directors of Macys Inc. the US a Chartered Accountant.
Simon Dingemans Marc Dunoyer Abbas Hussain Bill Louv Head of Rare Diseases Unit Senior Vice President, Core Chief Financial officer President, Europe and EMAP and Chairman of GSK Japan Business Services See Our Board on page 89.
Abbas was appointed President, Europe and EMAP in September 2012.
He joined Marc was appointed to lead the new Bill was appointed to create and lead the company as President, Emerging rare diseases business from R&D to Core Business Services CBS in April Markets & Asia Pacic in June 2008. commercialisation in February 2010.
CBS intergrates the shared He has also served as Chairman of GSK services of the global support functions.
Previously Abbas spent 20 years at Eli-Lilly Japan since January 2010 where he was He was previously Chief Information where he held positions including previously Representative Director and officer.
President, Europe and before that Vice President, Pharmaceuticals Japan.
President, Europe with specic Bill joined the company in 1994 as Vice responsibility for the Western European Marc joined the company from Hoechst President of Medical Data Sciences, and Mid-Size countries, Africa & Middle East Marion Roussel in 1999 and was has held a number of increasingly senior Area Commonwealth of Independent President, Pharmaceuticals Japan from roles in R&D and IT.
States and Central & Eastern Europe January 2000 until May 2008.
He was Bill has a Bachelor of Science degree in regions.
He also held positions in sales and also President, Pharmaceuticals Asia Biology from the College of William and marketing across Australasia and India.
Pacic Japan from May 2008 to Mary, and Master of Science and Doctor July 2010.
Abbas was appointed to ViiV Healthcare of Philosophy degrees in Statistics from Ltd. Board in October 2009 and the Marc has an MBA from the Hautes the University of Florida.
He has a Bachelor also a Board Member of the Singapore of Law degree from Paris University and Duke-NUS Governing Board and Audit also qualied as a Junior CPA in France & Risk Committee Board.
Born in Madras, India, Abbas has a degree in Medicinal Chemistry & Pharmacology from Loughborough University.
Iain Crockart and Tom Whipps 2-54 Strategic review 55-86 Financial review & risk 87-136 Governance & remuneration 137-223 Financial statements 224-248 Investor information GSK Annual Report 2012 93 David Redfern Dr Moncef Slaoui Claire Thomas Phil Thomson Chairman, Global R&D Senior Vice President, Senior Vice President, Global Chief Strategy officer & Vaccines Human Resources Communications David was appointed Chief Strategy officer in May 2008 and is responsible See Our Board on page 89.
Claire was appointed Senior Vice Phil was appointed Senior Vice for proactive exploration of new President, Human Resources in President, Global Communications in business opportunities, strategic May 2008 and is responsible for August 2010.
He has responsibility for planning and the leadership of the GSKs Environmental Sustainability Media Relations, Investor Relations, dermatology business.
She was previously Senior Corporate Responsibility, Internal his current role, he was appointed Vice President, Human Resources, Communications and Product Chairman of the Board of ViiV Pharmaceuticals International.
Claire joined the company in 1996 and Phil joined Glaxo Wellcome as a Previously, he was Senior Vice President, was appointed Senior Vice President, commercial trainee in 1996, moving Northern Europe with responsibility Human Resources, and Pharmaceuticals from pharmaceutical brand marketing for managing GSKs pharmaceutical Europe in 2001, where she successfully to product communications.
In 1999 he businesses in that region and prior to led the HR function through the merger.
became a Director of Media Relations that Senior Vice President for Central for Glaxo Wellcome plc and in 2001, Prior to joining the company she worked and Eastern Europe.
David joined the took up the position of Director, for Ford Motor Company, holding company in 1994 and held a series of Investor Relations for GSK.
finance roles before becoming Finance he returned to Corporate Media Claire has a Bachelor of Science degree Director of the European business from Relations as Vice President.
Phil earned his degree in English and Industrial Relations from the University David has a Bachelor of Science degree History from Durham University.
Claire was honoured as an from Bristol University in the UK and is Outstanding European Woman of a Chartered Accountant.
Dan Troy Patrick Vallance Emma Walmsley Christophe Weber Senior Vice President & President, Pharmaceuticals President, Consumer President, Vaccines General Counsel R&D Healthcare Worldwide Christophe was appointed President, Vaccines in April 2012.
Dan joined the company as Senior Patrick was appointed President, Emma assumed the role of President, Vice President & General Counsel Pharmaceuticals R&D, in January 2012.
Consumer Healthcare Worldwide in He was named President Designate in September 2008.
Prior to his appointment he was Senior October 2011 after joining GSK in of Vaccines in January 2011.
Prior to Vice President, Medicines Discovery and May 2010 as President of Consumer this, he was Senior Vice President He was previously a Partner at the Development.
and Regional Director, Asia Pacic, Washington law rm Sidley Austin responsible for GSK operations in LLP, where he represented mainly Patrick joined the company in 2006 as Under Emmas leadership the business Asia Pacic from 2008. pharmaceutical companies and trade Head of Drug Discovery.
He focused has a new strategic direction to become associations on matters related to the the organisation on science that the first and best Fast Moving Consumer He joined the company in 1993 and US Food and Drug Administration has the best chance of leading to Healthcare company, driven by science held increasingly senior commercial FDA and government regulations.
new medicines, and created small, and values, combining the very best positions including General Manager Dan was formerly Chief Counsel for multidisciplinary teams called Discovery of GSKs scientific knowledge with the of the companys Swiss subsidiary and, the FDA, where he served as a primary Performance Units.
speed and marketing excellence of the from 2003 to 2008, Chairman and CEO liaison to the White House and the Fast Moving Consumer Goods world.
Prior to joining GSK Patrick was a clinical US Department of Health and Human academic at University College London.
Prior to joining GSK, Emma worked Christophe started his career in Services.
Patrick is a member of the Board of with LOreal for 17 years where she Australia, working for Rhne-PoulencDan is a graduate from Cornell the Agency for Science, Technology & held a variety of marketing and general Rorer Pharmaceuticals.
He is a Doctor Universitys School of Industrial and Research A STAR and is a director of management roles in Paris, London of Pharmacy & Pharmacokinetics, holds Labor Relations, and earned his law Genome Research Limited.
From 2007 she was a Master of Pharmaceutical Marketing, degree from Columbia University member of the International scientific based in Shanghai as General Manager, a Master of Finance and a degree in School of Law.
Advisory Board of the Cambridge Consumer Products, LOreal China.
She has a degree in Classics and Modern Languages from Oxford University.
