1.4 | Business overview OuR BusinEss Glencores marketing and industrial investment activities are supported by a global network of more than 50offices located Overview in more than 40countries throughout Europe, North, Central Glencore is a leading integrated producer and marketer of met and South America, the CIS, Asia, Australia, Africa and the als and minerals, energy and agricultural products.
Glencores main offices are located in Baar Swit operates globally, marketing and distributing physical com zerland, Stamford Connecticut, London, Rotterdam, Beijing, modities sourced from third party producers and its own pro Moscow and Singapore.
This network provides Glencore with duction.
Glencores customers and suppliers number in excess significant worldwide sourcing and distribution capabilities.
of 8,000 and span the automotive, steel, power generation, oil Glencores marketing operations employ close to 3,000people and food processing industries.
Glencore also provides financ worldwide, while industrial operations directly or indirectly em ing, logistics and other essential services to producers and ploy over 58,000people in 33countries.
Refer to the map on consumers.
page10 and 11 for more details on the locations of offices and operations.
Glencores long experience as a commodity marketer has allowed it to develop its expertise in the commodities which it Glencore has an established record of successful strategic in markets.
Glencore has also cultivated longterm relationships vestments in industrial assets which have become an important with a broad supplier and customer base across diverse indus component of its physical marketing activities.
Glencore in tries and geographic regions.
Glencores marketing activities tends to continue to pursue selective strategic acquisitions and are supported by investments in industrial assets operating in alliances to support and strengthen its core physical marketing Glencores core commodities.
Glencores marketing operations activities as and when opportunities arise.
Glencore evaluates are believed to be less correlated to commodity prices than its each industrial asset investment opportunity on a standalone industrial operations, due to commodity price risk being sub basis, however, also recognising its potential to support stantially hedged.
and strengthen Glencores physical marketing activities or its existing industrial operations.
Similarly, Glencore evaluates dis As a marketer, Glencore is able to differentiate itself from other posals of industrial assets when they are no longer deemed to production entities as, in addition to focusing on minimising support its marketing activities and or when compelling selling costs and delivering operational efficiencies, Glencore focuses opportunities arise.
on maximising the efficiency of the entire supply chain, taking into account its extensive and global third party supply base, its Glencores three business segments focus on the following logistics, risk management and working capital financing capa commodity segments: bilities, extensive market insight, business optionality, extensive The metals and minerals business segment focuses on: zinc customer base, competitive market position in most commodi copper lead, alumina aluminium and ferroalloys nickel co ties and economies of scale.
In contrast, this is not the busi balt iron ore.
The activities of Glencores metals and minerals ness model of Glencores mainly industrial competitors who are business segment are supported by ownership interests generally not set up to exploit the full range of value added in controlled and noncontrolled industrial assets such as margin and arbitrage opportunities which exist throughout the mining, smelting, refining and warehousing operations: commodity supply chain.
The energy products business segment focuses on: oil oil products and coal coke.
The activities of Glencores energy Businesses products business segment are supported by ownership in Glencore conducts its operations in three business segments: terests in controlled and noncontrolled coal mining and oil Metals and minerals, Energy products and Agricultural products.
production operations as well as investments in strategic han Glencores business segments are responsible for managing the dling, storage and freight equipment and facilities: and marketing, sourcing, hedging, logistics and industrial investment The agricultural products business segment focuses on: grains activities relating to the commodities which they cover.
including wheat, maize and barley, oils oilseeds, cotton and sugar.
The activities of Glencores agricultural products busi ness group are supported by investments in controlled and Glencore noncontrolled storage, handling and processing facilities in strategic locations.
Metals and minerals Energy products Agricultural products Zinc copper lead Oil Grains Alumina aluminium Coal coke Oils oilseeds Ferroalloys nickel Cotton sugar cobalt iron ore 14 | Annual Report 2012 | oveRview | BuSineSS Review | CoRpoRAte GoveRnAnCe | FinAnCiAl StAteMentS | AdditionAl inFoRMAtion OuR stRAtEgy MARKEting ACtiVitiEs Glencores strategy is to maintain and strengthen its position as Function of marketing activities one of the worlds leading diversified natural resources groups.
Glencores marketing activities source a diversified range of physical commodities from third party suppliers and from Strategic objectives for 2013 industrial assets in which Glencore has full or part ownership Focus on capital efficient growth to maintain sector leadinterests.
These commodities are sold, often with value added ing return on equity: Glencores objective is to generate and services such as freight, insurance, financing and or storage, sustain market leading shareholder returns by harnessing the to a broad range of consumers and industrial commodity end potential of its marketing platform and industrial asset base.
users, with many of whom Glencore enjoys longterm commer cial relationships.
Integration of Xstrata and Viterra leading grain handler in Canada and Australia : Glencore will seek to optimise the Types of arbitrage strategies operational and development potential of these major acqui Many of the physical commodity markets in which Glencore sitions.
operates are fragmented or periodically volatile.
As a result, discrepancies often arise in respect of the prices at which the Continue to leverage geographic scope and diversification commodities can be bought or sold in different geographic of operations: Glencore intends to extend product and geo locations or time periods, taking into account the numerous graphical range offered to suppliers and customers where relevant pricing factors, including freight and product quality.
These pricing discrepancies can present Glencore with arbi trage opportunities whereby Glencore is able to deploy capital Capitalise on strategic investments in industrial assets: to generate profit by sourcing, transporting, blending, storing Glencores strategic investments in industrial assets are an or otherwise processing the relevant commodities.
Whilst the important component of its physical sourcing strategy for strategies used by Glencores business segments to generate its marketing activities.
Glencore believes these investments such margin vary from commodity to commodity, the main arbi underpin Glencore as a reliable supplier for its customers.
trage strategies can be generally described as follows: Geographic: where Glencore leverages its relationships and Use additional capital and liquidity to grow the business production, processing and logistical capabilities in order to when compelling opportunities present themselves.
source physical commodities from one location and deliver them to another location where such commodities can com Focus on cost management and further enhancing logistical mand a higher price net of transport and or other transac capabilities: Glencore intends to continue its focus on cost tion costs : control and operational efficiencies at its industrial assets and Product related: where it is possible to exploit the blending on the sourcing of competitively priced physical commodities or multiuse characteristics of the particular commodities from reliable third party suppliers.
being marketed, such as the various crude oil products, coal or metal concentrates, in order to supply products which Maintain conservative financial profile and investment grade attract higher prices than their base constituents, or exploit ratings: Glencores conservative financial profile and invest existing and or expected price differentials: and ment grade credit ratings have enabled it to consistently Timerelated: where it is possible to exploit a difference be access the required funding on competitive terms and main tween the price of a commodity to be delivered at a future date tain healthy levels of liquidity.
Glencore intends to maintain its and the price of a commodity to be delivered immediately, investment grade credit ratings.
where the available storage, financing and other related costs until the future date are less than the forward pricing Disciplined risk management: Glencore intends to continue difference.
its focus in this key area by maintaining and expanding its risk Arbitrage ensures markets function more efficiently by deliver management resources, information systems and culture.
ing supply to where it is most needed, in time, geography or product.
P lace highest priority on employees, the environment and local communities: Glencore places the highest priority on Glencore uses market information made available by its mar its employees, the environment and the local communities keting and industrial teams across its many locations to identify where it operates.
Glencores marketing and investment activities and relationships with producers and consumers of raw materials are supported by a global network providing Glencore with visibility over shifting supply and demand dynamics in respect of sizeable volumes of physical commodities across the globe.
The detailed information from Glencores widespread operations and close relationships with producers, consumers and logistics providers often enables Glencore to identify oppor tunities, taking into account its extensive logistics capabilities, to source and supply physical commodities at attractive margins.
| Annual Report 2012 | 15 Logistics Very weak Eurozone growth, including a mild contraction in Glencores logistics operations are a key part of its marketing Q22012, driven by limited consumer demand and industrial operations.
They enable Glencore to fulfil its marketing obliga output.
Despite numerous crisis meetings, decisive consen tions and to maximise arbitrage opportunities created by fide sual action was impossible to sustain with key issues simply mand and supply imbalances.
Physical sourcing and marketing deferred: of commodities requires highly professional handling and ship A loss of growth momentum in Asia, particularly in China as a ment of such goods from the supplier to the customer, including result of their tightening of monetary and fiscal policy in 2011. storage activities, as required.
Typically, the staff handling the Although both started an easing process over the course of the physical movement of goods the traffic team account for a year, these actions have a reasonably extended lead time and significant proportion of the headcount of a business segment.
as such the effects will not immediately be felt.
The planned Glencores dedicated chartering teams actively trade freight to political transition in China also hindered any stimulative ef gain market knowledge and volume benefits.
Chinas manufacturing sector, while still generally buoy ment of transactions is furthermore used to maintain maximum ant, is starting to feel the pressure of falling profitability: and physical optionality so that full value can be extracted from t he US Federal Reserves further stimulus packages.
However, the underlying commodity positions of each department.
This with interest rates already low, the scope to impact consumer complements Glencores overall ability to seize geographic and behaviour was limited.
Separately, the US started to feel the time spread arbitrage opportunities as they arise.
benefits of sustainable lower power prices and the housing market showed the first signs of improvements as household formation rate improved.
inDustRiAL ACtiVitiEs The pattern for commodity prices during 2012 was to generally Glencores ownership of controlled and noncontrolled indus trend downwards, albeit with frequent spikes around key policy trial assets is designed to generate attractive standalone events.
Volatility also continued the downward trend it has been returns and overall business diversification.
They also serve as on since the end of the financial crisis, and finished the year a way to source physical supply for Glencores marketing arm appreciably lower than the levels experienced in the second and provide further market insight and technical knowhow.
Glencore believes that its corresponding reduced reliance on third parties helps to ensure that suppliers and customers alike Going forward, growth in China is expected to continue to be see Glencore as a more reliable counterparty.
sufficiently strong to create a favourable environment in com modity markets in general.
However, the rate of growth is clearly Glencore capitalises on investment opportunities created by, slowing and signs of variability across different regions and sec among other things, i the privatisation of natural resources tors are starting to emerge.
Prior to the current political transi producers primarily in emerging markets, ii the rebalancing of tion, it was clear that the Chinese government was comfortable asset portfolios by other players in the natural resources indus with a slower rate of growth as it still had concerns over inflation try and iii further industry consolidation as smaller producers potential mainly housing and food.
Under the new generation sell out and or seek capital to fund growth.
of leaders in China, led by President Xi Jinping, the precise future growth path of China is still to be clarified.
Any decision to acquire or dispose of an industrial asset is based on the stand alone potential of the asset and its poten The movement in commodity prices generally mirrored the tial contribution to Glencores marketing activities and requires poor performance of financial markets as a mark of investors group level approval.
Once acquired, an asset is held within lower global risk appetite.
Compared to 2011, base metals were one of the business segments.
The business segments man broadly down 1020% in 2012 reflecting global growth concerns.
age the controlled and noncontrolled industrial assets via Energy commodities, with the exception of US natural gas in handson asset controllers to interface between the asset creased by 24% and coal sizeable declines for many origins, es and Glencore in respect of day to day operating, financial and sentially returned to the levels they were at the beginning of the commercial matters.
Glencores approach to the management year.
In agriculture, prices were generally up during Q32012 with a of its industrial assets differs from some of its key competitors particularly strong performance from corn, wheat and soya beans.
in that Glencore encourages its industrial assets to focus on the elements of operating performance, which businesses can Looking forward, we anticipate further modest improvements in directly control.
global economic growth, in the absence of any major unantici pated policy decisions.
MARKEt REViEw The US looks increasingly well positioned for the medium to long term with their abundance of competitively priced power a key Markets started 2012 on a more positive footing after the sover positive factor.
Meanwhile, we expect China and other major eign debtrelated headwinds of 2011.
However, the initial opti emerging economies to remain committed to their stated plans mism faded as the year progressed, with the key constraints for to improve the living standards of their people.
The key chal economic recovery that we have seen since the global financial lenge for all markets remains to balance required social spend crisis remaining in place for the remainder of 2012.
The major with growth in economic activity required to sustain this spend factors have been: over the long term.
16 | Annual Report 2012 | oveRview | BuSineSS Review | CoRpoRAte GoveRnAnCe | FinAnCiAl StAteMentS | AdditionAl inFoRMAtion New capital investment In addition, the West African oil portfolio will further contrib Glencore is focused on delivering industryleading organic pro ute to the Energy Products industrial assets growth.
After duction growth which in turn will help drive growth within its Aseng Block I commenced first oil production in November marketing business.
In this regard, Glencore is very focused on 2011 ahead of schedule, the development of the Alen gas con delivering this growth in a capital efficient manner.
densate field Block O remains on track for first production in Q32013 with a target flow rate of 37,500 bbl per day.
During 2012 industrial growth projects continued to deliver overall volume improvement and expansion is on track to fide Glencores first operated exploration well on the Oak prospect liver growth in the next few years.
in the Bolongo Block, offshore Cameroon, was successfully drilled and declared an oil discovery in July 2012.
The appraisal The African Copper assets continued their expansion plans, with programme is planned for H22013.
Mutanda Kansuki expected to have a combined installed capac ity of 200,000tonnes of copper and 23,000tonnes of cobalt In the Agricultural products business unit, sugar crushing ca by 2013.
In addition the feasibility study for the construction of pacity will further increase due to the ongoing expansion at a 100,000tonnes of copper contained sulphide concentrator Rio Vermelho.
remains on track to be completed shortly.
Katanga produced its first copper cathode from the new sol vent extraction plants and converted electrowinning facil ity during December 2012 as part of the Phase 4 project.
The completion of this project will enable Katanga to increase total capacity.
The Phase 4 project remains on target for mechanical completion in Q32013, which should allow Katanga to increase its annualised copper production capacity to 200,000tonnes and thereafter to 300,000tonnes per annum, by Q42014.
Mutanda, Katanga and Kansuki are collectively undertaking a project to secure power for all three operations via the refurbishment of two turbines at the Inga dam.
This project is expected to provide 450 megawatts of power by the end of 2015 the Power Project.
The project has started and is be ing executed in partnership with Socit Naturale dElectricit SNEL and EGMF, the project contractor.
The estimated cost of $284million will be paid by Mutanda, Katanga and Kansuki, the investment in which will be recovered via lower future energy tariffs.
At Mopani the $323million Synclinorium shaft project to in crease mine production, which is expected to come online dur ing 2015, and the associated project to improve and modernise the smelter remain on track.
In 2012, Mopani announced that the smelter upgrade project including improving SO emission 2 capture to above 97% is expected to be completed by Decem ber 2013, 18 months ahead of the schedule initially agreed with the Zambian authorities.
Prodecos expansion project is progressing to plan and remains on track to deliver annualised production of 20million tonnes by 2014.
The construction of the new direct loading port, Puerto Nuevo, is also on track and to budget, with commission ing expected in H12013.
The South African Coal portfolio including Shanduka Coal, Umcebo Mining and Optimum Coal is currently focusing on a number of expansion and development projects: at Umcebo the Wonderfontein project railed its first coal during December 2012, at Optimum, construction has started at the Pullenshope underground brownfield project with first coal expected in Q22013 and licensing for the Koornfontein project is expected shortly, with construction scheduled to start in Q22013.
