overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN 3.5 | directors report Introduction Corporate Governance This Annual Report is presented by the Directors on the affairs A report on corporate governance and compliance with the UK of Glencore International plc the Company and its subsidiaries Corporate Governance Code is set out in sections 3.1 to 3.4 and the Group or Glencore, together with the financial statements forms part of this report by reference.
and auditors report, for the year ended 31December 2012.
The Directors Report including details of the business, the developCreditor payment policy and practice ment of the Group and likely future developments as set out In view of the international nature of the Groups operations in the Overview and Business review section, which together there is no specific Group-wide policy in respect of payments forms the management report for the purposes of the UK Finanto suppliers.
Individual operating entities are responsible for cial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rule DTR agreeing terms and conditions for their business transactions 4.1.
The notice concerning forward looking statements is set and ensuring that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment.
out at the end of the Annual Report.
References to the Company It is Group policy that payments are made in accordance with may also include references to the Group or part of the Group.
those terms, provided that all trading terms and conditions have been met by the supplier.
Corporate structure Glencore International plc is a public company limited by shares, Glencore International plc is a holding company with no busiincorporated in Jersey and domiciled in Baar, Switzerland and its ness activity other than the holding of investments in the Group shares are listed on the London and Hong Kong Stock Exchanges.
and therefore had no trade creditors at 31December 2012.
Principal activities Health, safety, environment & communities HSEC Glencore is one of the worlds leading integrated producers An overview of health, safety and environmental performance and and marketers of commodities.
It has worldwide activities in community participation is provided in section 1.5 Sustainability.
the production, sourcing, processing, refining, transporting, storage, financing and supply of metals and minerals, energy Exploration and research and development products and agricultural products.
The Group business units carry out exploration and research and development activities that are necessary to support and Financial results and dividends expand their operations.
The Groups financial results are set out in the financial statements and in the Financial review section of this annual report.
Charitable donations In addition to our large-scale community programmes, Glencore The Board recommends a final dividend of $0.1035 per share: makes donations and provides sponsorship to various causes.
including the interim dividend of $0.054 per share which has Guidance on Glencores policy towards charitable contribualready been paid, this provides for a total dividend for the 2012 tions is set out in the Glencore Corporate Practice programme.
Shareholders will be asked to For the year ended 31December 2012, the Group spent a total approve the final dividend at the Annual General Meeting due to of $95million 2011: $ 140million, a large part of this difference be held on 16May 2013, for payment on 7 June 2013 to ordinary due to the conclusion of an extensive investment project at shareholders whose names are on the register on 24May 2013.
Kazzinc on both purely philanthropic and community investment initiatives.
Review of business, future developments and post balance sheet events Employee policies and involvement A review of the business and the future developments of the Glencore operates an equal opportunities policy that aims to Group is presented in the Overview and the Business review.
treat individuals fairly and not to discriminate on the basis of sex, race, ethnic origin, disability or on any other basis.
ApplicaA full description of acquisitions, disposals, and material changtions for employment and promotion are fully considered on es to Group companies undertaken during the year, including their merits, and employees are given appropriate training and post balance sheet events, is included in the Financial review equal opportunities for career development and promotion.
and in note 24 of the financial statements.
Where disability occurs during employment, the Group seeks Financial instruments to accommodate that disability where reasonably possible, inDescriptions of the use of financial instruments and Glencore cluding with appropriate training.
financial risk management objectives and policies, including hedging activities and exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk are included in section 1.7 Principal risks and uncertainties and in notes 25 and 26 of the financial statements.
| Annual Report 2012 | 101 Anthony Hayward 0 0.0% The Group places considerable value on the involvement of William Macaulay 139996976 1.97% its employees which is reflected in the principles of Glencore Li Ning 123000 0.0% Corporate Practice and its related guidance, which requires regular, open, fair and respectful communication, zero tolerance for human rights violations, fair remuneration and, above Of these shares, 129,372,165 ordinary shares are held by FR Galaxy Holdall, a safe working environment.
ings S. a. r. l. FR and 10,624,811 by ECP Galaxy Holdings S. a. r. l. ECP.
The Company has been notified that 1 FR is a connected person of William Macaulay and 2 ECP is an affiliate of FR.
In addition, FR has an Employee communication is mainly provided by the Groups ineconomic interest under swap arrangements in 19,787,834 shares and tranet and corporate website.
A range of information is made ECP in 1,125,000 shares being an aggregate 20,912,834 shares, which is approximately 0.3% of the issued share capital of the Company.
available to employees including all policies applicable to them as well as information on the Groups financial performance and the main drivers of its business.
Employee consultation fideNo Director has any other interest in the share capital of the pends upon the type and location of operation or office.
The Company whether pursuant to any share plan or otherwise.
Group made its first grants under its Performance Share Plan in 2012.
No changes in Directors interests have occurred between 31December 2012 and 22March 2013.
Directors conflicts of interest Under Jersey law and the Companys Articles of Association Each of Mr Glasenberg and Mr Kalmin has executed a Lock-Up which mirror section 175 of the UK Companies Act 2006, a DirecDeed, pursuant to which they have agreed, subject to certain tor must avoid a situation in which he has, or can have, a direct or customary exceptions, that during the period from 24May 2011 indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the to 24May 2016 they will not dispose of the ordinary shares held interests of the Company.
The duty is not infringed if the matby them at 24May 2011.
The percentage of Executive Directors ter has been authorised by the Directors.
Under the Articles, the Ordinary Shares held at 24May 2011 that is subject to restricBoard has the power to authorise potential or actual conflict situtions on disposal decreases on each anniversary date by 20 per ations.
The Board maintains effective procedures to enable the cent of the original holding.
Directors to notify the Company of any actual or potential conflict situations and for those situations to be reviewed and, if appropriShare capital and shareholder rights ate, to be authorised by the Board.
Directors conflict situations At the date of this report, the ordinary share capital of the are reviewed annually.
A register of authorisations is maintained.
Directors liabilities and indemnities The Company has granted third party indemnities to each of its Major interests in shares Directors against any liability that attaches to them in defendAs at 22March 2013 Glencore had been notified of the following ing proceedings brought against them, to the extent permitinterests representing 3% or more of the issued ordinary share ted by the Jersey Law.
In addition, Directors and Officers of the capital of the Company: Company and its subsidiaries are covered by Directors & Officers liability insurance.
Percentage Number of issued Name of holder of shares share capital Directors The names of the Companys Directors who served during the Ivan Glasenberg 1101848752 15.52% year, together with their biographical details and other information, are shown in section 3.2.
Daniel Francisco Mat Badenes 417468330 5.88% Aristotelis Mistakidis 414730597 5.84% Directors interests Tor Peterson 366074885 5.16% Details of interests in the ordinary shares of the Company of those Alex Beard 320260410 4.51% Directors who held office at 31December 2012 are given below: Share capital Ordinary shares Percentage held as at of issued The rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, being Name of Director 31December 2012 share capital the only share class of the Company, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association the Articles, which can be Executive found at www.
Subject to Jersey law, any share Ivan Glasenberg 1101848752 15.52% may be issued with or have attached to it such preferred, fideferred or other special rights and restrictions as the Company Steven Kalmin 70523154 1.0% may by special resolution decide or, if no such resolution is in effect, or so far as the resolution does not make specific proviNon executive sion, as the Board may decide.
No such resolution is currently Simon Murray 0 0.0% in effect.
Subject to the recommendation of the Board, holders Peter Coates 82700 0.0% of ordinary shares may receive a dividend.
On liquidation, holdLeonhard Fischer 0 0.0% ers of ordinary shares may share in the assets of the Company.
102 | Annual Report 2012 | overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN Holders of ordinary shares are also entitled to receive the Comholders of ordinary shares that are known to the Company panys Annual Report and Accounts or a summarised version which may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or and, subject to certain thresholds being met, may requisition on voting rights.
the Board to convene a general meeting GM or the proposal of resolutions at AGMs.
None of the ordinary shares carry any The rules for appointment and replacement of the Directors special rights with regard to control of the Company.
are set out in the Articles.
Directors can be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution at a GM or by the Board upon Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and speak at the recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
The ComGMs of the Company and to appoint one or more proxies or, if pany can remove a Director from office, including by passing the holder of shares is a corporation, a corporate representaan ordinary resolution or by notice being given by all the other tive.
On a show of hands, each holder of ordinary shares who Directors.
being an individual is present in person or being a corporation is present by a duly appointed corporate representative, The powers of the Directors are set out in the Articles and pronot being himself a member, shall have one vote and on a poll, vide that the Board may exercise all the powers of the Comevery holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy pany including to borrow money.
The Company may by ordinary shall have one vote for every share of which he is the holder.
resolution authorise the Board to issue shares, and increase, Electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting instrucconsolidate, sub-divide and cancel shares in accordance with tions must be received not later than 48 hours before a GM.
its Articles and Jersey law.
A holder of ordinary shares can lose the entitlement to vote at GMs where that holder has been served with a disclosure noThe Company may amend its Articles by special resolution aptice and has failed to provide the Company with information proved at a GM.
concerning interests held in those shares.
Except as 1 set out above and 2 permitted under applicable statutes, there are no Purchase of Own Shares limitations on voting rights of holders of a given percentage, At the end of the year, the Directors had authority, under a number of votes or deadlines for exercising voting rights.
shareholders resolution passed on 9May 2012, to purchase through the market up to 10% of the Companys issued ordinary The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated shares immediately following the IPO.
This authority expires at share which is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not the conclusion of the AGM of the Company to be held in 2013. prevent dealings in shares in the Company from taking place on No shares have been purchased by the Company since its IPO.
an open and proper basis or where the Company has a lien over that share.
The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer Going concern of a certificated share unless the instrument of transfer is: i The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity posilodged, duly stamped if necessary, at the registered office of tion and borrowing facilities are set out in the Overview and the the Company or any other place as the Board may decide acBusiness review sections.
Furthermore, note25 of the consolicompanied by the certificate for the share s to be transferred dated financial statements includes the Groups objectives and and or such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably policies for managing its capital, its financial risk management require as proof of title: or ii in respect of only one class of objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging acshares.
tivities and its exposure to credit and liquidity risk.
Significant financing activities that took place during the year are detailed in Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using the Business review section.
As a consequence, the Directors beCREST and the Directors can refuse to register a transfer of an lieve that the Group is well placed to manage its business despite uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations governthe current highly uncertain economic environment.
ing the operation of CREST.
The Directors believe, having made appropriate enquiries that The Directors may decide to suspend the registration of transthe Group has adequate resources to continue its operational fers, for up to 30 days a year, by closing the register of shareexistence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they conholders.
The Directors cannot suspend the registration of transtinue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial fers of any uncertificated shares without obtaining consent from statements.
The Directors have made this assessment after conCREST.
sideration of the Groups budgeted cash flows and related assumptions, which incorporate the acquired operations of Viterra There are no other restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares Inc. see note 24, including appropriate stress testing thereof, in the Company except: 1 certain restrictions may from time to key risks and uncertainties, undrawn debt facilities, debt maturity time be imposed by laws and regulations for example insider review, the likely impact on the Group of the proposed merger trading laws : 2 pursuant to the Companys share dealing code with Xstrata plc see Note 28 and in accordance with the Going whereby the Directors and certain employees of the Company Concern and Liquidity Guidance for Directors of UK Companies require approval to deal in the Companys shares: and 3 where 2009 published by the UK Financial Reporting Council.
a shareholder with at least a 0.25% interest in the Companys issued share capital has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares.
There are no agreements between | Annual Report 2012 | 103 AUditORs The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure this annual report confirms that: that the financial statements comply with the Companies Jera so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit inforsey Law 1991.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the mation of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps b t he Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularitaken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relties.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and evant audit information and to establish that the Companys integrity of the corporate and financial information included auditors are aware of that information.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in ofdiffer from legislation in other jurisdictions.
fice as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Signed on behalf of the board: stAteMeNt Of diReCtORs ResPONsiBiLities The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the John Burton Directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in Company Secretary accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as 22March 2013 issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted for use in the European Union together IFRS.
The financial statements are required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991. International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, the Directors are also required to: : presentinformation, , inamanner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information:  specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and  a going concern.
104 | Annual Report 2012 | overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN | Annual Report 2012 | 105 Viterra, outer harbour, South Australia financial StatementS | 4 Financial Statements Confirmation of directors responsibilities 108 Independent auditors report 109 Consolidated statement of income 110 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 111 Consolidated statement of financial position 112 Consolidated statement of cash flows 113 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 114 Notes to the financial statements 115
