Corporate governance continued Our devolved structure Compliance with the UK We believe that our devolved management structure, as illustrated below, enables the Group to be managed in a particularly effective way.
Local management throughout the Corporate Governance Code Group are empowered to operate our companies as autonomous business units, whilst working The Board considers that the Company together to share experience and expertise around the Group.
For example, many aspects has, throughout the year ended 30 June of the Groups day-to-day operations report through operating company senior management 2012, complied with the provisions of directly into the Board through the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director the UK Corporate Governance Code the Executive Directors.
These include: the Code and has applied the main and supporting principles of the Code monthly Board meetings with the senior management of all operating companies: as described on pages 57 to 70 regular cross-business forums such as the Rail and Bus Steering Groups, Finance Director of this Report.
The only exception is Forum and commercial, operational, engineering and, R forums which identify opportunities with regard to: to share experience and best practice across operations: and weekly meetings with the senior managers responsible for the key centralised Group functions Provision B.
1.2 of the Code, which the Executive Team Group to look across the businesses to identify and realise synergies.
requires more than half the Board In addition, there are a number of Group forums that are held on a regular basis such as the, ealth, excluding the Chairman to be Safety and Energy Forum.
Such forums, which report directly to the Executive Directors, enable independent Non-Executive Directors.
representatives from all operating companies to share best and emerging practice, to seek synergies From the date of the announcement and cost savings, to improve quality and to achieve economies of scale wherever possible.
that Rupert Pennant-Rea was no longer considered independent It is this infrastructure which allows the right equilibrium between local initiatives and ones until Nick, orlers appointment on that can add up for the Groups benefit and enable the Board to be well informed about our 14 November 2011, there were only businesses, employees, passengers and stakeholders.
This in turn means that we are able to two independent Non-Executive respond to the changing dynamics of the businesses in which we operate in a timely and Directors.
During this two week knowledgeable manner.
period there were no Board or Committee Meetings.
The Code and associated guidance can Board and management structure be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
uk The Go-Ahead Group plc: Board of Directors Audit Remuneration Nomination Executive Committee Committee Committee Directors Operating Rail Business Bus Business Executive Company Boards Steering Group Steering Group Team Group Forums: Forums: Commercial, R Leadership Engineering, R Leadership Operational Marketing Finance, ealth & Safety Engineering Safety Group Operational Energy Finance Excellence Marketing & Commercial Sustainability Sustainability is deeply embedded across all aspects of our organisation.
To ensure that corporate responsibility is prioritised across the business, internal safety and energy targets for each of our operating companies are set at the beginning of each financial year.
Progress against these targets is linked to both operating company senior managers and Executive Directors remuneration.
In addition, a health and safety audit of each of our businesses is undertaken by an external consultant each year.
56 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
