Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Overall objectives Key areas performance 2012 progress 2013 objectives 11.4% improvement in RIDDOR accidents per Further improve high safety standards, Safety 100 employees.
working towards our 2015 targets The safety and security of our against our 2007 08 base year.
39% improvement in bus accidents per millions miles passengers, our staff and the which result in notication to insurance claims handler.
Continue to reduce crime and general public are priorities for anti-social behaviour on our networks.
In rail, a 23% improvement in number of signals the Group.
We aim to achieve passed at danger per million miles.
a 20% to 60% improvement 83% of trains and 89% of buses tted with CCTV.
across our health and safety Group-wide health and safety forum held every quarter.
Annual safety audit carried out in all businesses.
14% reduction in CO2 emissions per passenger Improve energy efficiency to further reduce Environment journey achieved, against 2015 target of 20% CO emissions per passenger journey.
2 To operate our services a 2% improvement on last year.
Continue focus on water use reduction and in a sustainable manner and 68% of all waste recycled.
reduce our environmental 27% reduction in water use.
impact through our Driving 100% site energy from renewable sources.
Energy Further strategy to reduce carbon emissions Group Energy Forum met every quarter to review progress.
Continued involvement in UK-wide Greener Journeys campaign to encourage fewer car journeys and more trips by bus and coach.
Launch of staff pilot at Go South Coast to increase participation in carbon reduction initiatives.
Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions.
Sector leading passenger satisfaction score in deregulated Continue to achieve highest levels of bus Passengers bus, averaged at 90%.
customer satisfaction in the sector.
To attract more passengers Rail passenger satisfaction scores improved from Achieve rail customer satisfaction levels by providing high quality, 82% to 83%, with London Midland achieving its highest in the top quartile of London and South locally focused passenger ever score of 87%.
Excess waiting time in London bus improved by 6.2%.
Maintain high levels of punctuality on bus and rail.
Roll-out of the key smartcard to 250,000 bus passengers.
Achieve 500,000 users of the key by end of 2013.
Only owning group to carry out annual independent bus passenger survey.
Staff engagement survey carried out across all rail Roll-out staff engagement surveys to all Employees companies and Go-Ahead headquarters for first time, deregulated bus companies in 2012 13.
To be the employer of achieving a 61% engagement index score.
Continue to achieve above industry benchmark choice in our sector.
We invest Southeastern achieved Gold Investor in People ranking, in rail division staff engagement survey.
in our staff, furthering their putting them among the 3% of organisations in the Continue regular monitoring of turnover and development and ensuring UK to have reached that standard.
absence rates and action taken by each operating we maintain high standards Staff turnover and absence rates of 14% and company where appropriate.
Go-Ahead achieved Gold ranking in Business in the Continue to use BITCs Responsibility Index Community and Communitys BITC Corporate Responsibility Index.
to benchmark ourselves against our peers economic impacts and other sectors.
Nearly 2,000 industry and community events held.
To be an outstanding Continue working closely with stakeholders member of the communities 200,000 donated to charities community groups including to inform our decisions.
Go-Aheads new charity partnerships with Transaid we operate in and to and Railway Children.
understand our economic Contributed to Greener Journeys campaign to highlight impacts on those communities.
the role buses play in driving economic growth.
