Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Strategy and KPIs The Group has performed well this year, achieving both organic and acquisitive growth in line with our strategic principles.
Group and business strategies Whilst Go-Aheads Board is responsible for the key strategic decisions made for the Group, every employee contributes to the successful delivery of our strategy.
1 2 We run our business adopting four To run our companies To provide high key strategic principles which enable in a safe, socially and quality, locally environmentally focused passenger us to grow the business and deliver responsible manner transport services shareholder value.
Our bus and rail divisions apply these principles while delivering against their own strategic objectives.
3 4 To focus our To run our business operations in high density with strong financial urban markets discipline to deliver shareholder value Our rail strategy Our deregulated bus strategy Grow organically in our existing franchises Grow our marOet share of the deregulated and deliver on our franchise commitments.
9K bus industry organically, by driving :e aim to protect the future of rail passenger volumes through initiatives such profitability by managing our operations as smart-ticOeting and targeted marOeting.
resourcefully and exibly to maximise :e also seeO to grow the business through returns, retaining existing franchises when value adding acquisitions.
:e comprise they come up for retender and securing only 7% of the deregulated bus marOet new franchises.
3ur aim is to turn this therefore we believe there are significant fundamentally strong business and our growth opportunities.
significant share of the 9K rail marOet :e will strive to improve our operating into greater shareholder value.
profit margins by driving revenue growth and achieving efficiencies across the division, whilst our locally focused management teams continue to provide high quality operations to our customers.
Our regulated bus strategy Maintain our sector leading marOet position through strong and effective management, providing high quality and cost efficient operations while seeOing expansion through additional contract wins and value adding acquisitions.
