Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information We continue to invest in our staff, providing 80,000 training days at a cost of 10.2m.
During the year, Southeastern achieved Gold Investor in People joining the 3% of organisations in the Apprenticeship success UK to have reached that standard.
Twenty-one year old Clint Kelly centre was voted Apprectice of Metrobus opened a new 500,000 training school in Crawley and our companies continued the ear at Salisbury Chamber of to attract young people into the industry through apprenticeship schemes.
At Go South Coast, Commerce business excellence awards.
Salisbury-based engineering apprentice Clint Kelly won the Apprentice of the ear award at the Clint joined Go South Coast aged 16 Salisbury District Chamber of Commerce and Industrys Business Excellence Awards.
Clint is after leaving school.
Clint is pictured one of 13 apprentices employed across Go South Coast.
Southern partnered with Network with Engineering Director Steve Rail to offer two graduate placements as part of the Track and Train scheme where candidates, amilton left and Salisbury Depot gain experience of customer service management.
Engineer Ian Challoner For the first time, Go-Ahead commissioned a staff engagement survey across all its rail operations, covering some 10,000 staff.
The survey attracted a 73% response rate against a train operating company benchmark of 54% and achieved a 61% engagement index score overall, above the UK rail industry average.
The survey will be carried out annually and expanded to include deregulated bus next year.
Each of our companies is committed to ensuring processes are in place for staff to provide feedback and ideas about the workplace.
Go-Ahead London launched a new employee website this year and introduced a new Meet the Directors Open Forum to give its 5,000 employees the opportunity for face-to-face meetings with directors to discuss matters of concern or ask questions.
Southeastern has pioneered the use of social media in the workplace, introducing Workmate, which enables employees to share information with colleagues and receive up to date information.
60% of Southeastern staff are now regular users of Workmate.
Our companies continue to recognise the commitment and dedication of their employees with staff excellence and long service awards.
We were delighted that Denise Janes was crowned the national customer service champion for 2011 at the Institute of Customer Service Awards.
Community focused Denise, who has worked in the rail industry for eight years, beat 200 entries from a wide range Our bus companies are locally of industries across the country to win this prestigious award.
managed and form an integral part of Community and economic impact the communities they serve.
Konectbus Go-Ahead achieved Gold in this years Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility Index.
recently supported local Cubs and Go-Ahead has participated in the index every year since it was launched ten years ago and was Scouts in their fundraising project among the top scorers in the transport sector.
The index measures our successful integration of responsible and sustainable business practice across Go-Ahead.
We re-launched our popular education programme aimed at helping children and young people improve their knowledge of public transport.
The new Go-Learn materials, mapped against the National Curriculum, use public transport to deliver informative and engaging resources that help pupils develop skills and confidence for independent travel.
Go-Ahead is the only major UK transport operator to provide free resources of this kind.
The material is available via the Go-Ahead website and attracts around 300 visits a month.
Go-Ahead also entered into two new charity partnerships with Transaid and Railway Children.
The three year partnerships aim to raise over 100,000 to support the work of both organisations.
Railway Children ghts for vulnerable children who live alone and at risk on the streets, while Transaid is the international development charity creates better transport to help reduce poverty and improve livelihoods across the developing world.
Over the coming year, Go-Ahead will be encouraging its operating companies to get involved in fundraising activities to support the two partnerships.
Our operating companies have continued to provide support to local charities and organisations, making donations and giving staff the opportunity to carry out volunteer work.
In total, Go-Ahead donated 200,000 to charities over the past year.
Our economic impacts As one of the leading providers of public transport in the UK Go-Ahead is proud to play a role in building a strong and sustainable economy.
The economic impacts of our activities are wide and varied.
We generate revenues and profits through the bus and rail services we provide and these benefit a range of stakeholders including our employees, suppliers, shareholders, the UK Government and the communities we serve.
These benets are delivered through the salaries and benets our employees earn, our expenditure on goods and services and the dividends, taxes and community contributions we pay from the profits we create.
Turn to page 15 for further details on our economic impacts www.
