Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 2012 governance highlights Board composition Appointment of new Non-Executive Director Appointment of new Senior Independent Director Appointment of new Remuneration Committee Chairman Board evaluation Improvements identied last year implemented Appointment of external facilitator for this years evaluation Strategy Comprehensive review of strategic focus and direction Strengthening infrastructure and governance framework to support strategy Risk management and internal control Continue to strengthen and embed ongoing risk management processes Improved sharing of information between internal and external auditors and operating companies Remuneration policy Following the changes made to remuneration policy last year, which were effective from this Remuneration policy financial year for the new Executive Directors, the focus of the Remuneration Committee has For more information on the Groups remuneration been to ensure that the Groups remuneration policy remains appropriate.
This has been of policy and the Executive Directors remuneration please see pages 71 to 77 particular importance given the continuing economic conditions and evolving remuneration landscape in which the Committee has remained abreast of developments and changes.
Despite underlying performance improving, total remuneration for the new Executive Directors is less than was paid to their predecessors.
Strategy During the year, there was a comprehensive review of the Groups strategic focus.
This included strategic activity during the year, clarity of the Groups future strategy and a common vision on how to achieve this.
The Board focused on the corporate planning process, agreeing an approach to introduce the necessary process and activities to support the Groups strategic direction.
From a cultural perspective, the focus has been on introducing a new performance management process which will reward individual performance, supported by talent planning, leadership reviews, behavioural frameworks and common values across the Group.
Importantly, our robust governance infrastructure will continue to provide the framework within which to monitor and deliver the Groups strategic objectives.
The Board is always mindful that it is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
We have spent time reviewing the provisions of the Code and have agreed on the best ways to implement them in practice.
As a Board, our aim is to ensure that good governance is inherent in our business and continues to return enhanced value to our shareholders over the longer term while enabling our companies to operate in a safe, socially and environmentally responsible manner.
We consider that the Groups values, leadership and strategy are underpinned by the highest standards of corporate governance.
Sir Patrick Brown, Company Chairman, 5 September 2012 The operating profit of 115.1m for the year ending 2 July 2011 included 13m of non-recurring contract management savings.
