Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Board is ultimately responsible for corporate responsibility across the Group.
As such, we do not have sustainability or health and safety committees at Board level as we believe Sustainability that all Board members should be involved in these fundamental areas that are central For more information on how the Group has made to our business.
The Groups at structure provides the Board with good visibility of performance progress on its journey towards becoming a more responsible and sustainable business, please see at each operating company.
Key Performance Indicators KPIs are closely monitored and pages 43 to 49. are reviewed every month with the Executive Directors at operating company Board meetings.
Internal corporate responsibility structure The Go-Ahead Group plc: Board of Directors Executive Directors Operating Company Boards Group Energy Forum Group, ealth & Safety Forum Better T ogether Forums Shares best practice.
Chaired, uman Resources by Group Engineering Director by Group Engineering Stakeholder Engagement & Group Environment & Director & external health Customer Service Energy Manager & safety consultant Operational Excellence Individual operating companies Applying the principles of good governance How the Board is composed 8Le Board oJ ireGtors At the year-ending 30 June 2012 the Board comprised the Chairman, four Non-Executive Directors and two Executive Directors.
A full list of the Directors with details of their biographies and Committee membership is given on pages 50 and 51.
All Directors were members of the Board throughout the financial year with the exception of Nick, orler who was appointed on 14 November 2011.
The Chairman holds informal meetings with the Board members in order to encourage a culture of openness.
Integrity is considered of utmost importance in the boardroom and our Non-Executive Directors challenge the Executive Directors in a way that maximises constructive debate, thereby facilitating effective decision making.
Board balanGe and independenGe The Nomination Committee regularly considers whether the Board has the appropriate range of skills, knowledge and experience to enable it to promote shareholders interests and govern the business effectively.
As shown in the diagram on page 58, excluding the Chairman, half of the Board are independent Non-Executive Directors who bring a wide range of experience and objectivity to the Boardroom.
The Executive Directors bring additional perspective to the Boards work through a deep understanding of the Groups business.
Each member of the Board brings different attributes, skills and expertise to Board discussions as shown in their biographies on pages 50 to 51.
In accordance with the Code, the Chairman was considered independent on his appointment.
The Board considers all Non-Executive Directors, except Rupert Pennant-Rea, to be independent.
aving served on the Board for over nine years, Rupert must now be considered as not independent in accordance with the Codes criteria for independence.
