Corporate governance continued At the 2012 Annual General Meeting, in addition to shareholders being asked to elect Nick, orler to the Board for the first time, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and the Code, all Directors will be offering themselves for annual re-election.
The Board has agreed that each Director standing for re-election continues to contribute effectively and demonstrates commitment to the role.
The Board is also confident that all its Directors have the knowledge, skills and experience to perform the functions required of a director of a listed company in this industry.
Full biographical details for each of the Directors can be found on pages 50 and 51.
How the Company engages with its investors Relations with investors The Group recognises the importance of regular communication with all of its investors and as such is committed to maintaining an active dialogue on the Groups strategy, objectives and governance throughout the year.
The reporting calendar, which can be found at the back of this Report and on the corporate website, is dominated by the publication of the annual and half year results each year.
In addition, the interim management and trading statements provide investors with a balanced and regular understanding of the Groups operational performance, its financial results and prospects.
The Executive Directors and the Groups dedicated Investor Relations Team focus on investing in the shareholder relationship.
Key shareholder engagement activities during the financial year are shown in the timeline below.
The Executive Directors meet individually with the Groups major shareholders both institutional investors and private shareholders with significant holdings, following which feedback is provided to the Board.
The institutional shareholders also have further opportunities to make their views on reporting, strategy and governance known through follow up interviews by the Companys Brokers, feedback from which is also provided to the Board.
The Investor Relations Team provides an update to every Board meeting which includes a share register and share price analysis, KPIs and analysts reviews.
As part of the Groups investor relations programme, presentations are regularly given to brokers sales teams, which enable us to communicate our key messages to the people dealing with investors every day.
The Executive Directors always accept requests for meetings from shareholders, potential shareholders and or their representatives.
The Board regularly reviews the Share Register with a view to meeting with those key investors not currently investing in the Group.
The Board believes in promoting engagement with investors and in the coming year, the Group will hold an additional Investor Event in London.
Overall responsibility for ensuring that there is equal and effective communication with investors and that the Board understands the views of shareholders on matters such as governance and strategy rests with the Chairman, who makes himself available to meet investors for this purpose.
Any significant concerns raised by a shareholder in relation to the Groups business are promptly communicated to the Board.
The Senior Independent Director and the Chairmen of the Boards Key shareholder engagement activities undertaken by the Executive Directors and the Group Investor Relations Team during the financial year: Q1 July September Q2 October December Final results 2010 11 Interim management statement Monthly broker sales Half Analyst presentation and webcast Q1 2011 12 desk presentations year end Analyst conference call 2011 12 Investor roadshow London and Edinburgh Individual analyst meetings Broker Broker sales desk presentations Pre-close trading update investment conference Half year 2011 12 Individual investor Individual analyst meetings meetings 62 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Committees are also available to meet major investors on request.
The Senior Independent Director has a specic responsibility to be available to investors who have concerns, and in cases Q1 Shareholder engagement where contact with the Chairman, Group Chief Executive or Group Finance Director has failed Investor roadshow to resolve their concerns, or for whom such contact is inappropriate.
There were no such Following a well-attended full concerns raised this year.
year results presentation for Annual General Meeting analysts, we had a successful The principal communication with shareholders is through the Annual Report and the Annual three day investor roadshow General Meeting AGM.
The AGM is attended by all Directors and all shareholders are invited with full programmes of and encouraged to attend as it provides an opportunity to develop their understanding of the Company.
There is also the opportunity to meet informally with the Directors before and after meetings in London and the meeting.
If you have any questions you wish to register in advance of the AGM, you can send Edinburgh.
These one-to-one them to agm$go-ahead.
com or write to the Company Secretary at The Go-Ahead Group plc, sessions with our shareholders 3rd Floor, 41-51 Grey Street.
are a key component of our Full details of the business to be discussed at the AGM can be found in the Notice of Meeting sent to registered shareholders in advance of the meeting and also available on the corporate website.
Investor Relations agenda, giving us the opportunity to update on Ordinary business which is raised for consideration at the Annual General Meeting each year includes receiving the financial statements for the year, together with the Directors and Auditors historic performance as well as Reports, the Directors Remuneration Report and the final dividend: electing and re-electing future prospects for the Group.
members of the Board: and re-appointing the Companys Auditor.
Other matters included on the agenda for the Annual General Meeting may vary from year to year in accordance with the David Brown, Group Chief Executive requirements of the Company.
Corporate website Go-Aheads award winning corporate website provides a wealth of information including access to the annual and half-year reports, presentations, useful fact sheets, latest news, as well as share price, market capital and general shareholder information.
Detailed information on the Companys share capital can be found on page 79 of this Annual Report.
During the year the Group launched both a Facebook page and Twitter account to inform a wider audience about Go-Ahead news.
The Group accounts are in addition to the range of award-winning social media activity in place across our bus and rail companies which update passengers about real time service information.
The Groups Investor Relations Team will also respond to shareholder queries via enquiries$go-ahead.
For further information visit our website at www.
Q3 January March Q4 April June Half year results 2011 12 Interim management statement Individual Full year Analyst presentations and webcast Q3 2011 12 investor meetings end Individual analyst meetings 2011 12 Investor road show Monthly broker sales London and Edinburgh Pre-close trading update desk presentations Full year 2011 12 Broker investor Broker sales desk presentations Analyst conference call conference Individual investor meetings www.
