Sustainability continued Working with stakeholders continued Working in partnership Our passengers Oxford Bus Managing Director Philip Over one billion passenger journeys are made with us every year, so our rail and bus customers Kirk right pictured with Stagecoachs are central to us as a business.
We engage with them daily at local level through the day to day Martin Sutton left and Oxfordshire running of our services.
We hold regular meet the manager sessions, encourage feedback via County Councilor Rodney Rose at the web, social media channels, on-line passenger panels, webcasts and customer forums.
Our the joint smartcard ticketing launch passengers are also represented on our Stakeholder Advisory Boards they join staff and senior in Oxford.
managers for regular formal meetings and provide input into the company decision-making process.
Government National and local government are key stakeholders because policy and regulation changes can affect our businesses.
We work closely with local authorities to develop partnerships which contribute towards improving service quality and local facilities.
We respond to consultations on specic policy areas affecting the bus and rail industries and develop effective dialogues with MPs and ministers.
We provide input into potential new policies and ensure regular and open feedback on our performance as an operator is encouraged.
Community Good relationships with our local communities are essential to our businesses.
We engage with them through local authorities, schools and colleges, local businesses, charities and passenger user groups.
We actively work with local community groups to enhance community programmes and local facilities.
Investors Our open and frequent dialogue with investors takes place throughout the year and we provide information on trading through quarterly updates.
Investors meet with senior management regularly they wish to see a return on their investment and regularly engage with the Group on issues ranging from effective financial management to broader sustainability and governance issues.
Supply chain In order to deliver our services, robust relationships with our key suppliers are hugely important.
Many of our suppliers are small and medium enterprises local to our operations so we are able to support local businesses and the economy.
Developing positive relationships with suppliers is important to our mutual success and where possible we encourage them to consider the economic, environmental and social impacts of their activities.
We also work with some 400 larger supplies and in our work with them we aim to ensure that the implementation of safety, health, environmental, energy and carbon policies meet both statutory and regulatory duties at all times.
Governance The Board is accountable for sustainability at Go-Ahead.
The Groups at structure enables the Board to closely monitor the performance of each operating company across our five key sustainability areas.
Key performance indicators KPIs are regularly reviewed at monthly operating company board meetings chaired by the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
Two specic Group wide sustainability related forums exist, one for health and safety and one for energy.
Each business has internal safety and energy targets to meet which are linked to the remuneration of senior management within our operating companies.
Each of our businesses is externally audited by an independent health and safety assessor every year and we are audited by the Carbon Trust every two years.
Better Together Forums were established this year, focussing on human resources, customer service stakeholder engagement and operational excellence.
Our performance this year Safety Running our companies in a safe manner is a key strategic priority for Go-Ahead.
We work to strict health and safety guidelines in all our businesses, and invest in security measures to reassure our passengers and staff and to reduce crime across our bus and rail networks.
This year we have seen a strong improvement in safety performance with employee RIDDOR accidents reduced by 11%, bus accidents down by an impressive 39% and Signals Passed at Danger reduced by 23%.
These improvements have been driven by a focus on driver training, including customer awareness and driving techniques, and by sharing best practice through the safety forums.
46 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
