Board of Directors Permanent Secretary of the Sir Patrick Brown 0engtL oJ serZiGe DfT from 1991 to 1997.
Company Chairman 13 years, 7 months, eld long standing position Nomination Committee ChairmannHepenHent on Board at Northumbrian Remuneration Committee On appointment Water Group until its delisting 8erm oJ oJGe 7Oills e perienGe in October 2011.
Sir Patrick Brown joined the Board Extensive regulated industry ternal appointments in January 1999 as Non-Executive experience from time Non-Executive Director of Director, becoming Non-Executive spent in Civil Service and Camelot UK Lotteries Ltd and Chairman in October 2002. e was management consultancy.
last re-elected by shareholders at the Involved in privatisation in the 2011 AGM, and will again stand for Department for Transport DfT.
annual re-election at the AGM in October 2012. business, having been Chief David Brown 0engtL oJ serZiGe Executive of Go-Aheads London 1 year, 5 months Group Chief Executive bus business from 2003 to 2006 Nomination Committee 7Oills e perienGe and Main Board adviser.
Prior Nearly 30 years experience in the 8erm oJ oJGe to this he held the positions of industry with particular expertise David Brown was appointed as Managing Director from 1999 and in London bus market having Deputy Chief Executive on 1 April 2011 Operations Director for London started his career there.
before his accession to Group Chief General London Central.
Former Managing Director of Executive on 3 July 2011.
Following ternal appointments Surface Transpor t at Transpor t his appointment, he was elected by Non-Executive Director at for London.
shareholders at the 2011 AGM and Association of Train Operating will stand for annual re-election at Thorough knowledge and Companies Limited member of the AGM in October 2012. understanding of the Groups the Remuneration Committee.
Before joining JD Wetherspoon plc Keith Down 0engtL oJ serZiGe in 2007 he served as Commercial 1 year, 5 months Group Finance Director Finance Director of Tesco plc.
8erm oJ oJGe 7Oills e perienGe Experience in businesses with a Chartered Accountant and Keith Down was appointed to the strong consumer angle alongside Former Finance Director of Board as Group Finance Director complex logistics is an invaluable JD Wetherspoon plc.
Following his contribution to the Board.
appointment, he was elected by Brings a wealth of skills and ternal appointments shareholders at the 2011 AGM experience to the Board combined None.
and will stand for annual re-election with a sharp focus on the interests at the AGM in October 2012. of shareholders.
Andrew Allner 0engtL oJ serZiGe ternal appointments 3 years, 10 months Non-Executive Chairman at Marshalls Senior Independent Director plc Chairman of the Nomination Audit Committee ChairmannHepenHent Committee : Non-Executive Director Remuneration Committee Yes at CSR plc Chairman of the Audit Nomination Committee 7Oills e perienGe Committee and member of the 8erm oJ oJGe Nomination and Remuneration Former Partner at Committees : Non-Executive Director Andrew Allner joined the Board in  and a at Northgate plc Chairman of the October 2008 and succeeded Rupert Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Audit & Risk Committee, member of Accountants in England & Wales Pennant-Rea as Senior Independent the Nomination and Remuneration with sound, recent and relevant Director in October 2011. e was Committees : Senior Independent financial experience.
last re-elected by shareholders at the Director at A Electronics Materials Group Finance Director of 2011 AGM and will stand for annual SA Chairman of the Audit R, M plc between 2004 and 2007. re-election at the AGM in October 2012.
Committee and member of the Other recent and relevant Nomination Committee : Nonexecutive & non-executive PLC Executive Chairman of Fox Marble board experience.
50 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Lea plc, Shed Media plc and Katherine Innes Ker 0engtL oJ serZiGe Gyrus Group plc.
Non-Executive Director 2 years, 1 month ternal appointments Remuneration Committee ChairmannHepenHent Senior Independent Director of Audit Committee Yes Tribal Group plc Chairman of Nomination Committee 7Oills e perienGe the Remuneration Committee and 8erm oJ oJGe Extensive executive and nonmember of the Audit and Nomination Katherine Innes Ker joined the Board executive experience helping to grow Committees : Non-Executive Director in July 2010.
She was last re-elected successful & dynamic organisations.
of St Modwen Properties plc member by shareholders at the 2011 AGM Spent a decade working in the of the Remuneration, Audit and and will stand for annual re-election City as a financial analyst.
Nomination Comittees : Non-Executive at the AGM in October 2012., eld many previous non-executive Chairman of Victoria plc Chairman directorships including Taylor Wimpey of the Nomination and Remuneration plc, T aylor Woodrow plc, The T elevision Committees and member of the Corporation plc, Fibernet plc, Williams Audit Committee.
Rupert Pennant-Rea 0engtL oJ serZiGe External appointments Non-Executive Director 9 years, 10 months Non-Executive Chairman of PGI Group Ltd, Defaqto Group Ltd, The Audit Committee Independent Economist Newspaper Limited and Remuneration Committee Non-independent, enderson Group plc Chairman 8erm oJ oJGe 7Oills experienGe of the Nomination Committee.
Rupert Pennant-Rea joined the Over 15 years of experience Non-Executive Director of Board in October 2002. e was as Non-Executive Director and, ochschild Mining plc member of Senior Independent Director and Chairman of international PLCs the Remuneration Committee, Times Remuneration Committee Chairman has made Rupert well known to Newspapers, oldings Ltd, Specialist until October 2011.
Rupert was last investors and financial professionals.
Waste Recycling Ltd and Gold Fields re-elected by shareholders at the Ltd Chairman of the Remuneration Former Editor of The Economist.
2011 AGM and willl stand for Committee, member of the Deputy Governor of the Bank annual re-election at the AGM in Nomination & Governance of England from 1993 to 1995.
Former Chief Executive officer Nick Hor N N ler 0engtL oJ serZiGe of Scottish Power and Managing Non-Ex N ecutive Director 9 months Director of E. On Retail.
Rem Re uneration CommitteenHepenHent External appointments Audit Committee Au Yes Non-Executive Director of Royal Nomination Committee No 7Oills e perienGe Mail Group Limited member of 88erm o e J oJGe Extensive general management the Audit & Risk and Nomination Nick N, orler joined the Board in experience in UK and USA Committees : Non-Executive Director No November 2011. e will stand for of Secure Electrans Limited: Chairman regulated markets, specialising election bef ele ore shareholders at the of KPMG Energy and Natural in Sales and Marketing.
Resources Advisory Board: Interim Brings valuable insights into Chief Executive officer of Alderney Go-Aheads development of social Renewable Energy Limited.
networks and digital marketing to attract new passengers.
Prior to her appointment as Carolyn Sephton 0engtL oJ serZiGe Group Company Secretary she was 6 years, 2 months Group Company Secretary Assistant Company Secretary for 8erm oJ oJGe 7Oills experienGe the Group with responsibility for A Fellow of the Institute Carolyn Sephton was appointed non-rail pensions and a wide range of Chartered Secretaries as Group Company Secretary in of company secretariat functions and Administrators.
July 2006. including share schemes, legislative Spent 12 years working for compliance, corporate governance Northern Electric, predominantly and the Groups code of conduct, in the eld of pensions, before policies and procedures.
