Other statutory information The Directors present their report and audited financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2012.
Principal activities The principal activities of the Group throughout the year have been the provision of passenger transport services.
Results and dividends The results for the year are set out in the consolidated income statement on page 84.
The Directors propose that a final dividend of 55.5p be paid, making a total of 81.0p for the year 2011: 81.0p.
The proposed final dividend, if approved, will be payable on Friday 16 November 2012 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on Friday 2 November 2012.
A review of the business of the Group during the year and its prospects for the future, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, can be found in the Directors Report: Business Review from pages 2 to 49.
Directors and their interests The names of the persons who at any time during the financial year were Directors of the Company are: Sir Patrick Brown Andrew Allner Katherine Innes Ker Rupert Pennant-Rea Nick Horler appointed 14 November 2011 David Brown Keith Down The names and biographical details of the current Directors of the Company are given on pages 50 and 51.
The rules on appointment, reappointment and retirement of Directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Association the Articles which were adopted by a special resolution of the shareholders at the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
The Directors are appointed by ordinary resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
The Directors have the power to appoint a Director during the year but any person so appointed must be subject to election at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
The current Articles require that all Directors are subject to re-election on an annual basis.
Nick, orler was appointed during the year and, in accordance with the Companys Articles, he will retire at the Annual General Meeting AGM on 25 October 2012 and offer himself for election.
Sir Patrick Brown, Andrew Allner, Katherine Innes Ker, Rupert Pennant-Rea, David Brown and Keith Down will also retire at the 2012 AGM and offer themselves for re-election.
The Directors beneficial or family interests in the share capital of the Company as at 30 June 2012, with comparative gures for the 2011 year end, are shown in the table below.
There were no changes in these interests between 30 June 2012 and 5 September 2012.
of Ord Shares Sir Patrick Brown 10,149 10,149 Rupert Pennant-Rea 2,000 2,000 Andrew Allner 742 742 Katherine Innes Ker Nick, orler appointed on 14 November 2011 1 David Brown 5,792 2 Keith Down 3,542 1.
On 31 October 2011 David Brown was awarded 4,285 post tax shares as a performance related share bonus.
These were subsequently transferred to his spouse and are required to be held for a minimum period of three years.
On 7 September 2011 and 30 November 2011, David purchased 697 and 810 shares respectively which were also immediately transferred to his spouse.
On 31 October 2011 Keith Down was awarded 3,542 post tax shares as a performance related share bonus.
Details of the Executive Directors interests in awards granted to them as participants in the Long Term Incentive Plan can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 77.
No Director was interested in any contract or arrangement which was significant in relation to the Groups business.
78 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information indemnification of Directors The Company maintains a directors and ofcers liability insurance which gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its Directors.
The Company has also granted indemnities to each of its Directors to the extent permitted by law.
5ualifying third party indemnity provisions as dened in Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 were in force during the year ended 30 June 2012 and remain in force, in relation to certain losses and liabilities which the Directors may incur to third parties in the course of acting as directors or employees of the Company or of any associated company.
Neither the Companys indemnity nor the insurance provides cover in the event that a Director is proven to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
Shareholder and control structure At 30 June 2012, the Companys issued share capital comprised a single class of shares, referred to as ordinary shares, with a nominal value of ten pence each.
At this date there were 46,905,978 ordinary shares in issue, of which 3,902,230 were held in treasury.
The Company did not purchase any of its own shares during the year either for cancellation or to hold as treasury shares, and no such shares were purchased between the year end and the date of this report.
owever, 41,880 shares 2011: 58,632 were re-purchased for potential Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP or Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP awards that may vest in the future.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than: certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and restrictions pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority whereby certain employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the Companys securities.
All shareholders have the same voting rights for each share, regardless of the total number of shares held.
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every holder of shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote except in the circumstance where a proxy has been appointed by more than one member in which case he or she will have one vote for and one vote against if he or she has been instructed by one or more members to vote for the resolution and by one or more members to vote against.
On a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote for every ordinary share held.
The Notice of Meeting species deadlines for exercising voting rights either in person or by proxy in relation to resolutions to be passed at the 2012 AGM.
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at the AGM itself and published on the Companys website www.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
The authorities for the Company to allot relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,433,458 and for the disapplication of pre-emption rights on the allotment of equity securities for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 215,019, as passed by ordinary and special resolutions at the 2011 Annual General Meeting, were not utilised in the financial year or up to the date of this report.
These authorities will expire at the 2012 AGM of the Company and approval for new authorities will be sought.
In the last three years no shares have been issued on a non-preemptive basis, other than those issued under all-employee share schemes which are not included for the purposes of this authority.
The authority for the Company to make market purchases of its own ordinary shares, as passed by special resolution at the 2011 Annual General Meeting, was still in effect at the end of the financial year and will expire at the 2012 AGM where approval for a new authority will be sought.
Under the existing authority the maximum aggregate number of shares that can be purchased is 4,300,375.
The authority also limits the maximum number of shares held in treasury to 10% of the issued share capital of the Company and states minimum and maximum prices payable for shares purchased under the authority.
During the financial year this authority was not utilised.
owever, 41,880 shares 2011: 58,632 were re-purchased for potential LTIP or DSBP awards that may vest in the future.
The business of the Company is managed by the Directors, who may exercise all powers of the Company which are not required to be exercised by the Company in general meeting, subject to the Companys Articles, relevant statutory law and any direction given by the Company in general meeting by special resolution.
The Companys Articles may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
The Company adopted new Articles at the 2010 Annual General Meeting in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and UK Corporate Governance Code.
Members of the Company can request a copy of the Articles by contacting the Group Company Secretary at the Registered Ofce.
The 25th Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the Copthorne, otel, The Close, 5uayside, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE1 3RT on Thursday 25 October 2012 at 11.00 hours.
Details of the business to be considered can be found in the Notice of Meeting which will be available on the Companys website www.
com 79 Other statutory information continued There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of ofce or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Each of the Groups rail franchise agreements is subject to change of control criteria that would mean, on a change of control, there would be deemed to be an event of default that could potentially terminate the rail franchise.
This is, however, subject to the discretion of the Secretary of State.
Additionally, the Groups sterling bond issue dated 22 February 2010 and Revolving Credit Facility dated 3 February 2011 are subject to change of control clauses that contain certain specified conditions which could lead to a compulsory prepayment of the bond and loan respectively.
Substantial shareholdings As at 30 June 2012 and 5 September 2012, the Company had been notied, in accordance with Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the interests in its shares representing 3% or more of the voting rights in the Company as shown below.
30 June 2012 5 September 2012 Direct indirect No.
% Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and its group Indirect 4,261,362 9.91 4,261,362 9.91 Direct 15,900 0.04 15,900 0.04 D Ballinger Direct 2,525,580 5.87 2,525,580 5.87 UBS AG London Branch Wealth Management Division Indirect 2,415,951 5.62 2,410,951 5.61 Capital Research and Management Company Indirect 2,140,060 4.99 2,150,277 5.00 JP Morgan Asset Management UK Ltd Indirect 2,139,341 4.94 2,139,341 4.94 J Moyes Indirect 2,317,674 5.39 2,043,371 4.75 Direct 28,200 0.07 28,200 0.07 Legal & General Group plc Direct 1,294,271 3.01 1,294,271 3.01 These holdings include, where applicable, the aggregate of investment management clients interests within the respective asset management companies.
No further notications have been received: however, the holdings above may have changed without triggering a further notication.
Share schemes At the date of this report, EES Trustees International Limited, as Trustee of The Go-Ahead Group Employee Trust, holds 0.37% of the issued share capital of the Company, less treasury shares, in trust for the benefit of the Executive Directors of the Group and their dependants under the LTIP and the DSBP.
The voting rights in relation to these shares are exercised by the Trustee and dividends are waived while the shares are held by the Trustee.
Under the rules of the Companys Share Incentive Plan, employees of the Group are entitled to acquire shares in the Company.
In order to preserve certain tax benets these shares are held in a trust by EES Corporate Trustees Limited for participating employees.
Whilst these shares are held in trust, the voting rights attached to them will not be exercised by the Trustee or the employees for whom they are held.
As at the date of this report, 0.90% of the issued share capital of the Company, less treasury shares, is held by EES Corporate Trustees Limited.
In the event of an offer being made to acquire these shares the employees are entitled to direct EES Corporate Trustees Limited to accept an offer in respect of the shares held on their behalf.
Vesting of awards under the LTIP and DSBP for the Executive Directors is satisfied by market purchases of shares.
Employees The Groups responsibility is to provide a positive work environment conducive to the recruitment and retention of staff and one which meets its business objectives.
This year the Group has established Better T ogether forums across most areas of the business where best practice is regularly shared and cost efficiencies identied.
These initiatives aim to encourage new ways of working together as a team: providing the best customer experience: working in partnership with our local communities: and wherever possible, improving operational performance.
The Group is committed to providing equality of opportunity to all employees and treats all employees fairly regardless of gender, age, religion or belief, sexual orientation, race and, where practical, physical disability.
Appropriate training, career development and promotion opportunities are provided for all employees.
The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment made by disabled persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
It is the Groups policy to provide continuing employment, and arrange appropriate training, for existing employees who become disabled during their employment, and to provide training, career development and promotion as appropriate to all disabled employees.
During the year, the Group launched an Employee Opinion Survey, run by an independent company, providing employees with the opportunity to give their views on their job and other aspects of working for the Group under strictly condential terms.
The feedback from the Survey will help the Group to further develop its vision of Better T ogether and values that describe how the Group should be working with its customers and with each other.
In addition, for every survey completed, Go-Ahead have donated 3 to Transaid.
Transaid is an international UK development charity which works to reduce poverty and improve livelihoods across Africa and the developing world by creating better transport.
80 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Our companies maintain relationships with recognised trade unions and have established a network of local employee representatives who are consulted on key business decisions likely to affect their interests.
Three of our companies have Stakeholder Boards, which bring together employees, individual passengers and representative bodies to share views.
The Group produces a range of internal newsletters, information circulars and intranet sites that keep employees abreast of developments at their specic employing company and across the Group as a whole.
The Group has awards to recognise and reward outstanding contributions by our employees.
Employees are encouraged to participate directly in the success of the business through the Groups, MRC approved Share Incentive Plan SIP which is open to all employees with six months service and gives the opportunity to buy shares in the Company in a tax-efficient manner.
The Group is committed to developing a culture of collaboration across all its businesses, ensuring the highest standards of probity and accountability and aims to achieve a common awareness on the part of all employees of the financial and economic factors affecting the Companys performance.
The Group engages with its employees, who are encouraged to discuss matters of interest to them and subjects affecting day-to-day operations with operating company management.
The Board also actively encourages employees with serious concerns regarding the interests of others or the Group to come forward.
The Group and its operating companies have policies in place to ensure processes exist whereby employees can raise serious concerns constructively without fear or victimisation, subsequent discrimination or disadvantage.
Further details of our responsibilities as an employer, including operating in a socially and environmentally responsible manner, can be found on pages 43 to 49 and on the corporate website www.
Charitable donations Charitable donations, sponsorship and community support over the year amounted to 200,000 2011: 348,619.
The Group supports many worthwhile causes, including Transaid and Railway Children, health charities and local community projects.
For further details see www.
com Political donations and expenditure It is the Groups policy not to make political donations and accordingly no such payments were made in the year 2011: nil.
Additionally, the Company did not incur any political expenditure as dened in the Companies Act 2006 2011: nil.
Land and buildings In the opinion of the Directors, there is no material difference between the market value of the Groups interest in land and buildings and its net book value.
Suppliers and other creditors Each Group operating company individually agrees terms and conditions for its business transactions with suppliers.
Payment is then made on these terms, subject to the terms and conditions being met by the suppliers, including the timely submission of satisfactory invoices.
For the year ended 30 June 2012, the trade creditor days for The Go-Ahead Group Plc as a Company not as a Group were four days 2011: five, based on the ratio of trade creditors at the end of the year to the amounts invoiced during the year by trade creditors.
Post balance sheet events There are no post balance sheet events.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position, are set out in the Directors Repor t. The financial position of the Group, its cashows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 34 to 42.
In addition, note 2 to the Financial Statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Cash generation from the Groups bus and rail operations was excellent and the balance sheet remains strong.
Core nancing is provided by a 200m sterling bond securing nancing to September 2017 and bank facilities funding of 275m to February 2016, of which 140m was undrawn and available at the year end.
The Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully, despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
The Directors have assessed, in the light of current and anticipated economic conditions, the Company and Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors confirm they are satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
com 81 Other statutory information continued Directors responsibilities in relation to the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable UK law and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the Group financial statements unless they are satisfied that they present fairly the financial position of the Group and the financial performance and cash ows of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Change in Accounting Estimates and Errors and then apply them consistently: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic requirements in International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Groups financial position and financial performance: state that the Group has complied with IFRSs, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group, enabling them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Responsibility statements The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving the Directors Report are listed on pages 50 and 51.
The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: a The financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and b The Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Directors statement as to disclosure of information to auditors, aving made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the Companys Auditor, each of the Directors confirms that: To the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, there is no information that is, information needed by the Companys Auditor in connection with preparing their report of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and Each Director has taken all the steps a Director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor are aware of that information.
By Order of the Board Carolyn Sephton, Group Company Secretary 5 September 2012 82 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
