Sustainability continued Environment continued Providing value for money A year of rsts Southerns Advance Fares were voted We were pleased to have achieved a number of rsts this year.
Go-Ahead participated in the UKs best value for money by the worlds first carbon footprinting gallery in central London aimed at showcasing companies passengers in an independent Passenger which have reduced their carbon footprint.
We exhibited alongside other major companies, Focus Survey.
87% of passengers asked including BT, Manchester United and Tesco.
The exhibition also went on display in Seoul, South said they were satisfied.
Korea to highlight the carbon reduction efforts being made by businesses internationally.
We were named the tenth best company in the world for our social, environmental and governance performance by EIRIS a leading global provider of independent research into the ethical performance of companies.
EIRIS examined the sustainability performance of all the 2,063 companies in the FTSE All-World Development Index of large companies.
Go-Ahead was the highest ranked British transport operator in the first ever carbon reduction league table which listed more than 2,000 UK businesses according to how they manage their energy use.
The new Carbon Reduction Commitment energy efficiency performance league table was published for the first time by the Environment Agency.
Go-Ahead was ranked 93rd Innovation in the table, the same level as Tesco and is the highest ranked transport operator in Great Britain.
Go North East launched the key The ranking is based on Go-Aheads early actions to drive energy efficiency across the Group.
lifestyle, an innovative transport Passengers package on a smartcard which brings For the second year running, Go-Ahead was the only major transport group in the UK to together discounts on bus travel with commission its own independent bus passenger survey of all its bus companies outside London.
great deals on car and bike hire.
The The survey, by consumer watchdog Passenger Focus, is carried out annually and once again, package caters for the growing number our companies scored highly, with a sector leading score of 89% of passengers saying they are of people who are questioning owning a satisfied with the service they receive.
Passenger Focus also surveyed other UK bus companies car permanently, and provides optional during the year and again, our companies performed strongly, achieving the top score of free membership to car and cycle hire 90%.
Our rail companies also scored well in the National Passenger Survey with a 83% clubs.
The lifestyle smartcard also satisfaction rating.
includes a scrap your banger element which gives customers double the value Thorough preparations during the 2011 12 financial year enabled us to deliver highly successful of the car back in free bus travel with bus and rail services for the London 2012 Olympic Games.
Southeastern and Southern Go North East.
together carried 15.2 million passengers during the Games, with the high speed Javelin service transporting around 90,000 people each day between central London and the Olympic Park.
Southeastern employed an additional 1,000 staff to help passengers at stations and ran 96% of their trains on time.
A major focus for Go-Ahead this year has been the continued roll out of the key smartcard, particularly in deregulated bus where some 250,000 cards have been issued.
The key, which reduces boarding times and enables us to provide tickets and products that are in line with passengers recommendations, was launched by Transport Minister Norman Baker at Southern and at Go South Coast and won the prestigious National Transport Award for excellence in technology.
Integrated bus-rail tickets, lifestyle offers, pay as you go and self-service ticketing are planned for the coming year, along with the implementation of mobile ticketing across our deregulated bus companies.
Social media continues to pay a key role in the way we communicate with our passengers.
Go-Ahead launched its own Twitter and Facebook sites during the year, while our bus and rail businesses went from strength to strength in using social media channels to provide fast, personal information to our customers, particularly during times of disruption caused by adverse weather.
London Midland won the National Rail Award Putting Passengers First category for setting new standards in customer satisfaction and we now have around 40,000 people following the Group and its companies through Twitter and over 80,000 on Facebook.
Our target is to achieve 250,000 social network followers in 2013.
Keeping passengers informed is one element of the customer journey.
At Go-Ahead we aim to provide a high quality service for the end to end journey, investing in all aspects of the passenger experience including marketing, ticket buying facilities, staff training and station improvements.
This year we have invested over 20m in our bus fleet outside London, purchasing 126 new vehicles and also started a 9 million programme to refresh the interiors of Southerns Class 377 train fleet.
Employees Go-Ahead has seen the number of staff in the Group rise from 22,200 to 23,000 following the acquisition of Northumberland Park depot in North London and four commercial bus companies in Southern England.
48 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
