Senior management Kevin Carr John Trayner Alan Eatwell Managing Director, Managing Director, Managing Director, Go North East Go-Ahead London Metrobus Kevin has worked at Go North East for over John has been Managing Director since 2006. e Alan has been Managing Director since 2001 and 35 years in varying roles and was appointed joined the Group in 2002 as Operations was previously the Groups Engineering Director.
A Chartered Director of London Central General having Alan has over 40 years experience in the bus Director and Chartered Engineer, Kevin brings previously held senior positions at Arriva London.
industry and successfully participated in the a wealth of experience to the senior team.
e has been in the transport industry for 35 management buy-out of Brighton &, ove.
Richard Stevens Chris Burchell Charles Horton Managing Director, Managing Director, Managing Director, Plymouth Citybus Southern Southeastern Richard was appointed Managing Director in May Chris has been Managing Director of Charles has been Managing Director since 2012. e has more than ten years senior experience Southern since April 2006, having previously April 2006, after three years in the same of working in the bus industry been Operations Director for two years.
e has gained extensive in the South West of the UK.
Previously, Richard, e has also worked at Thames Trains, the management experience in a career served as an Operations Commercial Director Foreign & Commonwealth Ofce and spanning 26 years on National Rail and for Stagecoach South West and was Operations Railtrack, accumulating over 15 years of London Underground.
Director for First Devon and Cornwall.
Prior to that railway experience.
he held a number of managerial roles in Devon and Cornwall and began his transport career in 1990 as a bus driver.
52 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Roger French Philip Kirk Andrew Wickham Managing Director, Managing Director, Managing Director, Brighton & Hove Oxford Bus Company, Go South Coast Roger has been Managing Director of Brighton Andrew was appointed Managing Director in Thames Travel & Carousel &, ove since the company was purchased by December 2011.
Previously he had been Managing Philip has been Managing Director of Oxford Bus Director of Plymouth Citybus since December 2009, Go-Ahead in 1993. e joined Brighton &, ove Company since 2001, having joined the company when Go-Ahead acquired the bus company.
Before in 1982 and as general manager he was part shortly after it was acquired by Go-Ahead in 1995. that he was Operations Director at Go South Coast of the Companys management buy-out.
Roger, e has more than 30 years experience in bus and and also spent three years working for Go-Ahead as received an OBE in 2005 for his services to public coach operations management.
Philip became its Development Manager.
Andrew joined the bus transport and an, onorary MA degree from Managing Director of Thames Travel and Carousel industry in 1987 working for Brighton Borough Brighton University in 2007.
Buses upon their acquisition by the Group in 2011 Transport Ltd and was at London General when and 2012 respectively.
Go-Ahead acquired the company in 1995.
Patrick Verwer Martin Dean Alex Hynes Managing Director, Managing Director, Managing Director, London Midland Bus Development Rail Development Patrick was appointed Managing Director Martin joined Go-Ahead in 2008. e leads Alex was appointed Managing Director of in January 2012.
Previously he was Managing and acts as a focus for all bus development Rail Development in January 2012. e joined Director of Rail Development.
Prior to joining and acquisition activity in the Group and Go-Ahead in 2005, initially as a member of Go-Ahead, Patrick spent more than 10 years oversees our operations in East Anglia and its bid team.
More recently, Alex served as with Netherlands Railways in various executive North America.
Previously, Martin held Commercial Director at London Midland roles.
Patrick came to the UK in 2002 to head up senior management roles in rail and bus with between 2007 and 2011.
Prior to joining the Serco NedRailways Merseyrail concession in FirstGroup and National Express.
e began Go-Ahead, Alex worked in rail consultancy Liverpool.
his career with London Transport.
