Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Roles & responsibilities Chairman: leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role and setting its agenda, taking into account the issues relevant to the Group and the concerns of all Board members: ensuring adequate time is allowed for the discussion of all agenda items, in particular strategic issues: ensuring a regular evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors: taking the lead in identifying and meeting the development needs of individual Directors and the Board as a whole, with a view to enhancing overall effectiveness: encouraging active engagement by all members of the Board and constructive relations between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors: ensuring effective communication with shareholders and that the Board develops an understanding of the views of major investors: and ensuring, with the Group Chief Executive and the Group Company Secretary, that new Directors receive a comprehensive induction programme to ensure their early contribution to the Board.
Group Chief Executive: responsible for performance, management and supervision of the Group in accordance with the strategy, policies, budgets and business plans approved by the Board: ensuring effective communication with shareholders and investors: responsible for the day-to-day leadership of the executive and senior management teams: and ensuring that the Chairman is kept updated in a timely manner of issues, events and developments.
Group Finance Director maintaining strong financial management underpinned by effective financial controls: developing the Groups policies and strategy on tax, treasury, nancing, insurance and pensions: ensuring a commercial and financial focus on potential acquisitions, business case appraisal and financial planning: ensuring the appropriateness of risk management and internal controls processes and systems: supporting and advising the senior management team in their operational roles: and ensuring effective communication with shareholders and investors.
Senior Independent Director providing an important point of contact for shareholders in the event that they have concerns which have not been resolved through the normal channels of Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director or Chairman or for which such contact is inappropriate: helping to develop a balanced understanding on the Board of the issues and concerns of major shareholders: providing a sounding board for the Chairman and serving as an intermediary for the other Directors as necessary: and leading a meeting of the Non-Executive Directors at least once a year, without the Chairman present, where the Chairmans performance is evaluated.
Non-Executive Directors ensuring constructive challenge: helping develop proposals on strategy: scrutinising the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitoring the reporting of performance: ensuring the integrity of financial information: ensuring financial controls and systems of risk management are robust and defensible: determining appropriate levels of remuneration of Executive Directors: and contributing a prime role in appointing and, where necessary, removing Executive Directors and in succession planning.
Group Company Secretary Secretary to the Board and its Committees: ensuring efficient information ows within the Board and its Committees and between senior management and Non-Executive Directors: facilitating induction of new Directors: assisting with any training and development needs as required: ensuring Board procedures are complied with: and regularly updating Board on corporate governance matters, legislative changes and regulatory regimes affecting the Group www.
com 59 Corporate governance continued How we ensure Board effectiveness continued Performance evaluation Board meetings The Board normally meets at least seven times during the year.
At least one of the meetings each year is dedicated to reviewing the Groups strategy.
Additional meetings are held as and when required.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors periodically meet without the Executive Directors being present.
During the year, the Chairman meets individually with each Director.
During the year ended 30 June 2012, the Board held seven scheduled meetings.
The table below External facilitator meets shows Directors attendance at scheduled meetings they were eligible to attend.
The agenda for with Company Chairman each Board meeting is set by the Chairman, in consultation with the Group Chief Executive and External facilitator meets with Group Company Secretary.
Detailed brieng papers in relation to the business to be conducted Company Secretary at each meeting are circulated to the Board at least one week before each meeting for review before meetings.
The Executive Directors and Group Company Secretary are readily available External facilitator meets with should any Board member wish to receive additional information.
Directors individually Board meetings are structured to allow open discussion and debate and the Chairman ensures that adequate time is available for discussion of all agenda items, in particular strategic issues.
Key senior managers and advisers attend relevant parts of Board meetings on a regular basis to ensure that the Board is properly informed about the current issues facing the business.
Minutes of all meetings are circulated promptly afterwards.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee External facilitator observes Board Sir Patrick Brown 7 7 4 4 2 2 and Committee Meetings Andrew Allner 7 7 4 4 4 4 2 2 External facilitator compiles findings Katherine Innes Ker 7 7 4 4 4 4 2 2 from interviews into a report Rupert Pennant-Rea 7 7 4 4 4 4 2 2 Nick, orler 4 5 3 3 2 2 External facilitator meets with Chairman and Company Secretary David Brown 7 7 2 2 Keith Down 7 7 Appointed to the Board on 14 November 2011.
Nick, orler missed one meeting due to it coinciding with an external meeting.
The external meeting had been arranged in advance of his appointment as Non-Executive Director of the Group.
e will be able to attend all Board and Committee meetings diarised for the financial year commencing on 1 July 2012.
The Board has established robust procedures for ensuring that their power to authorise conicts of interest is operated in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
The Board considers that the procedures in respect of this power, which have been properly followed, have External facilitator presents findings to Board Meeting operated effectively during the year and the conicts register was updated accordingly.
The Board is aware of its Directors other commitments and any changes to these commitments are advised Board agree Action Plan to and approved by the Board.
PerformanGe eZaluation A formal evaluation of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors is carried out on an annual basis.
The evaluation process last year concluded that the Board continued to work well and operated effectively and we have endeavoured to ensure that this has been at least maintained during the year.
Although there were not any areas of material concern highlighted, we have implemented a number of improvements that were recommended as part of the review last year.
There is Action Plan monitored now increased interaction between the Board and senior management through senior management more frequently attending Board meetings and the Non-Executive Directors visiting senior management at their local operations.
There has also been an increased focus on how the Board as a whole develops the Groups strategy and we have achieved this by developing and improving the ways in which we present and consider our strategic options.
The annual Board Strategy Meeting is a fundamental part of the process with the Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors, senior managers within the business and external advisers all playing a key role.
Further work has also been undertaken to develop our risk management processes and reporting and this is explained on page 64.
All of these factors, we believe, have improved the overall effectiveness of the Board and so the Group.
60 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information We consistently seek to challenge ourselves, however, and this year, in accordance with the Code, the evaluation of the Boards performance is being reviewed by an external facilitator.
This independent facilitator has no other connection with the Group.
The process being undertaken this year by the external facilitator is shown in the diagram on page 60.
Those Directors who have served on the Board for a period of at least six years are subject to a particularly rigorous review.
At the time of writing this report, the external evaluation process was ongoing and therefore full details will be published in the Annual Report next year.
Our induction programme ireGtor support, information, induGtion and deZelopment in action with Nick Horler, The Board is supplied with high quality information, presented in a form appropriate to enhance Non-Executive Director Board effectiveness.
A comprehensive Board Procedures Manual is maintained which includes formal procedures for the working of the Board and its Committees, delegated authorities, the Boards proGedures manual timely provision of appropriate information and the duties and responsibilities of Directors, Instruction and information on how including standards of conduct and compliance.
the Board and its Committees operate All new Directors undertake a full induction programme either shortly before or upon joining Board minutes the Board.
For Nick, orler, this process included meeting separately with the Executive Directors An overview of discussions and and all of the key senior managers responsible for the Groups centralised functions.
Visits were decisions made at recent Board and arranged to each of the Groups operating companies to meet with the local senior management Committee meetings teams within their respective businesses locations.
Nick also met independently with both the Key supporting papers internal and external auditors and a number of key advisers to the Group.
From a governance Reading Board Reports from Executive perspective, the Group Company Secretary ensured that a comprehensive overview of the Directors and Senior Management formal procedures governing the working of the Board was provided, which included a full brieng of the Boards responsibilities and obligations under law, regulation and corporate % brieng on the 'ompanys governance guidelines and included aspects such as directors duties, conicts of interest, codes goZernanGe struGture of conduct and compliance.
Copies of recent Board reports, key documents and minutes of Including relevant laws, regulations and meetings were also made available.
the UK Corporate Governance Code The Chairman has overall responsibility for ensuring that a full induction and training programme Meetings with senior management at is provided on appointment and that all Directors continually update their skills and knowledge.
roup and within operating Gompanies The Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to update their skills, knowledge and ongoing Gaining an understanding of the familiarity with the Company in order to competently carry out their responsibilities.
In addition businesses within the Group to Board and Committee meeting attendance, the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors attend the Groups annual Senior Management Conference each year.
Ongoing, director Meeting with key advisers development is further achieved through legal and best practice updates from the Group Gaining an understanding of the Groups Company Secretary, presentations from management on significant matters and external training.
relationships with the internal and external auditors and other key advisers roup 'ompan] 7eGretar] Carolyn Sephton has been Group Company Secretary since July 2006 and her biography can be found on page 51.
The Group Company Secretary reports to the Chairman in her role as I have found Go-Aheads Secretary to the Board and its Committees.
She reports to the Group Finance Director for all other company secretariat matters, including the management of the Groups non-rail pension induction process to be thorough arrangements.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Company and informative thus far, providing Secretary and may also take independent professional advice, at the Groups expense, if they the right level of detail at a pace believe it to be necessary for the proper discharge of their duties as Directors.
that was both complementary and %ppointment re eleGtion to the Board timely in properly equipping me for New appointments to the Board are made on merit and against objective criteria, with the Groups Board and Committee due regard to the benets of diversity, including gender.
This policy, described further in the Nomination Committee Report on pages 68 and 69, was followed for the appointment meetings.
In particular, meeting of Nick, orler who joined the Board on 14 November 2011 as a new independent with senior management across Non-Executive Director.
the Group and operating companies has given me a deeper insight into the Groups operations and how these operate within the devolved business structure.
Nick Horler, Non-Executive Director www.
