Corporate governance The Groups values, leadership and strategy are underpinned by the highest standards of corporate governance.
Dear Shareholder On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present Go-Aheads Corporate Governance Report for 2012.
I am delighted to confirm that, following the appointment of Nick, orler as an independent Non-Executive Director in November 2012, we are fully compliant with the main principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Code states that corporate governance is about what the board of a company does and how it sets the values of the company.
For Go-Ahead, this means ensuring that high standards of corporate ethics and behaviour are instilled throughout our businesses.
We believe that good governance is integral to the way our business is run and it is this commitment that has been a positive contributing factor to the performance of the Group during the financial year.
It is our view that the Board should act in a way that is accountable, transparent, open and honest, focusing on the sustainable success of the Group over the longer term.
We therefore recognise the principles and provisions of the Code as best practice.
Changes to Board composition The Board and Nomination Committee have spent a considerable amount of time this year reviewing the Boards composition and succession planning.
As Rupert Pennant-Rea has now served on the Board for over nine years he must be considered as not independent.
Rupert will continue to serve the Board as a non-independent Non-Executive Director to ensure continuity and support following the changes to the executive team last year.
As he is no longer independent Rupert has been succeeded as Senior Independent Director by Andrew Allner and as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee by Katherine Innes Ker.
On behalf of the Board, I thank Rupert for his long-standing contribution to the Board in both of these important roles over the years.
Sir Patrick Brown, Company Chairman The Nomination Committee was responsible for leading the process for a new independent 5 September 2012 Non-Executive Director to replace Rupert Pennant-Rea, the outcome from which was the appointment of Nick, orler in November 2011.
Nicks skills, expertise and experience in marketing and the regulated industries have brought increased diversity and debate to In this section the boardroom.
Following Nicks appointment, at least half of the Board are independent Board structure p56 Non-Executive Directors, in accordance with the Codes recommendations.
For further details Providing the right balance of skills regarding these changes, please refer to the Nomination Committee Report on page 68. knowledge and experience Diversity Effective risk management p64 The Board has kept under review the advancement of Lord Davies report, Women on Boards, Managing our risk and internal controls and the FRCs consultation on changes to the Code in this regard.
The benets of greater board diversity, not just gender specic, are clear and the Board welcomes these developments as Committees in action p66 to 70 a positive step forward.
Our Nomination Committee carries out its search for candidates from A formula for success the widest possible pool of talent, against a set of objective criteria, making appointments on the basis of merit.
Details of our targets and aspirations for female representation can be found in the Nomination Committee Report on page 68.
Board evaluation I am pleased to report that the improvements identied as part of the Boards evaluation last year were implemented during the year.
These included increasing the interaction between the Board and senior management, the continued improvement of risk management processes and reporting and the role of the Board in contributing to the development of strategy and the overall effectiveness of the Group.
We are not complacent, however, and during the year we have continued to strive to maintain and improve the overall effectiveness of the Board.
In accordance with good practice, the evaluation of the Board this year is being undertaken by an external facilitator and further details can be found on page 60 of this Corporate Governance Report.
54 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
