Our markets An efficient transport network is essential for driving economic growth and is, therefore, key to our long-term prosperity as well as our everyday quality of life.
Department for Transport, March 2012 Two important drivers of the transport marOet are economic growth GDP and employment.
The cost of driving a car has In the 12 months ended.
une 2012, GDP fell by 0.8% and employment rose marginally by 0.6%.
a substantial impact on the :hilst the economic climate has resulted in difficult 9 marOet conditions, the bus and rail demand for passenger rail marOets have remained relatively resilient.
:e have seen growth across all our businesses due travel far larger than has to a number of push and pull factors, including the increasing cost of motoring, our focus on providing high quality convenient services, innovative products and marOeting.
The Government continues to strongly support public transport and has announced a Study by DfT, Oxera & Arup, May 2012 number of long term investment plans, particularly in the rail industry such as, igh Speed 2.
There is recognition across all maNor political parties that an efficient public transport system strengthens the economy, creates Nobs, reduces trafc congestion and air pollution and helps improve social inclusion.
Bus and rail travel accounts for only 14% of total distance travelled 1 in the 9.
There is therefore a significant marOet opportunity to stimulate modal shift from the car to public transport.
:hilst the near term outlooO for the economy remains challenging, we believe we are well placed to benefit from an improvement in economic conditions and long term investment in the sector.
Declining car use Statistics show car usage has continued to fall since 2007.
The high cost of motoring is most widely cited as the main cause as petrol prices alone have increased by 40% over the last five Modal shift 2 years.
As a result, more and more people are leaving their cars at home and using public The number of 17 to transport, nding that services are frequent, reliable and high quality.
22 year-olds taOing their, owever, recent research suggests the decline is not attributable solely to economic pressure.
driving test has fallen by There has been a behavioural shift towards using public transport particularly amongst the 3 4 younger generation living in urban centres.
It is often more convenient to travel on public 19% since 2005 transport because of congestion and limited car parOing spaces and there is an increasing focus Insurance premiums for on living greener and healthier life styles, evidenced by the significant rise in cyclists.
In response to this shift, we have signicantly increased cycle storage capacity at our stations and introduced 17-20 year olds have risen innovative new products such as the Oey lifestyle which promotes bus travel with multi-modal 68% on avg over the last travel benets such as discounted bicycle hire.
5 five years to 2,590 Bus The 9 bus marOet is comprised of two models the London marOet, which is regulated A 5% rise in petrol by Transport for London TfL, and the rest of the 9, which is largely operated on prices can lead to around a commercial basis.
a 1% rise in Nourneys on 6 Deregulated market outside London the rail networO Competitive environment Figure 1 shows the composition of the deregulated marOet.
Although we face competition from other operators, the private car is a maNor competitor to the bus industry.
Department for Transport, for the year ended modal shift, we both invest in our fleet and promote value for money fares.
Figure 2 shows that overall the bus marOet in England excluding London has been affected 3.
Schipper and 1illard-Ball, Are :e Reaching PeaO Travel# 2ovember 2011. by the economic climate.
owever, it is important to note that there are considerable local and regional variations.
As the graph shows, Go-Ahead has signicantly outperformed the wider local 4.
BBC Report, August 2011. bus marOet, demonstrating the strength of our business model and strategy.
anuary 2012. from local bus operations is less exposed to a weaOening macro environment than many other 6.
Association of Train 3perating Companies, 1ay 2011. types of business.
Typically, around 70% of a bus companys cost base is exible and if necessary, 7.
operators can adNust pricing and frequency of services.
Transport for London Business Plan.
18 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Political support The Government continues to support the bus industry, although funding has come under 9K deregulated bus market pressure in recent years.
There has been a reduction in subsidy received for fuel duty, Onown Figure 1. as Bus Service 3perators Grant BS3G, a reduction in funding for tendered services and the amount available to operators for carrying pensioners and disabled people for free.
Go-Ahead is not highly exposed to a reduction in funding for tendered services, as around 90% of our deregulated business is run on a commercial basis and our concessionary reimbursement rates have remained relatively stable at around 50% of the full fare.
Reductions in Government funding reinforces our view of focusing on our core commercial operations.
Recent initiatives to help the industry have directed support towards sustainable economic growth.
For example, the Green Bus Fund encourages operators to purchase carbon efficient hybrid buses by subsidising the capital cost.
The Local Sustainable Transport Fund is designed to improve partnerships between bus companies and local authorities with the Oey obNective of building a strong economy and reducing carbon emissions.
FirstGroup 22% Stagecoach 22% Growth opportunities Arriva 15% Go-Aheads overall marOet share is relatively small in comparison to those of other operators 2ational Express 6% plus around 30% of the marOet is operated by private businesses or local authorities.
Both of Go-Ahead 7% these factors provide the opportunity for us to grow the business acquisitively.
3thers 28% Encouraging modal shift presents significant organic growth opportunities.
The average bus 7 Bus volume growth in England Nourney is fewer than three miles and almost 50% of car Nourneys account for the same distance.
excluding London vs Go-Ahead Full details on our deregulated performance can be found in the finance and business review from page 34 l-f-l % Figure 2.
London 5 Competitive environment 4 Figure 3 shows the composition of the London marOet.
Although the marOet is competitive, 3 with numerous operators bidding for contracts from Transport for London, we pride ourselves 2 on being able to deliver high quality and cost efficient services.
1 0 Macro economic impacts In general, London bus operators are not directly exposed to short term changes in the -1 macro economy.
Revenue collected from passengers is retained by TfL and the setting of fares -2 07 08 08 09 09 10 10 11 11 12 is the prerogative of the 1ayor of London.
3perators receive a xed fee from TfL for running England Go-Ahead services.
The contracts are usually five to seven years in duration.
3perators are exposed to changes in their cost base.
Political support London bus market share It is liOely the capitals bus networO will remain relatively stable over the next few years Figure 3. despite the economic environment.
In the longer term, however, TfL remain committed to ensuring London has a growing sustainable public transport networO due to an increasing 8 population and its target to reduce Londons greenhouse gas emissions by 60% by 2026.
Growth opportunities In the short term we are able to grow through additional contract wins and by moving into new areas of the marOet through acquisitions.
In the longer term there are significant opportunities for the marOet driven by a growing London population.
It is estimated the 9 capitals population will grow by more than one million people in less than 10 years.
Full details on our London bus performance can be found in the finance and business review from page 34 Rail Go-Ahead London 24% The 9 rail industry is regulated by the Department for Transport DfT.
Privatisation tooO 10 Arriva 20% place in 1996 and since then passenger Nourneys on the rail networO have increased by 84%.
This is as a result of unprecedented investment by train operating companies T3Cs and the Stagecoach 16% Government to improve the quality and frequency of services.
ComfortDelGro 14% FirstGroup 10% RATP 9% Abellio 5% 3ther 2% www.
com 19 3ur marOets continued The DfT issues tenders for rail franchises and operators enter a competitive bidding process for the right to operate them.
The 9 railway infrastructure is owned and operated by 2etworO UK rail market share revenue Rail.
Rolling stocO is leased by rolling stocO operating companies.
Competitive Environment There are currently 19 franchises in Britain, operated by nine transport providers.
Figure 4 shows the breaOdown of the rail marOet based on revenue.
Although the marOet is competitive with numerous transport groups bidding for franchises tendered by the DfT, we believe our expertise and experience place us in a strong position within the industry.
Competition for passengers comes from other train operators and modes of transport.
:e drive loyalty and growth by ensuring our rail services are convenient and reliable and by marOeting attractive offers.
Macro economic factors As much of the rail industry is driven by the economy and employment, the testing economic FirstGroup 23% conditions have presented challenges.
T3Cs have seen volatility of earnings due to the nature Stagecoach 21% of the existing franchising model requiring franchise bids to be submitted on the basis of Govia Go-Ahead Keolis 20% economic forecasts years into the future.
Abellio 9% Typically, around 70% of a rail operators cost base is xed and together with the high number Arriva Deutsche Bahn 9% of specications inherent in current franchises, there is little exibility for operators to respond DfT 8% to changing marOet circumstances.
Virgin 6% The existing franchise structure includes a mechanism which shares excess revenue with the National Express 1.5% DfT and provides mitigation for any revenue shortfall in the later part of the franchise.
3verall, Serco 1.5% the operators of rail franchises in England are net contributors to the Government.
In the year MTR 1% 11 ended 1arch 2011 they provided over 200m to the Department for Transport.
UK rail passenger journeys m The DfT regulates peaO-time weeOday fares i. e commuter based fares.
Annual increases Figure 5. generally do not benefit operators as the movement forms part of the subsidy reduction or 1,300 premium increase built into the franchise contract.
Although operators are free to set off-peaO 1,200 fares on a commercial basis, value for money is an important factor for price sensitive 1,100 discretionary passengers.
1996: Privatisation 1,000 The future of rail franchising 900 The Government is in the early stages of reforming the current rail franchising structure.
800 ey features of the new structure will be the potential for greater alliancing between operators 700 and 2etworO Rail, in order to deliver efficiency savings and longer franchises to encourage more 600 investment.
3n the basis of the details already released, it appears that each franchise will be 500 looOed at on a standalone basis and may have unique characteristics such as the time period 1950 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 and risO reward prole.
Since the rail industry was privatised, there has been unprecedented growth Political support in the marOet, stimulated by investments All maNor political parties are committed to a growing rail networO.
Plans for the proposed, igh in the networO and better quality Speed 2 networO, between London and the 2orth of England, via the 1idlands are progressing of services.
uly 2012 the Government announced the biggest investment in the rail networO since :ictorian times.
Growth opportunities Twelve franchises come up for tender in the next four years presenting significant growth opportunities for the Group.
Franchises expected to be tendered over the next 12 months Approx.
annual Franchise Bid process begins Awarded Start date revenue ThameslinO December 2011 1ay 2013 September 2013 1.1bn East Coast 3ctober 2012 August 2013 December 2013 0.6bn Southeastern December 2012 December 2013 April 2014 0.5bn Northern December 2012 December 2013 April 2014 0.3bn Scotrail December 2012. uly 2014 November 2014 0.3bn Greater Anglia December 2012 1arch 2014. uly 2014 0.5bn Crossrail 1arch 2013 September 2014 April 2015 0.6bn Dates shown are subNect to change.
Full details on our rail performance can be found in the finance and business review from page 34 11.
Association of Train 3perating Companies 20 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
