co. uk 11 MArkeT OvervIeW Finally, the UK staying out market has also Introduction Economic benefited from the improved provision of The UK economy remains subdued, slipping The key markets in which we compete budget and mid-market accommodation, back into a technical recession in the last are the UK drinking out, eating out and satisfying the increased demand for business quarter of our financial year.
Specifically, for the staying out markets.
In each market, related overnight accommodation and, UK consumer, cost inflation has been running at particularly in the recession, an increase in Greene King Retail has outperformed a higher rate than wage inflation, driving down domestic holidays and short breaks.
Revenue real household disposable income.
Despite low theoverall market over the last twelve per available room RevPAR in the UK has interest rates and an employment market that months.
Beer volumes in Pub Partners, risen 8.7% ex VAT since 2009 and grew 2.9% has held up well, consumer confidence our tenanted, leased and franchised ex VAT in 2011.
Although growth may be therefore remains low and volatile.
moderate in the near-term, we still expect division, have outperformed the UK 2 long-term value growth in this market.
The primary outcome of this is a reluctance on-trade beer market, while own-brewed tospend on expensive consumer goods but volumes of our core ale brands have apredilection to spend on everyday treats Greene King performance outperformed the total UK ale market.
such as a good value meal in the local pub.
Drinking out Thisconcentration of consumer spending on With the value of alcohol in the on-trade 3 Environmental analysis lower ticket items such as pub food and drink, up1.7% ex VAT in 2011, Greene King Retail has helped our main markets to continue to Political has delivered drink LFL sales growth of 2.4% deliver value growth throughout the recession.
Our industry remains a heavily regulated one and total sales growth of 11.4% in the last with the beer duty escalator having the largest financial year.
single impact on our business.
As duty is a Social 4 producer tax, retailers do not have to pass UK alcohol consumption is in decline although Against the UK ale market down 5.3% in the this tax onto the consumer.
In the on-trade, it is difficult to differentiate between the twelve months to April 2012, Greene Kings where alcohol sales continue to generate economic and social reasons for this decline.
core brands saw volumes down 0.7% in most profit, the tax is generally passed on.
Beer consumption is in even steeper decline, thesame period, while Pub Partners also Inthe off-trade, where most alcohol is now averaging 2% per annum since 2002.
Factors achieved a better beer volume performance sold and where it does not constitute a large driving this decline include a more health across its estate than the overall market.
portion of the major retailers profits, the conscious UK consumer and increased leisure duty is not always passed on.
This means the alternatives to the pub.
Eating out retail price differential between the onand Against an informal eating out market up the off-trades continues to grow, affecting In addition, partly due to the price differential 2.4% ex VAT in value terms in 2011 branded 1 the sustainability ofcommunity pubs across between the onand off-trades and partly pub eating out market up 3.6% ex VAT, the UK.
duetothe continuous improvement of home Greene King Retail has delivered food LFL entertainment, there is an increasing propensity sales growth of 5.6% and total food growth The UK government is also looking more to consume alcohol at home.
Beer consumption of16.8% in its financial year.
In the last four closely at the negative impact that alcohol in the on-trade has declined at an average of years, Greene King Retail has almost doubled can have on society if sold and consumed 3.9% per annum since 2002, including a 3.2% its food sales.
With this in mind it released decline in 2011, while the off-trade has increased its Alcohol Strategy during the year, which by 0.7% per annum over the same period, Staying out included the intention to implement a although there was also a 3.5% decline in In a UK provincial market that achieved minimum unit price MUP for alcohol at 2011.
This was the first year the on-trade 2 RevPAR decline in 2011 of 0.7% ex VAT, 40p.
This follows the Scottish governments outperformed the off-trade since 1996.
Greene King Retails accommodation business plans to introduce one at 50p.
We believe delivered RevPAR growth of 2.7% in its aMUP for alcohol will have benefits for The UK consumer is also continuing to financial year.
bothsociety as a whole and for the great eatout more due to time pressures and the British pub.
increasing value offered by competitors in 1 Allegra Strategies Project Restaurant 2012. this market.
The value of the informal eating 2 PwC.
During the year, we have also seen the out market has grown by 42% since 2002 3 CGA Brand Index.
conclusion of the latest round of investigation CAGR : 3.9% to stand at 42bn by the end and report on the pub companies, with of 2011.
Within this, pubs have been taking 4 BBPA.
respect to the workings of the beer tie.
agreater share of the growth as they have Weare pleased that the government has improved the relative quality and value recognised the legality of the tie and the oftheir offer against other casual dining positive impact that a traditional brewery competitors.
Against an overall growth in tenancy can have on attracting entrepreneurs informal eating out of 2.4% ex VAT in 2011, into the pub industry at a low-cost of entry.
branded pub food has grown by 3.6% ex 1 VAT.
We expect these trends to continue.
Greene King Retail's share Greene King of the Market size Retail sales market Eating out 42bn 450m 2.0% Drinking out 22bn 307m 0.7% Staying out 43bn 24m 0.1% Review of the year 3 gnk ar12 front RB RB.
