48 Corporate governance direCtors report The directors present their annual report Mike Coupe, non-executive director, who may result in restrictions on the transfer together with the audited financial statements was appointed on 26 July 2011.
In addition ofsecurities oron voting rights.
of the company and group for the fifty-two Ian Bull held office until 1 July 2011.
A total of 542,138 ordinary shares, with an weeks ended 29 April 2012.
Under article 85 of the companys articles aggregate nominal value of 67,767 were ofassociation no directors are due to retire by allotted, for cash, during the period in Profits and dividends rotation this year.
However, Rooney Anand, connection with the companys sharesave The groups profit before taxation IanDurant and Norman Murray are offering and executive option schemes.
In addition andexceptional items for the period themselves for re-election at the forthcoming afurther 117,867 shares were acquired by amounted to 152.0m 2011: 140.0m.
For an explanation of the boards thecompany to satisfy awards under the Aninterimdividend of 6.7p per share approach to the annual re-election of directors, companys deferred share option scheme.
2011:6.3p was paid on 27 January 2012. please refer to the AGM notice of meeting.
The trustees of the companys employee The directors recommend a final dividend Details of the directors service agreements, benefit trust EBT, Kleinwort Benson of18.1p per ordinary share 2011: 16.8p, remuneration, and interests in share options Guernsey Trustees Limited, transferred making a total dividend for the year of and awards are set out in the directors 21,090 ordinary shares to employees to 24.8pper share 2011: 23.1p.
Subject to the remuneration report.
There have been satisfy the vesting of LTIP awards or to approval of shareholders at the AGM, the final nochanges in their interests between recognise their long service.
The company dividend will be paid on 10 September 2012 29April 2012 and the date of thisreport.
makes regular use of the EBT to satisfy the to shareholders onthe register at the close exercise of share options and will make ofbusiness on10 August 2012.
Interests in contracts market purchases of the companys shares No director had a material interest in any from time to time to ensure that it has Activities contract, other than an employment contract, sufficient shares to enable it to do so.
Greene King plc is the holding company that was significant in relation to the groups foragroup whose principal activities are business at any time during the period.
Voting rights operating managed, tenanted and leased In a general meeting of the company, on a public houses, brewing beer, and wholesaling show of hands, every member who is present Substantial shareholdings beers, wines, spirits and soft drinks.
The company has been notified of the in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote.
On a poll every member following interests in 3% or more of the Business review issuedshare capital of the company.
who is present in person or by proxy shall Under the provisions of the Companies have one vote for every share of which they Act2006, the company is required to produce 29 April 26 June are the holder.
The AGM notice gives full abusiness review containing afair review of the 2012 2012 details of deadlines for exercising voting business of the company and adescription Standard Life rights in respect of resolutions to be ofthe principal risks and uncertainties Investments Ltd 6.36% 6.36% considered at the meeting.
Shareholders are Capital Research & referred to the chief executives review, the Under the Free4All Employee Profit Share Management Company 5.19% 5.19% operational review, the financial review, the Scheme, participants are the beneficial owners AXA S. A.
4.99% 4.99% KPIs, the risks and uncertainties section and of the shares but not the registered owners.
the corporate social responsibility report for Legal & General The registered owner is the trustee, Killik & Co the required information.
They are intended Group plc 3.98% Below 3% Trustees Ltd.
The trustee will invite to provide a balanced and comprehensive participants to direct it on the exercise of any analysis of the development and performance voting rights attaching to the shares held under Share capital of the business of the group during the the scheme by the trustee on the participants Details of the authorised and issued share financial year and the position ofthe behalf.
The trustee will only beentitled to vote capital of the company, which comprises groupat the end of the year.
on a show of hands if all directions received asingle class of shares, ordinary shares from participants are identical.
The trustee of12.5p, are set out in note 26 to the accounts.
Directors isunder no obligation to call for a poll.
The rights attaching to the shares are set out in Details of the current directors are given Inthecase of a poll, thetrustee will follow the articles of association.
There are no special onpage 34.
All of the directors held thedirections oftheparticipants.
control rights in relation to the companys officethroughout the period apart from shares and the company is not aware of any No voting rights will be exercised in respect Matthew Fearn, finance director, who agreements between holders ofsecurities that of any own shares.
wasappointed on 1 September 2011 and direCtors interests in shares The beneficial interests of each of the directors and their immediate families in the ordinary share capital of the company are shown below: 1 May 2011 or date of appointment if later 29 April 2012 Rooney Anand 176,106 199,753 John Brady 10,000 10,000 Tim Bridge 1,340,991 1,340,991 Mike Coupe 2,000 Ian Durant 22,320 22,320 Matthew Fearn 1,449 6,162 Norman Murray 36,700 36,700 At 29 April 2012, Tim Bridge had a non-beneficial interest in 88,700 2011: 89,768 shares, in addition to the holding shown above.
There have been no changes in the interests of the directors between 29 April 2012 and the date of this report.
Greene King plc Annual report 2012 0 gnk ar12 middle RB LH.
Having made enquiries Transfer of shares ofaguardian made in respect of them, v abankruptcy order is made against them or offellow directors and of the companys There are no restrictions on the transfer auditor, each of these directors confirms that: ofshares in the company other than those theymake any arrangement or composition with their creditors generally, vi they are which may from time to time be applicable to the best of each directors knowledge under existing laws and regulations for prohibited from being a director by law or vii and belief, there is no information relevant they are absent from board meetings forsix example under the Market Abuse Directive.
to the preparation of their report of which months without leave and the other directors In addition, pursuant to the Listing Rules the companys auditor are unaware: and resolve that their office should bevacated.
ofthe Financial Services Authority, directors each director has taken all the steps a director ofthe company and persons discharging might reasonably be expected to have taken Powers of the directors managerial responsibility are required to to be aware of relevant audit information and The business of the company is managed obtain prior approval from the company to establish that the companys auditor are bythe directors who may exercise all the todeal in the companys securities, and are aware of that information.
powers of the company, subject to its articles prohibited from dealing during closed periods.
of association, any relevant legislation and any Going concern directions given by the company by passing Change of control The groups business activities, together withthe aspecial resolution at a general meeting.
All of the companys share incentive plans factors likely to affect its future development, Inparticular, the directors may exercise all contain provisions relating to a change of performance and position, areset out in the the powers of the company to borrow money, control and full details of these plans are chiefexecutives review.
The financial position issue shares, appoint and remove directors provided in the directors remuneration ofthe group, its cash flows, liquidity position and and recommend and declare dividends.
Outstanding options and awards borrowing facilities are described in the financial would normally vest and become exercisable review.
In addition, note 24 to the financial Communications with shareholders on a change of control, subject to the statements includes the groups objectives, Shareholders who are interested in signing satisfaction of performance conditions, policies and processes for managing its capital: its up to e-communications should refer to the ifapplicable, at that time.
financial risk management objectives: details of shareholders information page for further its financial instruments and hedging activities: The groups banking facility agreements contain information on how to register via and its exposure to credit and liquidity risk.
provisions entitling the counterparties to www.
exercise termination orother rights in the event The directors are of the opinion that the of a change of control.
Certain of the companys Charitable donations groupsforecast and projections, taking account trading contracts also contain similar provisions.
Donations by the company for charitable of reasonably possible changes in trading purposes made during the period amounted performance, show that the group should be able There are two employees who, on a change to 29,021 2011: 25,777.
The group makes of control of the company resulting in the to operate within its current borrowing facilities no political donations.
and comply with its financing covenants.
termination of their employment, would be entitled to compensation for loss of office.
After making enquiries, the directors have Payments to suppliers However, in the context of the company as areasonable expectation that the company The group understands the benefits to be awhole, these agreements are fide minimis.
and the group have adequate resources to derived from maintaining good relationships continue in operational existence for the with its suppliers and where possible enters into Articles of association foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue agreements over payment terms.
Where such The companys articles of association may to adopt the going concern basis inpreparing terms have not been agreed it is the group policy only be amended by special resolution at the annual report and financialstatements.
to settle invoices 60 days following the end of general meetings of shareholders.
Thispolicy is dependent Auditor onsuppliers providing accurate, timely and Appointment and replacement Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its willingness sufficiently detailed invoices.
Payment in ofdirectors to continue in office and a resolution to respect of 62 days average purchases from The number of directors on the board shall re-appoint the firm as the companys tradecreditors ofthe group was outstanding be no less than five nor more than twelve.
auditorwill be proposed at the AGM.
atthe end ofthe period 2011: 70 days.
Directors may be appointed by the company by ordinary resolution or by the board of Annual general meeting Directors and officers directors.
A director appointed by the board The AGM will be held at twelve noon indemnityinsurance of directors holds office until the next onTuesday4 September 2012 at the The group has taken out insurance to indemnify, following AGM, and is then eligible for Millennium Grandstand, Rowley Mile against third party proceedings, the directors of election by the shareholders.
Racecourse Conference Centre, Newmarket, the company whilst serving on the board of the Suffolk.
The notice of the AGM is set out The articles provide that at each AGM company and of any subsidiary.
This cover inthe separate circular to shareholders.
allthose directors who were elected, or indemnifies all employees of the group who lastre-elected, at the AGM held in the third serve on the boards of all subsidiaries.
These The directors consider that all of the resolutions calendar year before the current year shall retire indemnity policies subsisted throughout the year set out in the notice of AGM are in the best from office and may stand for re-election.
and remain in place at the date of this report.
interests of the company and its shareholders asa whole.
The directors will be voting in favour The company may by ordinary resolution, Financial instruments of them and unanimously recommend that ofwhich special notice has been given, shareholders vote in favour of each of them.
The groups policy on the use of financial remove any director from office.
instruments is set out in note 24.
By order of the board Any director automatically ceases to be adirector if i they give the company a written Post balance sheet events notice of resignation, ii they give the company Details of events occurring after the year end a written offer to resign and the directors decide are set out in note 32. to accept this offer, iii all of the other directors remove them from office by notice in writing Directors statement as to disclosure Lindsay Keswick served upon them, iv they are or have been of information to auditors Company secretary suffering from mental ill health and have a court The directors who were members of the board 27 June 2012 order fortheir detention or the appointment at the time of approving the directors report Corporate governance 0 gnk ar12 middle RB LH.
