| Greggs plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 22 Board of Directors The Board currently comprises the Chairman, three Executive and four Non-Executive Directors.
Bob Bennett retired from the Board on 16 May 2012.
Allison Kirkby was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director on 30 January 2013.
On 4 February 2013, Roger Whiteside was appointed as Chief Executive, and the previous Chief Executive, Kennedy McMeikan left the Board and the Company on 8 March 2013.
There were no other changes to the Board during the period.
Derek Netherton Roger Whiteside Richard Hutton, FCA Chairman, 68 Chief Executive, 54 Finance Director, 44 Spent his career in investment banking Roger began his career at Marks & Spencer Was appointed to the Board on 13 March 2006. and retired in 1996 from his position as joint where he spent 20 years ultimately becoming He qualified as a Chartered Accountant with head of corporate finance at J Henry Schroder head of its food business.
He was then one of KPMG and gained career experience with & Co Limited.
He was appointed to the Board the founding team of Ocado serving as Joint Procter & Gamble before joining Greggs in on 1 March 2002 and was appointed Chairman MD from 2000 to 2004.
He was appointed Finance Director in August of the same year.
Derek is Chairman led a successful turnaround as Chief Executive on 10 May 2006.
Richard is a trustee of the of Opera North, and a non-executive director of the Thresher Group off-licence chain before Greggs Foundation, and chairs Business in of three companies in the Canada Life group.
joining Punch Taverns ultimately becoming the Communitys Regional Advisory Board.
There have been no significant changes to the Chief Executive.
Derek is Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
Raymond Reynolds Julie Baddeley Iain Ferguson, CBE Retail Director, 53 Non-Executive Director and Non-Executive Director, 56 Was appointed to the Board as Retail Director Senior Independent Director, 61 Joined the Board on 31 March 2009.
He joined Greggs in Was appointed to the Board in March 2005.
Chief Executive of Tate & Lyle PLC until October retail management in 1986.
During the late She has held senior executive roles in Woolwich 2009.
Previously, he worked for Unilever where he 1990s, as general manager he built a significant plc, where she was responsible for Information held a number of senior executive positions.
He is new business for Greggs in the Edinburgh Technology and Human Resources, Accenture currently Chairman of Berendson plc, and a nonregion, and in 2002 he was appointed and Sema Consulting.
Julie is a non-executive executive director of Balfour Beatty plc, Honorary Managing Director of Greggs of Scotland.
director and Chairman elect of Harvey Nash Vice President of the British Nutrition Foundation plc and Chairman of Sustain Limited, the and lead Non-Executive Director of the DEFRA environmental consulting group.
Julie is also Management Committee.
Iain is Chairman of the a non-executive director of Chrysalis VCT Remuneration Committee, and is also a member plc.
Julie is a member of the Remuneration, of the Nominations and Audit Committees.
Business Social Corporate Financial Overview Review Responsibility Governance Statements | Greggs plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 23 Ian Durant, FCA, FCT Allison Kirkby, FCMA Jonathan Jowett Non-Executive Director, 54 Non-Executive Director, 45 Company Secretary, 50 Joined the Board on 5 October 2011.
Ians Joined the Board on 30 January 2013.
Allison Joined the Company in April 2010 and background is in international financial is currently Chief Financial Officer of Shine was appointed as Company Secretary on and commercial management, and he has Group, the global media production company.
He is a solicitor by profession, experience of the retail, property, hotels Allisons previous experience includes being and has held the position of Company and transport sectors.
Ians career includes Virgin Medias Executive Director of Finance Secretary in a number of FTSE 250 and leadership roles with the retail division of Operations and Transformation, and before that FTSE Smallcap companies.
His previous Hanson and Jardine Matheson, Hongkong spent two decades with Procter & Gamble in a employers include Avon Cosmetics Limited, Land, Dairy Farm International, Thistle Hotels, variety of senior financial and operational roles.
SSL International plc, Wagon plc and SeaContainers and as Finance Director at Allison is also a trustee and Chair of the Finance Bakkavor Group.
Jonathan is Secretary Liberty International.
Ian is currently Chairman Committee of In Kind Direct, one of The Princes to the Board and each of its committees.
of Capital and Counties Properties PLC and a Charities.
Allison will assume the Chair of the Audit non-executive director of Greene King plc and Committee on 15 May 2013 following the AGM.
Ian was appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 January 2012 and he also sits on the Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
Ian will become Chairman of the Company on 15 May 2013 following the AGM.
Directors and their interests Directors indemnities and conflicts The names of the Directors in office during the As at the date of this report, indemnities are in year, together with their relevant interests in force under which the Company has agreed to the share capital of the Company at 1 January indemnify the Directors, to the extent permitted 2012 and 29 December 2012 or at date of by law, in respect of losses arising out of, or in appointment if later are set out in Note 25 to connection with, the execution of their duties, the accounts.
Details of Directors share options powers or responsibilities as Directors of the are set out in the Directors Remuneration report Company.
The indemnities do not apply in on pages 37 to 51. situations where the relevant Director has been guilty of fraud or wilful misconduct.
7.1 of the Governance Code, all Directors will retire from Under the authority granted to them in the the Board at the AGM and offer themselves Companys Articles of Association, the Board for election in the case of Allison Kirkby has considered carefully any situation declared or re-election by shareholders.
by any Director pursuant to which they have or might have a conflict of interest and, where The Nominations Committee has considered it considers it appropriate to do so, has the appropriateness and suitability of each authorised the continuation of that situation.
Director standing for election and has In exercising its authority, the Directors have recommended to the Board that each individual had regard to their statutory and other duties should be put forward for election or re-election.
