| Greggs plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 24 Governance The Board recognises the importance independent and objective experience of, and is committed to, high standards of food retailing, consumer goods The following pages of corporate governance, and to integrity manufacturing, finance, property, human set out the Boards and high ethical standards in all of its resource management and corporate report on its compliance business dealings.
finance to complement the existing skills and experience of the Executive Directors.
with the UK Corporate The following statements, together Governance Code with the Directors Remuneration Report The Board, under the chairmanship on pages 37 to 51, describe how the of Derek Netherton, meets regularly to the Governance relevant principles and provisions of the discharge its duties.
I can report Governance Code were applied to the it reviews Group strategy, performance, that the Board considers Company in 2012 and will be relevant to resources, risk management and other the Company for the 2013 financial year.
matters reserved for the Board.
Whilst the that it has complied, executive responsibility for running the throughout the year The Board Companys business rests ultimately with under review, with the Chief Executive, the Non-Executive Effectiveness Directors ensure that the strategies The Nominations Committee under the the principles of proposed by the Executive Directors are leadership of the Chairman has considered governance set fully discussed and critically examined the blend of skills and experience that the out in the Governance prior to adoption.
Directors bring to the Board.
During 2012, the scheduled Board and Committee meetings and the number of meetings attended by each Director were as follows: Audit Remuneration Nominations Main Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 744 6 Derek Netherton 7 4 6 Kennedy McMeikan 7 Richard Hutton 7 Derek Netherton Raymond Reynolds 6 Chairman Julie Baddeley 7 4 4 6 Bob Bennett 3 2 2 2 Ian Durant 7 4 4 5 Iain Ferguson 6444 Roger Whiteside 7 4 4 5 Based on meetings until resigning from the Board on 16 May 2012. Business Social Corporate Financial Overview Review Responsibility Governance Statements | Greggs plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 25 In addition, the Non-Executive Directors The Board is firmly of the view that it is Evaluation meet formally twice each year and from in the interests of the Company and the The performance of the Board, its time to time, as required.
communities in which it operates that it Committees and of all Directors is recruits and develops the very best people evaluated annually by a formal and The Board has a policy on the separation from the widest possible pool of talent.
For the review relating of the roles of the Chairman and the Chief to 2012, each Director independently Executive.
The Chairman sets the agenda The Board is satisfied that a process is in rated the Boards and its Committees for Board meetings in accordance with place for orderly succession to the Board performance against the objectives set a specific Schedule of Matters Reserved, and to positions of senior management, at the beginning of the year.
The Directors and ensures that the Board is supplied, in so as to maintain an appropriate balance also provided comments on what they a timely manner, with information in a form of skills and experience within the thought had gone well, and areas for and of a quality appropriate to enable it to Company and on the Board.
These comments were discharge its duties.
The Board considers put into a key themes document and that it effectively leads and controls the All Directors are able to receive training debated at a subsequent Board meeting.
All Directors take decisions and to take independent professional These discussions are used to identify objectively and in the interests of the advice at the expense of the Company.
actions to improve effectiveness, to identify Company.
The Non-Executive Directors They also have direct access to the individual and collective training needs scrutinise the performance of management Company Secretary, who is responsible and to set objectives for the Board for in meeting agreed goals and objectives for advising the Board, through the the ensuing year.
and monitor the reporting of performance.
Chairman, on all governance matters.
All Directors receive induction training on The Board has not yet conducted an joining the Board and regularly update and The Chairman meets with the  evaluation, and, in refresh their knowledge through reading, Executive Directors at least annually accordance with the Governance Code attendance on relevant courses and or without the Executive Directors present.
as revised in September 2012 would activities outside the Company.
The Senior Independent Director meets be required to do so in relation to the the Non-Executive Directors annually evaluation in 2013.
However, the Board As part of the process of maintaining an without the Chairman present to appraise is of the view that given the various role awareness of the Companys activities and the Chairmans performance.
There is also changes that have taken place in recent assessing the ability of the management generally at least one meeting held each months and the impending change of team, members of the senior management year between the Non-Executive Directors Chairman and Audit Committee Chairman, team are invited to attend Board meetings and the Chief Executive.
it would prefer to defer an externallyand or to present papers to the Board.
This process also affords senior managers On 4 February 2013, Roger Whiteside the opportunity to bring matters to the became Chief Executive.
Otherwise, after Board Committees attention of the Board.
carefully reviewing the guidance in the The Board delegates some of its activities Governance Code, all of the Non-Executive to the following committees, each of which The Board is proud of its reputation for Directors are considered by the Board has written terms of reference, which are bringing the Companys best talent to be independent in character and available on the Companys website.
through the organisation and encouraging judgement and to be free from any The Company Secretary acts as secretary people to succeed regardless of gender, business or other relationship or to and is in attendance at each of these race or any other characteristic.
As a result circumstance which is likely to affect committees, and each of the committees three out of seven of the most senior retail or to interfere with the exercise of their is provided with sufficient resources managers are women, as are three out of independent judgement.
The Board believes it is in the best interests of the Company Election and re-election of Directors The Audit Committee currently consists to continue to bring women through to the The Companys articles of association of four independent Non-Executive Directors: very top levels of the organisation and as require that all Directors must retire and Ian Durant, Chairman, Julie Baddeley, a result of this belief, a new programme seek election at the first AGM following Iain Ferguson, and Allison Kirkby.
The was launched during the year to appointment.
Accordingly, Allison Kirkby Committee met four times in the year, encourage more women to strive for the will resign as a Director and offer herself and a fuller report on its activities is set most senior positions in the business.
for election at the AGM to be held on out on pages 29 to 31.
Furthermore, the Board At the date of this report, the Board has has resolved that, in line with Governance eight directors of whom two are female.
7.1, all of the Directors will be subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
