s p i h s n o i t a l e R r e m o t s u C g n o r t S G r e a t | Greggs plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 04 Our strategy & business model What we do: First and foremost Greggs is a baker.
We operate from locations throughout Britain serving customers across the whole country.
Our Business Model How we create value We own and operate an integrated supply chain Shareholder Value from production through distribution to point of sale.
This means we can make outstanding bakery food at great prices delivering value for our customers and shareholders alike.
Production Distribution Point of Sale V a l u e s t c u d o r P P y y t t ii ll a a u u Q Q h h g g ii H H Business Social Corporate Financial Overview Review Responsibility Governance Statements | Greggs plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 05 Our Vision Our Strategy Our vision is to How we plan to be the number accomplish our aims one for sandwiches and savouries from Meeting customer needs: We will develop our product a united team who ranges to meet changing are passionate customer tastes, whilst retaining the quality, value and service about being the that Greggs is known for.
Investing in shops: We will continue to open new stores, in new locations, whilst diversifying our estate and investing in store formats.
Developing new markets: We will continue to explore opportunities to bring products to markets where customers cannot currently access the Greggs brand.
Competitive advantage through our supply chain: We will continue to invest in product quality and the efficiency of our manufacturing and logistics operations.
Living Greggs values through our people and our communities: Our people are our greatest No.
1 asset and we will do even more Our goal is to be the number one for our local communities.
| Greggs plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 06 Chairmans statement I am pleased to report another year of progress towards our key strategic objectives, designed to strengthen the business for the longer term.
Derek Netherton In my 11th and final report as Chairman, to our shareholders.
The Board Chairman I am pleased to report another year recommends a maintained final dividend of progress towards our key strategic of 13.5 pence per share, making a total objectives, designed to strengthen the dividend for the year of 19.5 pence business for the longer term.
In particular, 2011: 19.3 pence, an increase of we have continued to diversify our activities, 1.0 per cent.
making Greggs more accessible to more customers through the rapid and profitable The Board development of the new business channels In December 2012 Ken McMeikan of wholesaling and franchising, at the announced his intention to leave Greggs same time as opening a record number to take up the position of Chief Executive of new shops.
While progress in these of Brakes Group, and he left the Board on strategic areas has been encouraging, 8 March 2013 following the appointment of market conditions in 2012 continued Roger Whiteside as his successor.
I would to be exceptionally challenging.
like to record our thanks to Ken for his leadership since he joined Greggs in 2008, Our financial performance and particularly for the role he has played In 2012 consumer spending remained in developing our strategic vision, under pressure, shopper footfall declined, strengthening the business, living our and the country experienced some of the values and further enhancing our place wettest weather ever recorded.
this, sales grew by 4.8 per cent to a record 735 million though like-for-like sales Roger Whiteside took up the position were 2.7 per cent lower and pre-tax profit of Chief Executive on 4 February 2013, before exceptional items was 51.9 million, having been a member of our Board as a a reduction of 2.2 per cent.
Roger was previously Chief Executive of Punch The Board remains committed to pursuing Taverns plc and brings to his new role a progressive dividend policy that pays more than 30 years experience of food due regard to the growth of earnings per and retailing gained with Marks & Spencer, share over the medium term, the cash Ocado and Threshers.
He also has the generative nature of the business and great advantages of having been directly our determination to deliver value involved in the development of our strategy Business Social Corporate Financial Overview Review Responsibility Governance Statements | Greggs plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 07 My greatest pleasure in chairing Greggs and of already being known and well During the year we intend has been getting to know our outstanding respected by our people.
I am sure to make substantial people, whose dedication to making great that Greggs has a great future under products and delivering excellent customer his leadership.
investments in the service is simply second to none and business, more than who are, without doubt, one of the greatest Allison Kirkby joined the Board as an doubling the pace of strengths of the business.
On behalf of the Independent Non-Executive Director on Board, I would like to thank all 20,000 of 30 January 2013.
Allison is Chief Financial refurbishments in addition Officer of the global media production them for their individual contributions to to opening new shops company Shine Group, and brings to the overcoming the many challenges we faced Board expertise in finance, consumer together during 2012 and I wish them all in targeted locations.
products and the media industry.
She will well for the future.
succeed Ian Durant as Chair of the Audit Committee when Ian takes my place as Prospects Chairman of the Board after the Annual There can be no doubt that the trading General Meeting in May 2013. environment will remain very challenging in 2013, with consumers remaining cautious My own intention not to seek re-election and inflationary cost pressures affecting a at the AGM was announced in September number of our key commodities.
We have 2012 and I am pleased to pass on my set our plans for the year accordingly, responsibilities as Chairman to such a with a renewed focus on driving sales capable successor as Ian Durant.
Since from our core retail estate while continuing I succeeded Ian Gregg as Chairman in to develop our wholesale and franchise 2002, the Group has opened more than channels to new markets.
450 new shops and created around 3,000 additional jobs.
It has also undergone During the year we intend to make fundamental changes in its management, substantial investments in the business, structure and strategy and is now a more than doubling the pace of much more centrally run business with refurbishments in addition to opening a harmonised product range and a single, new shops in targeted locations.
We are strong national brand.
I am very grateful also in the process of acquiring the site to my colleagues on the Board and where we plan to construct a new frozen throughout the business for their unstinting manufacturing facility in Leicestershire in help and support during my time with Greggs.
order to meet the growth in demand from all our channels to the customer.
Our values Greggs special values have always set the As I step down from the business this Company apart and I am delighted that we year, I am confident that we have the right have been able to maintain and increase ingredients for further growth under the our contribution to the community in these leadership of Ian Durant, Roger Whiteside economically difficult times.
For the second and the management team and that year in succession, our people and the longer term prospects for Greggs customers raised an amazing 1 million for are strong.
the BBC Children in Need appeal and we also gave money to a range of other good Derek Netherton causes and opened our 220th Greggs Chairman Breakfast Club.
20 March 2013 | Greggs plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 08 Chief Executives report Against this very challenging background, Greggs increased its sales to a record of 735 million, a rise of 4.8 per cent.
Roger Whiteside Success in our new business channels With like-for-like sales under pressure Chief Executive coupled with new shop openings saw total throughout the year, our focus was sales growing again this year although to offer the best possible value to our challenging market conditions resulted customers.
Our teams worked hard in disappointing like-for-like sales in our to deliver substantial cost savings across existing estate.
the business and we increased our investment in promotions, particularly Market background: in our popular meal deals.
another challenging year Financial performance: We saw no let-up in the pressure on our resilient under difficult conditions customers disposable incomes during 2012.
Consumers are shopping less and Against this very challenging background, looking to make their money go further, Greggs increased its sales to a record of putting pressure, on marginal shopping 735 million, a rise of 4.8 per cent.
The locations and weaker brands.
This was main drivers of this growth were the good reflected in the failure of a number of performance of our newly opened shops well-known retail chains in the course and the rapid expansion of our new of the year.
Like-for-like sales were disappointingly down 2.7 per cent.
With shopper footfall remaining under Operating profit before exceptional items pressure, we continued to rebalance our was down 2.2 per cent at 51.8 million business by opening more shops where and pre-tax profit before exceptional items our customers work, travel or spend their down by 2.2 per cent to 51.9 million.
leisure time, and developed new markets Our Finance Director Richard Hutton working in partnership with Iceland comments on financial performance and Moto.
in more detail in the Financial Review.
The weather was particularly poor during the year, which was the second wettest in the UK since records began.
This was a significant deterrent to the frequent shopping trips that are a particular feature of a daily purchase business like Greggs.
Business Social Corporate Financial Overview Review Responsibility Governance Statements | Greggs plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 09 New ranges of sandwich and cupcake Our products: responding We opened a record 121 platters were also successfully launched to our customers needs new shops in 2012 and in 2012, priced from 6 to 12.50.
Our customers continue to look to Greggs for great tasting, high quality, fresh delivered a net increase A Government proposal to extend VAT to food that also provides outstanding value.
of 100. include freshly baked savouries thrust the Our focus on value for money through Greggs Brand into the spotlight as we meal deals saw strong sales, particularly successfully led an industry campaign at breakfast where our offer of a fresh against this proposal.
I would like to thank bacon or sausage breakfast roll with a all our employees who made time for the hot drink for just 2 was by far our most enormous effort needed to mount the successful offer in 2012, with more than campaign on top of their normal business seven million sold during the year.
The outcome is a sensible solution that is good for the bakery Coffee is a fast-growing category and sales industry and its customers alike and of our fresh Fairtrade coffee continue to creates a clear and objective test of grow strongly, with 21 million cups sold what constitutes hot food for the future.
in the year, an increase of 23 per cent demonstrating Greggs growing reputation Greggs brand awareness is strengthening in this important market.
as we build a substantial following online and increase advertising across a range The development of lower calorie options of media.
We now have 663,000 Facebook within the Greggs range is gathering pace fans, more than double the number a year with successful introductions such as ago.
This year we will further strengthen porridge, salads, fruit pots and lower our connection with our customers by calorie sandwich choices.
launching a loyalty scheme enabling us to reward our customers and Our traditional categories further target our marketing.
saw strong sales from new products such as Our shops: making Greggs more our chicken tandoori accessible and enjoyable baguette, selling over 3.5 million: chicken We opened 121 new shops in curry lattice, selling over 2012 and delivered a net increase 2 million: and our new of 100, after 21 closures, to give raspberry cupcake, with us a total of 1,671 shops at over 2.5 million sold.
This included ten new franchised shops in motorway service stations in partnership with Moto Hospitality Limited.
Almost half our net new openings were in locations such as retail and industrial parks, Our Greatest Asset motorway service stations We shared 10% of our profits and travel hubs.
| Greggs plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 10 Chief Executives report continued We completed 118 shop refurbishments the end of the year: and we continue to be the Bakery format.
We will also extend the during the year.
These focused on making pleased with the results and plan to roll out most successful elements of the Greggs the Greggs shopping experience even the concept further this year.
the Bakery range to shops in other more enjoyable for our customers by suitable neighbourhood locations which increasing the space for browsing, making Greggs moment, our coffee shop will receive full refits in the future.
more products available for self-selection concept, is now operating in five locations We will continue to open new shops, and providing seating wherever possible.
and a further three new shops across the though reverting to a more normal level The returns on these refurbishments Midlands will open shortly.
Tony Rowson, of around 50-60 new openings, net of exceeded our targets in the year.
formerly a senior executive at Costa closures.
These will include further Coffee, joined us in October to head our franchised shops in motorway service A further development in 2012 was the developing business in this fast-growing areas in partnership with Moto.
successful launch in June of our new market, and we are already seeing the local bakery format, Greggs the Bakery benefits of his extensive industry Developing new markets in Gosforth, Newcastle upon Tyne.
Following the launch of the As well as investing in our existing chain concept combines the best-loved elements additional three shops we will complete of shops we are excited by the potential of the core Greggs sandwich, savouries a full review of the concept and decide for growth in new markets working and hot drinks range with new types on its roll-out potential.
in partnership with Iceland and Moto.
of artisan breads freshly baked on the Greggs existing business is focused premises and an extended range of cakes, With the success of our food on the go on the food on the go and local bakery confectionery and pizzas.
The shop and local bakery refits during 2012 we markets but our success in selling a range features a new style of layout and design have changed the shape of our plans to of frozen products in Greggs branded to provide a much more traditional bakery invest in shops this year.
Our focus in 2013 cabinets in Iceland stores has shown we shop experience, and is differentiated from will be on investing to improve sales from can compete effectively in the bake at our food on the go outlets.
The results our core estate.
We plan to refit a total of home market, taking market share from from the initial trial led us to extend the 250 shops, comprising both food on the existing packaged brands.
We believe this concept to a further ten locations by go outlets and the roll-out of the Greggs is an exciting new area of opportunity and Business Social Corporate Financial Overview Review Responsibility Governance Statements | Greggs plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 11 Building the Brand: Greggs moment The new food range is bespoke to We believe there is an opportunity Greggs moment, from a menu created for Greggs to establish itself in the to suit the sit-in customer, based on growing coffee shop market and in customer research.
The food is made October 2011 opened our first trial fresh in our local regional bakery.
The unique design is a contemporary, We extended this to a total of five trial homely environment, distinctively British coffee shops in 2012, and continue with quirky features such as bowler hat to develop the format further with lighting and lightshades featuring images new openings planned in 2013. from the local area.
All our Greggs moment coffee shops include free Wi-Fi.
Greggs moment is a place where in February 2013 we extended the range customers can relax in a modern, in Iceland to include additional pasties, Customer reaction has been very positive contemporary environment to enjoy pies and dessert lines.
and we will continue to adapt and roll out a new menu of outstanding quality, our coffee shop format in 2013. freshly baked food and a wide selection In addition we plan to expand in new of hot drinks, including freshly ground market segments.
We successfully opened coffees and a selection of teas.
ten shops last year in motorway service stations working with Moto on a franchise Our unique attraction is, we believe, basis and will open more this year.
a coffee shop experience with a fresh food selection that exceeds that Our supply chain: achieving of competitor coffee shops, all at efficiencies and investing for growth affordable Greggs value prices.
Greggs vertical integration as both a baker and a retailer is a key point of difference and an important competitive advantage, particularly in a climate where consumers are increasingly concerned about the provenance of the food they eat.
Our unique recipes, bakery expertise and sheer passion for our products all help to set Greggs apart and to deliver the great taste, quality and value that our customers expect.
The quality of our facilities was recognised by the award of British Retail Consortium BRC accreditation to a number of our bakeries and production facilities during the year.
We have achieved substantial cost savings in our supply chain by investing in more efficient processes that have also enhanced food quality and safety across the business.
Our originally targeted savings of 10 million over five years were delivered two years ahead of schedule in 2012 and we have now increased the target to 15 million by 2014.
| Greggs plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 12 Chief Executives report continued Building the Brand: Greggs the Bakery Customers will typically spend longer Greggs the Bakery is our latest refit Following the opening of major new browsing and experience a different format for specific locations such bakeries in Newcastle upon Tyne and shop environment that highlights our as local shopping parades closer Penrith in 2011, 2012 was a quieter year bakery credentials.
to residential areas, market towns for investment in our supply chain.
and areas where customers shopping We completed a 2.5 million upgrade The unique shop style, a contemporary locally might expect to find a more to increase the capacity of our savoury twist on a traditional bakery shop, traditional bakery.
manufacturing plant in Newcastle upon differentiates Greggs the Bakery Tyne, and opened a new micro bakery from our food on the go shops and in Norwich to support our expansion into The format is that of a traditional bakery provides customers with an alternative East Anglia, a region outside the reach shop with a contemporary look and feel, shopping experience, all at Greggs of our main regional bakeries.
a large shop window and more counter great value pricing.
display space than you would find in Looking ahead we have commenced our food on the go format.
Other features include a bread oven the planning of a new 30 million frozen to bake bread in-store and extensive manufacturing facility in Leicestershire to Alongside our standard food on the go confectionery displays around the shop.
complement our existing bakery at Balliol ranges, Greggs the Bakery has a wider Park in Newcastle upon Tyne.
This will range of bread, including artisan breads, In 2012 we refitted 11 Greggs shops to provide substantially increased capacity confectionery and other traditional this format and have announced plans to support our own retail expansion as well bakery food, all designed for this format.
to refit significantly more of our estate as the continued growth of our wholesale to this format in 2013. business, and will also deliver significant savings in logistics costs by bringing production closer to our customers in the Midlands and South.
I am pleased to welcome to the business Gavin Kirk, who joined us as Operational Supply Chain Director in May 2012, from Mars UK where he was European Supply Director.
I would also like to congratulate everyone who works in our supply chain for their achievements during the year, both in successfully bedding down two major new bakeries and in maintaining supplies to our shops in the face of many unusual challenges, from floods to the traffic restrictions imposed in the London area during the Olympic and Paralympic Games.
Social responsibility: doing the right thing Greggs long-standing commitment to corporate social responsibility lives at the core of our values, and I am happy to confirm my personal commitment to maintaining this tradition of putting people, the community and our environment at the very heart of everything we do.
Business Social Corporate Financial Overview Review Responsibility Governance Statements | Greggs plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 13 year, and will, I am sure, help the public to Our continued progress against our identify even more strongly with Greggs key Social Responsibility targets in 2012 as an already much-loved national brand.
is detailed in our Social Responsibility report on pages 18 to 21.
A particular Ian Gregg, our former Chairman, has highlight of our community work was written a new history of Greggs, all the opening of our 220th Breakfast Club.
royalties from which he has generously We have successfully extended support agreed to donate to the Greggs for Breakfast Clubs by involving new periods but will provide a stronger platform corporate partners and now serve more Foundation, which he established in for growth in the future.
At the same than two million free breakfasts to 1987.
The book will be sold in our shops time we will continue to develop sales disadvantaged primary school children with all the profit we make on sales of the through new shop openings and make each year.
The generosity of our people book also going to the Greggs Foundation.
further progress in new markets through and customers was undimmed by the our wholesale and franchise agreements.
recession, enabling us again to raise an We were pleased to achieve recognition Investment in our supply chain will meet incredible 1 million for the BBC Children of the business at a number of awards the growth in demand for our products in Need appeal.
We also continued to ceremonies during the year.
These across all these areas and we will continue support the excellent work of the Greggs included being named Bakery Food to drive efficiencies to help mitigate the Foundation, to which we donate at least Manufacturer of the Year, Sandwich impact of commodity inflation on pricing one per cent of our pre-tax profits each Retailer of the Year, North East Company to customers.
year, and which made grants of over of the Year and receiving a special 1.4 million during 2012.
Caf Chain Development Award for Greggs is a great business with an iconic Greggs moment.
brand, outstanding people and a clear During the year we removed the very last strategy for long term, profitable growth.
artificial flavour from the Greggs product Outlook for 2013 As a result I believe that the business is range and we are proud that everything we As the Chairman has noted, this will well placed, although profit growth is likely produce ourselves is now free from added undoubtedly be another challenging year to be held back this year as we invest to artificial colours and flavours, hydrogenated for the UK retail industry.
The severe snow strengthen the business for the longer term.
vegetable oils, trans fats and genetically in January has added to the on-going modified ingredients.
We have also pressures of continued consumer I am delighted to have been given the continued to work to reduce the salt recession, and while total sales for the first opportunity to succeed Ken McMeikan and fat content of our products through 11 weeks to 16 March 2013 were up 4.2 as Chief Executive of this business.
per cent, like-for-like sales were down by Ken success in his new role and would 4.0 per cent.
There has been an improving like to take this opportunity also to thank Further progress has been made in trend following the snow-impacted January our outgoing Chairman Derek Netherton, reducing the carbon footprint of our supply when like-for-like sales were down 5.7 per alongside whom it has been my pleasure chain, and we have again reduced the cent, with February improving to a to work on the Board for nearly five years.
amount of waste we send to landfill.
like-for-like decline of 2.0 per cent.
Derek has provided decisive and sensitive Consumer incomes remain under pressure leadership during a period of major change We welcomed 750 new people to our retail and we continue to respond by offering for the business over the past decade.
team through our new shop openings in customers even better value through 2012, and continued our efforts to make further investment in our popular Roger Whiteside Greggs a great place to work for all our promotions and meal deals.
I am delighted that they 20 March 2013 will again share ten per cent of our profits We have reshaped our plans for 2013 to this year, a total of 5.8 million.
We have focus on our core estate by increasing opened the doors of Greggs to show the investment in our successful new formats fantastic team of people who work in our in food on the go and local bakery.
They will appear in a major new will impact like-for-like performance in the eight part TV series which is due to air this short term due to increased shop closure | Greggs plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 14 Financial review We continue to make good progress The development of our profitable against our cost saving targets.
The wholesale and franchise business We continue to make cumulative annual benefits of our plan to channels mitigated the impact of reduced good progress against achieve efficiencies from our supply chain like-for-like sales in the core Greggs estate reached 10 million at the end of 2012, two our cost saving targets.
Together with the contribution years ahead of the original plan, and we from our new shops and the continued The cumulative annual remain on track to achieve 15 million of success of our cost saving programmes, benefits of our plan to efficiencies by 2014.
In addition, continuing this enabled us to deliver a resilient performance overall whilst remaining savings of 5 million were achieved in the achieve efficiencies from cash generative and financially strong.
year through a focus on simplifying our our supply chain reached shop operations, better buying and further 10 million at the end Sales benefits from centralising our support teams.
Overall administrative expenses Total Group sales for the 52 weeks of 2012. reduced by 1.5 million in 2012 despite ended 29 December 2012 were 735 growth in the business.
million 2011: 701 million, an increase of 4.8 per cent.
Like-for-like sales were We were pleased with the contribution down by 2.7 per cent over the year as made by new shops opened in the year.
Our success in wholesaling and We monitor closely the performance of our franchising generated additional sales estate and actively manage openings and of 2.8 per cent.
closures to ensure that our shops continue to be in locations that match customers Profit before exceptional items needs.
In 2012 we closed 21 shops and Operating profit before exceptional items Richard Hutton made a charge of 0.5 million against was 51.8 million 2011: 53.0 million, Finance Director a further 22 shops where performance a 2.2 per cent reduction.
The result reflects is such that the assets are considered to the impact of reduced like-for-like sales in be impaired.
In 2013 we expect around the core Greggs estate, partially mitigated 30 further shop closures as we exit by the further development of our business under-performing shops or relocate with wholesale and franchise customers.
After net finance income of 0.1 million In 2012 we recognised gains on the 2011: 0.1 million pre-tax profit before disposal of two freehold properties totalling exceptional items was 51.9 million 0.8 million.
A comparable figure was 2011: 53.1 million, a 2.2 per cent realised in 2011 on the disposal of reduction.
onerous leases against which provisions had previously been made.
Operating margin Operating margin before exceptional items Looking forward to 2013 we will be was 7.1 per cent 2011: 7.6 per cent.
adopting Amendments to IAS 19: Employee Benefits, the impact of which Gross margins in our core retail estate will be to increase the charge relating were maintained in the year despite to the Groups defined benefit pension continued commodity cost inflation and scheme.
The 2012 results will be restated an increased investment in promotions.
on the same basis, resulting in an The overall gross margin for the business additional 1.0 million charge in the year reduced as a result of a greater participation and we anticipate an additional charge in wholesale and franchise sales, although of 0.8 million in 2013.
The restated 2012 the impact of this new business was pre-tax profit before exceptional items positive at the net operating margin level.
on this new basis will be 50.9 million.
Business Social Corporate Financial Overview Review Responsibility Governance Statements | Greggs plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 15 Subject to the approval of shareholders Excluding this years exceptional credit, Exceptional items at the Annual General Meeting, the final we delivered an overall return on capital During 2012 we successfully disposed dividend will be paid on 24 May 2013 employed ROCE for 2012 of 21.7 per of our old Newcastle bakery site with to shareholders on the register on cent 2011: 24.4 per cent.
Whilst new the leases being surrendered without 26 April 2013. investment has performed well, the year recourse.
This allowed us to release the on year reduction in ROCE reflects the exceptional onerous lease provision made Capital expenditure lower overall operating profits in the in 2011 and, along with sale proceeds, core estate.
a total of 1.4 million has been shown We invested 46.9 million 2011: 59.1 million as an exceptional gain in 2012. in the business during 2012.
This included Cash flows and balance sheet 111 new own shop openings and 118 Pre-tax profit including exceptional items shop refurbishments.
Investment in our The Group remains highly cash was 53.3 million 2011: 60.5 million.
supply chain was modest during the year generative, with 84.8 million EBITDA compared with that in 2011 when we before exceptional items in 2012 2011: Taxation completed the 21 million investment 83.9 million.
Our new wholesale in our Newcastle and Penrith bakeries.
and franchise business generates an The Groups effective tax rate for the year Depreciation in the year was 32.8 million additional working capital requirement was 24.0 per cent 2011: 26.4 per cent, 2011: 30.7 million.
and 7 million was invested in this way a reduction of 2.4 percentage points.
At the end of the year the This reflected the lowering of the headline We plan capital expenditure of 55-65 Group had cash and cash equivalents of rate of corporation tax from 26 per cent million in 2013 dependent on timing of 19.4 million 2011: 19.5 million.
to 24 per cent from April 2012 and the the construction of our 30 million frozen In the coming months we will be putting revaluation of deferred tax liabilities to manufacturing facility in the East Midlands.
in place financing facilities to support 23 per cent following enactment of a The rate of new shop openings is expected the development of our new frozen further corporation tax reduction in to reduce to 50-60 net shops and we will manufacturing operation.
We anticipate the year effective from April 2013. invest in around 250 shop refurbishments using this facility over a three year period in 2013, including the rollout of our to support the further growth of the business.
Earnings per share Greggs the Bakery format.
Diluted earnings per share before Richard Hutton exceptional items were 39.0 pence Return on capital Finance Director 2011: 38.8 pence, an increase of 0.5 per We manage return on capital through 20 March 2013 cent reflecting the lower effective tax rate our Investment Board, where all capital in the year.
Basic earnings per share expenditure is subject to rigorous appraisal before exceptional items were 39.6 pence both before and after it is made.
Earnings per share shops we target a return on invested including exceptional items were 40.1 capital of more than 20 per cent by the pence diluted 2011: 44.3 pence and third year of operation, in recognition of the 40.7 pence basic 2011: 45.0 pence.
fact that we need to cover our longer term investment in the supply chain.
Shop Dividends refurbishments are assessed to ensure The Board recommends a final dividend of that incremental sales generate sufficient 13.5 pence per share 2011: 13.5 pence.
contribution to give an appropriate return Together with the interim dividend of on the increase in capital invested.
6.0 pence 2011: 5.8 pence, paid in October 2012, this makes a total for the year of 19.5 pence 2011: 19.3 pence.
This is an increase of 1.0 per cent, maintaining cover by diluted earnings per share before exceptional items of 2.0 times.
| Greggs plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 16 Key financial performance indicators We use seven key financial performance indicators KPIs to monitor the performance of the Group against our strategy.
These KPIs and how we performed against them are detailed below: The percentage year-on-year change in total sales for the Group, Total sales growth adjusted for the impact of a 53 week year in 2009.
Our success in wholesaling and franchising as well as a record number of new shop openings more than offset the reduction in like-for-like sales see below.
sales growth Like-for-like sales growth includes selling price inflation and VAT.
Like-for-like sales fell by 2.7 per cent in 2012 2011: increase of 1.4 per cent.
This reflected continued customer constraint and the impact of extreme weather throughout the year.
2012 -2.7% 2011 1.4% 2012: 2010 0.2% -2.7% 2009 0.8% 2011: 2008 4.4% 1.4% Reflects the performance of the Group before financing and taxation Adjusted impacts and excludes exceptional items arising in the year.
operating profit m Adjusted operating profit for the year decreased by 2.2 per cent to 51.8m 2011: 53.0m.
This reflects the impact of reduced like-for-like sales, partially mitigated by strong cost control and the contribution from new shops and from increased wholesale and franchising activity.
2012 51.8m 2011 53.0m 2012: 2010 52.4m 51.8m 2009 48.4m 2011: 2008 44.3m 53.0m Business Social Corporate Financial Overview Review Responsibility Governance Statements | Greggs plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 17 The total amount invested in the year in tangible fixed assets.
Capital expenditure m Capital expenditure in 2012 was 46.9m 2011: 59.1m.
The 2011 expenditure included 16m in respect of new bakeries, there were no significant supply site projects in 2012.
2012 46.9m 2011 59.1m 2012: 2010 45.6m 46.9m 2009 30.3m 2011: 2008 40.8m 59.1m Calculated by dividing profit before tax before exceptional items by the Return on capital average total assets less current liabilities for the year.
employed Whilst new investment has performed well the year-on-year reduction in ROCE reflects the lower overall operating profits in the core estate.
Operating margin for the year has reduced slightly to 7.1 per cent 2011: 7.6 per cent.
This reflects the impact of like-for-like sales decline which has been partially offset by strong cost control and the contribution of new shops, wholesaling and franchising.
1% 2009 7.4% 2011: 2008 7.1% 7.6% Calculated by dividing profit attributable to shareholders before exceptional Adjusted diluted items by the average number of dilutive potential outstanding shares.
earnings per share pence Diluted earnings per share increased by 0.5 per cent to 39.0p 2011: 38.8p supported by a reduction in the effective rate of corporation tax in the year.
