Halfords Group plc Online version 61 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 30 March 2012 halfords.
com Channels Customer Focus Customer Values Understanding and acting on customer feedback is at the heart of what we do our next generation of customer service is a direct response Customers want value, personalisation and to trust the advice and to the feedback we have received from customers.
At Halfords we have a reputation for providing unparalleled honest and trustworthy products and service.
A Helpforce a multi-channel, customer services team is geared up to comprehensive range of support services makes Halfords a natural cater for the future needs of our customers and stores, putting thats destination for those whose life is on the move.
helpful, thats Halfords at the heart of our business.
Helpforce involves a direct customer and store facing team of experts driving all Customer Centric store queries through one point of contact.
To respond to customer values, we think about our customers and put them first.
As a customer facing business, we know our customers and Customer Proposition aspire to give them the treatment and service they want and deserve.
Halfords provides a unique range and service proposition, involving further advice and fitting services to customers that range from novices We understand that journeys are at the heart of work and family life to enthusiasts.
This approach results in a good segment sales mix we combine great products, expert advice and service to help our offering building competency and capability in higher margin customers with their life on the move.
segments such as our service lines.
We recognise that our customers are time poor and increasingly Evolving our customer offer, using a competitive combination of range, intimidated by and impatient to do it themselves.
As cars and price and service to augment our retail offer, provides a convenient, products become increasingly sophisticated there is a reluctance and value-based solution.
A consistent customer experience that is lack of expertise to do it yourself and as a result customers simply customer ready, customer friendly and customer driven leads to want convenience and immediacy provided by someone they can trust.
improved customer service and loyalty.
Proactive Customers Relationship Management Our customers pursuit of value, personalisation and trust has been Our customer relationship management is based on treating our further empowered by the Internet.
More and more customers check customers as individuals and helping to provide them with a solution.
availability online before they visit our stores.
Proactive customers get This involves helping our customers to make informed product service what they need when they need it.
choices our knowledgeable and experience-intensive customer Proactive Halfords support process increases our service innovation and penetration rates.
The needs of our customers continue to change and evolve and we For instance, service innovation has boosted average transaction values encourage our customers to be active rather than passive.
We want as well as pulling in new customer segments.
This has allowed us to them to get involved rather than be indifferent.
We want them to feel differentiate our offering based on our wefit, wecheck, included rather than excluded.
At Halfords we help and inspire our customers, improving the customer experience whether they contact us or we contact them, Halfords can be counted on as a friend in times of need.
We have a progressive approach to service, fitting many of the products we sell.
This often results in trading up and accessorising the transaction.
2.6 million wefit jobs in FY12 Revenue of 15m from wefit jobs in FY12, up c. 22% 14,660 brakes4life sales in FY12, since its launch in October 2011 20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Financials Governance Resources Business Review Introduction
