56 Resources Infrastructure Systems We believe that our systems meet our requirements and thus enable us Change Management to perform and to deliver on our promises to both our investors and our Ongoing systems development including integration and update customers, providing a solid platform for driving investor returns and roll-outs, enables the necessary change required in the business to enabling an enhanced customer experience.
ensure scalability of our business model strengthening the overall Halfords proposition.
Our systems provide us with effective tools that work all day, every day.
As everyone knows, retail is all about the detail and our systems allow However, for Halfords it is essential that change is achieved against a us to see below the surface and work out what is really going on in our need to continue to deliver business as usual as well as deliver the business and across our multi-channel offering.
key enablers to drive the execution of our strategy.
By being closer to our business we understand those actions we need Systems are embedded to enable improved productivity, increasing our to take to stabilise and build momentum on gross margin performance ability to respond to the constantly changing retail landscape.
Halfords across the business, reinforcing our growth potential.
continues to strengthen its multi-channel teams and further integrate techniques and knowledge within our core retail business.
We also continue to build resilience into our systems and therefore strengthen our business.
During the year we transitioned our disaster Sourcing and Inbound Logistics recovery plan: it is now supported in Somerset, UK and replicated in We are leveraging our supply chain relationships to develop new, Bilbao, Spain.
innovative and exclusive ranges across our store portfolio and online interface.
Direct, proactive and agile global sourcing arrangements help In terms of customer facing systems, we continue to improve our to sustain gross margin improvements.
multi-channel strategy that connects our stores with an online presence www.
com, providing a Increasingly we are sourcing more product directly from the compelling alternative to other online competition.
In particular, our offices in Hong Kong have continued to investigate and source new sources of supply, building on our historic sourcing arrangements developed in the Far East.
3.83 million Reserve & Collect transactions to date Apple & Android Apps launched June 2011 Over 400,000 items available to order in-store 20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Halfords Group plc Online version 57 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 30 March 2012 halfords.
com All of our suppliers are subject to our Code of Ethics, based on Customer Capture auditable procedures consistent with established international Our systems and expertise enable us to really understand and gain standards.
Virtually all of our products are manufactured to EN, BS and insight into our customers behaviour merging multiple databases to or ISO standards including ISO 9001 and 14001.
External verification is achieve a single, holistic customer view: increasingly being able to provided by BVQI, an international quality audit company.
anticipate what our customers want before they know what they want.
Good customer metrics based on the valuable data we get from our Distribution and Outbound Logistics customers both in our stores and online enable us to talk to We continue to upgrade our warehousing, enterprise resource and web customers in a more meaningful and focused way.
This empowers our systems to improve the efficiency of our store logistics and successful Helpful culture and enhances the customer experience.
Our dynamic web offer builds on our multi-channel proposition and Our systems are enabling us to compete more effectively.
Our continues to drive customers into our stores, following their research customers can now order up until 6.00 pm for guaranteed next day powered by our systems, including recommendation functionality based delivery, representing an attractive and compelling offer for busy, on both manual and logarithmic prompts.
This allows us to improve time-constrained customers.
attachment rates through upgrade and accessorisation opportunities.
Inventory Management Customers are increasingly attracted by our website promotions that Effective inventory management helps us to achieve more with less, combine with the convenience of delivery or collection from store, reducing our inventory holding costs and ensuring we have the right backed up by in-store services.
In addition, mobile applications will product, in the right place, at the right time.
From time to time, surplus continue to provide many opportunities for assisting in-store customers inventory may accumulate our integrated systems are three times as well as those customers away from store.
Better availability linked to accurate inventory information achieved through hand-held terminals and labels that scan improves forecasting and leads to increasingly profitable sales.
Reserve & Collect and Order & Collect integrate our website with store and Distribution Centre inventories.
This increases store footfall and range opportunities for smaller store formats.
43 million visits to website in Image: Distribution FY12 36,000 Order & Collect transactions in FY12 New O&C delivery schedules landed in March 2012 20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Financials Governance Resources Business Review Introduction
