58 Resources Infrastructure Investment We are continuously investing to improve the customer offer.
Our major Distribution Centres initiatives are focused on our people and our systems, including the role Investment in our Coventry Distribution Centre a 320,000 sq.
ft. our distribution centres, autocentres and stores play in creating an customer fulfilment centre is an essential part of our least cost attractive retail offer.
People For our distribution centres, investment to increase pick accuracy is During the year we invested in training and development initiatives vital in improving product availability for our customers.
In addition, our across the Group.
Focused training ensures everything is right first time.
colleagues have undertaken more checking of goods-out before Investment in our people included Flying Start in our stores a loading this improves the integrity of our inventory management training initiative to ensure that our frontline store staff are trained to systems, leading to increased delivery accuracy.
check and fit products on behalf of our customers.
Stores Systems We are investing in upgrading and revitalising our store formats to Our system focus has been the integration of our multi-channel offer, ensure they remain relevant and attractive to the changing profile of our streamlining and standardising processes as well as building capacity customers.
Our test store formats will help to provide feedback on and resilience into our retail backbone.
future-proofing our store portfolio and will improve the customer offer through creating the right environment, encourage more effective As a result, our system upgrades have delivered a least cost back communication around the purchasing decision and ensure that our office as well as enhanced product availability and resulted in more service, people and products reflect customers needs.
In addition, we accurate order fulfilment.
Reductions in inventory holding costs have increased our Halfords Autocentres footprint, with investment in 20 new significantly offset ongoing system investment costs.
As our investment has scaled up we have increased our capacity to Multi-channel Offering deal with customer orders and to handle order information.
This As we attract new customers it may be that our website is their first increased capacity and increased intelligence around our customers contact with our brand we therefore need to make it user-friendly buying decisions helps us to continue to refine our customer and engaging.
We are therefore investing to make our online channel proposition.
informative and intuitive, combined with good functionality to Linked to our delivery service we made a major investment in the complement the physical presence of our stores.
launch of a competitive next day delivery service for Order & Collect as well as orders delivered direct to customers.
Our system software allows us to know exactly where each product is from order to delivery, resulting in optimal order accuracy.
Trading as Halfords since 1902 1st choice in core markets 467 stores and 260 autocentres 20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6
