12 Business Review Group Strategy Our strategy is based upon our desire to maximise returns for our shareholders.
Each of our business units is tasked to deliver against an overall business plan and is focused on delivering our strategy.
In doing this, we have identified a number of measures that are important to the success of the business as a whole through which the Board and Senior Management measure performance.
With over 100 years heritage in cycling, our service, expertise, brands and product range are unsurpassed and we will continue to offer these products and services whether it be to Price customers who are purchasing their first bike or a top-of-therange Boardman racing bike.
Through our desire to be the Best Cycle Shop in Town, we aim to build on our service and brand credentials as well as providing a wide range of parts, accessories and clothing, contributing to the growing Value popularity of cycling as a healthy and environmentally friendly Service Innovation form of transport.
With the development of our own range of camping equipment Urban Escape and roof boxes Exodus, we help our customers make the most of their journeys and their time outdoors and we have become the Starting Point for Great Group Strategy Getaways.
With the demand for a more active leisure time and Our Group strategy is built on the Halfords vision to help and the desire for the enjoyment of simple family pleasures, such inspire our customers with their life on the move.
as camping, Halfords offers a range of great getaway Group Strategy Description products from travel accessories, travel equipment and The Groups key aim is to maximise returns for our camping solutions in order to help our customers make the shareholders.
We do this by creating real value for our most of their time outdoors and to help them get there.
customers within the products and services we sell while In order to consolidate our position as the Friend of the operating our business as a good corporate citizen.
Motorist, the Best Cycle Shop in Town and the Starting Point We have an ongoing strategy to drive growth from our core for Great Getaways, we will continue to offer a unique range of business.
In Retail this means our 467 stores, Halfords.
com products, which are constantly innovated and extended.
They and product categories in which we hold leading market are matched by an unparalleled honest and trustworthy service positions and in our Autocentre business through our 260 delivered by our well-trained, enthusiastic and knowledgeable Autocentres and halfordsautocentres.
colleagues in-store, at the autocentres and online thereby helping our customers, from novices to enthusiasts, to work In driving this growth we continue to place ourselves as the out exactly what they need.
Our unique store fitting service and No.
1 destination for products that enhance our customers use competitive autocentre repair service gives customers the of their car, their bikes and their touring activities.
We aim to be choice of having us do it for them or doing it themselves.
We the Friend of the Motorist by providing the products, services deliver convenient and value solutions to our customers, where and expertise required to take the hassle out of motoring and they can get what they need when they need it, through our making driving more enjoyable.
We are able to encourage our extensive store network with market-leading coverage, open customers to do it for themselves and we are able to do it for 7 days a week, and 24 7online, with a market leading multithem.
We are dedicated to providing the right level of service to channel offer available to order or reserve.
Our autocentre our customers, from stocking in-store and online a network can deal with planned and emergency work alike.
comprehensive assortment of car parts, through a price competitive, 7 days a week, on-demand fitting service, to a full We provide our customers with solutions that offer real value service and repair offer through the national coverage afforded by balancing high quality products with a competitive by our Autocentres.
combination of range, price and service and in the autocentres we provide dealership quality services at independent garage prices.
20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Halfords Group plc Online version 13 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 30 March 2012 halfords.
com We help and inspire our customers with their life on the move Strategic Pillars Enablers Portfolio Web Operations Marketing People Values Read online: halfords.
com gs 20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Financials Governance Resources Business Review Introduction
