60 Resources Channels Brand Resonance Our brand continues to create domestic growth opportunities.
At the Brand Management heart of our brand story are our brand values.
These values support the We have strong brand and category management, ensuring that brand in the marketplace and allow us stand out in our key core Halfords remains a natural destination for customers.
Brand extension leverages our previous brand successes catalyst for growth as we continue to find reasons and offerings to bring and allows us to tap into new product categories and new product customers back to us.
Brand management combined with effective customer marketing Brand Strength and Values significantly enhances customer awareness and increases demand for Our brand is one of our greatest strengths.
We have leading positions in our products and services.
National TV and radio advertising attractive markets, with many of our brands holding No.
1 sales campaigns continue to support awareness of the Halfords brand.
Our brand management provides a single face to customers so they The quality of our products and services continues to drive our connect with the Halfords brand across our offer and through new credibility.
Our brand remains trusted in the minds of our customers, products, services and channels.
Creating a single view of the customer underpinned by strong customer relevance and satisfaction.
for Halfords will enable us to increase relevancy in marketing and build a greater understanding of our customers.
Brand visibility has been further enhanced following the re-branding of Halfords Autocentres, ongoing reinvigoration of our store portfolio and Our brands enable us to offer products at multiple price points and innovative web promotions providing a high profile both online and specifications to appeal to a diverse customer base.
As a result, c. 9% of all sales are conducted online and 86% of include Carrera, Voodoo and Boardman within the cycle category.
these are collected from our stores.
Brand Extension We continue to leverage the Halfords brand into new categories and new product ranges, including the extension of the Halfords brand name into the servicing arena, supporting our aspirations to expand the brand in the automotive aftercare market.
We believe such initiatives will deliver customer awareness benefits, resulting in better footfall and utilisation.
Effective promotion of our brands via our multi-channel offer will continue to change our revenue mix towards higher value, more profitable products, services and opportunities.
1 UK bike brand Apollo Key brands Own label products 49.4% of revenue, an increase of 10% Exclusive distribution of Boardman and Pendleton brands 20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6
