68 Governance Board of Directors David Wild CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Joined 4 August 2008 Current Roles Chief Executive of Halfords Group plc and non-executive director of Premier Foods plc.
Past Roles Prior to joining Halfords David was Senior Vice-President for New Business Development at Wal-Mart US.
Prior to this appointment he was President and Managing Director of Wal-Mart Germany.
Before joining Wal-Mart, David spent eighteen years at Tesco, latterly as Group Supply Chain Director.
He spent the six years prior to this focused on the companys Continental European expansion, both as Chief Executive of Central Europe and, before that, as European Corporate Development Director.
Brings to the Board David brings over 20 years retailing experience, gained at two world-leading businesses, and the skills and ability to manage the Companys future growth strategy.
n Dennis Millard Andrew Findlay CHAIRMAN FINANCE DIRECTOR Joined Joined 28 May 2009 1 February 2011 Current Roles Current Roles Dennis is currently Chairman of Smiths Group Finance Director of Halfords Group plc News plc.
He is the Senior Independent Past Roles Director and Chairman of the Audit Prior to his appointment, Andrew was Committees of Premier Farnell plc, Director of Finance, Tax and Treasury at Xchanging plc and Debenhams plc.
Dennis Marks and Spencer Group plc.
Prior to Paul McClenaghan is also Chairman of the Trustees of the Holy Marks and Spencer he held senior finance COMMERCIAL DIRECTOR Cross Childrens Trust, a UK registered roles at the London Stock Exchange and at charity, which supports children affected by Cable & Wireless, both in the UK and US.
the AIDS pandemic in a rural area in South Joined Andrew qualified as a chartered accountant Africa.
Past Roles Current Roles Brings to the Board Commercial Director of Halfords Group plc Dennis was previously a Non-Executive Andrew has an impressive track record and Director of Exel plc and EAG Limited and extensive financial experience in retail and Past Roles Finance Director at Cookson Group plc.
Before joining Halfords, Paul worked for the other competitive, consumer and business Brings to the Board facing industries.
Andrew also has Dixons Group, most recently as Trading Director Dennis has broad commercial and for its Vision and Audio division.
He also held the operational experience of cost control and financial experience in the retail, service, business restructuring: refinancing and positions of Buying Director for Brown Goods distribution and manufacturing sectors and Commercial Director for Dixons Asia based pension scheme funding: bid defence: HMRC both internationally and in the UK and, negotiation: commercial planning and in Hong Kong.
through his roles on other boards, relevant decision support: non-merchandise Brings to the Board experience of the entrepreneurial and procurement: shared services: financial Paul brings over 20 years experience in Retail governance contributions that Directors accounting and reporting: and audit.
Marketing, Supply Chain, Merchandising, Space and Chairmen should bring to the Board.
His expertise in Range Management and Far East n r sourcing stems from his experience in purchasing, international business and Executive Non-Executive cross-country purchasing.
Paul combines 25 years negotiating experience with exposure to brand building and licensing.
a Audit Committee n Nomination Committee r Remuneration Committee 20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Halfords Group plc Online version 69 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 30 March 2012 halfords.
com Keith Harris NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Joined 17 May 2004 Current Roles Keith has been Executive Chairman of Seymour Pierce Limited since its acquisition from Investment Management Holdings plc.
Keith is currently on the Boards of Cooper Gay Holdings Limited and Sellar Investments Limited.
Past Roles Prior to this Keith was Chairman of the Football League and Chief Executive of HSBC Investment Bank plc and he has been on the Board of Benfield plc.
Brings to the Board Keith brings extensive experience of public company governance, particularly in the field of executive remuneration.
a n r Claudia Arney David Adams NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Joined Joined 1 March 2011 25 January 2011 Current Roles Current Roles David is currently Senior Independent Claudia is a Board member of Transport For London, a member of the Advisory Director of JJB Sports plc, the British Retail Bill Ronald Consortium Trading Ltd, and a NonGroup to the Shareholder Executive, a SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Board Member of Huawei, and a Executive Trustee of Walk the Walk, a breast cancer charity.
Joined Past Roles Past Roles 17 May 2004 David was the Deputy Chief Executive and Claudia was the Group Managing Director, Current Roles Digital at EMAP Inform until autumn 2010 Finance Director of the House of Fraser Plc Bill is currently Senior Independent Director until 2006.
Prior to that, he was the Group where she led the development and of Dialight plc, Chairman of The Compleat execution of online publishing strategy as Finance Director at Asprey Plc and before Food Group and Chairman of the Muscular that the Finance Director at Texas well as managing the public sector and Dystrophy Campaign.
Prior to this she was Homecare and also at Top Shop and Dorothy Perkins.
More recently, David was Director of the Enterprise and Growth Unit Past Roles at HM Treasury, and previously she was an Bills past roles include Chairman of the Non-Executive Chairman of Snap Equity Ltd Jessops.
Executive Director at Goldman Sachs Europackaging Limited and Chief Executive working on both product development and of Uniq plc for three years, prior to which Bill Brings to the Board e-publishing.
She has also worked as the spent 23 years in a variety of roles within the David brings extensive and very relevant Head of Product Development at FT. Com Mars Corporation.
His final positions there financial and business experience and a and Managing Director of TheStreet.
co. uk were Managing Director of the UK deep knowledge of the retail sector.
David is and for Mckinsey.
confectionery operation and Vice-President also the Chairman of the Audit Committee of Masterfoods Europe.
More recently, Bill Brings to the Board at JJB Sports plc and has undertaken the was also Non-Executive Director of Bezier role previously in other companies, both Claudia brings extensive experience Limited and Alfesca.
of strategy formulation and business public and private.
In addition, he was a Chief Financial Officer at a plc for almost development, particularly in the online Brings to the Board consumer and media space.
10 years and brings significant experience Bill brings experience of brand building and in running a full finance and adminstration winning loyalty by putting the customer first.
a n r operation, with additional responsbility held He also brings a focus upon organisational for property, IT, internal audit, company development.
a n r a n r 20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Financials Governance Resources Business Review Introduction
