02 Introduction Business Model Halfords has core competencies in marketing, branding, store The successful expansion of our Retail offer through in-store retailing, distribution and international sourcing, which allow value services drove the decision, in 2010, to invest in the Car Service to be generated to meet market needs.
Since 2010, these category given similar market drivers to our successful Car competencies have been leveraged in Car Servicing, when we Maintenance retail category.
Halfords runs the largest chain of acquired our Autocentres business.
UK car service centres providing service, repair and MOTs.
Our focus on range follows our strategy of life on the move and Our operations are designed to be best in class so that we can encompasses being: leverage our market-leading positions through our supply chain.
We source from suppliers around the world who manufacture the Friend of the Motorist: products to our designs and specifications.
Our distribution team the Best Cycle Shop in Town: and use their specialist knowledge to group and ship products in line with the sales plan of our Retail operation and market demands.
the Starting Point for Great Getaways.
Our internal operations draw from best industry practice.
This is delivered through our Car Maintenance, Car We also create value for our customers by keeping our cost Enhancement, Leisure, and Car Servicing categories through structure as efficient as possible.
The size of our operation which Halfords has grown market share, consolidating means that we achieve advantages of scale and run our back fragmented markets with a national store and centre network, office functions cost-effectively.
As a retailer, Halfords makes a profit from the combination of Evolving buyer trends have been met by developing a dynamic low-cost sourcing and supply chain coupled with excellent web offer which has enabled the Company to leverage average marketing and a national store network.
These skills are transaction values and drive many web customers into stores, as leveraged in the Car Service sector by running an efficient service well as combining halfords.
com to offer which profits from scale and efficiency.
Halfords provides offer a Group-based solution.
services more affordably than most franchised garages and more comprehensively than many independent garages.
With the evolution of more compact and complex vehicles, the reduced interest in self-service or Do It Yourself DIY, and an Our brand is one of our greatest strengths and our strategy is to escalating main dealer service price list, Halfords has augmented leverage this as we grow our Group.
We want to provide a single the retail offer with Do It For Me DIFM in-store fitting services.
face to customers so they can connect with the Halfords brand This increases the average transaction value, is margin accretive across our offer and through new products, services and and allows store colleagues to upsell and attach accessories to channels.
the sales whilst improving customer service and loyalty.
