70 Governance Directors Report The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements of Halfords Group plc the Company together with its subsidiary undertakings the Group for the period ended 30 March 2012.
Principal Activities Donations Halfords Group plc is a public limited company incorporated in England During the year the Group contributed 50,000 2011: 73,000 to with registered number 04457314, and its registered office is at Icknield charities in the UK, including donations to BEN, a charity supporting Street Drive, Washford West, Redditch, Worcestershire, B98 0DE.
individuals and families linked to the motor industry and associated trades.
The principal activities of the Group are: the retailing of automotive, leisure and cycling products, from 467 retail stores 2011: 466 : and Car The Groups policy is not to make any donations for political purposes.
Servicing and repair from 260 autocentres 2010: 240.
The principal However, the Companies Act 2006 defines the term donations very activity of the Company is that of a holding company.
widely and, as a result, certain expenses legitimately incurred as part of the process of talking to Government at all levels and making the Business Review Groups position known are now reportable.
Although during the year The Chairmans Statement on pages 6 to 7, and the Business Review no such expenditure or political donations were made, resolutions were on pages 10 to 49, including the Finance Directors Report on pages 34 passed at the 2011 Annual General Meeting AGM that provided for to 38, provide a review of the business and progress against Key limited authority for such expenditure, such authority remaining valid Performance Indicators KPIs during the year, descriptions of possible until the earlier of 2 October 2012 or the conclusion of the AGM to be future developments, and the principal risks and uncertainties facing the held in 2012, and as such the Company will be asking for this limited Group, and form part of this Directors Report.
Environmental authority to be renewed at the AGM to be held on 31 July 2012. considerations are reviewed within the Corporate Responsibility Report Colleagues on pages 44 to 49 which also forms part of this Directors Report.
The Board is committed to high standards of customer care and Corporate Governance service provision across the business and recognises that the The Corporate Governance Report on pages 74 to 81 forms part of this involvement of every colleague in this commitment is critical.
furtherance of this, the Group has established a framework of colleague communications regarding business performance.
The Boards ongoing Profits and Dividends commitment to colleagues engagement and development is reinforced The Groups results for the year are set out in the Consolidated Income via training initiatives across the business.
Colleague share ownership, Statement on page 96. facilitated via the availability of a Sharesave Scheme, is encouraged to The profit before tax on ordinary activities was 94.1m 2011: 118.1m further strengthen colleagues participation in the development of the and the profit after tax amounted to 68.4m 2011: 85.5m.
Groups business and aligns our colleagues interests with those of our shareholders.
The Directors propose that a final dividend of 14.0 pence per ordinary share be paid on 3 August 2012 to shareholders whose names are on The Group is dedicated to the principle of equal opportunity in the register of members at the close of business on 6 July 2012.
This employment and ensures that no applicant or colleague receives less payment, together with the interim dividend of 8.0 pence per ordinary favourable treatment on grounds such as gender, marital status, race, share paid on 27 January 2012, makes a total for the year of 22.0 ethnic origin, religion, disability, sexual orientation, or age, or is pence per ordinary share.
The total final dividend payable to disadvantaged by conditions or requirements which cannot be shown shareholders for the year is estimated to be 27.9m.
Fair and equitable employment policies are applied which Nominees Channel Islands Limited, formerly Lloyds TSB Offshore Trust seek to promote entry into, and progression within, the Group.
The Limited, trustee of the Halfords Employee Share Trust, has waived its basis for all appointments is personal ability and competency relevant entitlement to dividends.
to the specific job criteria.
Performance Monitoring Full and fair consideration is given to employment applications by The delivery of the Groups strategic objectives is monitored by the disabled persons wherever suitable opportunities exist, having regard to Board through KPIs and the periodic review of various aspects of the their particular aptitudes and abilities.
Training and career development Groups operations.
The Board considers the KPIs listed on pages 18 support is provided where appropriate.
Should a colleague become to 21 are appropriate measures for the delivery of the strategy of the disabled efforts are made to ensure their continued employment with Group and its two divisions Retail and Autocentres.
the Group and retraining provided if necessary.
20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Halfords Group plc Online version 71 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 30 March 2012 halfords.
com All Retail and Autocentre colleagues have been notified of the whistleDirectors Indemnities blowing policy and associated procedure which enables them to report During the year the Company maintained liability insurance for its any concerns on matters affecting the Group or their employment, Directors and officers.
The Directors of the Company, and the Directors without fear of recrimination.
This reduces the risk of things going of each of the Companys subsidiaries, have the benefit of an indemnity wrong or of malpractice occurring and remaining unreported.
In provision in the Companys Articles of Association.
The indemnity addition, the Group takes a zero-tolerance approach to matters of provision, which is a qualifying third-party indemnity provision as discrimination, harassment and bullying in all aspects of its business defined by section 236 of the Companies Act 2006, has been in force operations, whether in relation to gender, race, national origin, disability, throughout the year.
age, religion, sexual orientation or similar.
Appropriate policies and Directors Responsibilities procedures are in place for reporting and dealing with such matters.
The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Directors Report and the Financial Statements can be found on page 94.
The following persons were Directors of the Company during the period Disclosure of Information to Auditors ended 30 March 2012 and at the date of this Annual Report: The Directors of the Group have taken all the steps that they ought to Dennis Millard have taken as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any information needed by the Groups Auditors in connection with David Wild preparing their report and to establish that the Auditors are aware of Paul McClenaghan that information and so far as the Directors are aware there is no such information of which the Groups Auditors are unaware.
The Directors Andrew Findlay are responsible for maintaining the integrity of financial information David Adams which includes the Annual Report, together with other financial statements, presentations and announcements on the Companys Claudia Arney Corporate and IR website.
Legislation in the UK concerning the Keith Harris preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Bill Ronald Supplier Payment Policy In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and the UK The Group does not follow any formal code or standard on payment Corporate Governance Code guidelines, all those persons holding practice, but agrees terms and conditions for its business transactions positions as Directors of the Company on 30 March 2012 will offer when orders for goods and services are placed, and includes the themselves for re-election at the AGM on 31 July 2012. relevant terms in contracts, where appropriate.
These arrangements are Directors Interests adhered to when making payments, subject to the terms and The Directors interests in shares and options over shares in the conditions being met by suppliers.
The number of trade creditor days Company are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages outstanding at the period end for the Group was 59 days 2011: 59 82 to 91. days.
The Company is a holding company and had no trade creditors at the end of the period ended 30 March 2012.
In line with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, each Director has notified the Company of any situation in which he or she has, or Contractual or Other Arrangements could have a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may The Directors consider that there are no contractual or other conflict, with the interests of the Company a situational conflict.
These arrangements, such as those with major suppliers, which are likely to interests were considered and approved by the Board in accordance influence, directly or indirectly, the performance of the business and its with the Companys Articles of Association and each Director informed value.
of the authorisation and the terms on which it was given.
com dr 20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Financials Governance Resources Business Review Introduction 72 Governance Directors Report continued Financial Instruments Changes to the Companys Articles of Association must be approved by the shareholders in accordance with the legislation in force from time The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Company to time.
including interest rate, currency and credit risk are highlighted in note 19 of the Companys Financial Statements.
The Company does not have agreements with any Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or Major Shareholders employment resulting from a takeover except that provisions of the At 31 March 2012, the Companys register of substantial shareholdings Companys share schemes and plan may cause options and awards showed the following interests in three per cent or more of the granted to Directors and employees under such schemes and plans to Companys issued ordinary shares: vest on a takeover.
Number of % of Issued The Company has term and revolving credit facilities and under the Holder shares share capital terms of these facilities, the Company is required, in the event of a Capital Research Global Investors 16,947,573 8.50 change of control, to give notification to the facility agent and if so Artemis Fund Managers 10,746,755 5.39 required by the majority lenders the facilities may be cancelled.
Invesco Trimark 7,696,192 3.86 Authority to Purchase Shares Legal & General Investment At the 2011 AGM, shareholders approved a special resolution Management 7,117,981 3.57 authorising the Company to purchase a maximum of 20,583,992 M & G Investments 7,775,945 3.90 shares, representing 10% of the Companys issued share capital at 22 June 2011, such authority expiring at the conclusion of the AGM to The Takeover Directive be held in 2012.
The Directors intend to optimise the Groups balance All ordinary shares rank equally with respect to voting rights and the sheet to enhance shareholder returns and on 7 April 2011 commenced rights to receive dividends.
Shares acquired through Company share a 75m share buyback programme.
In the period ended 30 March schemes and plans rank pari passu with the shares in issue and have 2012, the Company purchased 18,084,133 shares as part of this no special rights.
buyback programme 2011: Nil, representing a nominal value of 180,841 2011: Nil, representing 9.0% of the Companys issued The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys share capital as at 30 March 2012.
The aggregate consideration Annual Report and Financial Statements: to attend and speak at excluding stamp duty paid for its shares was 62.3m.
general meetings of the Company: to appoint proxies: and to exercise voting rights.
Auditors At the 2011 AGM, KPMG Audit Plc was appointed as the Companys There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of any Auditors.
KPMG Audit Plc has indicated its willingness to accept class of shares and no requirements for prior approval of any transfers.
reappointment as Auditors of the Company.
A resolution proposing its None of the shares carry any special rights with regard to control of the reappointment is contained in the Notice of the AGM and will be put to Company.
There are no known arrangements under which the financial rights are held by a person other than the holder of the shares and no known agreements on restrictions on share transfers or on voting rights.
The rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors of the Company stand for re-election on an annual basis.
20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Halfords Group plc Online version 73 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 30 March 2012 halfords.
com Going Concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position, are set out in the Business Review on pages 10 to 49.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Finance Directors Report on pages 34 to 38.
In addition, note 19 to the Group Financial Statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
With effect from 5 November 2010 the Group secured a four-year 300m revolving credit facility extendable by a further year and at 30 March 2012 the Group had undrawn borrowing facilities of 160m 1 April 2011: 211m.
The Groups previous and current committed borrowing facilities contain certain financial covenants, which have been met throughout the period.
The Groups forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its borrowing facilities and covenants for the foreseeable future.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the uncertain economic outlook.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, hence they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Financial Statements.
Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held at the Hyatt Regency Hotel, Bridge Road, Birmingham, B1 2JZ.
The notice of the AGM and explanatory notes regarding the special business to be put to the meeting will be set out in a separate circular to shareholders.
By order of the Board Alex Henderson Company Secretary 30 May 2012 20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Financials Governance Resources Business Review Introduction
