Halfords Group plc Online version 59 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 30 March 2012 halfords.
com Channels Reach and Scale Our market leading positions across multiple product categories such Store and Multi-channel Experience as Sat Nav, Audio and DAB radio roll-out where we hold No.
1 sales Our stores are well run and provide dynamic, optimum space for positions provide us with an opportunity to continue to consolidate a delivering our customer proposition.
To provide a great offer we are largely fragmented market.
making our stores more family friendly, listing more relevant ranges and providing a differentiated service designed to make our customers feel Our operations provide access to unrivalled economies of scale, more engaged.
Our added expertise and service are difficult for achieved through our extensive national coverage.
Our coverage is competing online players and supermarkets to compete against.
supported by a number of elements including our distribution centres, store footprint, store and multi-channel experience.
Stores act as a consolidation point, drawing in web customers with the Reserve & Collect and Order & Collect online propositions as well as Distribution Centres facilitating our retail service offering of checking, building and fitting Having reconfigured our distribution network in 2010 to include a products.
state-of-the-art central distribution centre in Coventry, we are well placed to meet the needs of our extensive store footprint.
Further, our online offering allows us to target categories that customers are happy to transact with online.
As a result, some of our online ranges Store Footprint are 600% bigger than our in-store ranges attracting those customers Halfords maintains an extensive network of great-looking stores, who are savvy online shoppers.
providing a strong and resilient presence on both the high street and at prime locations within retail parks with high footfall.
Rightsizing of our store portfolio will ensure that our store presence is an enabler of growth.
Our store network has a national footprint, driving Group revenues.
It also enables us to differentiate our multi-channel offering as the network provides additional availability, accessibility and service configured to meet the local demographic needs of our national customer base.
We combine our strong retail heritage with technological developments, offering a strong retail footprint both offline and online, providing our customers with an increasingly tailored customer service.
90% of customers are within easy reach of a store 1.75 million fewer kilometres driven 16,000 SKUs online 20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Financials Governance Resources Business Review Introduction
