10 Business Review Market Review The Halfords business operates through its Retail stores, Autocentres and websites in the UK and ROI.
We continue to grow market share in our core market sectors where we have leading positions in attractive markets.
Our unique proposition differentiates Halfords from its competition and creates value for customers through a combination of range, price and quality, delivered through our multi-channel offer by our colleagues who extend expert advice and service.
Halfords store and autocentre footprint covers the UK United online offer: the Retail website covers 16,000 SKUs and the Kingdom and ROI Republic of Ireland with the majority of Autocentres website offers booking and location tools.
locations around highly populated urban locations.
The Retail The Halfords vision to help and inspire customers with their life store portfolio includes 467 stores with a mix of 402 on the move is strategically split into three pillars.
These superstores 7,00010,000 sq ft, 10,000 lines, 34 compact strategic pillars are delivered through our core categories of stores approximately 4,000 sq ft, 6,000 lines and 31 metro Car Maintenance, Car Enhancement, Car Servicing, and compact stores small format, approximately 4,200 lines.
The Leisure, and enable internal communication and collaboration, Autocentres business has increased to 260 centres.
Both the enhanced decision making and marketing focus to augment Retail and Autocentres businesses have a comprehensive returns.
Friend of the Motorist towards a Do It For Me DIFM level of service with a premium on value for money.
We believe that within the With approximately 32 million cars in the target market, and aftercare market there is substantial growth opportunity.
The many now of increasing age, Halfords is uniquely placed to bulbs, blades and battery market is worth c. 950m and provide help to our customers, delivering a wide range of car Halfords Retail stores currently has only a 9% share.
The replacement parts we stock 98% of the UK car parcs bulb Service and Repair market is a needs-driven market worth requirements and a comprehensive assortment of in-car c. 9bn, of which Halfords Autocentres has only a 1% share.
motoring ancillary ranges from navigation and audio to performance styling.
At the same time the stores offer wefit These low market share positions provide Autocentres with werepair service where for a small charge products such as material opportunities to consolidate a fragmented market bulbs, wiper blades and batteries will be fitted to customers under a strong brand coupled with an improved penetration of vehicles.
If a more comprehensive repair service is required fleet sales.
Meanwhile, the stores provide a unique capability to then our autocentres offer a quality MOT, service and repair expand the fitting offer through market awareness campaigns service for all makes and models of vehicle at affordable prices.
and attracting customer segments that have not previously considered Halfords.
Whilst economic factors of fuel, maintenance and insurance costs coupled with job uncertainty have placed value pressure on consumers, it seems that time pressures and decreasing levels of skills to perform DIY tasks are pushing consumers Car Parts Maintenance & Enhancement Fitting Do It For Me Autocentre Servicing & Repair 20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Halfords Group plc Online version 11 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 30 March 2012 halfords.
com Best Cycle Shop in Town The Halfords cycle proposition offers an end-to-end solution for cyclists: through its own brand cycles of Trax, Apollo and The UK cycling market is estimated to be worth 1.4bn and Carerra and its branded Boardman and Pendleton ranges.
has been growing at a rate 5% p. a. for the last five years.
This This offers something for everyone at a variety of price points: long-term trend is expected to continue with additional interest through PACs products where research has revealed that being created by the 2012 Olympic Games.
Economic drivers Halfords has a lower participation than in bikes which make cycling more attractive with consumers still under represents a growth opportunity both in store and online: and financial pressure, in addition to the health and family leisure through repair and servicing where, as with motoring, cycling benefits.
customers expect high levels of service.
Consequently, Cycling provides significant opportunities for sales growth Halfords offers customers build, service and repair services at through higher levels of participation in cycle models and price points and a breadth of range, which provides brands and by attracting wider consumer groups.
to cycle sales, there is material opportunity to capture share in the parts, accessories and clothing PACs products, in particular thorough increased ranges offered online.
Cycle Range Parts, Accessories and Clothing Repair Starting Point for Great Getaways The Halfords getaway proposition offers solutions for car journeys and campsite holidays including Accessories e. g. Halfords has repeatedly demonstrated an ability to consolidate maps, safety jackets and first aid kits, Travel Solutions e. g. fragmented markets with a comprehensive offer.
Leisure travel roof boxes, cycle carriers and trailers and Camping e. g. tents, is another market where Halfords provides a unique sleeping bags and cooking sets.
combination of products and solutions.
The economic drivers for holidays in the UK remain in place.
There is an increase in These categories represent opportunities to expand market staycation holidays and in the demand for an active leisure share through increasing awareness that Halfords is the natural time.
Our market share growth continues to be seen across destination when planning a getaway.
Travel Accessories Travel Solutions Camping Leveraging Technology Summary With wide-ranging store and online offers, Halfords has also Over the years Halfords has evolved from its humble recognised and begun to adapt to market buying behaviour.
beginnings in 1892, as a cycle shop in Leicester, into a national Mobile devices are increasingly being used to research and chain of retail stores that have been seen to support the use of purchase online and barcodes enable customers to access the motor car with needs driven purchases.
Recently the comprehensive online resources whilst shopping.
Company evolved further to support Do It For Me Car Maintenance through its acquisition of our Autocentres As customers buy more online and market expectations of business and the Leisure category is becoming more important delivery times for goods bought online become quicker we will to the growth of Halfords.
continue to invest in our IT and Web infrastructure.
In March 2012 we launched a revised Order & Collect service providing next day delivery.
In many instances this service works with delivery to store, allowing customers to collect at a convenient time and still get build, fitting and advice offered simultaneously.
com mr 20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Financials Governance Resources Business Review Introduction
