62 Resources Products & Services Friend of the Motorist Our Aim between 8bn and 10bn.
It is a fragmented industry and that means that any consolidation and or compelling offer has the ability to move We aim to be the No.
1 destination for products and services that the needle and provide a step-change in terms of growth enhance customers use of their car.
Our range comprises retail Car performance for the Group.
Maintenance and Car Enhancement products, augmented with in-store services delivered through our range of Do It For Me offers or through Our Position our dedicated autocentres.
Halfords Autocentres provide a range of Halfords is a natural destination retailer for products in the Car services catering for the Car Maintenance market services, MOTs Maintenance and Car Enhancement categories as well as being a through to complete vehicle maintenance packages.
leading chain of UK car service centres providing garage service, auto In short, we aim to take the hassle out of motoring for our customers repair and MOTs.
Our position is likely to further improve as we look to while maintaining and growing service advantage that provides growth extend the range and services that we provide as a Friend of the opportunities that appeal to our investors.
Market Trends Our Offer Sophisticated car production is causing a channel shift amongst Through our Halfords Autocentres we have an opportunity to customers from a Do It Yourself DIY to a Do It For Me DIFM consolidate a fragmented market under a strong brand delivering an attitude.
Our retail stores provide us with the opportunity to deliver car-related products and to extended our services Global sourcing opportunities provide economies of scale and close to cater for both the retail and fleet customer, providing a unique supplier relationships that the fragmented independent garages are combination of product and service.
A growing and ageing car parc as cars last longer and consumers are reluctant to trade in for new is underpinning growth in the UK automotive aftercare market currently estimated to be worth Bulbs stocked for 98% of the UK car parc Wipers stocked for 93% of the UK car parc 37 autocentres opened since acquisition 20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Halfords Group plc Online version 63 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 30 March 2012 halfords.
com 20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Financials Governance Resources Business Review Introduction
