64 Resources Products & Services Best Cycle Shop in Town Our Aim Our Offer In cycling we hold the No.
1 position, selling over a million cycles a year.
We offer contemporary and innovative ranges within a product led We aim to build on this position and become the Best Cycle Shop in market.
Our expertise resonates with our customers and our repairs Town enhancing our customers use of their cycles.
and servicing proposition is unmatched by others competing in this space.
In expanding our range of parts, accessories and clothing we Market Trends will maximise our offer both in-store and online.
Social, health and environmental concerns are driving consumers Our range provides customers with choice at multiple price points.
At towards cycling whether for leisure, as a cycling enthusiast or for those the entry value end of our range our Trax brand offers a boxed adult looking to commute.
Cycles and associated merchandise is a growing bike to compete directly against competitors appearing within online category and one that we at Halfords look to strengthen with the future price-comparison sites.
Apollo, Carrera, Voodoo and Boardman development of our parts, accessories and clothing offer.
complete our range of price points, with Boardman representing our Our Position offer at the premium end of the market.
We are the UKs leading retailer of cycles, built on a heritage of providing a range of good quality cycles, supported by an advice and build service to customise the bike to the needs of the customer.
20 new Boardman bikes ranged in FY12 Bike Care Plan revenue of 3m in FY12 82 childrens bikes ranged in store 20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Halfords Group plc Online version 65 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 30 March 2012 halfords.
com Products & Services Starting Point for Great Getaways Our Aim Our Offer Our aim is to help our customers make the most of their journeys and Products within this category are designed to help enhance journeys, outdoor experiences helping our customers with their life on the camping, child travel solutions and mobility products.
include increasing the capacity of carrying goods roof boxes and trailers, increasing the safety of the journey child seats and safety Market Trends vests and providing en route or destination contentment tents and There are a number of category drivers including growth in active camping equipment.
The Halfords offer also benefits from a leisure, a desire to holiday more cost-effectively and spending more professional fitting service.
precious leisure time with the family.
Pampero is an example of Halfords brand differentiation created to Consumer trends towards leisure, safety and value for money increases compete with premium brands in the child safety seat category to an the attractiveness of this category within our overall portfolio and exceptional specification.
Pampero is exclusive to Halfords and is provides significant growth potential.
Our Position Brand association with leisure products continues to grow from our traditional core products of roof boxes to our expanding camping range.
116,000 tyre inflators sold 14,000 snow socks chains sold 430,000 child seats sold, including 44,000 Pampero sold 20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Financials Governance Resources Business Review Introduction 66 Governance 20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Halfords Group plc Online version 67 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 30 March 2012 halfords.
com GOVERNANCE Board of Directors 68 Directors Report 70 Corporate Governance Report 74 Directors Remuneration Report 82 Read online: halfords.
com gov 20989.04 13-06-2012 Proof 6 Financials Financials Gover Governance finance Resour Resources ces Business Review Business Review Intr Introduction oduction
