Innovate 7% Increase in r&D investment We have once again increased our spending on innovation, investing 27.4m in R&D, up 7% from last year.
spectrocam Innovation in products and processes is a key driver of SpectroCam is a multispectral imaging MSI growth.
It enables us to build competitive advantage, gain camera system which makes MSI available market share, open up new markets and achieve high returns.
to a much larger and diverse user base by taking MSI out of the research lab and In addition to increasing our spending on innovation and R&D in into the field.
It has significant performance 2011 12, we held a second Innovation and Technology Exposition improvements over other more expensive systems on the market and has immediately to encourage collaboration through the sharing of ideas, new attracted significant customer interest.
products and processes between all Halma companies.
SpectroCam uses thin film optical filters Our training programme for technical engineers, the Halma to split the imaged object or scene into Certificate in Applied Technology, provides delegates with new multiple spectral images.
These can then be isolated, combined or enhanced with image skills in project management, finance and customer-led innovation.
analysis software to obtain the physical and We regularly celebrate the most successful creative ideas in design, chemical attributes of the imaged object selling and manufacturing across Halma with our monthly and quickly and easily.
Dave Fish from Ocean Thin Films, one of our photonics companies, was one of this years winners at our Annual Innovation Awards.
The companys SpectroCam reflects Halmas move towards higher technology over the past decade.
28 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Grow emerging market focus International expansion is a key component of our growth Investment in international expansion has strategy and an important element of how we add value to resulted in significant revenue increase new acquisitions: we aim for at least 30% of revenue to come outside the UK Europe and the USA.
Since 2007 it has increased from 19% to the from outside the uK, usa and mainland europe by 2015.
By current 24% of total sales.
that time china should contribute 10% of the total revenue.
Many of our companies are turning their In the past five years we have averaged over 30% annual sales international expansion focus to South growth in China.
Chinese employee numbers have risen from 200 America.
Our Health Optics businesses have recently set up a shared service to approximately 450 people and we now generate over 5% of centre in So Paulo, Brazil and many of our global revenue from China up from less than 2% five years ago.
Industrial Safety businesses are establishing a direct presence in the region to address Starting in 2006 we have invested in five regional hub offices, the Oil and Gas market.
manufacturing facilities and regional sales teams.
These hubs provide Since Martin Zhang was appointed Director of a low risk, quick-start platform for our businesses to enter the Chinese Halma China in 2006 sales growth in China has market.
Twenty-eight of our businesses now have Chinese sales averaged 30% per year.
operations and nine also manufacture in China.
30% International expansion Our target is for non-UK US Europe revenue to be 30% of the group total by 2015.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 29 sector revIew HealtH anD analysIs we make products used to improve personal and public health.
we develop technologies for analysis in safety, life sciences and environmental markets.
Performance sector Group target KPIs performance target met 1 Revenue growth 16.2% 5% 1 Profit growth 25.5% 5% 2 Return on Sales 22.8% 18% 3 ROCE 89.1% 45% 4 R&D % of Revenue 5.1% 4% contribution to Group m 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Revenue 254 218 178 167 137 Profit 58 46 35 29 28 5 1 Sector revenue and adjusted sector profit before finance expense are compared to the equivalent prior year figure.
5 2 Return on Sales is defined as adjusted profit before finance expense and taxation expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
5 3 Adjusted sector profit before finance expense expressed as a percentage of sector operating net assets.
4 Sector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
5 A djusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, acquisition transaction costs and movement on contingent consideration.
Sub-sector revenue split Growth rate Photonics 8% 31% Health Optics 33% 28% Water 14% 23% Fluid Technology 12% 18% 30 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 31 Photonics market leading opto-electronic technology for scientific, medical and environmental applications.
market trends and growth drivers Performance Worldwide demand varied in our Photonics The benefits of a continued high level niches during 2011 12 but long-term growth of investment in R&D and international prospects continue to be good.
Asia is the expansion helped to deliver record key geographic growth area, with medical, revenue and profit in Photonics.
Avo biotechnology and industrial applications Photonics, acquired in July 2011, is already being the brightest prospects though collaborating with our other Photonics overcapacity among LED manufacturers businesses in developing novel products.
slowed growth in the first half of the year, outlook but a change in focus towards the applied We anticipate growth for Photonics for LED market delivered improvement in the the coming year driven by market growth second half.
Our Photonics end-markets particularly from OEM customers and new are very broad, providing a broad market-leading products.
Modest growth application base and global reach that is expected in North America, but demand creates overall resilience despite temporary in Asia should rise.
We also expect to grow local market changes.
We expect to strategy benefit significantly from the global transition Our primary Photonics strategy is to to LED solid state lighting.
The acquisition continue to strengthen technological of Avo Photonics has increased our micro leadership in our niche markets and expand electro-optic capability.
geographical sales outside our traditional strongholds in the USA and Europe.
Our emerging market emphasis remains on Asia but with increasing focus on Latin America.
We will continue to expand sales, technical support, manufacturing and logistics to serve the Asian market.
High R&D investment is required to maintain market leadership in advanced technologies.
While development risks can be relatively high, we often achieve rapid payback from technological innovation.
Our strategy has expanded towards building systems and solutions from easily configured base capabilities.
31% coated optical filter % of sector revenue Ocean Thin Films 32 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Health optics Devices used to assess eye health, diagnose disease, assist with eye surgery and for general medical applications.
market trends and growth drivers Performance New diagnostic and therapeutic In Health Optics we again achieved record technologies, ageing populations, increasing revenue and profits.
Medicel, acquired in life expectancy and greater access to 2011, exceeded expectations as the market healthcare in developing economies continued to convert to its single-use drive growth in our Health Optics markets.
The market for medical devices is heavily outlook regulated.
Compliance with product We expect our Health Optics businesses certifications continues to become more to continue to outperform global market administratively complex and costly.
The growth rates through faster growth in stringent regulatory environment creates a developing markets, enhanced distribution strong barrier for new market entrants and and the contribution from new products enhances the value of our well-established introduced in 2012 13.
We will receive official sales channels.
registration in 2013 for our So Paulo, Brazil strategy office which will reduce import duties and Geographic expansion, particularly in Asia assist in product registration and Latin America, remains the focus of and distribution.
our Health Optics growth strategy.
We will continue to strengthen our sales and support teams in emerging markets and aim to begin manufacture of ophthalmic products in China and Brazil for their local markets during the next year.
We will also increase collaborative product development.
During 2011 12 two subsidiaries, Riester and Keeler, launched a jointly-developed line of ophthalmic diagnostic products which will be taken to market through their separate sales channels to general medical and ophthalmology, respectively.
Recently acquired Accutome and SunTech extend our capabilities in both surgical diagnostic ophthalmic products and blood pressure monitoring, adding new technologies which complement those 28% of other Halma businesses.
Portable slit lamp for eye examinations % of sector revenue Keeler Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 33 water Products to monitor and find leaks in water networks: uv technology for disinfecting water: and water quality testing products.
market trends and growth drivers sensor technologies which complement Global demand for water treatment those of other Group businesses.
products is forecast to rise at over 6% per Performance year until 2015, with growth of 8% in Asia.
Continued investment in R&D, people China is the second largest water treatment development and export sales resources market in the world and is expected to led to substantial profit growth.
Our Water remain the fastest growing major market.
businesses increased sales in China In emerging countries, growth drivers will be by 63%.
industrialisation, sanitation improvements and compliance with international outlook wastewater discharge standards.
Growth New market-leading products are expected in developed markets will be driven by to boost sales growth in 2012 13.
Water increased water reuse, drinking water sector sales growth in Asia should quality improvements and environmental accelerate, supported by investment in protection.
Strong, legislation-driven growth regional sales resources and the continuous in industrial applications is anticipated stimulus of regulation.
but demand from municipal customers is expected to remain slow.
strategy Our market positions in Water will be strengthened by continued technological innovation, market leading customer service and by further development of geographic sales channels.
We aim to maintain world leadership in water leakage control instrumentation and increase market share in both drinking water and waste water network management systems.
In water treatment, we plan to grow market share in water and environmental analysis products and in Uv water disinfection systems for municipal, industrial and aquatic applications.
Recently acquired photochemical sensor specialist Sensorex strengthens our presence in the 23% US market significantly and adds new water leak locator HWM-Water % of sector revenue 34 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 fluid technology critical components such as pumps, probes, valves, connectors and gas conditioning products used by scientific, environmental and medical diagnostic oems for demanding applications.
market trends and growth drivers Performance Growth drivers for fluid technology markets Our Fluid Technology businesses achieved remain strong, with rising demand for revenue growth but profit was slightly healthcare and improving standards of living lower than last year.
Major customer around the world.
We see good long-term consolidation adversely affected results in growth prospects across all fluid technology many companies, including Accudynamics markets, particularly in medical diagnostics acquired in 2010. and environmental monitoring.
outlook Consolidation among instrument Extra investment in R&D will deliver makers, relocation of OEM customers significant new products in 2012 13. manufacturing to low cost regions and Our own international expansion and the continued price pressure are the key growing global medical diagnostic market challenges facing our companies.
should underpin a continuing shift away from the predominance of the US market.
strategy We anticipate a return to profit growth Customer diversification, both in 2012 13. geographically and by markets served, is our primary strategy to stimulate growth and resilience.
Our focus is on emerging niches, such as molecular diagnostics and genomics, where we will develop higher value-added products for customers.
We will reflect our customers manufacturing strategy by increasing non-US production and expanding manufacturing in China.
18% mass flow meter % of sector revenue Alicat Scientific Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 35
