corPorate resPonsIBIlIty contInueD No survey is capable of capturing all the employee consultation DIvERSITY POLICY appropriate sentiments, but our executives, The Group places considerable value Halma believes that the diversity of who regularly visit all Group companies, on the involvement of its employees and our staff is a significant contributor to agree that observable and valuable has continued to keep them informed our success: improvements in the Group culture have on matters affecting them as employees Diversity in our organisation attracts occurred over recent years.
The Group and on the various factors affecting the talented people to join the group and will continue to monitor the survey results performance of the Group.
This is achieved to develop to their full potential.
to enable us to better support our people through formal and informal meetings, the Diversity within our leadership improves in bringing these values and strengths Group intranet and the annual financial decision making processes and to work so that they and we may derive statements.
are consulted routinely on a wide range of Diversity encourages fresh thinking matters affecting their current and future Diversity and challenges the status quo and interests.
An employee share plan has The Board of Directors responded to boosts innovation.
It is the consultation document that the UKs open to all UK employees and aligns the Financial Reporting Council issued in Our policys objectives are: interests of all UK employees to those respect of Gender Diversity on Boards.
T o build a culture that encourages of shareholders.
talented people of all backgrounds, Our experience is that throughout Halma, Health and safety beliefs or any form of personal identity women are under-represented at manager The Group manages its activities to avoid to want to work for Halma.
and executive levels and we aim to increase causing any unnecessary or unacceptable 2.
T o use recruitment, training, the proportion of women in senior roles risks to health and safety to our employees development, promotion and and on the Board of Directors by refreshing in the work place or to the public as a result compensation to increase diversity our policies and behaviours from both a of our activities.
The policy is understood by in our organisation.
top down and bottom up approach.
all Group companies and was reinforced in 3.
T o ensure that our procedures, To that end, we issued a Diversity Policy 2010 11 through improved guidance and systems and behaviours are not during the year which is available on our reporting following a comprehensive review discriminatory.
We appreciate the task ahead of led by an external expert.
As a result, us in a sector where graduates are more reporting of Health and Safety incidents Each year our Board of Directors reviews than 80% male, so part of our strategy will and corrective action where needed has these policies and our implementation to involve ensuring that Halma has a culture been given an even higher profile.
Given ensure that they create and maintain a and working practices that make it more the autonomous structure of the Group, diverse and inclusive organisation.
operational responsibility for compliance with relevant local health and safety Our efforts will not only be directed Disabled employees regulations is delegated to the directors towards gender diversity, but also towards Applications for employment by disabled of each Group company.
We believe increasing the proportion of individuals people are always fully considered, bearing health and safety training is important with experience in the business and in mind the aptitudes of the applicant and it is carried out within companies as geographic markets in which we see concerned.
In the event of members of appropriate.
Adequate internal reporting our operations trending.
staff becoming disabled, every effort is exists in order that the Groups Finance Our strong preference is to develop policies made to ensure that their employment Director can monitor each companys and actions which support our aims rather with the Group continues and that compliance with this policy.
We appropriate training is arranged.
It is the believe the former evolves into part of the policy of the Group that the training, career Major injuries corporate culture more readily than simply development and promotion of disabled recorded 2012 2011 2010 setting a target.
people should, as far as possible, be Days lost due to identical to that of other employees.
work-related injuries 301 455 133 Total recorded injuries to all employees 362 505 233 The Group collects details of its worldwide reported health and safety incidents, and these are available on our website at www.
We are also pleased to report that there were no fatalities between 2009 and 2012.
66 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements People development In 2011, we introduced a new programme, ethics We run a number of people development Halma Certificate of Applied Technology, The Group culture is one of openness, targeted at our technical engineers to integrity and accountability.
The Halma Executive Development Programme HEDP, which is equip them with a broader understanding its employees to act fairly in their dealings based on our recognition of the fundamental of Halmas technology, improve their with fellow employees, customers, suppliers part our people play in the success of the productivity and provide specific and business partners.
Halma introduced a Group, continued to strengthen in 2011 12. skills training in areas such as project new Code of Conduct during the year which HEDP is an integrated development plan management.
Two such programmes applies to all Group employees and our for our senior people including the next with 36 participants have been completed external business relationships.
We require generation of Managing Directors and with great success.
suppliers to be of high quality and to operate Divisional Chief Executives.
Our objective to accepted international standards.
Halma The Halma Graduate Development is to provide these individuals with the operates a confidential whistleblowing policy Programme HGDP was introduced with an external call centre, which enables tools and training they need to achieve during 2011 12 and the first participants more in their existing role and potentially to all Group employees to raise any concerns start working with us in Summer 2012. advance through the organisation if their they may have.
HGDP is targeted at engineering, science achievements merit it.
and technical graduates with the potential Halma has a zero-tolerance policy on bribery and corruption which extends to all to become future leaders of our companies, Training 2012 2011 2010 or next generation specialists driving business dealings and transactions in which Cumulative number of our technology.
This includes a prohibition candidates that have on making political donations, offering or completed HEDP 194 166 152 The programme lasts 18 to 24 months receiving inappropriate gifts or making Cumulative number of and is based on placements in our various undue payments to influence the outcome candidates that have operating companies.
Through project of business dealings.
A new, robust policy completed HMDP 392 319 277 work participants quickly assume and guidance in this area was updated Cumulative number of responsibility and learn in detail how during the year in line with best practice.
candidates that have businesses operate.
We support completed HCAT 36 19 participants through residential training modules to help develop communication HEDP is aimed at employees already and teamwork skills alongside a mentoring serving on subsidiary boards but we programme for personal development.
also encourage applications from senior functional managers who can demonstrate community they already have equivalent responsibilities In line with our decentralised structure, and will benefit from the programme.
social and community activities are sponsored and undertaken at the direction There are approximately 240 such eligible of subsidiary management.
Each subsidiary employees in total.
has the freedom to implement its own initiatives.
This approach recognises that The programme has been developed from priorities will vary from business to business.
a proven course structure and is specifically and continuously tailored to suit Halmas responsible investment needs, aligning the content to the Groups Investing in Halma shares meets the criteria four core values of Achievement, Innovation, of many professional and private investors Empowerment and Customer Satisfaction.
who base their decisions on environmental, It focuses strongly on strategic and ethical and social considerations.
The leadership capabilities and developing Group is a world leader in several key personal attributes commitment, environmental technologies and has a determination and resilience.
There is an reputation for honesty and integrity in its emphasis on performance management relationships with employees, customers, and team development.
It includes business partners and shareholders.
skillbased elements such as sales and marketing management, project Social conditions can be improved for leadership, corporate governance, finance all through the creation of wealth.
Halma and innovation, but all are presented in a creates wealth responsibly allowing our strategic context.
employees, customers, business partners and shareholders to determine where this Fourteen programmes have been wealth is best distributed.
Halmas policies reflect the core Now that a significant proportion of requirements of the Universal Declaration executives have completed HEDP, a of Human Rights and the ILO Declaration follow up programme, HEDP, has been on Fundamental Principles and Rights at introduced to provide updated training and Work.
We do not tolerate practices which Cautionary note: This Business Review has to reinforce the original course contents, and contravene these international standards.
been prepared solely to assist shareholders four such courses were held in the year.
Regulatory demands upon us vary to assess the Boards strategies and their considerably around the world, so Halma Complementing the HEDP is a programme potential to succeed.
It should not be relied establishes the core structure to ensure for subsidiary managers and supervisors on by any other party, for other purposes.
that Group companies fully comply with the Halma Management Development Forward-looking statements have been legislative and regulatory requirements Programme HMDP.
During the year, three made by the Directors in good faith using while permitting them to tailor their HMDP and two HMDP programmes were information available up until the date that completed giving a cumulative total of 392 approach to their particular needs.
Forward-looking employees who have completed HMDP.
statements should be regarded with caution Programmes were held in the USA, Europe because of the inherent uncertainties in and Asia.
economic trends and business risks.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 67 BoArd of direcTors Geoff Unwin Andrew Williams Kevin Thompson Non-executive chairman of Halma chief executive finance director Age 69 Age 45 Age 52 Location UK Location UK Location UK Geoff was appointed non-executive Chairman Andrew was appointed Chief Executive of Halma Kevin was appointed to the Halma plc Board of Halma in 2003, having been appointed to the plc in February 2005.
He became Group Finance Director in Board in 2002.
He is Chairman of Xchanging plc Director of the Halma plc Board in 2004.
Andrew 1997 after joining the Halma Executive Board as and OpenCloud Ltd. Geoff is also Chairman of became a member of the Halma Executive Board Finance Director in 1995.
Kevin joined Halma as Taptu Limited, a member of the Advisory Board in 2002 as Divisional Chief Executive after joining Group Financial Controller in 1987.
Kevin qualified of Palamon Capital Partners and also chairs Halma in 1994 as Manufacturing Director of as a Chartered Accountant with Price Waterhouse one of their investments, RD Card Holdings Ltd. Reten Acoustics now HWM-Water, where he and is an economics and accounting graduate Previously he was a Non-voting Board Director became Managing Director in 1997.
He attended the Advanced of Capgemini Group, Chairman of Liberata plc is a Chartered Engineer and a production Management Program at Harvard Business from 2003 to 2011, Alliance Medical Group until engineering graduate of Birmingham University.
December 2010, United Business Media plc from He attended the Advanced Management Program 2002 to 2007 and Chief Executive of Cap Gemini at Wharton Business School, University of Ernst & Young until 2002.
Pennsylvania in 2004. committee membership Neil Quinn Adam Meyers 1 2 Audit Nom Rem Geoff Unwin Andrew Williams Kevin Thompson Stephen Pettit Neil Quinn Jane Aikman Adam Meyers Norman Blackwell chief executive, industrial safety division chief executive, Health optics division Age 62 Age 50 Steve Marshall Location UK Location USA Neil was appointed to the Halma plc Board in Adam joined the Halma plc Board in April 2008 Daniela Barone 1998 and is Chief Executive of the Industrial Safety and is Chief Executive of the Health Optics Soares Division.
He joined the Halma Executive Board in Division.
He became a member of the Halma Chairman Member 1995 as Divisional Chief Executive.
He became Executive Board in 2003 as Divisional Chief 1 Managing Director of Apollo Fire Detectors in Executive, having joined Halma in 1996 as Nomination Committee.
1992, after joining as Sales Director in 1987.
Adam gained his Neil has a material sciences degree from MBA from Harvard Business School and is a Sheffield University.
systems engineering graduate of the University of Pennsylvania.
68 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 963-1 Halma AR12 GOV AW9.
