strateGy anD BusIness moDel values alignment p19 acquisitions p15 acquIre emPower cash generation p18 Development programmes p18 Business model strategy strategic priorities what is Halmas growth objective?
We aim to double Group revenue and profit Weoperate in relatively non-cyclical, We are making the following key strategic every five years.
Our investments across the Group to sustain technology and application know-how growth above market rates: Historically we have achieved this through provide the opportunity to generate a mix of acquisitions and organic growth.
Acquisitions growth, sustainable high returns and strong Return on Sales in excess of 18% and Innovation products and process competitive advantage.
Our chosen markets Return on Capital Employed over 45% People development have significant barriers to entry.
Demand ensure that cash generation is strong International expansion especially Asia for our products is underpinned by longenough to sustain growth and increase term, resilient growth drivers.
dividends without the need for high levels of external funding.
We place our operational resources close toour customers through locally managed autonomous businesses.
We reinvest cash into acquiring high performance businesses in, or close to, our existing markets.
4 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements rotIc p17 return on sales p16 organic revenue growth p14 High rate of innovation p15 values alignment p19 acquisitions p15 Innovate Grow cash generation p18 Development programmes p18 co emissions p19 2 organic profit growth p14 International expansion p16 roce p17 Growth drivers values organisational structure what drives long-term growth How do we maintain a consistent How does our structure help deliver in our chosen markets?
Demand in each of our markets is Our values help to ensure a consistent Halmas 3 sectors are composed drivenbyone or more of the following set of standards and behaviours throughout of40autonomous operating companies, long-term growth drivers: the Group.
This is particularly important each with their own board of directors.
given the Groups decentralised structure.
These are grouped into operating divisions, Increasing demand for healthcare Our core values are Achievement, each chaired by a Halma Divisional Chief Increasing demand for energy and water Innovation, Empowerment and Customer Executive DCE, responsible for its own Increasing urbanisation of population Satisfaction.
Our employees are required growth.
DCEs understand the market needs Increasing health and safety regulation to act fairly in their dealings withfellow of their companies and contribute broadly to employees, customers, suppliers and their strategies.
Through regular interaction business partners: these principles are between Executive Board members, included within our Code of Conduct which common challenges and opportunities has been signed by each Group employee.
A small head office team focuses on setting the strategic framework Our performance culture is underpinned by and maintains astandard process of the alignment of reward and incentive plans.
financial planning, reporting and control.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 5
