DataGate is a breakthrough data management system.
It leapfrogged the competition and set new standards in every key performance area.
Customers liked the benefits and we have won a series of big contracts with the new technology.
The R&D investment has paid off, exposing us to new markets such as commercial water, gas and electricity meter data-logging.
HWM-Water Innovation in action DataGate is a web-based data handling system that lets utilities, such as water companies, collect, analyse and view enormous quantities of data generated by monitoring devices that control the safety and efficiency of their systems.
Data is collected using standard text and cell phone technology and customers can keep track of their systems status using any web-enabled device.
36 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements sector revenue 254m 16% sector profit 58m 25% Global operations Finland Canada Germany UK The Netherlands France Switzerland USA Spain China Japan India Malaysia Brazil Australia sector growth drivers Directions Increasing health and safety regulation Sustain high organic growth Increasing demand for healthcare Expansion in Asia and South America Increasing demand for energy and water Acquisitions that broaden our technology strategic summary and geographic scope Achievements Local manufacture in emerging markets Disruptive new technology Record revenue and profit Maintain R&D investment at least 5% of revenue 29% revenue growth in China Acquisition of Avo Photonics: disposal of volumatic non-core business Integration of Radio-Tech with HWM-Water New Health Optics company established in Brazil New Uv product launched for China Minority investment in new ophthalmic imaging technology company, Optomed Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 37 sector revIew Infrastructure sensors we make products which detect hazards to protect assets and people in public, commercial and industrial buildings.
Performance sector Group target KPIs performance target met 1 Revenue growth 3.6% 5% 1 Profit growth 0.2% 5% 2 Return on Sales 19.1% 18% 3 ROCE 79.6% 45% 4 R&D % of Revenue 4.9% 4% contribution to Group m 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Revenue 204 197 183 186 167 Profit 39 39 36 33 29 5 1 Sector revenue and adjusted sector profit before finance expense are compared to the equivalent prior year figure.
5 2 Return on Sales is defined as adjusted profit before finance expense and taxation expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
5 3 Adjusted sector profit before finance expense expressed as a percentage of sector operating net assets.
4 Sector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
5 A djusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, acquisition transaction costs and movement on contingent consideration.
Sub-sector revenue split Growth rate Fire Detection 6% 39% Automatic Door Sensors 5% 27% Elevator Safety 0% 21% Security Sensors 0% 13% 38 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 fire Detection fire and smoke detectors and audible visual warning devices used in public, commercial and industrial property.
market trends and growth drivers Further investment in extending sales Worldwide fire market growth continues coverage in emerging markets will aid to be driven by legislation.
and standards governing installation, Performance maintenance and servicing of fire products Fire Detection revenue and profits grew.
are extensive, often with differences at The Apollo brand was re-organised into a national, regional and even city level.
In the global business with significant operations emerging economies, codes and standards in Europe, the United States and China.
This are still being created and slowly adopted.
gives us the ability to implement a global Although fire codes exist in Eastern Europe, growth strategy with resources allocated South America and Asia there is often according to the opportunity within each poor enforcement.
In the mature US and European markets, outlook modest growth is forecast in 2012 for Despite slowing demand from the new new installations and maintenance work.
construction sector we anticipate continued Stronger growth is expected in Asia growth as regulation drives demand in Pacific and Latin American markets due existing buildings.
We expect our Fire to continuing construction investment, and Detection businesses to continue to gain increased regulation, particularly in China market share due to robust IP protection, and Brazil.
technology leadership and further strategy penetration of regional markets.
Our primary strategy is world leadership in safety-critical sensor products used in commercial, public and industrial buildings.
We are one of the worlds largest manufacturers of point smoke detectors.
Investment in worldwide product approvals and innovation in new products and technology will drive market share growth, maintain competitive advantage and ensure good margins.
39% fire detector Apollo Fire Detectors % of sector revenue 40 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 automatic Door sensors sensors used on automatic doors in public, commercial and industrial buildings and transportation.
market trends and growth drivers Performance Demand in the niches that we target is Revenue and profit improved despite driven by increasing legislation which economic uncertainty in a number of improves the safety and security of people regions.
A global board reorganisation and processes.
Asia is expected to be the was successfully completed without fastest growth area, with a return to growth impact on performance.
Despite short-term in the Americas.
Supported by high levels delays in the Chinese high-speed train of R&D spending, we continue to diversify projects, the overall diversification targets outside our primary pedestrian door market.
were achieved while maintaining growth in We believe that rail transport presents the core pedestrian door business.
outlook strategy Diversification into new applications such Our core growth strategy is to maintain as transport, will enable revenue and global market leadership in the pedestrian profit growth above the rate of our traditional door sensors niche while growing sales pedestrian door market.
Spreading R&D by diversifying into industrial, security resources globally will allow development and transport door control applications.
of new products aligned with local customer needs and the ever-increasing regulations Our response to the challenge of increased governing all of our door control markets.
competitive pressure due to further consolidation among automatic door manufacturers is to enhance the value of our product offerings.
Our unique award-winning laser scanner detectors demonstrate our commitment to global technology leadership.
New, technologically advanced sensors, industry-leading manufacturing techniques and enhanced logistics will meet customers needs and ensure competitive advantage.
27% automatic door sensor % of sector revenue BEA Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 41 elevator safety elevator lift door safety sensors, emergency communication devices, displays and control panels.
market trends and growth drivers Performance Urbanisation, population ageing and Elevator Safety revenue was flat with profit increasing safety awareness are global lower partly due to reorganisation costs.
drivers in the elevator market.
We see wide We achieved strong revenue growth in regional variations in patterns of demand, Asia, while sales in Europe and the USA with very positive growth in the emerging reflected the tougher trading conditions.
economies of Asia and Brazil, where growth Several global contracts were won for door comes from new-build installations.
In safety devices which will provide significant our US and European markets, which are revenue streams for the next three years dependent on legislation-driven upgrades at least.
and building modernisation, demand is outlook more steady.
The worldwide market for The global elevator market is showing elevator safety products is expected to grow signs of lower growth in 2012 13.
The Chinese will continue to be the focus of new-build governments social housing programme, elevator demand with the social housing with a target of 36 million affordable homes programme scheduled to run until at least over the next five years, demonstrates 2015.
Longer term, a substantial Chinese the impact of urbanisation.
Chinese service and modernisation market should infrastructure investment now accounts for emerge.
Outside Asia, we expect to grow over half of global new elevator installations, from market share gains, geographical and is forecast to grow by up to 20% expansion and new products.
strategy Our strategy is to strengthen our offering by moving from a regional to a global presence.
During 2011 12 we began the integration of our European and Asian Elevator Safety businesses, whose core technologies are door detectors, displays and emergency telephones, under a single management team.
Sales, R&D and manufacturing resources are being rationalised with facilities in Europe, India, Singapore and China.
21% elevator display E-Motive Display % of sector revenue 42 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 security sensors security sensors and signals used in public, commercial and industrial property.
market trends and growth drivers Performance We anticipate positive changes in this Revenue grew slightly with profit lower than market driven by new European standards the prior year.
This was partly accounted for intruder alarm systems that take for by high investment in a fully renewed effect during 2012.
We have invested product line to meet new regulatory in a completely new product line to standards and reduce production costs.
ensure that our customers meet the new outlook compliance and certification standards.
We anticipate growth from Security Our security business has formed Sensors during 2012 13.
This should technology partnerships with leading be supported by the impact of our new providers in other security sectors to European-certified product portfolio, offer integrated systems and advanced increasing adoption of wireless technology, building management and communication and new revenue streams from our hazard platforms.
Our new wireless intruder signalling products.
detection technology, Ricochet, is gaining share as the first system of its type robust enough for commercial environments.
strategy Our Security Sensors growth strategy remains focused on increasing revenue in Europe, the Middle East and Africa together with investment in sales resources in emerging economies like China and India.
We have successfully integrated hazard signalling products into our security product portfolio to broaden our product offering.
Innovation in new technologies, like Ricochet, will enable us to gain market share.
13% wireless intruder alarm sensor % of sector revenue Texecom Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 43
