Overview Business review Governance Financial statements In India, there was slower progress, In April 2012, we paid US$37.5m 23.4m With demand for our products increasingly with revenue increasing by 8% to 7.0m to acquire Sensorex, a manufacturer stimulated by regulation, we can invest for the 2011: 6.4m.
We are adding both sales of water quality test sensors based longer term with confidence.
Our competitive and technical resource in Mumbai and in California, USA.
Sensorex is very environment is heavily influenced by global, during the year moved to larger premises.
complementary to our existing water test regional and national product approvals However, it is clear that India is not currently business, Palintest, and joins the Water or technical validations.
Compliance with offering us the same rate of revenue sub-sector.
product regulations is a steadily increasing growth as China, South-East Asia and overhead and a technical challenge but In April 2012, we acquired Accutome for South America.
our focus on this area enables us to build US$20m 12.6m, including US$2.3m of competitive advantage.
We are exposed acquisitions and disposals debt, plus an earn-out of up to US$5m to a very diverse range of niche markets, During the year, we completed two based on future profit growth.
Accutome each with its own unique competitive acquisitions and one disposal.
Following adds new products and greater sales environment.
Our strategy is to empower the year end, we acquired a further three and distribution strength in the USA for local management to respond to changing businesses.
For these five acquisitions we our Health Optics businesses.
Based in market conditions by controlling their own paid 80m, including 3m of debt acquired, Pennsylvania, USA, it already trades with competitive strategy.
More details are given plus potential for 14m of earn-outs and our ophthalmic instrument businesses in the sector reviews on pages 30 to 53. received an initial payment of 4.4m for the Keeler and volk.
All transactions, except the Kirk In the current macro-economic environment In May 2012, we acquired SunTech for Key acquisition, were within our Health each of our businesses is experiencing US$46m 29.6m plus US$5m for cash and Analysis sector.
very different challenges and opportunities retained in the business with a potential according to their particular market and In May 2011, we acquired Kirk Key earn-out of US$6m.
Their blood pressure geographic exposure.
In 2012 13, we Interlocks, based in Ohio, USA for monitoring technology is a perfect expect the macro-economic and political US$14.5m 8.8m, including US$1.9m of complement to Riesters own clinical grade circumstances in Europe and the Middle debt.
Kirk Key was our most significant blood pressure monitoring devices.
East to remain challenging with the USA competitor for Safety Interlocks in the US maintaining a relatively low rate of growth.
Our current acquisition prospect pipeline market and is a strong addition to our group We believe that the broader socio-economic is strong.
We are looking for successful of market leading interlock businesses development of developing regions like Asia businesses in, or closely related to, our within the Industrial Safety sector.
and South America will continue to increase existing sub-sectors.
Although most of our demand for a safer environment and for In July 2011, we bought Avo Photonics, transactions in recent years have been in greater access to healthcare and energy based in Pennsylvania, USA for US$9.1m the Health and Analysis sector, we continue water resources.
This should benefit 5.7m plus a one-year earn-out of up to to look for opportunities in our safety-related Halma businesses.
US$11.0m dependent on profit growth.
This combination gives Halma Avo adds significant new technology and a great balance between sustainable our primary market growth drivers manufacturing know-how to our Photonics growth and strong returns.
Halmas strategy is to develop market businesses.
Their expertise in miniature positions with a horizon of ten years or macro-economic, regulatory and electro-optic design and manufacturing has more.
Growth strategies within our individual competitive environment potential applications across many other operating businesses tend to have three to With our focus on the supply of safety, Halma sub-sectors.
health and environmental related products, In March 2012, we sold volumatic, based Halma businesses are positioned in in Coventry, UK to a private equity fund, for relatively non-cyclical markets that have 4.4m plus performance based earn-outs clear, long-term growth prospects.
Most of Our focus on Safety, Health and Environmental Technology is continuing to provide opportunities for growth in both developed and developing regions.
The end-markets for their our markets are underpinned by regulatory The markets we select must have robust cash counting products are retail and drivers where customer spending is growth drivers with potential for organic banking which do not have the long-term often non-discretionary.
Our businesses growth well above the underlying market or growth drivers we seek.
This disposal is benefit from strong market positions GDP growth.
a further example of our ability to divest providing upgrade and replacement sales All of our businesses are positioned in businesses for sensible prices where the opportunities.
These factors combine markets that are underpinned by at least longer-term returns and growth prospects to create genuine resilience in tough one of the following growth drivers: do not meet our objectives.
volumatic was economic conditions and enable us to the only Halma business whose products achieve organic growth above prevailing and activities were not related to any of our market growth rates.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 23 strateGIc revIew contInueD Increasing demand for healthcare resources between economic groups This combination of increasing safety Three key demographic trends support and between national governments.
The regulation and globalisation drives demand increasing worldwide demand for increasing value placed on water resources for our Industrial Safety and Infrastructure healthcare: global population ageing, global drives demand for our water conservation, Sensors products.
population growth and rising incomes in the treatment, monitoring and testing products.
Delivering corporate responsibility developing world.
Demand for healthcare Continued investment in Oil and Gas and sustainability services and health-related products drives exploration and extraction drives demand Our primary market growth drivers mean growth in our Health and Analysis markets.
for our Industrial Safety products.
that Halma companies operate in markets Spending on healthcare continues to grow in which their products contribute positively Increasing urbanisation rapidly throughout the developed world, to the wider community.
These market The worlds population is currently growing particularly in the USA where it is projected characteristics and our commitment to faster than at any time in history.
Despite a to rise by over a third between 2011 and health and safety, the environment and decline in the annual population growth rate 2016.
Population growth and rising incomes people development are reflected in to 1.2% per year, world population grows in the developing world are other strong the values held by our employees and by about 83 million annually.
We review our healthcare expenditure, for example, grew responsibility and sustainability reporting Future population increase will be a largely at a compound annual growth rate of over in accordance with best practice.
Falling birth rates in 18% during 2006-2010, and is forecast to legislative changes, particularly concerning most developed economies mean that continue at this rate during the 12th Five the environment and bribery and corruption, population growth will occur in the less Year Plan 2011-2015. have provided an opportunity to review developed regions, mainly among the and ensure that our procedures in these poorest urban populations.
The worlds Population ageing creates rising healthcare important areas are accessible, compliant urban population is expected to rise by over needs and, as incomes rise, health and firmly embedded within our business.
In China, for services become available to an increasing example, over two-thirds of the population number of people in the developing world.
A detailed report on Corporate is forecast to live in cities by 2030, a 300 Continuous advances in medical technology Responsibility is on pages 64 to 67. million increase over 2012. create new medical procedures, which also outlook stimulate demand for new instruments and Urbanisation drives investment in nonOur focus on safety, health and equipment.
The number of people aged residential buildings like shops, offices, environmental technology is continuing 60 and over is increasing dramatically.
In and schools and in transportation, key to provide opportunities for growth in both 2010 there were 759 million people in the markets for our Infrastructure Sensors developed and developing regions.
The world aged 60 and over: this is projected businesses, while it also requires investment combination of strong local operational to rise to two billion by 2050.
Although the in healthcare facilities and utilities such as management and active portfolio older population is growing in all parts of water, which are target markets in Health management ensures that we are able to the world, the increase is most marked in and Analysis.
deliver short-term financial performance the developing world.
The proportion of and invest for growth in the longer term.
Increasing Health & safety regulation the worlds older population living in less These qualities are reflected in this years The International Labour Organisation developed regions is forecast to rise from performance and in Halmas track record of estimates that about 2.3 million men and 65% in 2010 to about 80% by 2050. growth and high returns over a long period.
women die from work-related accidents and Increasing demand for energy We expect to continue to make progress in diseases every year.
This includes close to and water the year ahead.
360,000 fatal accidents and an estimated Rising energy consumption and water 1.95 million fatal work-related diseases.
andrew williams usage, the inevitable consequences of Every day nearly 1 million workers will chief executive social and economic development, are suffer a workplace accident, and around driven by three key trends: population 6,300 workers will die due to an accident growth: rising living standards: and or disease from their work.
However, changing patterns of food consumption significant advances are being made in and agriculture.
Energy and water supply occupational safety and health OSH and are interdependent in many economies.
the number of fatal accidents has fallen Consumption of water for energy production over the last ten years.
in the USA is forecast to rise by 50% from In economic terms it is estimated that 2005 to 2030, accounting for 85% of the roughly 4% of the annual global GDP total US increase in water demand.
US$1.25 trillion, is lost by the direct and Global energy consumption is projected to indirect costs of occupational accidents increase by over 50% from 2008 to 2035 and diseases such as lost working time, with the highest growth in non-OECD compensation, production downtime economies.
While water demand rises and medical expenses.
relentlessly, the quality and availability of Throughout the world, governments clean water continues to decline.
Eighty per are requiring employers to comply with cent of the worlds population lives in areas increasingly strict laws and regulations to with high levels of threat to water security.
protect workers from workplace hazards.
Several of our Health and Analysis In parallel with government regulations, businesses are positioned to benefit from many multinational employers based in the the global trend of rising demand for water.
1 developed world are extending health and See Group highlights.
2 In both developed and developing regions See note 1 to the Accounts.
safety protocols to developing regions.
we see increasing competition for water 24 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements strateGy In actIon acquIre emPower Innovate Grow acquIre 10% Profit growth through acquisitions Acquisitions accounted for profit growth of 10% in 2011 12. an active pipeline of opportunities acquisitions are a key strategic investment which We sustain our track record of making strengthen our product portfolios, add new technologies, successful acquisitions by having a deepen our management talent pool and extend our continuously replenished pipeline of opportunities.
In a typical year we look at geographical reach.
they help us to grow faster than about 500 businesses, actively review about underlying market growth rates, while delivering high 200 and make direct contact with about 100. returns and creating shareholder value.
During 2011 12 this continuous process Our Divisional Chief Executives are responsible for all acquisitions, of researching markets and qualifying acquisition prospects enabled us to add mergers and disposals within the sub-sectors for which they are Kirk Key Interlock Company to our Industrial responsible.
They are supported by two acquisition search specialists Safety sector and Avo Photonics joined our who were previously successful Presidents of Halma companies.
photonics businesses within Health and Analysis.
Three further companies, Sensorex, Our strategy is to buy companies with business and market Accutome and SunTech Medical Group, characteristics that fit well with our operating culture and growth were added to our Health and Analysis sector at the beginning of the 2012 13 strategy, in addition to having strong financial metrics.
cash-generative business with a strong balance sheet, our organic David Leighty left and George Gaydos right growth is supported by modest levels of bank funding enabling are Halmas acquisitions team responsible us to invest in acquisitions without accumulating excessive debt.
for finding new businesses that will enhance earnings through new intellectual assets, new management talent and a wider technological and geographic footprint.
26 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements emPower fresh ideas we invest in employee training to develop talent for In 2011 we launched a new Halma our businesses.
During 2011 12 over 160 employees Graduate Development Programme completed Halma-run management development and to find and develop graduates with the potential to become future leaders of our technical training programmes.
companies, or our next generation of Our first group-wide training initiative, the Halma Executive technology innovators.
The programme, which lasts 24 months, is based on work Development Programme HEDP, was launched in 2005. placements in operating companies This was followed by the Halma Management Development and residential training to develop Programme HMDP and the Halma Certificate in Applied communication and teamwork skills.
These programmes bring together senior The first group of 9 high calibre graduates and middle managers, and engineers, from all of the subsidiaries originating from the USA, UK, China and New Zealand will begin work in and across all management disciplines.
Our aim is to develop Autumn 2012. management skills and encourage the exchange of ideas.
Michael Hamilton, Head of People Development, The value of our training investment is evident in the rising quality manages our centrally-funded skills development of management, our ability to fill senior vacancies internally and programmes that benefited 166 employees this year.
27% more training The number of employees completing centrally-funded training in 2011 12 rose by 27%.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 27
