Packed with market-leading features, our new FIRERAY 5000 fire detector keeps us ahead of the competition with significant customer benefits.
This detector is much faster and easier to install and maintain, and provides class-leading fire protection.
Fire Fighting Enterprises Innovation in action Designed so that it can be configured to comply with regulations worldwide, FIRERAY 5000 is a next generation fire detection system for high ceiling height environments.
Featuring advanced technology, such as self-aligning sensors, automatic calibration and laser alignment, a single controller can monitor multiple infrared beam detectors.
44 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements sector revenue 204m 4% sector profit 39m 0% Global operations Germany UK Belgium Czech France Republic Switzerland Italy USA Spain China Japan UAE India Malaysia Singapore Brazil Australia New Zealand sector growth drivers Directions Increasing urbanisation Sustain organic growth Increasing health and safety regulation Increase resources and revenue in Asia strategic summary Complete Elevator Safety restructuring Achievements in first half-year Continue automatic door safety diversification Record revenue and profit Bolt-on acquisitions Automatic Door Sensors restructured into Improve New Product Development roadmaps global business Elevator Safetys European and Asian businesses being restructured into global business with single Board of Directors Apollo Fire Detectors merged with Air Products and Controls USA, Apollo Germany and Beijing Luhe China into a global business Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 45 sector revIew InDustrIal safety we make products which protect assets and people in industry.
Performance sector Group target KPIs performance target met 1 Revenue growth 18.6% 5% 1 Profit growth 19.6% 5% 2 Return on Sales 23.9% 18% 3 ROCE 97.7% 45% 4 R&D % of Revenue 3.7% 4% contribution to Group m 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Revenue 122 103 98 103 91 Profit 29 25 20 22 20 5 1 Sector revenue and adjusted sector profit before finance expense are compared to the equivalent prior year figure.
5 2 Return on Sales is defined as adjusted profit before finance expense and taxation expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
5 3 Adjusted sector profit before finance expense expressed as a percentage of sector operating net assets.
4 Sector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
5 A djusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, acquisition transaction costs and movement on contingent consideration.
Sub-sector revenue split Growth rate Safety Interlocks 24% 44% Gas Detection 10% 27% Bursting Disks 14% 19% Asset Monitoring 30% 10% 46 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 safety Interlocks specialised mechanical, electrical and electromechanical locks which ensure that critical processes operate safely.
market trends and growth drivers Performance Legislation-driven improvements in Our Safety Interlocks businesses achieved workplace safety standards is a resilient, record profit and revenue.
We achieved long-term growth driver in safety interlocks strong growth in the UK and USA.
Continuously rising global energy in China was steady while the government consumption also creates demand.
put investment in nuclear power on hold in response to the Fukushima nuclear disaster Worldwide demand for industrial safety in Japan.
products reflects changing social and ethical attitudes towards worker safety outlook and a recognition of the economic and We expect continued growth in most reputation costs of accidents.
We are seeing geographic areas.
Demand in Europe that local workplace safety regulations in will be slower, particularly if the sovereign most less-developed markets are becoming debt crisis intensifies.
Oil and Gas more widespread and better enforced project completions are likely to increase each year.
Chinas growing consumption of substantially as contractor bottlenecks are energy and raw materials is creating strong eased.
Nuclear power investment in China, demand for interlocks from coal and metals a significant growth market for our safety producers within the wider Asian region.
systems, may resume during 2012 13. strategy We will grow revenue by investment in sales and manufacturing resources and in developing new applications, particularly in emerging markets.
New products customengineered to match the needs of individual markets will be a key focus.
We will increase manufacture of safety interlocks in China for rapid delivery to customers in Asia.
44% safety interlock Fortress Interlocks % of sector revenue 48 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Gas Detection Portable instruments and fixed systems which detect flammable and hazardous gases.
market trends and growth drivers Performance Our core gas detection markets are the Our Gas Detection business again achieved Oil and Gas industry, power generation, record revenue and profits.
This was based the utility industries and chemical on market share gains in all regions except processing.
Global expansion of these North America, Africa and Near and Middle markets will continue to support rising East.
We completed a comprehensive sales of toxic and flammable gas detection upgrade of our portable detector products equipment.
The underlying driver of in 2011 12.
Our active new product demand is a growing focus on workplace development programme has resulted in safety coupled with the need to comply over 50% of gas detector products sold with stringent environmental and safety during 2011 12 having been developed legislation.
The global market is forecast in the previous three years.
New product outlook introductions enable us to grow at rates in We anticipate continued growth in Gas excess of the underlying market growth.
Detection revenues underpinned by resilient strategy regulatory drivers in our core industrial safety Geographic expansion, particularly into markets.
Further growth opportunities will the Americas and Asia, supports our goal come from our new product development of growing revenue ahead of underlying pipeline and entry into new gas detection market growth.
Investment in the upgrading applications and markets.
and extension of our product range allows us to continue to gain market share.
We will continue to strengthen our senior management in China and our global marketing team.
27% Personal gas detector % of sector revenue Crowcon Gas Detection Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 49 Bursting Disks one time use pressure relief devices to protect pressurised vessels and pipework in process industries.
market trends and growth drivers Performance Increasing global capital investment in both During 2011 12 our Bursting Disks onshore and offshore Oil and Gas fields, businesses achieved record revenue and combined with rising safety standards, profit with growth in all geographic regions continues to drive demand for our Bursting except Far East, Africa and Near and Disk safety devices.
This rising investment Middle East.
trend is expected to be sustained during outlook 2012 by high oil prices, with forecast growth Despite healthy market share in our of 13%.
Technological advances have traditional markets, we foresee additional unlocked hydrocarbon resources from shale growth potential through continued formations and we anticipate strong sales investment in innovative technology, growth from this new gas production niche.
expansion of global sales channels and strategy diversification into new applications.
Our primary Bursting Disks strategy is to build on growth in our core oil, gas, process and manufacturing industry sectors while diversifying our customer base both geographically and in terms of applications.
New offices were recently opened in China, Poland and Brazil.
Potential new applications include medical instrumentation, aviation, storage safety and battery protection.
19% Bursting disk Elfab % of sector revenue 50 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 asset monitoring Products for monitoring physical assets under water using sensors and communications technologies.
market trends and growth drivers Performance Our sonar products are used primarily on High R&D investment in our Asset underwater, remotely-operated vehicles Monitoring sonar products continued to to monitor Oil and Gas industry offshore drive growth and we achieved significant assets.
The relatively high prices of oil and increases in revenue and profit.
gas have prompted increasing investment outlook in offshore production.
Brazil, in particular, We expect continued growth as high oil is experiencing huge capital investment prices and political uncertainty over oil growth as offshore production becomes supply combine to drive investment in increasingly viable.
Other underwater existing and new offshore assets.
The applications, such as maintenance of relentless rise in global energy demand, harbours, sea-walls and dams, are forecast to rise by 30% between 2010 and increasing as post-war infrastructure 2040, also underpins growth in our subsea projects particularly in the USA begin to monitoring markets.
Construction of offshore renewable energy projects, such as wave, tidal and offshore wind power, may produce future growth opportunities.
strategy Our strategy has been to grow market share through market-leading technology, investment in sales channels and entry into new niches like offshore renewable energy and subsea mining.
During 2011 12 we expanded our presence in the USA and Brazil to get support resources closer to our customers.
10% sonar imaging system % of sector revenue Tritech International Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 51
