50 Hays PLC AnnuAl RepoRt & FinAnciAl StAtementS 2012 other statutory information Directors where a shareholder has declined to provide certain information The following were directors during the year and held office requested by the Company in accordance with the Act, the throughout the year, unless otherwise indicated: Board can in certain circumstances apply to the court for an order directing that the shares in question be subject to restrictions.
1 2 Alan Thomson, Chairman Victoria Jarman If an order is so made, any transfer of or any agreement to 1 3 Alistair Cox, Chief Executive Lesley Knox transfer the shares will be void and no voting rights will be 1 Paul Venables, Group Finance Director Richard Smelt exercisable in respect of them: 1 1 William Eccleshare Paul Stoneham 1 1 4 Paul Harrison Pippa Wicks restrictions may be imposed on certain Group employees who are required to seek approval from the Company before dealing 1 Independent non-executive director.
in shares in accordance with the requirements of the Listing Rules 2 Appointed on 1 October 2011.
3 Retired on 9 November 2011. of the United Kingdom Listing Authority: and 4 Appointed on 1 January 2012. awards of shares under the Companys incentive arrangements, Biographical details for all current directors are shown on pages the Performance Share Plan and the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan, 38 and 39. are subject to restrictions on the transfer of shares prior to vesting.
structure of share capital The Company is unaware of any arrangements between its As at 30 June 2012, the Companys issued share capital of shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares 14,640,965.66 comprised 1,464,096,566 Ordinary shares and or voting rights.
No shares were allotted during the year.
exercise of rights of shares in employee share During the year from 1 July 2011 to 30 June 2012, the Company schemes did not purchase any Ordinary shares of the Company.
Certain share awards under Company incentive arrangements are held in trust on behalf of the beneficiaries.
Except where acting Chapter 6 of Part 18 of the Act allows companies to hold shares under instruction as a bare nominee, the Trustee of the Hays plc acquired by way of market purchase in treasury, rather than having Employee Share Trust does not seek to exercise the voting rights to cancel them.
The directors may use the authority to purchase on these shares.
No voting rights are exercised in relation to shares shares and hold them in treasury and subsequently sell or transfer unallocated to individual beneficiaries.
them out of treasury as permitted in accordance with the Act rather than cancel them, subject to institutional guidelines applicable at restrictions on voting DeaDlines the time.
As at 30 June 2012, 74,600,985 Ordinary shares of 1 pence The notice of any general meeting shall specify the deadline for each were held in treasury.
During the year to 30 June 2012, exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote 5,250,650 shares held in treasury were transferred to satisfy at a general meeting.
It is the Companys policy at present to take awards of shares under the Companys employee share schemes.
all resolutions at a general meeting on a poll and the results of the No dividends have been paid on shares whilst held in treasury and poll are published on the Companys website, hays.
com, shortly no voting rights attach to the treasury shares.
rights anD obligations of orDinary shares significant Direct anD inDirect shareholDings On a show of hands at a general meeting every holder of Ordinary As at 30 June 2012, the Company had been notified of the shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have following voting rights attaching to Hays plc shares in accordance one vote.
On a poll, every member present in person or by proxy with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the United Kingdom shall have one vote for every Ordinary share held.
In accordance Listing Authority: with the provisions of the Articles of Association, holders of Ordinary shares are entitled to a dividend where declared or paid out of % of total Nature of voting profits available for such purposes.
On a return of capital on a holding rights winding up, holders of Ordinary shares are entitled to participate Virtus Trust Limited Direct 5.78% in such a return.
Capital Research and Management Co Indirect 5.13% restrictions on transfers of securities Cedar Rock Capital Limited Direct 5.09% The restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company are as follows: Templeton Global Advisors Limited Indirect 5.00% Baillie Gifford & Co Indirect Below 5% the Board may, in its absolute discretion, refuse to register the transfer of a certificated share which is not fully paid, provided Morgan Stanley Investment that the refusal does not prevent dealing in shares in the Company Management Limited Direct Below 5% from taking place on an open and proper basis: Majedie Asset Management Limited Indirect 4.98% the Board may also refuse to register the transfer of a certificated Legal & General Group Plc Direct 3.99% share unless the instrument of transfer is lodged, duly stamped if No further disclosures have been received by the Company between stampable, at the Registered Office or at another place appointed 30 June 2012 and the date of this Annual Report.
A further update to by the Board accompanied by the certificate for the share to which significant shareholdings will be provided in the Notice of the 2012 it relates and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably Annual General Meeting.
require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: the Board may refuse to register a transfer of shares in favour of more than four persons jointly: 51 directors report Governance powers of Directors Directors inDemnities anD insurance The directors are responsible for the management of the The Company continues to maintain directors and officers liability business and may exercise all powers of the Company subject insurance.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, to legislation, any directions given by special resolution and the it is the Companys policy for each director and the Company Secretary Companys constitution.
and General Legal Counsel to be indemnified by deeds of indemnity.
At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 9 November employees 2011, shareholders authorised the directors, until the conclusion The Companys business is dependent upon our employees.
As a of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 7 November 2012, consequence, our people strategy continues to focus on ensuring to purchase up to 138,425,462 Ordinary shares of 1 pence each in that we have the necessary capabilities, resources and work the Company and to allot new shares up to an aggregate nominal environment appropriate for a high-performing organisation.
amount of 4,614,182, being approximately one-third of the Companys The Group continues to be committed to developing its employees issued share capital.
The authority to allot shares was not used.
and investing in training tailored to meet the needs of the business, Renewal of both authorities will be proposed to shareholders at the including both structured training and on-the-job training and forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Our leadership development programmes for our top global The Board intends to continue to return surplus cash to shareholders leaders, Fast Forward and the Advanced Management Programme, where circumstances allow and it is not required to finance the continue to ensure the development of talent in our business.
organic expansion of the business, acquisitions and dividend payments, As part of creating a stimulating place to work, there are a number via the on-market purchase of its own shares.
Shares will only be of ways we ensure our employees are involved in the business and purchased if to do so would result in an increase in earnings per issues relating to its performance, including senior management share and it is in the best interests of shareholders generally.
briefings, employee briefing groups, email messaging and our No share purchases are anticipated in the 2013 financial year.
To encourage employees to have a stake in The Board will be seeking the approval of the shareholders to the business, there are also a number of share schemes.
renew this authority at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting As a responsible employer of thousands of people, the Group as detailed in the separate Circular to Shareholders.
is committed to equal opportunities and its policy ensures that appointment anD replacement of Directors everyone has the opportunity to contribute to the business The Company may by ordinary resolution appoint any individual regardless of age, gender, ethnicity, sexuality, physical appearance, to the Board.
The Board may appoint any individual willing to act religion, education and beliefs.
as a director either to fill a vacancy or act as an additional director.
The Group has a structured approach towards internal recruitment The appointee can only hold office until the next annual general and promotion with decisions based on an individuals ability to meeting whereupon he she will be put forward for reappointment.
This means that full consideration is given to The Articles of Association prescribe that there shall be no less than disabled applicants where they have the right skills and abilities five and no more than 15 directors.
Should the number reduce below for the role.
Should an employee become disabled whilst working five, the Board shall, as soon as practicable, appoint an individual to for the Group, every effort is made to accommodate them or to fill the vacancy.
The Company may by ordinary resolution vary the find a suitable alternative role and to assist with any re-training.
The Groups commitment to training and development includes consideration of any special training needs of disabled employees.
The Articles of Association prescribe that at each annual general meeting, not less than one-third of the directors must retire by More information on the Groups engagement with employees is rotation and any director who has been in office for three years or set out in the 2012 Corporate Responsibility CR Report which more since his her last appointment or reappointment must retire is available on the Companys website, hays.
A retiring director is eligible for reappointment.
The UK payments to creDitors Corporate Governance Code recommends that all directors be It is the Groups policy to make payments to suppliers in accordance subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Therefore, all directors with agreed terms provided that the supplier has performed in will offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting accordance with the relevant terms and conditions.
Creditor days to be held on 7 November 2012. for the Group for the year ended 30 June 2012 were an average of articles of association 32 2011: 32.
The Company creditor days for the year ended 30 June The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by 2012 were 32 2011: 32. a special resolution passed by shareholders at a general meeting of the Company.
52 Hays PLC AnnuAl RepoRt & FinAnciAl StAtementS 2012 other statutory information continued charitable anD political Donations conflicts of interest Group charitable donations made during the year totalled 202,000 In line with the Act, the Articles of Association allow the Board 2011: 219,000.
No payments were made to political parties, to authorise actual and potential conflicts of interest and duties organisations or election candidates.
that may arise and to impose such limits and conditions as it thinks fit.
Conflicts of interest and duties can only be authorised by The charitable donations were made to the following good causes: those directors who do not have an interest in the matter being considered, and in making such decision, the directors must act 000 in a way they consider, in good faith, will most likely promote the Cancer research and care 121 success of the Company.
The Company has established a procedure Dementia care 40 whereby actual and potential conflicts of interest and duties are advised to the Company Secretary and are reviewed annually.
Educational support 34 Appropriate authorisations are sought for any ad hoc notifications Community Care 5 of any new conflicts of interest or duties, or any changes to existing Childrens charities 1 conflicts of interest or duties.
The Board has undertaken a review of Humanitarian aid 1 these procedures and considers them to have operated effectively during the year.
Total 202 going concern More information on the Groups social and community activities The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern isset out in the 2012 CR Report, which is available on the Companys basis as the directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate website, hays.
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable environment future.
Further details can be found in note 2b to the Consolidated Whilst the Companys business has a low impact on the Financial Statements on page 71. environment, the Company aims to achieve continuous improvement Directors responsibilities in environmental performance and to prevent pollution.
Wherever The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report possible, we seek to minimise our impact by reducing our use of and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law energy, water and raw materials and increasing efficiency.
More information on the Groups environmental activities is set out Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements in the 2012 CR Report, which is available on the Companys website, for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required hays.
to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with auDitor International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by Deloitte LLP has indicated that it is willing to continue in office.
Its the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have reappointment, at a remuneration to be agreed by the directors, elected to prepare the parent Company financial statements in will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable change of control significant agreements law.
Under company law the directors must not approve the The Companys unsecured revolving credit facility agreement for financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true 300 million includes a provision for a lending counterparty to and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit amend, alter or cancel the relevant commitment to the Group or loss of the Company for that period.
following a change of control of the Company.
As at 30 June 2012, 130 million of this facility had not been drawn down.
In preparing the parent Company financial statements, the directors are required to: There are no provisions contained within the service contracts of executive directors that will trigger in the event of a change select suitable accounting policies and then apply them of control.
consistently: There are a number of commercial contracts that would alter in make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable the event of a change in control but none is considered to be and prudent: material in terms of the potential impact on the Group in this event.
state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been Certain of the Companys share award plans contain provisions that followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and permit awards or options to vest or become exercisable on a change explained in the financial statements: and of control in accordance with the rules of the plans.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
53 directors report Governance In preparing the Group financial statements, International responsibility statement Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors: Each of the directors as at 29 August 2012 confirms to the best of his or her knowledge that: properly select and apply accounting policies: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant present information, including accounting policies, in a manner financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the information: Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation provide additional disclosures when compliance with the taken as a whole: and specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users the management report, which is incorporated into the Directors to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events Report, includes a fair review of the development and performance and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings performance: and included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Disclosure of information to the auDitor The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting As required by Section 418 of the Act, each of the directors as at records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys 29 August 2012 confirms that: transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time a so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and that the financial statements comply with the Act.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence b the director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any fraud and other irregularities.
relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Words and phrases used in this confirmation should be interpreted Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing in accordance with Section 418 of the Act.
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may This Directors Report comprising pages 1 to 53 has been approved differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
by the Board and signed on its behalf by: alison yapp Company Secretary 29 August 2012 Registered Office 250 Euston Road, London NW1 2AF Company Registered in England and Wales No.
2150950 cautionary statement This Annual Report comprising the Directors Report on pages 1 to 53 and the Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 65 and the financial statements on pages 67 to 102 Report have been prepared solely in compliance with the Companies Act 2006 and with the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK Financial Services Authority.
Certain information and statements are not audited.
No representation or warranty, express or implied, is or will be made in relation to the accuracy, fairness or completeness of the information or opinions made in this Report.
Statements in this Report reflect the knowledge and information available at the time of its preparation.
Certain statements included or incorporated by reference within this Report may constitute forward-looking statements in respect of the Groups operations, performance, prospects and or financial condition.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions and actual results or events may differ materially from those expressed or implied by those statements.
Accordingly, no assurance can be given that any particular expectation will be met and reliance should not be placed on any forward-looking statement.
Additionally, forward-looking statements regarding past trends or activities should not be taken as a representation that such trends or activities will continue in the future.
The information contained in this Report is subject to change without notice and no responsibility or obligation is accepted to update or revise any forward-looking statement resulting from new information, future events or otherwise.
Nothing in this Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
This Report does not constitute or form part of any offer or invitation to sell, or any solicitation of any offer to purchase or subscribe for any shares in the Company, nor shall it or any part of it or the fact of its distribution form the basis of, or be relied on in connection with, any contract or commitment or investment decisions relating thereto, nor does it constitute a recommendation regarding the shares of the Company or any invitation or inducement to engage in investment activity under section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Past performance cannot be relied upon as a guide to future performance.
Liability arising from anything in this Report shall be governed by English Law, and neither the Company nor any of its affiliates, advisers or representatives shall have any liability whatsoever in negligence or otherwise for any loss howsoever arising from any use of this Report or its contents so otherwise arising in connection with this Report.
Nothing in this Report shall exclude any liability under applicable laws that cannot be excluded in accordance with such laws.
