05 directors report business review thE markEtplacE In 2012 thEmEs wE saw In our kEy busInEssEs around thE world 1 3 2 1. uk 2. australIa 3. gErmany Conditions remained challenging overall The market became increasingly dual-track, We saw broad-based growth throughout and in several markets became tougher as the resources and mining focused the year across all of the sectors in which asthe year progressed as heightened economies of Western Australia and we operate.
macroeconomic concerns negatively Queensland around 35% of our net fees in Specialist recruitment in Germany is still impacted candidate and client confidence.
Australia saw very strong growth, driven relatively immature: the vast majority of primarily by a shortage of skilled people.
The private sector became more difficult recruitment is still undertaken in-house.
Market conditions in the rest of Australia over the year particularly in our Banking became more difficult as the year progressed.
This is changing, however, and the and City-related specialisms.
Elsewhere, outsourcing of recruitment was again a trend.
those specialisms characterised by skills The market for permanent placements and candidate shortages remained relatively became more difficult in the second half This is particularly the case in the IT & resilient, and we saw good growth in as candidate confidence was impacted Engineering sectors, which make up 77% areas such as IT, Energy, Oil & Gas and by the more uncertain global of our net fees in Germany.
continued to be driven by this structural move towards outsourcing, but was also, in our In the public sector, which makes up 24% Temporary markets were more robust, experience, buoyed by a shortage of skilled of our net fees in the UK, activity remained driven largely by Resources & Mining, where candidates notably in the Engineering sector subdued but broadly sequentially stable, many roles are filled by people on longerand the continued adoption of more flexible although areas such as Office Support term contracts.
Elsewhere, we saw clients working arrangements both by companies andConstruction & Property were turn to temporary employees to fill roles and employees.
when they were unable to find a suitable permanent candidate, or were more cautious about their hiring decisions.
proportIon of group nEt fEEs proportIon of group nEt fEEs proportIon of group nEt fEEs 30% 27% 19%
