38 Hays PLC AnnuAl RepoRt & FinAnciAl StAtementS 2012 Corporate governanCe report CoNtINued 1 2 3 4 5 b a, b, c 1. alan thomson 3. paul venables 5. william eccleshare Chairman, 65 Group Finance Director, 50 Independent Non-Executive Director, 56 Appointed Chairman of the Board and of the Appointed Group Finance Director on Appointed non-executive director on Nomination Committee on 10 November 2010 2 May 2006.
William graduated with having been appointed as a non-executive He was a Senior Manager at Deloitte and a Masters degree in History from Cambridge director on 1 October 2010.
Alan graduated Touche, now Deloitte LLP.
He was previously Chairman with an MA degree in History and Economics Exel plc for 13 years prior to the acquisition and CEO of Young & Rubicam EMEA and from Glasgow University.
He is currently of Exel plc by Deutsche Post in December Wunderman EMEA, held senior executive Chairman of Bodycote plc, the international 2005.
At Exel he held a number of senior roles at McKinsey & Company, where he was provider of thermal processing services and finance and operational roles, including also a Partner, and was Chairman and Chief a non-executive director of Alstom SA, the Deputy Group Finance Director, and was a Executive of BBDO Europe, where he was French power generation, rail transportation member of the executive board of Exel plc responsible for all BBDO advertising, direct and electrical transmission equipment and Chairman of their Acquisitions and marketing, digital and public relations manufacturer.
He was formerly Group Finance Projects Review Board.
He joined Hays from agencies in 44 countries.
He is Chief Director of Smiths Group plc from 1995 until DHL Logistics, a division of Deutsche Post Executive Officer of Clear Channel Outdoor his retirement in 2006 and was, until 2011, the World Net.
Paul is Senior Independent Director Holdings Inc, the worlds largest outdoor Senior Independent Director and Audit of Wincanton plc.
advertising media owner, having previously Committee Chairman of Johnson Matthey plc.
held the role of President and Chief a, b, c 4. paul harrison He is a past President of the Institute of Executive Officer of Clear Channels Independent Non-Executive Director, 48 Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
William played Appointed non-executive director on 8 May a major role in the development of the new 2. alistair Cox 2007, he is Chairman of the Remuneration Hays brand identity and continues to bring Chief Executive, 51 Committee and Senior Independent Director.
clarity on the Companys marketing Appointed to the Board on 1 September Paul is a Chartered Accountant.
He was a approach, especially across the Groups 2007 and became Chief Executive on 15 Senior Manager at Price Waterhouse, now international markets.
Alistair is a Chartered  LLP, and was a, b, c Engineer, having graduated in Aeronautical responsible for the provision of audit and 6. victoria Jarman Engineering and holds an MBA from advisory services to large private and Independent Non-Executive Director, 40 Stanford University Graduate School of publicly listed companies.
He joined The Appointed non-executive director on Business in California.
He began his career Sage Group plc as Group Financial Controller 1 October 2011, Victoria is Chairman of the at British Aerospace, subsequently moving in 1997 and became its Group Finance Audit Committee.
Victoria graduated with to Schlumberger in 1982 where he held Director in April 2000.
As finance director a BEng Hons degree in Mechanical a number of roles in field engineering, of a major technology and people-based Engineering from the University of Leicester management and research science.
After international company, Paul has a strong and is a Chartered Accountant, having spent graduating from business school, he was technical understanding of governance best her early career at KPMG before moving to a manager at McKinsey & Company before practice combined with practical commercial Lazard Corporate Finance in 1998.
She was joining Blue Circle Industries latterly acumen.
He is an influential voice on a wide formerly Chief Operating Officer of Lazards Lafarge where he was Group Strategy range of matters and is well placed to London and Middle East operations and Director and latterly Regional Director for represent the views of shareholders.
a member of its European Management Asia.
He became Chief Executive at Xansa plc in 2002 before joining Hays.
Alistair is a non-executive director of 3i Group plc.
Victoria is a non-executive Development at Colgate Palmolive, 10. alison yapp director of fide La Rue plc and a member responsible for leading the Oral Care, Company Secretary and General Legal of its audit and nomination committees.
Personal Care and Home Care global Counsel, 46 In addition to her accounting skills, she brings categories, Managing Director of Boots Appointed Company Secretary and General a wealth of international corporate finance Healthcare International and a member Legal Counsel on 30 January 2006.
Alison and operational experience, which is valuable of the Boots PLC Executive Committee, qualified as a solicitor in 1990.
She began her as the Group continues to broaden its President of Alberto Culver International career in private practice at Turner Kenneth business across a wide range of disciplines and held various Procter & Gamble brand Brown, advising corporate and commercial and geographies.
Paul is a clients before moving in-house.
She has key contributor to the Companys execution 20 years experience in industry within a, b, c 7. richard Smelt of strategy.
Having led global companies a number of international groups in the Independent Non-Executive Director, 55 as well as having worked and lived in five engineering, industrial and support services Appointed non-executive director on countries, he also brings an international sectors.
She was previously Company 15 November 2007.
Richard graduated perspective to the Boards discussions.
Secretary and Group Legal Adviser of in Psychology from Leeds University, is Having served as a non-executive director Charter plc latterly Charter International a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Personnel for eight years, Paul will be retiring from plc, an international engineering company, and Development and has an MBA from the the Board following conclusion of the and prior to that held senior legal and London Business School.
With over 30 years Annual General Meeting to be held on secretarial positions in Johnson Matthey plc experience in HR management, he was 7 November 2012. and Cookson Matthey Ceramics plc.
Group Human Resources Director of a, b, c Carphone Warehouse Group plc and Group 9. pippa wicks All the non-executive directors are Human Resources Director of Northern Rock Independent Non-Executive Director, 49 considered by the Board to be independent plc post nationalisation.
He currently has Appointed non-executive director on as detailed in the Code.
The letters of a portfolio of interests in private equity and 1 January 2012.
Pippa graduated in Zoology appointment for non-executive directors corporate restructuring.
Richard has been from Oxford University following which are available for review at the Companys influential in helping the Company to she spent nine years with management Registered Office and prior to each annual enhance the key skills within its global consultants, Bain & Company.
A pro forma letter of workforce and has supported management currently Managing Director of AlixPartners appointment is available on the Companys in creating an industry-leading development LLP, the global business advisory firm.
process for all levels of employees.
She was previously a non-executive director of Ladbrokes plc where she was also a a, b, c 8. paul Stoneham member of its audit committee, Group Independent Non-Executive Director, 50 Finance Director of Courtaulds Textiles plc, Appointed non-executive director on Chief Executive of FT Knowledge at Pearson 24 November 2004.
Paul holds a degree plc, and a non-executive director of Hilton in Sociology from the University of International plc and Arcadia plc.
Pippa Western Ontario and an MBA from Harvard has considerable broad-ranging experience University.
He is currently Chief Executive gained at a senior level and brings valuable Officer of ghd Group Holdings Ltd, a strategic and operational insights to the professional hair care company.
He was Boards decision making.
previously President of Global Business a Audit Committee b Nomination Committee c Remuneration Committee 40 Hays PLC AnnuAl RepoRt & FinAnciAl StAtementS 2012 Corporate governanCe report CoNtINued StewarDShip our governanCe FraMework other ShareholDerS StakeholDerS noMination external CoMMittee auDitor reMuneration auDit internal CoMMittee CoMMittee auDit BoarD ManageMent ChieF CoMpany group BoarD exeCutive SeCretary CoMplianCe group poliCieS Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy Code of Conduct and ethics Policy Financial Reporting Manual Group Policies and Procedures Manual The main functions of our governance framework are listed below, along with an overview of their responsibilities.
Nomination Committee Management Board Reviews the structure and composition of the Board and leads the Chaired by the Chief Executive, this body is responsible for process for the identification and selection of new directors.
Further overseeing business operations in the Groups regions and details on the activities of the Nomination Committee are provided the Group functional areas.
in the Nomination Committee Report on page 47.
Remuneration Committee Group Functions Determines and agrees with the Board the policy for the remuneration These specific administrative functions are controlled centrally of the Chairman, executive directors, Company Secretary and at Group level and report to the Board via various members of selected senior managers of the Group.
Details on the Groups the Management Board.
For example, Finance, Investor Relations, remuneration policy are provided in the Remuneration Report Insurance, Tax and Treasury report through the Group Finance on pages 56 and 57.
Director, and Compliance and Environmental, Health and Safety report through the Company Secretary.
Procedures are clearly defined to ensure that the activities of these functions reduce the risk profile of the Group.
Audit Committee Internal Audit Ensures that the Company applies consistent financial reporting and Facilitates the identification of risks and carries out reviews and internal control and risk management procedures and maintains an testing of the controls that are in place to mitigate the risks.
Further appropriate relationship with the Companys Auditor.
Details on the details of the work of Internal Audit are provided in the Audit activities of the Audit Committee are provided in the Audit Committee Report on page 49.
Committee Report on pages 48 and 49.
Company Secretary General Legal Counsel Group Policies Ensures good information flows for the Board and its committees The Board is responsible for ensuring that adequate policies and and between senior management and non-executive directors.
These are reviewed and amended as Facilitates the induction of new directors and assists with professional required to ensure that they remain in line with legislation and development as required.
Ensures Board procedures are complied regulations and are sufficiently robust to ensure appropriate internal with and that applicable rules and regulations are followed.
Is the controls are maintained, whilst also providing a suitable framework guardian of good governance, effective policies and compliance for the businesses and Group functions within which to operate.
The Company Secretary is available to all directors to provide advice and assistance and is responsible for providing governance advice to the Board.
41 directors report Governance how the BoarD operateS Audit Committee The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, Victoria Jarman, Chairman William Eccleshare considers and plans the annual programme of Board meetings Paul Harrison Richard Smelt including overseas and UK site visits for the year, presentations Paul Stoneham Pippa Wicks from the regional managing directors and other senior executives, Nomination Committee the strategy away-day discussions and ongoing director training.
Alan Thomson, Chairman William Eccleshare Together with the Company Secretary, the Chairman plans the Paul Harrison Victoria Jarman agenda for each meeting, which is issued with supporting papers Richard Smelt Paul Stoneham during the week preceding the meeting.
Board packs contain Pippa Wicks monthly management accounts, briefing papers on commercial and operational matters and major capital projects, reports on Remuneration Committee relations with investors and updates on the implementation of Paul Harrison, Chairman William Eccleshare key strategic plans.
Victoria Jarman Richard Smelt Paul Stoneham Pippa Wicks The programme for visits to operations in the UK and overseas is agreed with the Chairman and scheduled by the Company Paul Harrison became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Secretary.
This provides the Board with the opportunity to broaden on 9 November 2011.
Victoria Jarman was appointed to the Audit, its understanding of the business and key markets year-on-year Nomination and Remuneration Committees with effect from and to gain invaluable insights through direct contact with business 1 October 2011 and became Chairman of the Audit Committee managers and the operations.
Pippa Wicks was appointed to the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees with effect from A procedure exists for directors to take independent professional 1 January 2012. advice if necessary at the Companys expense.
All directors also have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
terMS oF reFerenCe The Board has agreed written terms of reference for each committee, MatterS reServeD For the BoarD which are available on the Companys website, hays.
com, and are The following matters are reserved for the Board: also available upon request from the Company Secretary at the Approving financial results and other financial, corporate Registered Office.
During the year, the Audit and Remuneration and governance matters: Committee reviewed their terms of reference to ensure that they remained in line with best practice guidance and the Companys Approving material contracts: policies and practices.
Two minor amendments were made to Approving Group strategy: the Audit Committee terms of reference.
The first related to the monitoring of the relationship with the Auditor whereby the Approving appointments to the Board: Committee should consider whether the fees for audit and non-audit Recommending dividends and deciding dividend policy: work provided by the Auditor were appropriate and whether an effective audit could be performed for the audit fee.
The second was Reviewing material litigation: to confirm that the Committee should meet four times a year.
No Approving major capital projects, acquisitions and disposals: changes were considered necessary to the Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee terms of reference.
Reviewing annually the effectiveness of internal control and the nature and extent of significant risks identified by management operational ManageMent StruCture and associated mitigation strategies: and Responsibility for the management and operations of the business is delegated to the Chief Executive who operates through the Approving the annual budget.
The Management Board is chaired by the Chief BoarD CoMMitteeS Executive and consists of the Group Finance Director, Regional Our non-executive directors play an important governance role Managing Directors, the Group HR Director, the Group Marketing in the work they carry out on our committees.
The Chairman and Director, the Group IT Director, the Group Digital & Innovation members of each committee are detailed below.
The Board has Director and the Company Secretary and General Legal Counsel.
satisfied itself that at least one member of the Audit Committee Clear levels of authority exist for the Management Board in their has recent and relevant financial experience.
The committees can day-to-day activities.
seek professional advice at the Companys expense.
Each of the Companys Regional Managing Directors operates through their regional operating boards.
Each regional board is led by the regional managing director and consists of key management from the regions operations and business functions, including Finance, HR and Marketing.
As far as possible, each business is given autonomy, whilst being required to operate within the internal control environment established through the Group Policies and Procedures Manual, Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy, Code of Conduct and Ethics Policy, Competition Compliance Policy, Financial Reporting Manual and schedule of Operational Delegated Authorities.
42 Hays PLC AnnuAl RepoRt & FinAnciAl StAtementS 2012 Corporate governanCe report CoNtINued Managing riSkS anD internal Control The Group operates a comprehensive budgeting, forecasting The Board is responsible for the Groups risk management process and financial reporting process.
Annual budgets are reviewed and its system of internal controls and for maintaining and reviewing and approved at business and Group levels.
This process includes their effectiveness.
The Board annually reviews the nature and extent the identification and quantification of significant risks relating to of significant risks identified by management both on a gross as well markets and operations.
Monthly performance is reported against as a net post mitigation basis, and the status of mitigation plans.
The monthly management accounts analyse This exercise involves the presentation of risk findings to enable and explain variances against budget and report on key indicators, the Board to review and oversee the status of the key risks to the with detailed explanations for variances and movements in forecasts business.
The Board in turn reflects on the level of risk appetite provided to the Board.
acceptable to the Group in order to achieve the Companys strategic The Groups Internal Audit department also focuses on facilitating objectives.
During the year, the Board reviewed the nature and extent the identification of risks and undertakes reviews and testing of the of the significant risks in the Group on a gross and net basis and controls in place for their mitigation.
The departments resources determined that the risks and their relative priority were appropriate are augmented with independent, expert external resource where and that actions had been defined and attributed to owners in order necessary, to review risk and monitor compliance with the Groups to treat the risks appropriately.
The Board also considered the key policies and procedures.
Regular reviews of the most important regional risks that had been identified by management.
controls are undertaken to ensure that key control objectives are Day-to-day management of risk is overseen by the Management achieved.
Reports on the effectiveness of operational and financial Board, which operates a risk management process involving controls are presented to management and to the Audit Committee assessment of key Group risks twice a year.
The operating regions at each meeting and recommendations are agreed upon with also conduct assessments of strategic and operational risks within management and implemented.
Each risk is assessed in terms of its likelihood to occur The Groups systems and controls are designed to manage and the potential financial and reputational impact if it does so.
risks, safeguard the Groups assets and to ensure the reliability Appropriate mitigation plans and strategies are put in place for those of information used both within the business and for publication.
Progress on the management of risks is Systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk reported to the Management Board.
During the year under review, of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only the Management Board reviewed the progress of high-priority risks reasonable and not absolute assurance against material and also considered any new or emerging risks that were identified.
Risks are further controlled through delegated authorities and The principal risks disclosed on pages 22 and 23 represent the other written policies and procedures, which are approved by the significant areas which the Board considers could most likely impact Board, updated as necessary, and overseen by Group functional the Groups financial performance and reputational standing.
The Group Policies and Procedures Manual, Financial Reporting Manual and the Operational Delegated Authorities, which internal Control StateMent encompass all of the Groups operations, are designed to ensure that Responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system a minimum level of corporate, accounting, financial and operating of internal controls has been delegated to the Audit Committee.
The controls are in place and allow matters to be appropriately and Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups promptly escalated to senior management and the Board.
The system of internal controls for the year ended 30 June 2012, covering Groups Anti-Bribery and Corruption, Code of Conduct and Ethics, all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance and Competition Compliance Policies outline the way in which controls and risk management systems and has concluded that it is employees are expected to conduct themselves when carrying in compliance with the revised Turnbull guidance Internal Control: out their business activities.
The manuals and policies are updated Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code October on an ongoing basis to reflect changes in procedures as and when 2005 published by the Financial Reporting Council.
control statement has been reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee.
Further details on the Groups internal control systems are reported in the Audit Committee Report on page 49.
43 directors report Governance unDerStanDing ShareholDerS viewS Formal consultations reSponSiBilitieS The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee consults with Hays gains insight into the views of shareholders and other major investors and seeks their views on the proposed incentive stakeholders through a variety of means.
Feedback received through arrangements for executive directors and senior management these engagement channels is regularly reported to the Board.
From time to time, we specifically seek major shareholders views on other Company proposals.
Primary responsibility for engaging with shareholders rests with the Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, supported by Communications from shareholders and representative bodies the Investor Relations and Company Secretarial departments, and From time to time, we receive circulars directly from major external advisers.
shareholders and representative bodies, such as the Association of British Insurers, the National Association of Pension Funds and Should shareholders wish to raise any concern where the normal Pensions Investment Research Consultants Ltd. We also review the channels have failed to resolve the issue or are inappropriate for any various environmental, social and governance reports published reason, Paul Harrison is available to shareholders in his role as Senior about us annually and endeavour to address any weaknesses or Independent Director.
Paul is a significant contributor to the Board failings identified.
external advisers how we engage with ShareholDerS Legal, financial, remuneration and communications advisers naturally During the year, the Board has maintained a regular and open have broad exposure to shareholder views and practice in the course dialogue with investors.
We have formal arrangements for engaging of their research and work with their many clients.
Appropriate with shareholders including those described below.
external advice is sought by the Board, Board committees and investor meetings Group departments when considering important issues.
The executive directors and the Investor Relations team regularly Corporate website meet with analysts and major investors to discuss any concerns they There is a wealth of information available on our corporate website, may have and to explain the Companys strategy.
com, including: The Groups advisers maintain a dialogue with major shareholders financial information and results history: and, following each investor roadshow, provide a report on the views of shareholders on key issues and management performance.
all announcements made to the London Stock Exchange: A summary of this report is subsequently provided to the Board.
the terms of reference of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration All non-executive directors are aware of the investor relations Committees: programme and are available should shareholders wish to meet a pro forma letter of appointment for the non-executive directors: them.
Investors are offered the opportunity to meet the Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
the role of the Senior Independent Director: annual general meeting latest news and press releases: and The annual general meeting provides an opportunity to communicate webcasts and interviews given by our executive directors.
with all shareholders and in particular with our private shareholders.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees are also available at the annual general meeting to answer any questions shareholders may have.
The Notice of Meeting sets out the resolutions being proposed at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 7 November 2012.
It is the Companys policy at present to take all resolutions at a general meeting on a poll.
44 Hays PLC AnnuAl RepoRt & FinAnciAl StAtementS 2012 Corporate governanCe report CoNtINued BoarD FoCuS in the 2012 FinanCial year what the BoarD haS Done in the year Developing and implementing a successful strategy Ensuring appropriate financial Implementing governance and ethics and monitoring risk Regularly received reports on the Groups strategic Considered the potential impact of the Eurozone crisis management performance Regularly received reports Reviewed Board and committee effectiveness on the Groups financial Attended a strategy day with the members of the Performed the annual review of the effectiveness of Management Board at which key strategic matters performance internal controls and of the nature and extent of risks were discussed Approved financial results identified and mitigation strategies Regularly reviewed reports on global economic indicators for publication Considered and approved the Groups Anti-Bribery and market analyses Approved the annual budget and Corruption Policy and framework Received a presentation from external advisers on the Considered the full year and Reviewed the Groups corporate responsibility strategy global economy and world stock markets half year dividend Received regular reports on legal and compliance Visited operations in France, Germany and the UK, during recommendations matters from the Company Secretary and General which presentations were given by the local management Legal Counsel teams on performance and opportunities and the Board Carried out an annual review of directors conflicts of undertook a visit of operations and met with employees interest Reviewed the operations and strategy plans for each of Carried out an annual review of the Groups insurance the Groups regions arrangements Approved the expansion of operations into Chile, Colombia and Malaysia Received reports and presentations on the exploitation of the Groups technology platforms Received update reports on marketing and brand developments Motivating employees Engaging with investors Building strong leaders Considered the results from TALKback, the Groups Received regular updates Considered progress of the Groups leadership and employee engagement survey on the views of investors consultant development strategy Received regular reports Reviewed the Groups succession plans and assessed on the Companys investor risks and options relations programme Undertook Board training provided by Deloitte LLP Main CoMMittee aCtivitieS Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Approved the annual Audit Committee agenda Led the process for the Amended and approved the remuneration policy programme appointment of two new Considered staff versus director pay levels when non-executive directors Reviewed financial results for publication determining directors remuneration Considered directors annual Considered the external audit plan and reviewed the Considered the base salaries of the executive directors re-election as recommended results of the audit and other senior executives and that of the Chairman by the Code Approved the Internal Audit plan Assessed how incentive arrangements took account Approved the 2011 of Group risks Received reports from Internal Audit on the findings of Nomination Committee their work Approved the introduction of malus provisions in the Report Performance Share Plan and the Deferred Annual Received reports from the Tax, Treasury, Insurance, Legal, Defined and approved the Bonus Plan Compliance and IT functions role of the SID Received a report on the UK Governments proposals Assessed the performance of the Groups key finance Considered the composition for executive pay personnel of the Board and the need to Considered and approved the outturn of the annual Reviewed the non-audit services provided by the Auditor match Board experience with bonus and vesting of share awards for the executive and amended the non-audit services policy to reduce the the ongoing geographical and directors and Management Board members for the value of permitted non-audit services in a year technical trends in the global 2011 financial year Reviewed the risk management and controls framework recruitment sector Set the annual bonus targets for the executive directors and its effectiveness and the Groups principal risks Considered Board succession and Management Board members for the 2012 financial Reviewed the performance and effectiveness of the planning year Auditor and considered its reappointment Considered and approved the targets for the Reviewed the performance and effectiveness of the Performance Share Plan awards and approved the internal audit function deferred bonus awards made in the 2012 financial year Reviewed the Groups whistleblowing arrangements Reviewed the Committees terms of reference Carried out an assessment of the Committees Recommended the 2011 Directors Remuneration effectiveness and reviewed progress on matters arising Report for approval by the Board from previous assessments Reviewed the Committees terms of reference Recommended the 2011 Audit Committee Report for approval by the Board Held discussions with the external Auditor and the Head of Internal Audit without management being present 45 directors report Governance attenDanCe taBle BoarD training anD DevelopMent The table below sets out the number of scheduled meetings held by On appointment, directors receive a formal induction, which includes the Board and its committees during the year and individual visits to relevant business units and functions and discussions with attendance by Board and committee members at those meetings.
These are tailored to the needs of the individual director and continue throughout their tenure.
Audit Nomination Remuneration Briefing sessions on governance, legislative and accounting Board Committee Committee Committee developments are held for the Board and its committees when 1 No.
During the year, the Board received updates from the No.
attended Company Secretarial department regarding corporate reporting trends, from Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, the Companys Alan Thomson 7 4 external legal advisers, about the potential impacts of a disorderly Alistair Cox 7 breakup of the Eurozone, and from the Auditor, Deloitte LLP, about trends in financial reporting, corporate governance and risk, William Eccleshare 7 4 4 5 and corporate responsibility.
The Remuneration Committee received 2 Paul Harrison 6 3 4 5 updates from their external advisers,  LLP, 3 regarding regulatory and governance changes and recent Victoria Jarman 5 3 2 3 developments in shareholder sentiments, and the Audit Committee 4 Lesley Knox 4 2 3 2 received updates from Deloitte LLP on developments in accounting standards and other regulatory and legislative changes.
Richard Smelt 7 4 4 5 Paul Stoneham 7 4 4 5 perForManCe evaluation This year the Board undertook an internal review of the effectiveness Paul Venables 7 of the Board, its committees and individual members, having carried 5 Pippa Wicks 2 2 1 1 out an external review with Egon Zehnder in 2010.
The next external review will take place in 2013 in line with the Code.
As part of this 1 Excludes one ad hoc Board meeting attended by the Chairman and the executive years effectiveness review, each director other than the Chairman directors only to approve an administrative matter connected with the UK corporate structure.
completed a questionnaire comprising questions relating to: 2 P aul Harrison was unavailable for one Board meeting and one Audit Committee meeting held on 20 February 2012 due to personal commitments.
information flows, Board papers and agenda composition: 3 V ictoria Jarman was appointed to the Board and its committees with effect from 1 October 2011 and has attended all meetings held in the year since her appointment.
controls, risk management and risk appetite: 4 L eslie Knox retired from the Board and its committees on 9 November 2011 and attended all meetings held in the year prior to stepping down.
board dynamics and relationships between Board members: 5 P ippa Wicks was appointed to the Board and its committees with effect from 1 January 2012 and has attended all meetings held in the year since her appointment the composition of the Board and its skills: with the exception of one Board meeting and one Remuneration Committee held discussion topics and decision making including the balance on 21 March 2012 for which she was unavailable due to pre-arranged business commitments.
between operational and strategic matters: BoarD eFFeCtiveneSS value creation, strategy and performance: and unDerStanDing the BuSineSS the effectiveness of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration We consider that, to function effectively, all members of the Board Committees.
need appropriate knowledge of the Company and access to its operations and staff.
Presentations and reports on commercial The completed questionnaires were sent to the Company Secretary who compiled a report on the results of the evaluation for the initiatives, our markets, our competitive position and general economic indicators are given periodically to the Board.
In addition, we hold Chairmans consideration.
The Chairman met with each of the directors individually to discuss the results of the review and their Board meetings away from the head office approximately three times a year, which allows focus on local markets and operations and enables responses, and to provide constructive feedback.
The findings of the 2012 performance evaluation together with recommendations from the non-executive directors to meet the local management.
the Chairman were then considered by the Board and certain actions will be implemented as a result.
46 Hays PLC AnnuAl RepoRt & FinAnciAl StAtementS 2012 Corporate governanCe report CoNtINued Board and committee performance individual performance The findings of the 2012 performance evaluation indicate that the The effectiveness of each member of the Board was reviewed structure and content of the Board meetings is considered to be in respect of the financial year.
The Chairman, along with the appropriate and relationships between Board members are open non-executive directors, reviewed the performance of the executive and constructive.
The balance between Board consideration of directors individually against their objectives.
The remuneration strategy and operational performance is considered to be appropriate.
of the executive directors is linked to their respective performances The strategy review away day is considered to be particularly useful and is determined by the Remuneration Committee based upon and discussions were free-ranging and well informed.
Overseas site the result of these reviews.
Further details are reported in the visits are particularly valuable to Board members.
The appointments Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 65. in the year of Pippa Wicks and Victoria Jarman had increased As reported above, the non-executive directors, led by the Senior business services experience on the Board, adding fresh energy Independent Director, met without the Chairman present to appraise and improving diversity.
The Chairman provides strong leadership, his performance during the year.
encouraging open debate and challenge and Board members are satisfied that the Board is apprised of all material matters.
The Board Following the performance evaluation review, the Chairman is is aligned around the strategic objectives facing the business.
satisfied that each of the directors, who will all be put forward for reappointment at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, The performance of each of the committees was also considered.
remains independent in character and judgement, taking into The committees are well chaired and their structure and responsibilities account their length of service.
Each of the directors being put are clear and appropriate.
The Audit Committee also undertook its forward for reappointment at the 2012 Annual General Meeting own separate review, details of which are reported in the Audit continues to be effective.
Their ongoing commitment to the role Committee Report on page 49. is undiminished and they continue to make a valuable contribution This year the Senior Independent Director also undertook a separate to the Board and its committees.
review of the performance of the Chairman.
He circulated a separate questionnaire relating to the performance of the Chairman, which The disclosures required by DTR 7.2.
6R of the Disclosure Rules all directors other than the Chairman and the Company Secretary and Transparency Rules of the United Kingdom Listing Authority completed.
Following this the SID met with each of the directors to information required by paragraph 13 2 c, d, f, h and i appraise the performance of the Chairman and also met with the of Schedule 7 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Chairman to provide feedback.
The results of the review were also Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 can be found presented to the Board.
in the Other Statutory Information section of this Annual Report.
Various actions arising from the 2011 performance evaluation review were addressed in the year, including the introduction of electronic board packs to facilitate meetings, increasing the Boards focus on strategy and execution, facilitating external briefings on key issues affecting the Group, providing additional training updates on governance and regulatory matters, and continued operational focus in relation to efficiency improvements.
Actions arising from this years review will include continuing focus on the Groups key strategic objectives, further development of the Groups senior talent pool, additional focus on mitigation of risk and consideration of risk appetite and enhancing the Boards understanding of the business through specific site visits and discussion with employees.
Looking forward, the Board will continue to ensure that it has the appropriate balance of skills and experience in relation to the strategic objectives of the business.
