HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 08 TARGETS AND ACHIEVEMENTS We aim to apply targets to enable stakeholders to assess our performance.
In the table below we show our achievements against our 2012 targets and detail further targets for 2013.
2012 PROGRESS no major spills or environmental incidents: Environment and no exceptional fines or sanctions related to our environmental management: and sustainability E IAs conducted for all major work programmes.
no fatalities or LTIs: Health and safety continued knowledge sharing amongst staff and peer group: and no fines or sanctions related to our health and safety management.
majority of employees drawn from each country of operation: Employees contributed to training for staff: promoted diversity: and continued to keep staff turnover at low levels.
no human rights violations: Community and humanrights no fines or sanctions related to our community and human rights management and activities: further engagement with stakeholders for relevant programmes in our areas of operation: and continued dialogue with specialist organisations.
no fines or sanctions related to poor business conduct: Business conduct continued to develop systems to identify risks: and monitored developments and peer group best practice.
"reported findings and decisions of the CSR Committee: Corporate governance prepared a diversity policy, including gender, for the Board: provided clear information on executive pay: developed our approach to managing risk: and continued emphasis on Company best practice and compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the ""Code""."
Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 09 2013 TARGETS 2012 TARGETS ACHIEVED no major spills or environmental incidents: no exceptional fines or sanctions related to our environmental management: and EIAs to be conducted for all major work programmes.
2012 TARGETS ACHIEVED no fatalities or LTIs: and no fines or sanctions related to our health and safety management.
2012 TARGETS ACHIEVED use local staff where appropriate: promotetraining for staff: promote knowledge sharing amongst staff: remain committed to diversity: and keep staff turnover at low levels.
2012 TARGETS ACHIEVED active engagement with stakeholders for relevant programmes in our areas of operation: no human rights violations: no fines or sanctions related to our community and human rights management and activities: and continue dialogue with specialist organisations.
2012 TARGETS ACHIEVED no fines or sanctions related to poor business conduct: continue to develop systems to identify risks: and monitor developments and peer group best practice.
2012 TARGETS ACHIEVED report publicly the findings and decisions of the CSR Committee: review recent UK government proposals in respect of executive remuneration and narrative reporting: continue to develop our approach to managing risk: and review amendments to the Code.
