HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 04 ABOUT THIS REPORT This report relates to the period 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2012 In this report we disclose information and should be read in conjunction with the entire Heritage OilAnnual Report and Accounts for 2012, in particular the relating to our CSR strategy, policies, Corporate Governance Report, and the Company website systems and performance in 2012. www.
Wealso detail our future aims, targets Our principal activities during 2012 were in Kurdistan and Russia and objectives.
and, as such, a majority of the information in this CSR Report relates to our operations in these regions.
"Our recent acquisition, through Shoreline Natural Resources Ltd ""Shoreline"", a joint venture betweenHeritageand its Nigerian Partner, Shoreline Power Company, of a 45% interest in OML 30, Nigeria, is not reported on with regards to 2012 as only two months of activities have not enabled us to justiably forecast or compare the data."
CSR WITHIN THE HERITAGE BUSINESS MODEL Heritages business model balances theexploration and appraisal process with cash generating production assetssupported by high standards of governance, regional knowledge and contacts and an effective CSR approach.
Our vision is to be a leading exploration and production company whilst also generating shareholder returns.
We believe this to be fundamentalin creatingshared economic wealth.
Therefore, we have a responsibility to ensure that we deliver on our business objectives in a way that benets all stakeholders.
Heritage considers this framework, supported by robust policies, systems and exemplary performance, as a key element of long-term success and managing relationships with stakeholders to be important in developing and maintaining a reputation as a preferred partner of choice.
MATERIALITY AND COMPLETENESS By using the GRI G3.1 Guidelines the G3.1 Guidelines and the recently published oil and gas sector supplement as a foundation we are able to report on key operational material.
The GRI table on pages24 to 34contains information set out in the G3.1 Guidelines.
In addition, we also determine materiality by assessing the signicance and relevance of the information by considering: Heritages policy position on the issue: its impact on shareholder value in the short, medium and long-term: the level of stakeholder interest in the matter assessed by dialogue with contractors, employees, suppliers, shareholders, research organisations, Non-Governmental Organisations NGOs, governments and advisers : and the degree of interest in the issue emanating from public arenas, reected through reporting in the media.
The CSR Committee continues to review the scope of this information and intends to rene the reporting process over time taking into account the issues noted above and changes in our business activities.
EXTERNAL ASSURANCE Information within this report has not been externally veried as we do not believe this would be of material benefit at this time.
Every effort has been made to ensure that information contained in this report is accurate.
The CSR Committee continues to review this matter of external verication and to assess whether any change is required.
