Skills and experience External appointments Committee membership HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 2012 06 BOARD OF DIRECTORS MICHAEL HIBBERD ANTHONY BUCKINGHAM PAUL ATHERTON SIR MICHAEL WILKES, KCB Chairman and Non-Executive Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer CBE Director Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director Joined Heritage March 2006 Founder of Heritage Joined Heritage March 2000 Appointed to the Board March2008 Appointed to the Board March2008 Appointed to the Board February Appointed to the Board February 2008 2008 Mr. Hibberd has extensive Mr. Buckingham commenced Mr. Atherton is a qualied Sir Michael Wilkes KCB, CBE, international energy project involvement in the oil industry as a accountant, qualifying with retired from the British Army in planning and capital markets North Sea diver and subsequently Deloitte & Touche, and holds a 1995 as Adjutant General and experience.
Mr. Hibberd has been became a concession negotiator degree in geology from Imperial Middle East Adviser to the British president and CEO of MJH Services acting for several companies College London.
As Adjutant General, Inc. a corporate finance advisory including Ranger and Premier Oil finance background with specic Sir Michael was the most senior company, since 1995, prior to which plc.
He was previously a security experience in the international administrative officer within the he spent 12 years with adviser to various governments.
Army and a member of the Army ScotiaMcLeod in corporate finance Board.
During his distinguished and held the position of director career, he has seen active service and senior vice-president, corporate across the world while also finance.
commanding at every level from Platoon to Field Army, including commanding the 22 Special Air Service Regiment and serving as theDirector of Special Forces.
On leaving the Army in 1995 he was appointed Lieutenant Governor andCommander in Chief of Jersey, where he served until retiring in2000.
President and CEO of MJH None None Non-executive director of Services Inc Stanley Gibbons Group AIM Chairman of Canacol Energy listed Ltd Non-executive director of Blue Chairman of Greenelds Star Capital plc AIM listed Petroleum Corporation Non-executive positions on a Co-chairman of Sunshine number of private companies Oilsands Ltd including Britam Defence Director of Montana Exploration Corp Director of Pan Orient Energy Corp Audit Committee Nomination Committee Reserves Committee Audit Committee Nomination Committee Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility Remuneration Committee Reserves Committee Committee Committee Nomination Committee Corporate Social Responsibility Anti-Bribery and Corruption Anti-Bribery and Corruption Committee Committee Committee Anti-Bribery and Corruption Committee Corporate Governance 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 07 GREGORY TURNBULL, JO HN MCL EOD CARMEN RODRIGUEZ MARK ERWIN QC Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Joined Heritage 1997 Appointed to the Board March2008 Appointed to the Board March 2012 Appointed to the Board May 2012 Appointed to the Board March 2008 Mr. Turnbull is a Senior Partner of Mr. McLeod is a Professional Ms. Rodriguez has most recently Mr. Erwin served in the United the Calgary office of the law rm of Engineer with over 40 years of held the position of Chairperson States Army for over 25 years, McCarthy Ttrault LLP.
Mr. varied resource extraction and CEO from 2007 to 2012 of culminating his career as the Turnbull has extensive knowledge experience.
He has held positions Sociedad Estatal Espaola P4R, Chief of Staff of the United States of corporate governance issues and and has served on various boards S. A. a Spanish government owned Army Special Operations has acted for many boards of including Constellation Oil & Gas consultancy rm specialising in Command.
He became a directors and special committees in Ltd. Ranger Energy Ltd. and foreign trade, investment and specialist in building teams of that regard.
Mr. Turnbull started CanArgo Energy Inc. as president co-operation.
She was also, until joint, interagency partners his career with the law rm of and CEO of Arakis Energy recently, a trustee of the Spainworking closely with other MacKimmie Matthews in 1979.
Company, as vp, operations of China Council Foundation, the nations leadership, both military From 1987 to 2001, he was a Pengrowth Gas Company, CEO and Spain-India Council Foundation and civilian.
In 2011, Mr Erwin partner with Gowlings LLP director of Rally Energy Corp. and and Casa Arabe.
She has previously started Long Walk Enterprise, formerly Code Hunter LLP.
He is a member held many other senior executive LLC, a service-disabled veteran- 2001 and 2002, he was a partner and past president of the positions including at commodities owned small business providing with the law rm of Donahue LLP.
Association of Professional trading companies.
Ms. Rodriguez consulting and operational Mr. Turnbull has been a partner Engineers and Geoscientists of was awarded the prestigious rden support services.
In April of 2012, with the law rm of McCarthy Alberta.
fide Isabel la Catlica by King Juan Mr. Erwin was named CEO of Ttrault LLP since July 2002 and Carlos of Spain in 1990, in A&K Global Health, a medical was appointed Queens Counsel in recognition of her services to the travel services company operating 2010.
Spanish people and work with the international community.
Non-executive director of President of United Hydocarbon Spanish Committee of the Long Walk Enterprise, LLC Crescent Point Energy Corp International Corp United Nations Relief and CEO A&K Global Health Non-executive director of Hawk Director of Paris Energy Inc Works Agency Exploration Ltd Director of Tuscany Energy Ltd Plan Espana Foundation Non-executive director of Director of Diaz Resources Ltd Hyperion Exploration Corp Director of Kallisto Energy Corp Non-executive director of Porto Director of Emperor Oil Ltd Energy Corp Non-executive director of Sonde Resources Corp Non-executive director of Storm Resources Ltd Non-executive director of Sunshine Oilsands Ltd None Audit Committee Audit Committee Corporate Social Responsibility Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Committee Reserves Committee Anti-Bribery and Corruption Committee
