HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 12 HEALTH & SAFETY Health and safety is a priority and key element of all of our activities.
All energy companies face a wide range of health and safety challenges ranging from industrial accidents to occupational illnesses.
2012 HIGHLIGHTS POTENTIAL IMPACT AND OPPORTUNITY A major event can impact on our employees, contractors and local zero fatalities and LTIs reported across our communities leading to a potential loss of reputation.
operations: no exceptional fines or sanctions related to our Our ability to demonstrate a strong track record is an important factor in obtaining stakeholder approval for proposed projects.
A health and safety management: and strong health and safety record is one of our key business drivers and continued focus on training.
also forms part of our Key Performance Indicators KPIs by which we monitor our performance.
MITIGATION OF IMPACT Effective safety performance across our operations depends on the right behaviour and attitude.
This requires: setting the right expectations for all employees and contractors we require that everyone behaves in a safe manner and follows all applicable safety rules: empowering people to intervene to stop a task if they believe it to be unsafe or intervene if a colleagues behaviour could lead to harm: accountability requiring people to take responsibility for their own safety and the safety of others and to be accountable for their behaviour: and leadership managers and supervisors are expected to lead by example and demonstrate their personal commitment to safety: safety management systems being implemented at all sites, both Number of fatalities or LTIs operational and administrative.
ZERO Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 13 OUR APPROACH Q&A We are very proud of our health and safety performance and believe it How does Heritage ensure that its assists in making us a partner of choice.
Safeguarding people working for our Company and ensuring that all of our operations are designed contractors and sub-contractors adhere and managed properly and to high international standards is always to its health and safety standards?
at the core of how we operate our business.
Our goal in this area is zero injuries and fatalities across all areas of our operations and to Our local managers are tasked with minimise and or negate operational health issues.
ensuring that all of our employees, contractors and sub-contractors are fully It is the Companys responsibility to minimise our employees aware of the Companys policies and exposure to health and safety risks of any kind.
In implementing procedures in this important area.
We health and safety systems, we balance the need to protect our workers regularly review our systems to ensure with the knowledge that working practices and traditions vary by that they are commensurate with best location and so we amend or tailor where necessary.
All sites are practice, taking into account local health covered by safety management systems with general managers and safety culture.
This can vary widely responsible for overall safety measures.
We also ensure that our and we therefore take an individual contractors adopt these principles.
approach in each area to ensure compliance with our corporate standards.
Our employees have the authority to intervene in a task if they believe it could lead to harm or is considered unsafe.
We do, however, appreciate that no organisation is immune to a crisis, which can happen at any time.
Due to the potential consequences that these can have, we recognise the importance of being prepared for such an unfortunate incident.
We continually review crisis management systems to ensure that our processes match our needs and requirements.
