Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 23 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE The G3.1 Guidelines are the most widely used and recognised sustainability reporting framework.
These are cross-sector and appropriate for use by companies globally.
The table below is the GRI Application Level Table which we have This section of our report provides the entirety of the CSR related used for self-assessment of our CSR reporting.
The GRIs sector information that Heritage collects.
We provide this in the interest of supplement for the oil and gas industry was published in February transparency and for comparative purposes, and its collection helps 2012 and has been used in the preparation of this report.
us identify areas in which we can improve our performance.
Data and comments presented here should be considered in the context of our Heritage uses the G3.1 Guidelines and the GRI sector supplement to Companys operations.
help develop our own reporting.
These are taken into consideration when preparing the content of our CSR report.
Rather than We have self-declared our reporting as Application Level C. We attempting to cover all sections of the G3.1 Guidelines in equal believe this is an appropriate level for this stage in the development of detail, we focus on the CSR related impacts and opportunities as we our business and CSR reporting, given our size and nature of believe these are the most material.
We aim to enhance our reporting year-on-year but have chosen not to set a target date for reaching the next application level as this would not t with the nature of our business model.
Report application level C C BA B A Report on: Report on all criteria Same as requirement for G3.1 profile 1.1 listed for Level C plus: Level B. disclosures 2.12.10 1.2 3.13.8, 3.103.12 3.9, 3.13 4.14.4, 4.144.15 4.54.13, 4.164.17 Not required.
Management approach Management approach G3.1 management disclosures for each disclosures for each approach disclosures indicator category.
Report on a minimum of Report on a minimum Report on each core G3.1 performance ten performance of20 performance G3.1 and sector indicators and sector indicators, including at indicators, at least one supplement indicator least one from each of: from each of: economic, with due regard to the supplement performance economic, social and environmental, human materiality principle by indicators environmental.
rights, labour, society either: a reporting on and product the indicator: or b responsibility.
explaining the reason for its omission.
Standard disclosures Report externally assured Report externally assured Report externally assured HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 24 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE CONTINUED AREA INDICATOR DESCRIPTION OF INDICATOR COMMENTARY DATA PAGE Total direct economic value generated Economic EC1 Direct economic value generated and Performance distributed, including revenues, operating and distributed not measured.
costs, employee compensation, donations Indicators and other community investments, retained earnings and payments to capital providers and governments.
EC2 Financial implications and other risks See environment and sustainability 10,11 and opportunities for the organisations section.
activities due to climate change.
EC3 Coverage of the organisations dened Not applicable.
EC4 significant financial assistance received No assistance received.
Non-core EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level Heritage pays competitive entry level indicator wage by gender compared to local wages and provides training and minimum wage at significant locations of other benets to attract a high quality operation.
7 EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of In accordance with policy local spending on locally-based suppliers at suppliers have been used whenever significant locations of operation.
EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion Policy is to employ members of 14 of senior management hired from the local thelocal communitywhere possible.
community at locations of significant Percentage of employees hired locally operation.
EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure Compliant see Community and 16 investments and services provided Human Rights section for more primarily for public benefit through information.
commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement.
EC9 Understanding and describing significant Activities during 2012 were of limited Non-core indicator indirect economic impacts, including the economic impact.
EN1 Materials used by weight or volume.
Not applicable to our 2012 operations.
Environmental Performance Indicators EN2 Percentage of materials used that are Not applicable to our 2012 operations.
EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary Russia: energy source.
Primary energy source: diesel powered generators.
Kurdistan: Primary energy source: diesel powered generators.
Consumption not known but not considered material.
EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary Not measured.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 25 AREA INDICATOR DESCRIPTION OF INDICATOR COMMENTARY DATA PAGE Non-core EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and Not measured.
Non-core EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient None in 2012. indicator or renewable energy-based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives.
Non-core EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy Russia: indicator consumption and reductions achieved.
Maintaining lowest possible process temperatures.
Energy consumption reductions not quantied.
EN8 Total water withdrawal by source.
Russia: 3 12.5m potable water used at site.
3 198m water used for technical needs.
Non-core EN9 Water sources signicantly affected by Water usage not material.
Non-core EN10 Percentage and total volume of water Water usage not material.
EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, Not currently active in any such areas 10 managed in, or adjacent to, protected see Environment and sustainability areas and areas of high biodiversity value section and asset overview map on outside protected areas.
pages 2 to 3 within the Annual Review.
EN12 Description of significant impacts of No significant impact for 2012.
8, 10 activities, products and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas.
Non-core EN13 Habitats protected or restored.
indicator Non-core EN14 Strategies, current actions, and EIAs, taking into account biodiversity, 8, 10 indicator future plans for managing impacts on to be performed on all future assets.
No current operations in areas of high biodiversity.
Non-core EN15 Number of International Union for Not measured but none believed to be indicator Conservation of Nature IUCN Red in the licence areas in which we operate.
List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk.
EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas Russia: emissions by weight.
3,969 tonnesof associated gas ared and ventedannually.
Minimal aring occurred during well testing.
EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas Not measured.
Non-core EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas Environmental management systems in indicator emissions and reductions achieved.
EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Not measured.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 26 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE CONTINUED AREA INDICATOR DESCRIPTION OF INDICATOR COMMENTARY DATA PAGE EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air Not measured.
emissions by type and weight.
EN21 Total water discharge by quality and None.
EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal Russia: 3 method.
Class 4 3 - low hazard wastes 1m of waste oil.
3 Class 3 - low hazard waste 35m of utility uid septic tanks.
Classes 4&5 - low hazardous waste Kurdistan: Waste collection in place, any drilling cuttings removed and deposited at specially dedicated areas.
Weight of waste not known.
EN23 Total number and volume of significant No spills.
Non-core EN24 Weight of transported, imported, No waste transported, imported, indicator exported, or treated waste deemed exported or treated which is deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel hazardous under the Basel Convention Convention Annex I, II, III and VIII and Annex I, II, III and VIII.
percentage of transported waste shipped internationally.
Non-core EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and No water bodies affected.
indicator biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats signicantly affected by the reporting organisations discharges of water and runoff.
EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental Operations are run as efficiently as 8, 10 impacts of products and services and possible to minimise environmental extent of impact mitigation.
EIAs are carried out before all major work programmes.
EN27 Percentage of products sold and their Not applicable to our operations.
packaging materials that are reclaimed by category.
EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and No material fines, warnings or 8 total number of non-monetary sanctions sanctions.
for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations.
Non-core EN29 significant environmental impacts of Not applicable to our operations.
indicator transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organisations operations and transporting members of the workforce.
Non-core EN30 Total environmental protection EIAs conducted.
indicator expenditures and investments by type.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 27 AREA INDICATOR DESCRIPTION OF INDICATOR COMMENTARY DATA PAGE Labour LA1 Total workforce by employment type, Geographical breakdown of staff practices and employment contract, and region, broken provided in note 10 on page 30 in the decent work down by gender.
performance indicators LA2 Total number and rate of new employee 3% staff turnover for the Company.
hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region.
Non-core LA3 Benets provided to full-time employees Standard benefit packages.
indicator that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation.
LA4 Percentage of employees covered by None.
LA5 Minimum notice period s regarding Seven days.
Heritage does not have any significant operational changes, including collective bargaining agreements in whether it is specified in collective place.
Non-core LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented Not measured.
indicator in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programmes.
LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, No injuries across all operations.
8 lost days, and absenteeism and number of work-related fatalities by region and gender.
Health and safety training covers 12 LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control programmes serious disease prevention and control in place to assist workforce members, where appropriate.
Occupational and their families, or community members operational health and safety training regarding serious diseases.
Non-core LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal No agreements with trade unions.
indicator agreements with trade unions.
LA10 Average hours of training per year per Not measured.
employee by gender and by employee category.
Non-core LA11 Programmes for skills management Reviewed in Employees section.
14 indicator and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings.
Non-core LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular Not measured.
indicator performance and career development reviews, by gender.
LA13 Composition of governance bodies and See Corporate Governance Report for breakdown of employees per employee composition of governance bodies.
category according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 28 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE CONTINUED AREA INDICATOR DESCRIPTION OF INDICATOR COMMENTARY DATA PAGE LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of Not measured.
women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation.
LA15 Return to work and retention rates after Not measured.
Human rights HR1 Percentage and total number of significant Not measured.
performance investment agreements and contracts indicators that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening.
HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, All suppliers must agree to abide by Heritages policy on human rights.
No contractors and other business partners that have undergone human rights actions taken.
HR3 Total hours of employee training on Not measured.
policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained.
HR4 Total number of incidents of No incidents.
discrimination and corrective actions taken.
HR5 Operations and significant suppliers No operations identied as having identied in which the right to exercise significant risk in this area.
Freedom of freedom of association and collective association and collective bargaining bargaining may be violated or at are guaranteed to all workers.
significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights.
HR6 Operations and significant suppliers No operations identied as having 6 identied as having significant risk for significant risk.
CSR policy framework incidents of child labour and measures prohibits the use of child labour.
taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labour.
HR7 Operations and significant suppliers No operations identied as having 6 identied as having significant risk significant risk.
CSR policy framework for incidents of forced or compulsory prohibits the use of forced or labour and measures to contribute to compulsory labour.
the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour.
Non-core HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in All suppliers must agree to abide by indicator the organisations policies or procedures Heritages policy on human rights.
No concerning aspects of human rights that actions taken.
Non-core HR9 Total number of incidents of violations No violations.
indicator involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken.
HR10 Percentage and total number of operations Not measured.
that have been subject to human rights reviews and or impact assessments.
HR11 Number of grievances related to human No grievances raised.
rights led, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 29 AREA INDICATOR DESCRIPTION OF INDICATOR COMMENTARY DATA PAGE Society SO1 Percentage of operations with All operations have local community 16 performance implemented local community engagement, impact assessments indicators engagement, impact assessments and and development programmes.
community and human rights section.
SO2 Percentage and total number of business 100% of business units analysed.
units analysed for risks related to corruption.
SO3 Percentage of employees trained in the 100% of relevant employees trained.
organisations anti-corruption policies and procedures.
SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of No incidents.
SO5 Public policy positions and participation in No positions or participation.
public policy development and lobbying.
Non-core SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind No contributions made.
indicator contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country.
Non-core SO7 Total number of legal actions for antiNo legal actions.
indicator competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes.
SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total No fines or sanctions.
number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations.
SO9 Operations with significant potential No applicable operations.
or actual negative impacts on local communities.
SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures Not applicable to our operations.
implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities.
Product According to GRI the Product Until recently Heritage only owned one responsibility Responsibility Indicator set addresses oil producing asset which is in Russia.
performance the effects of products and services In November 2012 Heritage acquired a indicators management on customers and users.
45% participating interest in Nigerias OML 30, through Shoreline.
As the Company currently deals in small volumes of raw material commodities, we do not believe that these indicators are applicable to our business.
We consider this will change as our working interest production increases.
OG1 Volume and type of estimated proved See website for further information.
Oil and gas sector reserves and production.
supplement indicators OG2 Total amount invested in renewable energy.
OG3 Total amount of renewable energy No renewable energy generated at generated by source.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 30 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE CONTINUED AREA INDICATOR DESCRIPTION OF INDICATOR COMMENTARY DATA PAGE 10 OG4 Number and percentage of significant EIAs, taking into account biodiversity, operating sites in which biodiversity risk to be performed on all future assets.
No current operations in areas of high has been assessed and monitored.
OG5 Volume and disposal of formation or Water usage not material.
OG6 Volume of ared and vented hydrocarbon.
Russia: 3,969 tonnes of associated gas f lared annually.
Kurdistan: Not measured, very minimal aring occurred during well testing.
OG7 Amount of drilling waste drill mud and Russia: cuttings and strategies for treatment and Not Applicable disposal.
Kurdistan: Waste collection was in place, any drilling cuttings removed and deposited at specially dedicated areas.
Weight of waste not measured.
OG8 Benzene, lead and sulphur content in Not measured.
OG9 Operations where indigenous N A communities are present or affected by activities and where specic engagement strategies are in place.
OG10 Number and description of significant No disputes.
disputes with local communities and indigenous peoples.
OG11 Number of sites that have been None.
decommissioned and sites that are in the process of being decommissioned.
OG12 Operations where involuntary No involuntary resettlements during resettlement took place, the number of the year.
households resettled in each and how their livelihoods were affected in the process.
OG13 Number of process safety events by No process safety events.
OG14 Volume of biofuels produced and None.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 31 AREA INDICATOR DESCRIPTION OF INDICATOR COMMENTARY DATA PAGE Standard 1.1 Statement from the most senior decisionSee CSR Committee Chairmans 2 to 3 disclosures maker of the organisation e. g. CEO, statement within this CSR Report.
chair, or equivalent senior position about the relevance of sustainability to the organisation and its strategy.
1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and See risk section on pages 32 to 34 in the opportunities.
2.2 Primary brands, products, and or services.
2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, See note 1 on page 16 in the Financial including main divisions, operating Statements Report.
companies, subsidiaries and joint ventures.
See inside back cover of this CSR Report.
IBC 2.5 Number of countries where the See asset review on pages 2 to 3 of the organisation operates and names of Annual Review.
countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report.
2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form.
Jersey incorporated with Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange.
2.7 Markets served including geographic N A breakdown, sectors served and types of customers beneciaries.
2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation.
See pages 2 to 3 Annual Review.
2.9 significant changes during the reporting See Financial Statements Report page period regarding size, structure, or as 2 to 7. ownership see guidelines for details.
2.10 Awards received in the reporting period.
3.1 Reporting period e. g. scal calendar 1 January 2012-31 December 2012. year for information provided.
3.2 Date of most recent previous report if any.
3.3 Reporting cycle annual, biennial, etc.
3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the See inside back cover of this CSR IBC report or its contents.
3.5 Process for dening report content.
See About this report within this CSR 4 Report.
3.6 Boundary of the report e. g. countries, The Annual Report and Accounts divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, covers the entirety of Heritages joint ventures, suppliers.
See pages 2 to 3 of the Annual Review for further information.
3.7 State any specic limitations on the scope Information on our interest in a or boundary of the report.
Heritage only acquired an interest in OML 30 in November 2012, through our joint venture Shoreline.
Therefore there is not enough informationavailable to justiably comment on.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 32 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE CONTINUED AREA INDICATOR DESCRIPTION OF INDICATOR COMMENTARY DATA PAGE 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, Shoreline, a joint venture between a subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced Heritage subsidiary and its Nigerian partner, Shoreline Power Company, has operations and other entities that can signicantly affect comparability a 45% participating interest in OML 30, from period to period and or between Nigeria.
Under optimal conditions this organisations.
asset will have the potential to produce substantial quantities of petroleum.
Whilst information has not been reported on this joint venture and asset in this report, it may have the ability to signicantly affect comparability in the future.
3.9 Data measurement techniques and See About this report, within this CSR 4 the bases of calculations, including Report.
assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report.
3.10 Explanation of the effect of any No restatements.
restatements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such restatement e. g. mergers acquisitions, change of base years periods, nature of business, measurement methods.
3.11 significant changes from previous None.
reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report.
3.12 Table identifying the location of the See GRI index within this CSR Report.
23 Standard Disclosures in the report.
3.13 Policy and current practice with regard External assurance has not been sought 4 to seeking external assurance for the - see About this report, within this CSR report.
If not included in the assurance Report.
report accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided.
Also explain the relationship between the reporting organisation and the assurance provider s. 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, See page 11 of the Corporate including committees under the highest Governance Report.
governance body responsible for specic tasks, such as setting strategy or organisational oversight.
4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest See page 5 of the Corporate Governance governance body is also an executive Report: Chairman is an independent officer and, if so, their function within Non-Executive Director.
the organisations management and the reasons for this arrangement.
4.3 For organisations that have a unitary See pages 6 to 7 of the Corporate board structure, state the number Governance Report.
and gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent and or non-executive members.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 33 AREA INDICATOR DESCRIPTION OF INDICATOR COMMENTARY DATA PAGE 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and See page 16 of the Corporate employees to provide recommendations or Governance Report.
direction to the highest governance body.
4.5 Linkage between compensation for See the Corporate Governance Report, members of the highest governance in particular the Remuneration Report body, senior managers and executives on pages 18 to 29. including departure arrangements and the organisations performance including social and environmental performance.
4.6 Processes in place for the highest See CSR policy framework and page 9 6 to 7 governance body to ensure conicts of of the Corporate Governance Report.
4.7 Process for determining the composition, See page 9 of the Corporate Governance qualications and expertise of the Report.
members of the highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity.
4.8 Internally developed statements of mission See CSR policy framework within this 6 to 7 or values, codes of conduct and principles CSR Report.
relevant to economic, environmental and social performance and the status of their implementation.
4.9 Procedures of the highest governance See Corporate Governance Report, body for overseeing the organisations in particular the Report of the CSR identication and management of Committee on page 36. economic, environmental and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct and principles.
4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest See page 15 of the Corporate governance bodys own performance, Governance Report.
particularly with respect to economic, environmental and social performance.
4.11 Explanation of whether and how the See Financial review and section on precautionary approach or principle is risks on pages 26 to 34 in the Annual addressed by the organisation.
environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses.
4.13 Memberships in associations such as Jersey Financial Services.
industry associations and or national international advocacy organisations.
4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Not reported.
4.15 Basis for identication and selection of See CSR policy framework within this 6 to 7 stakeholders with whom to engage.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 34 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE CONTINUED AREA INDICATOR DESCRIPTION OF INDICATOR COMMENTARY DATA PAGE 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, See Community and human rights 16 to 17 including frequency of engagement by within this CSR Report.
type and by stakeholder group.
4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been See Community and human rights 16 to 17 raised through stakeholder engagement within this CSR Report.
and how the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting.
