HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 18 BUSINESS CONDUCT We uphold the highest standards of business conduct across all of our operations.
We are resolutely opposed to bribery and corruption in whatever forms they may take and do not participate in, or finance, party politics.
2012 HIGHLIGHTS POTENTIAL IMPACT AND OPPORTUNITY Failure to comply with the highest standards of corporate conduct, the Company had no material breaches of its which is expected by our diverse stakeholders, will impact on our policies during 2012: reputation and ability to be viewed as a partner of choice.
over the year we engaged with a number of Good corporate conduct makes sound business sense which guides stakeholders including NGOs, investors and correct actions and enhances our reputation amongst stakeholders.
research companies, increasing their understanding of our approach and allowing us MITIGATION OF IMPACT to apply their feedback to develop our systems and procedures, where necessary: and We recognise the Company can mitigate any disruptive impact we reviewed our whistle-blowing procedure.
through committing to: develop and maintain systems to identify potential risks: continue to develop policies in accordance with a changing regulatory background: ensure employees and contractors are aware of procedures: and instill a sense of accountability amongst all members of staff.
Number of Company policy breaches ZERO Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 19 OUR APPROACH Q&A We conduct our activities predominantly in developing countries.
Are your Company policies static or Our approach both within these territories and in the parts of the world where we may wish to conduct business in the future, is have they been developed over time?
dependent upon how our relationships are conducted.
We are, in particular, resolutely opposed to bribery and corruption in whatever The Company reviews its policies form they may take.
Our policies preclude financial support for through its various committees regularly political parties, require that relationships are conducted with mutual and develops them to enable best practice trust and confidence and that suppliers and competitors are treated inthe relevant areas of operation.
We aim to ensure that this fundamental aspect of our business Heritage will ensure these policies are extends to all of our relationships with our host governments and adopted byShoreline, our Nigerian joint local authorities, suppliers, customers, business partners, employees, venture.
contractors and other key stakeholders.
The Company has whistle-blowing procedures and systems that are reviewed regularly.
These aim to ensure that employees and other parties connected with the Company have the opportunity to condentially report breaches of business conduct policies.
Details of these procedures are available to all of our employees at all of our offices.
The Chairman, CEO or Chairman of the Audit Committee receive any reports and are responsible for their follow-up.
The outcomes of these instances are reported to and monitored by either the Audit Committee or the Board.
