Corporate Governance 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 05 STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE The following sections of this report describe how the Company has COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE As a company with a Premium Listing on the LSE, the Company is applied the Main Principles of the Code: subject to the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA Listing Rules and the requirement to explain how it has applied the Main L eadership Effectiveness Principles of theCode.
A copy of the Code is available from the FCAs website, www.
The Listing Rules also require a company Accountability Remuneration to confirm that it has complied with all the provisions of the Code or explain areas of non-compliance.
The Board considers that the Relations with Shareholders Company has complied with all the provisions of the Code, save in respect of only the following item: Appendix 2, at the back of this document, sets out additional disclosure requirements and detailed compliance with provisions of Code Provision C. 3.1: The Chairman of the Company is a member the Code.
of, and chairs, the Audit Committee.
The Board believes the Chairman is the most appropriate person to be a member of, and The following statements may be found on page 8 of the Financial Statements Report: chair, the Audit Committee given his extensive financial experience.
The Chairman is also considered by the Board to have maintained his independent status.
The Board and Nomination i Statement of the Directors Responsibilities for preparing the Committee have reviewed the continued chairing of the Audit Annual Report and Accounts 2012: Committee by the Chairman.
Given the size of the Company and ii Responsibility Statement of the Directors that the financial of the Board the decision was reached that this is still the most statements and management report which is incorporated in the appropriate Audit Committee leadership role to maintain.
Annual Review Report and in the CSR Report give a fair review of the Companys business: and The Company has reviewed Executive Directors employment iii Going Concern Statement.
contracts annually with external advisers, taking into account shareholder feedback, and internally, within the Remuneration For and on behalf of the Board Committee, more details of which can be found on page 21.
After consultation during the year, the notice periods of the Executive MICHAEL J. HIBBERD Directors has been reduced from 24 months to 12 months, effective CHAIRMAN 1January 2013, to bring the Company further in line with 29 APRIL 2013 bestpractice.
