HERITAGE OIL PLC Annual Review 2012 02 EXPLORATION PRODUCTION ASSET OVERVIEW MALTA Area 2: 100% working interest & operator Heritage typically focuses on regions Area 7: 100% working interest & operator which may have been overlooked and Areas 2 and 7 lie in the south-eastern offshore region of Malta and show geologic similarities to where it can participate as an early areas offshore Libya and Tunisia which contain a number of producing fields.
Well planning continues which will enable the drilling of an identified prospect in Area 7 once Maltese government approval is granted.
The Heritage asset portfolio provides a geographical and operational diversication.
Material corporate transactions undertaken in 2012 have provided a balance to the portfoliowith assets that include significant production and reserves.
The joint venture company Shoreline Natural Resources Limited Shoreline, created in partnership with Nigerian company Shoreline Power, has established an indigenous company which will provide a platform for further growth within the country.
Through Shoreline, Heritage has acquired an interest in OML 30, a world class asset, which secures Heritage a step change in production and reserves.
Entry into Nigeria was partially funded through the disposal ofinterests in Kurdistan, for which an attractive valuation was achieved.
OML 30 lies onshorethe Niger Delta in one of the most prolic oil provinces in the world and includes eight producing elds with oil and gas contained in numerous stacked reservoirs.
Improving the gas lift is a key target in 2013 and could increase production by up to 20%.
Average production from OML 30, net to Heritage for November and December 2012, was 12,350 bopd.
Heritage has held an interest in Russia since 2005 and has acquired 2D seismic, constructed pilot production facilities, commenced eld production, drilled four wells and re-entered an existing well.
A revised eld development plan was submitted and this has been approved by the regulatory authorities at the end of December 2012.
In August 2011, Heritage acquired a controlling 51% interest in Sahara Oil Services Holdings Limited Sahara Oil which owns the entire share capital of Sahara Oil Services Limited Sahara in Libya.
Through this acquisition Heritage believes it is well placed to play a significant role in the future development of the oil and gas industry in Libya.
NIGERIA Activity on the exploration portfolio will increase as work OML 30: 45% equity interest through Shoreline programmes continue in Tanzania, Malta andPapua New Guinea, which was added to the portfolio in April 2013.
In Rukwa, In November 2012, Heritage acquired a seismic processing is continuing and inll 2D seismic may be significant interest in OML 30 through Shoreline.
acquired in conjunction with Kyela seismic acquisition scheduled for OML 30 covers 1,097 square kilometres and later this year.
RPS, in an independent evaluation, estimated 2D seismic acquisition within licences PPL 319 and PRL 13will be that OML 30 contains proved and probable expanded and is targeting advancement of the Tuyuwopi structure reserves of 347 MMbbls of oil net to the Group and the Mudoli Middletown lead.
Further assessment will continue as at 31 March 2012. of the upside potential identied at the Iehi and Orie anticlines, in addition to the untested hanging wall of the Kuru eld in PRL13.
These prospects and leads are located in a known hydrocarbon province which includes the multi-TCF Triceratops and Elk Antelope discoveries with infrastructure close by.
Annual Review 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 03 LIBYA RUSSIA 51% equity interest in Sahara Oil Zapadno Chumpasskoye: 95% equity interest Heritage is exploring ways to assist the newly The licence covers an area of about 200 appointed Interim government, under the General square kilometres and contains the Zapando National Congress elected in July 2012, the Chumpasskoye Field, discovered in 1997. national oil company and the state oil companies rehabilitate and re-shape Libyas hydrocarbons RPS, in an independent evaluation, estimated sector.
that Zapadno Chumpasskoye contains proved and probable reserves of 65 MMbbls of oil net to the Group as at 31 March 2012.
TANZANIA PAPUA NEW GUINEA PAKISTAN Rukwa North: 100% working interest &operator PPL 319: 80% working interest and operator Sanjawi: 54% working interest & operator Rukwa South: 100% working interest &operator PRL 13: 80% working interest and operator Zamzama North: 48% working interest &operator Kyela: 100% working interest & operator Latham: 29.9% working interest & operator Heritage entered this new region in April 2013 The Sanjawi onshore exploration licence covers through the farm-in to, what management a gross area of 2,258 square kilometres.
The In 2011 2012 Heritage was awarded the Rukwa estimate to be, highly prospective acreage.
2D Zamzama North licence covers an area of 1,229 and Kyela licencesand the work programmes seismic has recently been acquired and this square kilometres.
The current seismic database have begun.
In Rukwa, seismic processing is programme will be extended later this year.
used to map the Zamzama North licence continuing and infill 2D seismic may be acquired comprises some 1,000 kilometres of good quality in conjunction with Kyela seismic acquisition 2D seismic.
scheduled for later this year.
