HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 2012 04 SUMMARY OF CHANGES TO THECODE WHICH COME INTO EFFECTFOR FINANCIAL YEARS BEGINNING ON OR AFTER 1OCTOBER 2012 DIVERSIT Y AND GENDER The Nomination Committee should include a description of the boards policy on diversity, including gender, any measurable objectives that it has set for implementing the policy and progress on achieving the objectives.
Carmen Rodriguez has been appointed as the rstwoman Director on the Board.
The Nomination Committee will continue to develop a broad approach to the recruitment of Directors to ensure a wide variety of sectors, talents and backgrounds are represented.
ANNUAL REPORT AND The directors should state that they consider the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary ACCOUNTS for shareholders to assess the companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Boarddoes, and will continue to, involvetheAudit Committee, and where appropriateother committees, toconrm this statement for Annual Reports.
FTSE 350 companies should put the external audit contract out totender at least every AUDITORS ten years.
The Companys current auditors, KPMG, have been in position since the Company first listed in March 2008.
In addition KPMG were the auditorsof Heritage Oil Corporation HOC.
Information on the assessment of the external auditoris provided in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 30 to 32.
Having assessed the current auditors to be effective in their role there is no current intention to put the contract out to tender.
Additional requirements for information that should be included in the Report of AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORTING the Audit Committee.
These include reporting on significant issues that the Audit Committee considered in relation to the financial statements, how these were addressed, and an explanation of how the Committee assessed the effectiveness of the external audit process and the approach taken to the appointment or reappointment of the external auditor.
Information on the length of tenure of the current audit rm and when a tender was last conducted is also required.
This information is included in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 30to 32.
