HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 2012 08 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS LEADERSHIP Skills and experience of the Board Directors of the Company who servedin 2012 and up to the date of the signing of this report are: Finance Appointment dates Legal 1 Michael Hibberd Mining exploration engineering Chairman and Non-Executive Security defence Director 18 March 2008 2 Anthony Buckingham CEO 25 February 2008 2 Paul Atherton Chief Financial Officer 6 February 2008 1 John McLeod Length of tenure of the Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Director 18 March 2008 Carmen Rodriguez Non-Executive Director 22 March 2012 1 Gregory Turnbull 04 years Non-Executive Director 18 March 2008 45 years 1 Sir Michael Wilkes Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director 18 March 2008 3 Salim Macki Non-Executive Director 12 August 2008 Mark Erwin Non-Executive Director 1 May 2012 1 The Director was appointed on 18 March 2008 and this became effective on the Balance of Non-Executive and Executive Directors Companys listing on the LSE on 28 March 2008.
2 The Director was appointed as indicated and this became effective on the Companys listing on the LSE on 28 March 2008.
3 The Director resigned from the Board on 22 March 2012 and was replaced by CarmenRodriguez.
Non-Executive Chairman Executive Directors Biographical details of all current Directors can be found on pages 6 Independent Non-Executive to 7 of this report.
With the exception of Sir Michael Wilkes, Carmen Directors Rodriguez and Mark Erwin, all the Directors were previously, and Non Independent continue to be, Directors of HOC.
Non-Executive Directors COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD There are currentlyeight Directors, six of whom are Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman and three of the Non-Executive Directors are deemed to be independent under the terms of the Code.
The current composition is assessed by the Board to be highly effective.
There is abalanced mixof skills and experience, avariance in length of tenure ofNon-Executive Directors which ensures continuity and new perspectives, and a good balance between Executive and independent Non-Executive Directors.
The variety of experience of the Directors, coupled with the recruitment of the Boards first woman Director, Carmen Rodriguez, brings a balanced diversity of thought to Board deliberations.
Corporate Governance 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 09 APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD CONFLICTS OF INTEREST AND RELATED PARTY It is crucial that the appropriate skills and balance of talents are TRANSACTIONS represented on the Board.
This is an area of ongoing focus for the Under the Articles of Association of the Company the Articles, Board which has delegated the tasks of reviewing Board composition, aDirector may be a party to, or otherwise interested in, any searching for appropriate candidates and making recommendations transaction or arrangement with the Company as long as they have to the Board on appointment of Directors to the Nomination disclosed to the Directors the nature and extent of any interests at the Committee.
In March 2012, Heritage announced the appointment of first meeting of the Directors at which a transaction is considered or Carmen Rodriguez to the Board and the retirement of Salim Macki.
as soon as practical after that meeting by notice in writing to the In May 2012, Heritage announced the appointment of Mark Erwin.
Where disclosure is made to the Secretary, the Secretary The appointments process and role of the Nomination Committee is must inform the other Directors that it has been made and table the described more fully in the Report of the Nomination Committee on notice at the next meeting of the Directors.
Any disclosure at a pages 32 to 33. meeting of the Directors must be recorded in the minutes of the meeting.
Any potential or actual conicts of interest are regularly RE-ELECTION reviewed by the Board.
With regard to retirement and re-election of Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles, the Code and the Jersey Companies Law.
The Companys Code of Business Conduct and Ethics also requires Under the Articles, Directors have the power to appoint a Director to Directors and employees to avoid conicts of interest which may the Board during the year but any person so appointed must stand for interfere or appear to interfere with the obligation to act in the best election at the next AGM.
All Directors retire and stand for reinterests of the Company.
election annually in compliance with the Code.
Directors re-elected at the AGM are appointed for a one year term.
Related party transactions with Directors are disclosed in note 23 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in the Financial INDEPENDENCE Statements Report.
The current related party transactions relate to The Boards assessment of the independence and effectiveness of provision and personal use of transportation services.
theNon-Executive Directors is made regularly.
In addition to the requirements of the Code, this assessment includes the Directors ROLE OF THE BOARD total number of commitments, relationships with major suppliers or The Boards principal roles are direction, supervision and with charities or other entities receiving material support from the stewardship.
How the Board fullled these responsibilities during the year, for example by directing strategy and objectives and upholding Company.
the values and culture of the Group, are shown in the table on page 13 which summarises the Boards activities for the year.
The detailed The Board considers that John McLeod, Carmen Rodriguez, Sir Michael Wilkes, Mark Erwin and Michael Hibberd are independent responsibilities of the Board are set out in a schedule of matters reserved for its attention which is reviewed on a regular basis.
The incharacter and judgement and free from relationships or circumstances which may affect their judgement.
These criteriaalso most recent review was carried out early in 2013. applied to Salim Macki whilst he served on the Board before his resignation in March 2012.
On appointment, the Chairman was RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD considered to be independent and continues to be so.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board sets out its The Board acknowledges that John McLeod does not meet the strict responsibilities.
These include: independence criteria set out in the Code as he has served as a Director of HOC, the prior holding company of the Group, for more approval of strategy and long-term objectives: than nine years and was previously granted options.
However, the establishing and communicating the Companys values and Board has satisfied itself that neither of these factors impactJohn standards: McLeods independence in character and judgement.
His length of determining the nature and extent of risks that the Board is service on the Board enhances his ability to perform his duties willing to take to achieve its objectives: effectively and helps maintain an appropriate balance between approval of annual budgets, business plans, annual and half experienced Non-Executive Directors and those more recently year reports and dividends: appointed to the Board.
John McLeod, like all Directors, stood for review of press releases and all financial information to be re-election at the last Annual General Meeting and received released to the market: overwhelming support from shareholders and was re-elected.
reviewing performance in light of strategy, objectives and business plans and ensuring corrective action is put in place Gregory Turnbull does not meet the independence criteria set out by ifnecessary: the Code as he is a partner of McCarthy Ttrault LLP, the Canadian approving changes to Board composition: legal advisers to the Company.
approval of material acquisitions, disposals and contracts: considering items of major litigation: ensuring the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls including managing risks: and approval of Group policies including the Code of Ethics, AntiBribery and Corruption, Code of Conduct, health, safety and environmental policies.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 2012 10 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES There is a clear division of responsibility between the roles of the Chairman, Michael Hibberd, and the Chief Executive Officer CEO, Anthony Buckingham, to ensure an appropriate balance of responsibility and accountability.
The Senior Independent Director SID is Sir Michael Wilkes.
The responsibilities of the Chairman, CEO and SID, which have been formalised in writing, were reviewed by the Board during the year.
The key responsibilities are summarised below.
CHAIRMANS ROLE CEOS ROLE SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS ROLE BUSINESS STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE MANAGEMENT GENERAL Upholding the highest standards of Development and implementation of Board To act as a sounding board for the integrity, probity and corporate governance approved objectives and strategy.
Oversight Chairman and serve as an intermediary for throughout the Group, particularly at Board and management of all operations, business the other Directors when necessary.
RUNNING OF THE BOARD INVESTMENT AND FINANCING SHAREHOLDERS Leading the Board and setting its agenda, Recommending annual budgets and To be available to shareholders if they ensuring adequate time is given to business plans to the Board and identifying have concerns which contact through the matters under consideration and ensuring new business opportunities in line with normal channels of Chairman, CEO or Directors receive accurate, timely and strategic plans.
Chief Financial Officer CFO has failed clear information in order to carry out to resolve.
Managing the Board to allow enough time for discussion of To attend sufficient meetings with major complex or contentious items and, in shareholders and analysts to obtain a particular, strategic issues.
balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of such shareholders.
DIRECTORS INDUCTION, DEVELOPMENT AND RISK MANAGEMENT AND EVALUATION CONTROLS CHAIRMAN Facilitating constructive relationships Ensuring appropriate risk management and To meet with the other Non-Executive between Directors and induction, training internal control systems are in place.
Directors at least once a year to appraise the and development needs of Directors.
Chairmans performance and on such other Ensuring that the performance of the occasions as deemed appropriate.
Board, its committees and individual Directors is evaluated annually and acting on the results of such evaluation.
REL ATIONS WITH EXECUTIVE TEAM AND SHAREHOLDERS MANAGEMENT Ensuring communication and dialogue Leading the management team, ensuring is entered into with shareholders and the Group policies and procedures are followed effective use of the AGM and Extraordinary and the development of a succession plan General Meetings.
Corporate Governance 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 11 GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE BOARD The Board is supported by the work of its Committees and delegates day-to-day management of the Group to senior management SUPERVISION STEWARDSHIP Review of performance against strategy Approval of strategy Review of financial information Values and standards Review of effectiveness of internal controls and risk management Approval of Group policies BOARD COMMITTEES AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATION RESERVES ANTICSR COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION COMMITTEE Monitors integrity of Sets remuneration policy Makes recommendations Oversight responsibilities Oversees anti-bribery Sets CSR Policy financial statements on Board composition with respect to the programme and ethical Framework Reviews and approves Companys oil and gas policies and practices Reviews accounting remuneration of Reviews succession reserves evaluation Reviews internal CSR policies Executive Directors planning process programme Manages relationship Reviews Board Considers independence with external auditor performance of the technical evaluator Oversees external audit process Considers auditor independence SENIOR MANAGEMENT LEADERSHIP TEAM The Board delegates management of business and day-to-day COMMITTEES operational decisions to executives and is responsible for monitoring The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to Committees in performance.
The Executive Directors have close involvement with the line with recommendations of the Code and to facilitate progressing operations of the business through their operational roles and the the business of the Company.
These are the Audit, Remuneration, Board is supported by a strong and experienced senior management Nomination, Reserves, Anti-Bribery and Corruption and CSR team.
The duties of these Committees are set out in formal Terms of Reference approved by the Board and are available on the NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Companys website www.
Attendance of The importance of the role of a Non-Executive Director is recognised non-Committee member Directors is encouraged at all Committee bythe Board.
The responsibilities of the Non-Executive Director to meetings unless where matters associated with their own interests are constructively challenge and help develop strategy are set out in the being discussed.
individual letters of appointment of each Non-Executive Director.
Non-Executive Directors are also specifically tasked with responsibilities in the areas of strategy, performance, risk and people toensure the effective operation of the Board.
Non-Executive Directors are aware of their responsibilities and feel able to raise any concerns atBoard meetings, which are minuted accurately in the Board meetingminutes.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 2012 12 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED EFFECTIVENESS HOW THE BOARD OPERATES THE BOARD CHARTER Our Board Charter details the basic operation and processes relating to the operation of the Board.
It sets out the Directors responsibilities and conduct of Directors.
It also covers Board meeting procedures concerning agenda, papers, minutes, conict of interest procedures and other governance matters, such as the procedure for Directors to take independent advice if required.
BOARD MEETINGS Board and Committee meeting attendance in 2012.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Reserves Anti-Bribery CSR Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee 10 meetings 5 meetings 3 meetings 4 meetings 4 meetings 2 meetings 2 meetings Michael Hibberd 1054422 Anthony Buckingham 942 Paul Atherton 10 422 1 Mark Erwin 511 John McLeod 10 534 2 Salim Macki 1 3 Carmen Roderiguez 753 Gregory Turnbull 10 Sir Michael Wilkes 10 5 3 4 2 1 Mark Erwin was appointed to the Board on 1 May 2012.
2 Salim Macki resigned from the Board on 22 March 2012.
3 Carmen Rodriguez was appointed to the Board on 22 March 2012.
Areport on the Committeeactivities can be found later in this report The attendance record of each Director at formal Board meetings is from pages18 to 36. shown in the table above.
In addition to the Board meetings detailed in the table, four written resolutions of the whole Board were passed.
The Board met in formal meetingsten times during the year and is As well as formal meetings, the Chairman, CEO and CFO scheduled to meet at least four times a year.
In addition, due to the maintained frequent contact with other Directors to discuss any extensive nature of business over the course ofthe year it was deemed issues they may have had relating to the Group or as regards their necessary to conduct fourmeetings ofa committee of the Board.
It areas of responsibility and to keep them fully briefed on the Groups also engaged informally in numerous ad hoc information calls which operations and initiatives.
Additionally, the Chairman and Nonwere not convened as formal meetings.
The Board believes that one of Executive Directors met and spoke regularly during the year, and on its strengths is in having open communication channels that enable an ad hoc basis, without the Executive Directors being present.
its Directors to engage informally on a variety of topics.
Corporate Governance 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 13 WHAT THE BOARD DID DURING THE YEAR How the Board fullled its responsibilities of direction, supervision and stewardship is highlighted in the summary of the key items reviewed and discussed at Board meetings during the year.
STRATEGY consideration of possible acquisition of an interest in OML 30, Nigeria the Acquisition, through Shoreline.
Included comprehensive review of assets, history, licences, geology, legal due diligence, anti-bribery and corruption issues as well as negotiation of various corporate and nancing documents: discussions, updates and review of documentation and approvals for the Acquisition: consideration of Miran asset disposal in Kurdistan: review of various press releases and announcements in connection with the Acquisition and the disposal of the interests in the Miran asset: and review and approval of prospectus and circular in connection with the Acquisition and Miran assetdisposal in Kurdistan.
PERFORMANCE RISK consideration of risks and opportunities in connection with the Acquisition: review of possible environmental, security and other compliance risks in connection with the Acquisition: report on due diligence carried out in respect of the Acquisition: receipt of operational reports: review of Report of the Reserves Committee and approval ofCompetent Persons Reports CPR : and consideration of risks and opportunities in connection with the Miran asset disposalin Kurdistan and relinquishment of licences in Mali.
GOVERNANCE CSR review of Board Evaluation results: review of reports from the Remuneration, Audit, Nomination, Anti-Bribery and Corruption, CSR and Reserves Committees: receipt of reports from the SID: review of related party transactions and conicts of interest: review and approval of amended Board Charter: review and approval of whistle-blower policy: review and approval of the written responsibilities for the Chairman, CEO and SID: and approval for setting up a Board Committee to consider, review and approve necessary steps and documentation in connection with the Acquisition, Miran asset disposal in Kurdistanand nancing arrangements.
FINANCE reviews of nancing options relating to the Acquisition and Miran asset disposal in Kurdistan: consideration and approval of various nancing arrangements: review of the Financial Statements, Annual Report and CSR Reports and approval of the same: review and approval of the year end and interim results: update on Ugandan tax dispute: consideration of possible rights issue in connection with the Acquisition: and reviews of working capital reports.
SUCCESSION PL ANNING review of Nomination Committee Report.
Consideration of candidatesto be appointed as aNon-Executive Director.
Agreement to pursue appointment and to carry out the requisite due diligence and meetings with the highlighted candidates: resignation of Salim Macki and approval of Carmen Rodriguez as a Director on recommendation of the Nomination Committee: approval of appointment of Mark Erwin as a Director on recommendation of the Nomination Committee: and conrmation of succession plan.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 2012 14 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED COMMITMENT, DEVELOPMENT, INFORMATION AND SUPPORT It is in the whole Boards interest to ensure that all Directors have sufficient time to commit to their duties and that they receive the training and information they require in order to perform effectively.
Further information on how the Company addresses these issues may be found in Appendix 2on pages44 to 45.
The Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment set out the duties of the Director and commitment expected.
A summary of the terms of appointment for Carmen Rodriguez and Mark Erwin is set out below.
SUMMARY OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS LETTER OF APPOINTMENT Area Comment TERM Appointed for initial three year term with typical tenure expected of two three-year terms, subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
TIME COMMITMENT At least 20 days per annum.
Attendance at Board meetings, AGM, meetings of the Non-Executive Directors, EXPECTED DUTIES meetings with shareholders, training if needed, meetings as part of the Board evaluation process.
The Board provides entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of effective controls, RESPONSIBILITIES OF ALL DIRECTORS sets the Companys strategic aims, ensures necessary financial and human resources are in place, reviews management performance, sets the Companys values and standards and ensures obligations to its shareholders and others are understood and met.
ROLE OF THE NON-EXECUTIVE Key elements of the Non-Executive Directors role are: Strategy Constructively challenge and develop proposals: DIRECTOR Performance Scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor reporting of performance: Risk Non-Executive Directors should satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial information and that financial controls and systems of risk management are robust: People Determine appropriate levels of remuneration of Executive Directors and prime role in appointing Executive Directors and succession planning.
OUTSIDE INTERESTS Disclose significant commitments to the Board and notify any changes to these in advance, disclose any potential or actual conicts of interest.
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST PRICE SENSITIVE INFORMATION Compliance with Model Code, Companys Share Dealing Code and Disclosure and Transparency Rules on insider dealing required.
AND SHARE DEALING EVALUATION TRAINING Individual Directors, the Board and its Committees are subject to annual review.
Arrangements for training on an ongoing basis are made available if required.
CONFIDENTIALIT Y Duties set out in respect of condential information of the Company.
INDUCTION The two new Non-Executive Directors who joined the Board during the year underwent an induction process which covered the following areas: Area Facilitated by BOARD PROCEDURES, DUTIES OF A DIRECTOR, Chairman CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGY AND BUSINESS DEVELOPMENTS CEO FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE, FINANCIAL Chief Financial Officer REPORTING, BUDGETS, RISK INVESTOR REL ATIONS Head of Investor Relations Visits to Head Office in Jersey and meetings with the Companys COMPANY AND INDUSTRY SPECIFIC technical team to provide overview of operations Corporate Governance 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 15 EVALUATION of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide The Board undertakes regular evaluations of its own performance as reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement well as that of the various Board Committees and the Chairman and or loss.
The risk assessment and internal control procedures were in ensures that an external review is carried out at least once every three place from the start of 2012 to the date ofapproval of this report and years.
An external review is currently being conducted by Hay Group have been reviewed by the Board in accordance with the Financial which also facilitated reviews in 2009 and 2010.
In 2011, the review Reporting Councils guidance on internal control the Turnbull was conducted internally by means of a detailed questionnaire.
Aninternal review was conducted by the Chairman in 2012.
The Audit Committee reviews regularly, on behalf of the Board, the Overall, evaluations have identied that the Board, its Committees effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
The review covers all controls, including financial, operational and risk and individual Directorsperform well and provide strong and effective leadership.
Suggestions raised during the year are reviewed management processes.
Appropriate actions are put into place to remedy any weaknesses identied by the review.
One weakness to ensure that progress is made.
identied in its financial procedures reporting concerns accounting for complex financial transactions and so the Company ensures that ACCOUNTABILITY it seeks third party advice to mitigate this weakness.
It is the responsibility of the Board to ensure that there is in place a INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK system of checks and balances to manage risk across the Group.
It The Board Memorandum sets out the internal control systems of the has well established internal control procedures which are described Group including governance, high level financial controls, budgeting below.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing and and forecasting procedures, controls of resources, accounting and reporting on the effectiveness of the Groups control systems.
information systems and treasury management.
The Board Memorandum of also specifically includes OML 30 acquisition risks FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS REPORTING and controls and integration plans.
In addition tohigh level It is essential that shareholders are provided with a clear assessment of controls, controls are in place at an operational level.
These systems the Groups position and prospects.
The Annual Report and Accounts, are based on established management structures with dened lines of half yearly report and other periodic financial or trading statements responsibility and clear delegation of authority.
provide this information to shareholders and the market.
Financial reporting is controlled principally through the policies set out in the High level controls include: Financial Reporting Procedures Memorandum the Board Memorandum.
This was first established as part of the process to review of management accounts with comparison of actual become listed on the Main Market of the LSE andis reviewed and performance against prior periods and budget: updated on an annual basis.
The Board Memorandum was specifically approval of orders, authorisation of invoices and two signatories updated in 2012 to ensure that established procedures allow the required to make a transfer from the principal bank accounts: Directors to continue to make proper and informed judgements on the quarterly reconciliation of all control accounts: financial position and prospects of the Group following the Acquisiton.
prior approval by the Board for major investments: and The Directors recognise the need to maintain financial reporting segregation of duties between relevant functions and departments.
procedures, to review them on an ongoing basis and to adapt them to changing circumstances and will use the Board Memorandum as a Entity-level controls set the tone and establish the expectations of the basis for further developing control processes.
Groups control environment and are used to monitor the extent to which that tone and expectations are being fullled.
These include In fullling its responsibility to monitor the integrity of financial controls within each of the following elements: reports to shareholders, the Audit Committee reviewsaccounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the preparation of public control environment: financial information and examines documentation in relation to the risk assessment: Annual Report and Accounts and annual financial report information and communication: and announcements.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and m onitoring.
approving the half year and annual financial statements remains with the Board.
RISK ASSESSMENT Formal risk assessments are conducted periodically during the The Companys internal controls and reporting procedures and yearwhich cover all material controls, including financial and systems are being implementedby Shoreline, the joint venture operational, and risk management systems.
A risk matrix has been company incorporated in Nigeria that ownsan interest in OML 30. developed which aids identication of the primary risks the Group faces and likelihood of their occurrence.
The primary risks are RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL collated from this assessment with recommended controls to mitigate It is the Boards responsibility to determine the nature and extent of these risks and presented to the Audit Committee for review.
The the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic Board receives reports of the Audit Committees review of the objectives.
It also has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control system, risk assessment process and any reports internal control and risk management and has established processes made under its whistle-blowing policy.
for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks that the Group faces.
This includes significant risks that may arise from Details of principal risks and uncertainties, which are those reviewed environmental, social and governance matters.
The Groups system of by the Audit Committee during the year, are discussed on pages 32 to internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk 34 of the Annual Review.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 2012 16 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED WHISTLE-BLOWING POLICY ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION An important part of the Companys control processes is having a The Articles govern, amongst other things, the rights and obligations reporting system that can be used by employees to report possible relating to the Companys shares, powers of the Directors, fraud or wrongdoing.
The whistle-blowing policy and procedures in proceedings at general meetings, and the appointment and place were reviewed during the year.
Information is available to all resignation of the Directors.
The Articles may only be amended by a employees advising them that they can raise concerns in confidence special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
about possible wrongdoing by contacting the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
In addition, the Board and Audit Committee receive SHARE CAPITAL reports of any information reported under the whistle-blowing The Company has two classes of shares, namely the Ordinary Shares procedures and appropriate action is taken as a result.
and the special voting share of HOC the Special Voting Share.
HOC, the Companys indirect subsidiary, has Exchangeable Shares outstanding that are convertible into Ordinary Shares of the Company.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Ordinary Shares and the Special Voting Share carry no right to The Chairman, with input from the SID and Executive Directors, is xed income.
The Ordinary Shares have a right to one vote for every responsible for ensuring effective communication of shareholders share at general meetings.
The holders of Exchangeable Shares have views to the Board as a whole and will update the rest of the Board rights through the Special Voting Share held by the trustee of the accordingly.
Board members are expected to use their best Voting and Exchange Trust to one vote at general meetings for every endeavours to attend meetings with a broad range of shareholders or Exchangeable Share on the same basis as if they had exchanged them otherwise keep in touch with shareholder opinion and discuss for Ordinary Shares.
For clarity, the Voting and Exchange Trust is a strategy and governance issues with them as time progresses.
In Canadian Trust that holds the Special Voting Share for the benefit of addition, the Company employs an investor relations specialist and the registered holders of the Exchangeable Shares pursuant to the an investor relations programme is in place for the Company to meet terms of a Voting and Exchange Trust Agreement dated 27 February major shareholders and analysts.
Sir Michael Wilkes, as SID, has the chief responsibility of Subject to applicable statutes, shares in the Company may be issued maintaining sufficient contact with major shareholders to help with such rights or restrictions as the Company may by Special develop a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns.
Unissued shares are at the disposal of the Board.
this role Sir Michael Wilkes is available to shareholders who have concerns that have not been, or cannot be, resolved through The issued share capital of the Company and total voting rights of the discussion with the Chairman, CEO or CFO or where such contact is Company as at29 April 2013 are as follows: inappropriate.
255,595,978 Ordinary Shares of the Company are issued and Throughout 2012, Executive Directors and senior management met outstanding, which constitutes 99.1% of the total voting rights of with institutional investors in London and across the UK as well as the Company: and other European, North American and Middle East cities.
These 2,361,018 Exchangeable Shares of HOC, each carrying one voting roadshows, combined with the attendance of various Directors and or right in the Company, are issued and outstanding, which senior management at several conferences, provided for comprehensive constitutes 0.9% of the total voting rights of theCompany.
and engaging dialogue with shareholders.
In addition, the Company and its advisers entered into discussions with major shareholders in PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES respect of the resolutions put to its 2012 AGM, particularly in respect At the AGM held on 20 June 2011, a Special Resolution was passed of the resolution concerning the Rule 9 waiver.
This enabled by shareholders authorising the Company to make market purchases shareholders to fully understand the reasons for this resolution.
of its own shares up to the date of the next AGM.
Any shares which have been so purchased may be held as treasury shares or cancelled The Company engages with and considers the views of investor immediately upon completion of the purchase.
No such resolution voting advisory services such as that provided by the Institutional was proposed at the AGM held on 21 June 2012.
Voting Information Service and RREV Proxy Advisory Services.
Details of the Ordinary Shares purchased in 2012, under the 2011 The Board is aware of its reporting responsibilities and, where authority, areprovided below: necessary, takes advice to ensure that material information is released Aggregate on a timely basis.
The Board has recently reviewed its Disclosure Percentage of consideration Policy to ensure Directors and management remain aware of their Number issued share paid 1 of shares capital $000 responsibilities in relation to the release of price sensitive information.
It is the Companys policy not to comment on market Shares purchased and held rumours or press speculation.
in treasury 1,373,708 0.5% 3,323 The Group issues its results and other news releases promptly and 1 Percentage of issued share capital as at 1 January 2012. publishes them on the Companys website at www.
Other corporate information, including the Annual Report, any As at 31 December 2012, the Company held a total of 34,602,442 prospectus and, circulars issued during the year and other financial Ordinary Shares in treasury equal to 13.3% of the issued share presentations are also available on the website.
Shareholders and other capital as at 1 January 2012.
As at 29 April 2013, 34,602,442 interested parties can subscribe to receive news updates by email by Ordinary Shares were held in treasury.
registering online on the website.
Corporate Governance 2012 HERITAGE OIL PLC 17 SHAREHOLDER ANALYSIS VOTING Analysis of the Companys shareholder base, shown on the following Under the Articles, every member and every duly appointed proxy two graphs, indicates that there has been a small change in the prole present at a general meeting has, upon a show of hands, one vote.
If of those holding shares in Heritage in 2012.
There has been an voting at a general meeting is carried out by poll, every member increase in the retail shareholding and a decrease in investors present in person or by proxy has a vote for each share held.
classied as growth and valueinvestors.
TRANSFERS Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer certicated shares December 2011 by an instrument of transfer in writing in any usual form or in any 9 other form acceptable to the Directors.
Directors may refuse to 1 8 register any transfer of certicated shares which are not fully paid or 7 1.
Management 34.1% where the register of transfer is not in the acceptable form.
Retail 11.4% POWERS OF THE DIRECTORS 4.
Value 11.2% Subject to the Articles, relevant statutory law and any direction that 5.
Hedge Fund 9.3% may be given by shareholders in general meetings, the business of the 5 6.
Multiple 7.8% Company is managed by the Directors who may exercise all powers 7.
Quantitative 1.1% 3 RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The Groups financial results for the year ended 31 December 2012 Source: J. P. Morgan Securities Ltd. Other consists of trading positions, are set out in the Financial Statements Report of the Companys 2012 custody and unclassied.
The Company has not declared or paid any dividends since incorporation other than a special dividend paid in 2010 to return part of the sale proceeds from the disposal of December 2012 Heritage Oil & Gas Limiteds 50% interest in Blocks 1 and 3A in Uganda the Ugandan Assets.
Future payments of dividends are 9 1 8 expected to depend on the earnings and financial condition of the 7 1.
Management 34.1% Company and such other factors as the Board of Directors of the 2.
Value 9.7% The Companys share registrar is Computershare Investor Services 6.
Hedge Fund 9.2% 5 Jersey Limited of Queensway House, Hilgrove Street, St Helier, 7.
Quantitative 1.8% 3 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The 2013 AGM will be held at 22 Grenville Street, St Helier, JE4 8PX, Source: J. P. Morgan Securities Ltd. Other consists of trading positions, Jersey, Channel Islands on 20 June 2013.
Formal notice of the AGM, custody and unclassied.
including details of special business, is set out in the Notice of AGM MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS and dispatched to shareholders at least 20 working days before the As at29 April 2013, the Company had been notied in accordance meeting.
The Notice of AGM will also be available on the Companys with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following website at www.
interests in voting rights in its issued share capital: The AGM gives shareholders an opportunity to hear about business Ordinary 1 developments and ask questions of the Directors.
Shareholders are Name Shares held % held encouraged to send questions, prior to the meeting, to the Companys 2 Albion 85,040,340 32.97 registered office in Jersey.
For those shareholders not able to attend Lansdowne Partners Limited 28,498,394 11.05 the meeting, any presentation given at the meeting together with Capital Research and Management results of voting will be available on the Companys website.
All of Company 20,991,874 8.14 the Directors are expected to attend the AGM and be available to London and Capital Asset Management answer questions.
Voting at the AGM will be by poll, which the Ltd 7,825,024 3.03 Directors believe is the most representative way of conducting voting, giving shareholders one vote for each share held and enabling those 1 Includes voting rights attaching to the Special Voting Share as well as the Ordinary shareholders not able to attend the meeting in person an opportunity Shares.
to vote by lodging a proxy vote.
Details of how to vote and deadlines 2 Number of Ordinary Shares held by Anthony Buckingham either directly or indirectly through Albion.
for exercising voting rights are set out in the Notice of AGM.
