4.4 DIRECTORS REPORT Indemnities continued The Directors benefit from qualifying third party indemnities made by Hikma which were in force during the year and as at the date of this report.
These indemnities are uncapped inamount in relation to losses and liabilities which Directors may incur to third parties in the course of the performance of their duties.
Significant Contracts EQUITY Due to the nature of the Groups business, members of the Group are party to agreements that could alter or be terminated upon a change Capital Structure of control of the Group following a takeover.
However, none of these Details of the issued share capital, together with movements in the agreements is individually deemed to be significant in terms of its issued share capital during the year can be found in Note 31 to the potential impact on the business of the Group taken as a whole.
Hikma has one class of ordinary shares which The Directors are not aware of any agreements between Hikma carries no right to xed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote and its Directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss at general meetings of Hikma.
of ofce or employment that occurs because of atakeover bid.
There are no persons, with whom Hikma hascontractual or other As at 31 December 2012: arrangements, whoare deemed to be essential to the business ISSUED DURING of Hikma.
NOMINAL VALUE IN ISSUE THE YEAR Ordinary 10 pence 197,036,507 1,185,200 Auditors Each person who was a Director of Hikma atthe date when this report was approved confirms that: During 2012, Hikma issued Ordinary Shares solely pursuant to the exercise of options under the Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 2004 Stock 3 So far as the Director is aware, there is norelevant audit Option Plan and 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan.
information of which Hikmas auditors are unaware: and There are no specic restrictions on the size of a holding or on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions 3 The Director has taken all the steps that heought to have taken as of Hikmas Articles of Association the Articles and prevailing a Director tomakehimself aware of any relevant auditinformation and to establish thatHikmas auditors are aware legislation.
TheDirectors are not aware of any agreements between ofthatinformation holders of Hikmas shares that may have resulted in restrictions onthe transfer of securities or on voting rights.
No person has any special rights with regard to the control of Hikmas share capital and all issued This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance shares are fully paid.
Hikma has not placed any shares into treasury with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. during the period under review.
Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in ofce as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the Share Buy Back forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
At the Annual General Meeting on 17 May 2012, shareholders gave theDirectors authority to purchase shares from the market up to an DIRECTORS amount equal to 10% of Hikmas issued share capital at that time.
Thisauthority expires at the earlier of 30 June 2013 or the 2013 Annual The names of the Directors as at the date of this report, together General Meeting, which is scheduled for 16 May 2013.
The Directors withdetails of their roles, backgrounds and abilities, are set out in the are proposing to renew this authority at the 2013 Annual General Directors biographies on pages 60 to 62.
Details of the independence Meeting.
ofNon-Executive Directors are set out in the report on corporate During the year, Hikma did not acquire any of its own shares by governance on page 68.
All the Executive and Non-Executive Directors direct purchase, nominee purchase or any other means nor did it served Hikma throughout the year.
dispose of such shares previously acquired.
Hikma does not have a lien It is the Boards policy that all Directors should retire and seek over its own shares.
re-election on an annual basis.
Accordingly, Samih Darwazah, Said Darwazah, Mazen Darwazah, Sir David Rowe-Ham, Ali Al-Husry, Breffni Byrne, Michael Ashton, Ronald Goode and Robert Pickering will retire and seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders are referred to the Nomination Committee report on pages 76 to 78 and the proles of each of the Directors on pages 60 to 62.
106 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012
