4.1 GOVERNANCE REPORT OUR BOARD Samih Darwazah Said Darwazah Mazen Darwazah Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Executive Vice Chairman, CEO of MENA Age: 82 Age: 55 Age: 54 Appointed: 8 September 2005 Appointed: 1 July 2007 Appointed: 8 September 2005 Joined Hikma: 1977 Joined Hikma: 1981 Joined Hikma: 1985 Nationality: Jordanian Nationality: Jordanian Nationality: Jordanian Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Samih Darwazah founded Hikma Pharmaceuticals Said was appointed Chief Executive officer in July Mazen was appointed group Executive Vicein Jordan in 1977 and listed Hikma on the London 2007.
Said was Chairman and Chief Executive of the Chairman and MENA CEO in 2005.
During his 28 Stock Exchange in 2005.
Samih was Chairman Hikma Group holding company from 1994 to 2003 years service at Hikma, he has held an extensive and Chief Executive of Hikma until 2007, when and Minister of Health for the Hashemite Kingdom range of positions within the Group starting as a he relinquished his executive responsibilities.
In the J rdan from 2003 to 2006. of o medical representative and working in different same year, Samih won Ernst and Youngs Middle capacities including Chairman and CEO of Hikma During his thirty two years at Hikma, Said has East Entrepreneur of the Year Award.
Pharmaceuticals Limited, a major group operational undertaken several executive roles which have and holding company.
u provided him with extensive experience in A F lbright scholar, Samih holds a Masters Degree in Industrial Pharmacy from the St. Louis College each functional area of Hikmas global generic As Chief Executive of MENA, Mazen is leading the of Pharmacy, Missouri which he obtained in 1964 pharmaceuticals business and in the broader geographical expansion and consolidation of Hikma and an honorary Doctor of Science degree which strategic leadership of an international entrepreneurial in MENA region and the formation of strategic he was awarded in 2010.
He obtained his BSc organisation.
Said has played a key role in the business partnerships.
Mazen is the executive Degree in Pharmacy from the American University development of the Group strategy, including the lead of Hikmas corporate social responsibility and of Beirut AUB in 1954.
In 2012, AUB awarded acquisition of West-Ward Pharmaceuticals in the business integrity programmes.
Samih the Distinguished Alumnus Award USA and the development of the Injectables business Mazen holds a BA in Business Administration for his accomplishments in the international in Europe and the MENA region.
Under Saids from the Lebanese American University and an healthcare industry.
leadership, Hikmas facilities in the USA, Jordan AMP from INSEAD.
He has served as the President and Portugal received US FDA approval, the leading Samih served as Minister of Energy and Mineral of the Jordanian Association of Manufacturers international pharmaceutical regulatory standard.
Resources in Jordan between 1995 and 1996. of Pharmaceuticals and Medical Appliances.
He also founded the Jordan Exporters Association Said has a degree in industrial engineering from and served as a member of the Senate of the Purdue University and an MBA from INSEAD.
Other appointments: Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
Samih was Mazen is a Senator of the Hashemite Kingdom of employed at Eli Lilly from 1964 to 1976.
Other appointments: Jordan and the Chairman of the Jordan International Said is founder of the Healthcare Accreditation Insurance Company.
He is Vice Chairman of the Other appointments: Council of Jordan.
Said is Chairman of the Dead Capital Bank of Jordan.
Mazen is also a Member Samih is a member of the Generics Advisory Sea Touristic and Real Estate Investments.
He is a of Board of Trustees of Yarmouk University Jordan.
Board of Pictet, the Swiss Banks Fund.
member of the Central Bank of Jordan Board.
He is on the advisory board for the Lebanese He is a Director of Endeavour Jordan, a charitable American University LAU Lebanon, and the organization that assists in the development of BuckInstitute for Education, San Francisco.
entrepreneurs, and a Trustee of Jordan River Foundation, a charitable organization that aims Committee membership: to empower Jordanian society.
Said is a Trustee Nomination Committee atthe American University of Beirut.
Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman 60 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Sir David Rowe-Ham Ali Al-Husry Michael Ashton Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Age: 77 Age: 55 Age: 67 Appointed: 14 October 2005 Appointed: 14 October 2005 Appointed: 14 October 2005 Joined Hikma: 2005 Joined Hikma: 1981 Joined Hikma: 2005 Nationality: British Nationality: Jordanian Nationality: Australian Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Sir David brings to Hikma wide experience in Ali joined Hikma as director of Hikma Pharma Michael has over 30 years experience in the financial matters, corporate governance, public Limited in 1981 and has held various directorships pharmaceutical industry, holding senior executive affairs, and the development of listed companies.
Ali brings great financial positions with Pzer and Merck.
Michael was Sir David is a former Lord Mayor of London, and experience to the Board as well as an in-depth ChiefExecutive officer of SkyePharma PLC from financial has held many senior positions in UK knowledge of the MENA region and Hikma November 1998 to March 2006 and prior to that institutions including serving as Chairman of Brewin Pharmaceuticals.
Ali was a founder of The Capital was Chairman, President and Chief Executive Dolphin Holdings PLC and Arden Partners PLC.
Bank of Jordan, which offers commercial and officer of Faulding.
He has held a number of He is a past President of The Crown Agents Foundation investment banking services, and served as non-executive and advisory positions across the and a former regional director of Lloyds Bank plc.
Chief Executive officer of the Bank until 2007. pharmaceutical industry.
Ali has a degree in Mechanical Engineering Michael has a Bachelor of Pharmacy degree Other appointments: from the University of Southern California and from Sydney University, and his MBA degree from Sir David is Chairman of Olayan Europe Ltd. an MBA from INSEAD.
Committee membership: Other appointments: Other appointments: Audit Committee Ali is Chairman of Endeavour Jordan, a not for Michael is a non-executive director at Transition Nomination Committee Chairman profit organisation that assists in the development Therapeutics, a therapeutics biopharmaceutical Remuneration Committee of entrepreneurs and a director of the Microfund company.
He is also Chairman of PuriCore plc, for Women, which provides micronance to water-based clean technology company, andKomix, low-income female entrepreneurs.
Also, he is a childrens educational organisation.
amember of the Board of Trustees of the Jordan Museum.
Ali is a director of the Capital Bank Committee membership: ofJordan.
Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Chairman HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 61 OUR BOARD continued Breffni Byrne Dr. Ronald Goode Robert Pickering Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Age: 67 Age: 69 Age: 53 Appointed: 14 October 2005 Appointed: 12 December 2006 Appointed: 1 September 2011 Joined Hikma: 2005 Joined Hikma: 2006 Joined Hikma: 2011 Nationality: Irish Nationality: American Nationality: British Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Breffni is a chartered accountant with over 30 years Ron has spent over 30 years in the international Robert spent 23 years at Cazenove & Co. becoming of experience in public practice, including significant pharmaceutical industry, including roles as President the first Chief Executive of Cazenove Group PLC international responsibilities.
Breffni served as the of International Operations at Searle andVice in 2001.
He subsequently served as Chief Executive Managing Partner of the Audit and Business Advisory President of Clinical and scientific Affairs at Pzer.
of JP Morgan Cazenove, until his retirement in practice of Arthur Andersen in Ireland and as Director His extensive experience includes leading companies 2008.
He has extensive experience ofcapital raising, of Risk Management of Andersens audit practice in as CEO and acting as an adviser to companies mergers and acquisitions and ofthe relationship Middle East, India, Africa and the Nordic countries.
He also advises between quoted companies andinvestors.
Breffni has extensive experience in financial reporting, companies involved in nanotechnology andin the Robert is a qualied solicitor with a law degree international operations, corporate governance and information technology business sectors.
general financial and commercial matters.
He is a Ron was formerly President and Chief Executive officer former non-executive director of Irish Life and of Unimed Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and eXegenics Inc. Other appointments: Permanent plc.
He is considered by the Board to He is a trustee of Thunderbird School of l G obal Robert is a non-executive director of Neptune have recent and relevant financial experience.
Management, which is ranked by the F financial Times i Investment Management, a fund management Breffni holds a Masters degree in Economic as the premier international business school.
company and Itau BBA International PLC, the Science from the University College, Dublin and n has a PhD from the University of G orgia and investment bank of the Ita Unibanco group.
aMS and BS from the University of Memphis.
He is Chairman of the Trustees of Lincoln College Oxford 2027 Trust.
Other appointments: Other appointments: Breffni is a non-executive director of Aviva Life Committee membership: Ron is the Chairman of The Goode Group, advisers and Pensions Ireland and NCB Stockbrokers, Audit Committee to the pharmaceutical industry.
Ron is a director an independent financial services company.
He is Nomination Committee ofMercy Ships International, a medical services also a non-executive director of Tedcastles Holdings, Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee charity.
He is a Senior Business Adviser to TheKinsella an oil distribution company, and Cpl R sources plc, e Group, an investment banking company.
He chairs the audit committee of all of the above companies.
Committee membership: Audit Committee, Committee membership: Compliance, Responsibility andEthics Committee Audit Committee Chairman Chairman, Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee  Remuneration Committee 62 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012
