4.2 COMMITTEE REPORTS OPEN FOR DISCUSSION Call 44 20 7399 2760 AUDIT or E-mail: investors@hikma.
com LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN Dear Shareholder I would like to give you an overview of the operation and scope of the Audit Committee and report on its work over the past year.
The membership of the Audit Committee has not changed during the year, it comprised Sir David Rowe-Ham, Michael Ashton, Ronald Goode, Robert Pickering and myself.
The Committees written terms of reference are available on Hikmas website.
The Committee met ten times during the year.
We invited the Chief Financial officer, Auditors, Internal Auditors and certain members of the finance team to attend meetings as required.
As in previous years, the Committee met with the internal and external auditors without management present.
The Committee has an annual cycle of work relating to reviewing financial performance and forecasting, results announcements, AUDIT REPORT internalcontrol, risk management and internal and external audit.
72 Letter from the Chairman The finance department has continued to provide first rate reporting, whilst working on the complex integration of our 73 Our Highlights acquisitions and the development and output of management 73 Membership and attendance reporting systems.
73 Responsibilities As an organization Hikma is committed to clear and open 73 Terms of reference communication.
As I mentioned last year, I remain open to discussion 74 Risk with shareholders should they have any concerns that they wish to raise 74 Internal Audit directly with me.
75 Internal Control 75 External Audit Breffni Byrne Chairman of the Audit Committee 72 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 INTERNAL ADVISERS EXTERNAL ADVISERS OUR HIGHLIGHTS X Chief Financial officer X Deloitte Audit X Reviewed the corporate governance of the Group and X Company Secretary X Ernst & Young Internal Audit made recommendations to the Board X Financial Reporting Director X Monitored the performance and findings ofthe external X Treasury Director and internal auditors X Budget Director X Implemented the results of the 2012 Audit Committees evaluation exercise All members of the Committee have extensive financial experience, including international operations.
The Committee has significant X Participated in the Financial Reporting Council FRC consultation financial experience.
The Chairman has over 30 years experience on changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code and as a public accountant and is considered by the Board to have theaccompanying guidance on audit committees recent and relevant financial experience.
All members have spent X Responded to an FRC survey on the role of internal audit in a significant portion of their careers in leading positions at financial providing assurance over the control of risks associated with or pharmaceutical companies.
 Responsibilities X Monitored the non-audit services provided by the auditor The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities with regard to financial reporting, external and internal audit, internal X Reviewed the preliminary statement, the Interim Financial control and corporate governance.
The Committee reviews Hikmas Statements and the Interim Management Statements annual report, financial statements, interim report, interim management statements and trading updates, monitors any non-audit work undertaken by external auditors, and monitors the effectiveness ALLOCATION OF COMMITTEES TIME and output of Hikmas internal audit activities, internal controls and risk management systems.
The Committee is responsible for overseeing 1.
Financial performance 23% 1 corporate governance arrangements across the group, including the 6 2.
Announcements 9% annual corporate governance review.
financial results The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment, 3.
Forecasts 16% re-appointment and removal of the external auditors, as well as the 2 effectiveness of the audit process.
Internal audit 13% policies on monitoring Directors conicts of interest.
External audit 28% 5 Terms of reference 4 6.
Corporate governance 11% The Audit Committee terms of reference include all matters indicated by the Corporate Governance Principles and clearly set out its authority and duties.
They are approved and reviewed by the Board as part of Membership and attendance the annual corporate governance review and one addition was made The Audit Committee consists of five Independent Non-Executive this year in respect of ensuring the annual report is fair and balanced.
Directors Breffni Byrne Committee Chairman, Michael Ashton, The terms of reference are available on the Hikma website and by Sir David Rowe-Ham, Ronald Goode and Robert Pickering.
MEMBERS MEETINGS ATTENDANCE They are summarised as follows: Breffni Byrne Chairman 100% X monitor the integrity of the financial statements and any chael A hton 100% Mi s other formal announcement relating to the Groups financial Sir David Rowe-Ham 100% performance: review summary financial statements and Ronald Goode 100% Interim Management Statements Robert Pickering 100% X review and challenge the adoption of accounting standards, Total meetings 10 estimates and judgements and the clarity of disclosure in financial reports X review and challenge compliance with stockexchange, UK Listing Authority andlegal requirements including the requirements of the Code and Markets Law X monitor and review the internal financial controls and the roups overall risk identication and management systems G HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 73 E E T T I M M O C T I D U A INTERNAL AUDIT R E M CORPORATE GOVERNANCE U S N C E I R H A T T E I O D AUDIT N N A C O Y T M 4.2 COMMITTEE REPORTS Risk Audit continued The Committee oversees Hikmas risk management framework in the context of its responsibilities for internal control and annually reviews the strategic risks facing the Group.
Part of the work of the group Internal Audit function is, in consultation with management, to prepare an annual assessment of the risks facing the group, identied both as a result of their assurance work on the Groups control environment and through discussions with senior management.
Their report covers the Groups approach to strategic, operational, compliance and financial risk.
This review is presented to the Audit Committee and forms the basis for subsequent corrective actions and informs the work to be undertaken in the subsequent audit year.
Additionally, the Audit Committee discusses business and operational risks with the external auditors to the extent that these are identied by the audit work that they perform.
Details of the principal risks facing Hikma and action taken to mitigate and control those risks are detailed on pages 38 to 40.
THE BOARD Internal Audit COMMITTEES During the year under review, Ernst & Young continued its management and execution of the Groups internal audit function on a global basis under a three year contract which commenced in 2009.
The internal audit process focuses on reviewing areas of business risk, internal controls, and financial reporting across the Groups systems.
The internal auditors report directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, with regular reports of its findings made to the Audit Committee.
The internal audit programme operates as follows: X The internal auditors, in consultation withmanagement, prepare an annual Risk Assessment, which gives the focus for the Audit Plan and the entities to be targeted.
Itcovers the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, details of previous geographical and functional reviews, whether Terms of reference continued new assets entities have been acquired, the situation and risks identied arising from previous audits X consider and approve the remit and effectiveness of the internal audit function, its annual plan, its resources and access to X The Risk Assessment and the resulting Internal Audit Plan information and its freedom from management or other restrictions are presented to the Audit Committee Chairman for review X X Following the Chairmans comments, thenal assessment review and monitor managements responsiveness to the and Audit Plan ispresented to and approved by the findings and recommendations of the internal auditors AuditCommittee X consider and make recommendations for appointment, X Following completion of each review, the Internal Auditors re-appointment and removal of Hikmas external auditor, identify areas for remedial action and action plans are andoverseethe relationship with the external auditor discussed and agreed with management.
The findings and actions are used to create an Internal Audit Report X review and monitor the quality, independence and objectivity of for each subsidiary geography theexternalauditor and approve their remuneration and terms of engagement X The Internal Audit Reports and progress onAction Plans are submitted to the AuditCommittee, including reporting X review and monitor the directors potentialconicts of interest and ifmanagement fall behind agreed actionplans make recommendations to the Board for the management of those X The Audit Committee reports to the Board on internal interests audit matters X develop and implement a policy on thesupply by the external auditor of non-audit services, taking into account relevant ethical guidance and potential conicts of interest 74 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 I L M INTERNAL CONTROL I I B T I S T N E E O P S E R, REPORTING E C N A I L P M RISK MANAGEMENT O C E E T T I M M O C N O I T A N I M O N Internal Control External Audit The Board reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups systems of The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, internal controls and risk management during the year and confirms implementation and monitoring of the Groups policy on external that it accords with the relevant guidance.
audit, which is undertaken by Deloitte LLP and for monitoring the The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
The Audit internal control and has established a continuous process for identifying, Committee is also the primary point of contact for the auditors with evaluating and managing the risks the Group faces.
This draws on the the Board.
The Group has adopted a policy on the provision of ongoing output of the finance department on Group performance, non-audit services by the external auditors, which is included in the the work of the internal auditors and issues identied by the external Board Governance Manual, setting out which non-audit services auditors to the extent covered by their audit work.
The Board is the external auditors may and may not provide to the Group.
responsible for monitoring the ongoing effectiveness of these systems The Group also maintains a policy requiring prior approval by the and for conducting a formal annual review of the Groups policies on Audit Committee for recruitment of a senior member of the audit internal control.
The system of internal control provides reasonable but team or the recruitment of an employee of the external auditors not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
to a senior finance position within the Group.
There are no contractual provisions that restrict the Committees The key elements are as follows: choice of auditors.
It is also the Committees policy to consider every year whether there should be an audit tender process and whether X A documented and disseminated reporting structure using auditors from one audit network continues to ensure the quality with clear procedures, authorisation limits, segregation of the audit.
The Committee reviewed this during the year and of duties and delegated authorities concluded that the existing team continue to conduct an effective audit, that the teams knowledge of the G oup, particularly the r X Annual budgets, updated forecasting, and long-term business Groups diverse international operations, is advantageous in terms plans for the Group that identify risks and opportunities which are reviewed and approved by the Board of its ability to identify issues of importance and relay them clearly to the Committee.
The Committee believes that there is a strong and X A comprehensive system of internal financial reporting open relationship between the audit team leadership and the Audit which includes regular comparison of results and against Committee.
The Committee recommended to the Board the rebudget and forecast, and a review of KPIs, each informed appointment of the existing external auditor, who has been in place by management commentary since Hikma listed in 2005.
The external auditor is required to rotate the X A system of documented reporting controls over our audit partner responsible for the engagement every five years.
This is joint ventures and associates together with direct support the second year of the current lead audit partner.
There are no from the Hikma finance function contractual obligations that restrict the Companys choice of external X auditor.
A dened process for controlling capital expenditure and other financial commitments, including appropriate Fees paid in respect of audit, audit-related and non-audit services authorisation levels, which are monitored and approved are outlined in Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
by the Board as appropriate Audit-related services are services carried out by the external auditor by virtue of its role as auditor and principally include assurance-related X Written policies and procedures for material functional areas work.
During the period under review the Group used members of the with specic responsibility allocated to individual managers global Deloitte network in certain jurisdictions for non-audit services.
Deloitte are instructed for advisory work only after a competitive tender The Group continues to grow through acquisition.
Accordingly, process and with the approval of the Audit Committee.
The Committee the Board and the Committee place significant importance on the regularly reviews the independence safeguards of Deloitte and only swift integration of acquired businesses in terms of internal and authorises non-audit work where the Committee considers it would financial control.
This builds on information gathered in the legal, not be able to obtain advice of similar quality for a reasonable cost.
financial, business and regulatory due diligence undertaken in Should shareholders wish to discuss the situation with Hikma, the advance of any transaction, and focuses on financial personnel Chairman of the Audit Committee will be happy to make himself available.
support, imposition of Hikma reporting policies, IT consistency and subsequent internal audit work.
For and on behalf of the Audit Committee Breffni Byrne Audit Committee Chairman 12 March 2013 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 75
