4.1 GOVERNANCE REPORT SENIOR MANAGEMENT Majda Labadi Khalid Nabilsi Susan Ringdal Corporate Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Vice President, Corporate Strategy HumanResources andInvestor Relations Appointed to current role: 2009 Appointed to current role: 2011 Appointed to current role: 2012 Joined Hikma: 1985 Joined Hikma: 2001 Joined Hikma: 2005 Nationality: Jordanian Nationality: Jordanian Nationality: American Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: During her 28 years at Hikma, Majda has held a Prior to assuming his current role, Khalid held several Susan joined Hikma as Investor Relations Director, variety of roles including Purchasing Manager at senior positions in the Hikma finance department having previously worked for the pharmaceutical Hikma Pharmaceuticals Limited, Strategy Manager including Corporate Vice President, Finance and was distribution and retail pharmacy group Alliance at Hikma Investment, General Manager of Hikma a key member of the IPO team in 2005.
Following UniChem plc as Investor Relations Manager.
Farmaceutica and Vice President of Injectables.
qualication as a CPA he held a variety of roles in She also has experience as an equity analyst at February 2009 Majda assumed her current position In financial accounting, reporting and financial advisory Morgan Stanley in London.
In early 2012 Susan as Corporate Vice President, Human Resources.
services, and with Atlas Investment Group now assumed responsibility for corporate strategy.
She has been responsible for establishing a central AB Invest where he was involved in mergers and Susan holds a BA in History from Cornell University human resource practice and leading the development acquisitions advisory services.
Prior to Atlas, Khalid and an MBA from London Business School.
of several group wide initiatives, including the grading had managed several multinational audit engagements structure, performance evaluation process and the at Arthur Andersen in Amman, Jordan.
As Chief group bonus scheme.
Financial officer, Khalid has integrated several acquisitions into the financial reporting structure, Majda has completed the Advanced Management developed the group internal control framework Program AMP program at INSEAD, holds a and implemented new leverage arrangements to BA from the American University of Beirut and fund acquisitions and capital investment.
masters degree from Hochschule Fr Okonomie in Berlin, Germany.
Khalid is a US Certied Public Accountant and has an MBA from the University of Hull.
Other appointments: Khalid is a founder of the Jordan Association for Management Accountants and a board member of the Jordan Armed Forces and Security Apparatuses Credit Union.
HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 63 SENIOR MANAGEMENT continued Bassam Kanaan Michael Raya Riad Mishlawi President and Chief Operating Officer President and CEO of the USA EU Vice President and Global Head for the MENA and EU regions ofInjectables Appointed to current role: 2011 Appointed to current role: 2008 Appointed to current role: 2011 Joined Hikma: 2001 Joined Hikma: 1992 Joined Hikma: 1990 Nationality: Jordanian Nationality: American Nationality: Lebanese Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Bassam started his career in 1986 with Deloitte & Michael joined Hikmas US subsidiary West-Ward Riad joined Hikma as a Project Engineer in the Touche Los Angeles where he held a variety of roles from Vitarine Pharmaceuticals where he had worked engineering department where he was involved prior to joining PADICO in 1994 as CFO from 1984 until 1992 in various roles, including inthe construction of Hikmas facility in Portugal.. Bassam joined Hikma as CFO in 2001 and played a leading Vice President, Quality Control.
Prior to this, Riad spent a significant period in the manufacturing role in preparing for Hikmas IPO in 2005 and in Michael worked at Schering-Plough and Hoffman operations of many Hikma sites, was general manager its subsequent M&A activity.
At Hikma Michael has previously been of Hikma Italy and became Head of Injectables in addition to his responsibilities as CFO, Bassam responsible for all West-Wards operations as well Manufacturing Operations before assuming his assumed responsibility for Operations, Manufacturing as quality compliance for all worldwide Hikma current role.
Riad was an executive director at and Supply Chain management in Europe & MENA.
facilities until his appointment as President and Watson Pharmaceuticals from 1998 to 2005, In January 2011, Bassam was promoted to the CEO of West-Ward in 2008. responsible for Injectables operations.
Riad has position of President and Chief Operating officer for led the injectables divisional through a period Michael holds a Masters degree in Industrial the MENA and EU regions.
Bassam has led the of rapid growth and has integrated operations Pharmacy from Long Island University and a growth, acquisition, and operational improvement into a global operation.
Bachelors degree in Chemistry from St. Francis strategy in the MENA region.
Michael is also a graduate of INSEADs Riad has a BSc in Engineering and a Masters management restructuring initiatives aimed at International Executive Program.
in Engineering and Management from George strengthening local management teams which Washington University.
proved very effective in improving performance.
Bassam is qualied as a Certied Public Accountant CPA and Chartered Financial Analyst CFA.
Bassam has a BA from Claremont McKenna College and an International Executive MBA from Kellogg Recanati Schools of Management.
Other appointments: Bassam currently holds non-executive directorships in Arab Bank.
He has previously served on the Boards of Aqaba Development Co. Jordan Dubai Properties, Zara Holding, Capital Bank of Jordan, CEGCO and Paltel.
Bassam is active in several non-profit and charity organizations and is currently a member of the Board of Trustees of the Welfare Association in Jordan.
64 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Henry Knowles Peter Speirs Dr Ibrahim Jalal General Counsel Company Secretary Senior Corporate Vice President, TechnicalAffairs Appointed to current role: 2005 Appointed to current role: 2012 Appointed to current role: 2000 Joined Hikma: 2005 Joined Hikma: 2010 Joined Hikma: 1979 Nationality: British Nationality: British Nationality: Jordanian Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Since joining Hikma, Henry has advised on all Peter joined Hikma as a Deputy Company Secretary Ibrahim joined Hikma as Technical Director and legal aspects of the Groups business, including in 2010.
Prior to joining Hikma, he worked in the has held a variety of roles including Corporate commercial negotiations, litigation and regulatory Corporate Secretariat of Barclays and Pool e Technical i R, V ce President for Compliance and Senior matters as well as contributing to the execution the UK terrorism re-insurer.
He also worked at Corporate Vice President for R&D.
He has played of the Groups acquisitions.
More recently Henry Manifest, a leading Corporate Governance Agency.
a leading role in Hikma securing FDA approval has been responsible for developing the Groups In 2012, Peter assumed the role of Company Secretary.
Peter is responsible for advising on governance Ibrahim holds a PhD in Pharmacy from the Before joining Hikma, Henry worked for the at the Board and across the Group, as well as the University of Wisconsin-Madison.
international law rm, Ashurst, where he specialised share-based compensation arrangements.
in mergers & acquisitions, equity capital markets Peter is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered and corporate law.
Secretaries and Administrators and holds a law Henry is admitted as a solicitor in England and Wales degree from University of East Anglia.
and holds an MA in Social and Political Science from Trinity College, Cambridge.
HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 65 SENIOR MANAGEMENT continued Fadi Nassar Ragheb Al-Shakhshir Corporate Vice President, Active Corporate Vice President, Pharmaceutical Ingredients Research&Development Appointed to current role: 2007 Appointed to current role: 2009 Joined Hikma: 1988 Joined Hikma: 2000 Nationality: Jordanian Nationality: Jordanian Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Fadi has worked in various roles within the Group Ragheb joined Hikma as a Research & including Operations, Purchasing and Business Development Manager.
Prior to joining Hikma he Development.
He was promoted to Corporate held a variety of roles as Senior Scientist at Novartis VicePresident, API in 2007.
Fadi is a Director of Pharmaceuticals, and at Alcon Labs in the United Hubei Haosun Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. an Active States.
From 20032008 Ragheb led the Hikma Pharmaceutical Ingredient manufacturing company R&D Injectable team and from February 2009 in which Hikma purchased a significant minority assumed the responsibility of Corporate Vice interest in 2011.
Fadi holds a BSc in Chemical Engineering Ragheb has a PhD in Industrial and Physical from Newcastle University and an MSc in Pharmacy from Purdue University, Masters in Chemical Engineering from Leeds University.
Engineering from the University of MassachusettsFadi is also a graduate of INSEADs International Amherst and a BSc in Chemical Engineering Executive Program.
from the University of Wisconsin-Madison.
66 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 4.1 GOVERNANCE REPORT Board Composition During 2012, the Board comprised nineDirectors: BOARD X One Non-Executive Chairman ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES X Two Executive Directors X The Board is responsible for setting the strategic direction and One Non-Independent Non-Executive Director monitoring the financial performance of the Group against its targets.
X Five Independent Non-Executive Directors The Board promotes good governance within the Group, and seeks to ensure that Hikma meets its responsibilities to shareholders, employees, suppliers, customers and other stakeholders.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board, which was reviewed in 2012 as part THE BOARD COMPOSITION of the annual corporate governance review conducted by the Audit 1.
Chairman 11% Committee and approved by the Board.
The schedule includes approval 1 of strategic plans, financial statements, budget, material investment 2.
Executive directors 2 22% decisions, acquisitions and divestments, and responsibility for the 3.
Non-Independent NED 11% effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control.
Independent NEDs 56% The Board delegates its authority to the Chief Executive who is responsible for delivering Hikmas strategic objectives.
The Chief 3 Executive is assisted in this task by the Executive Committee the members of which meet with the Chief Executive to set strategy and 4 key objectives for their areas of responsibility.
The Chief Executive reports on operational progress and corporate actions to the Board.
Where appropriate, the Chief Executive is assisted by internal and The names of the Directors, their biographical details and dates external advisers in presenting operational progress and key strategic of appointment are set out on pages 60 to 62. decisions to the Board.
The Senior Independent Director is Sir David Rowe-Ham who remains available to shareholders should they have concerns that INTERNAL ADVISERS EXTERNAL ADVISERS they do not wish to raise directly with the Chairman.
Sir David is also responsible for chairing the meetings of the Non-Executive X CEO US X Ashurst Directors conducted without the presence of the Chairman or X CFO X Addleshaw Goddard executive management.
X COO MENA X Bank of America Merrill Lynch Chairman and Chief Executive X Company Secretary X Citigroup The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive officer are separate, X General Counsel X CenterView Partners and the Board has approved statements of their respective responsibilities X VP EU and Injectables X Deloitte in writing.
These statements were reviewed during 2012 as part of the X VP Human Resources X Ernst & Young annual corporate governance review.
X VP IR and Strategy X Lintstock The Chairman previously held the role of Chairman and Chief Executive.
In 2007, he relinquished his executive responsibilities and X PwC continued as Non-Executive Chairman.
Prior to the appointment of the current Chief Executive officer the Board undertook consultation with its major shareholders and external advisers regarding the continuation ofSamih Darwazah in his role as Chairman.
The Board concluded that his former executive role should not prevent him from remaining as Chairman, especially as he has an in-depth understanding of the Group and the business and is able to provide a valuable contribution in his capacity as Non-Executive Chairman.
HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 67 4.1 GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Hikma Knowledge Board members are encouraged to visit the business units and to meet management teams in order to facilitate a better understanding of the key issues facing the business.
The Non-Executive Directors undertook several operational visits Independence during the year, and maintain an excellent understanding of the way The Board considers Sir David Rowe-Ham, Michael Ashton, Ronald the business operates.
Goode, Breffni Byrne and Robert Pickering to be independent.
These The Chairman, Mr. Ali Al-Husry and theExecutive Directors have individuals provide extensive experience of international pharmaceutical, extensive experience of Hikma from its earliest days toits current day.
financial, corporate governance and regulatory matters and were The directors maintain an appropriate dialogue amongst notassociated with Hikma prior to the listing of Hikma in 2005. themselves and senior management, which ensures that non-executive The Board reviewed and considered the independence of the directors are kept up to date with major developments in the Groups Non-Executive Directors during the year as part of the annual corporate business.
The Board considers that their diverse business backgrounds, skills and experience enable all the Non-Executive Training Directors to continue to bring independent judgement to bear on issues The main Board training and development activities this year were: of strategy, performance, resources, key appointments, standards of conduct and other matters presented to the Board.
X External training on the legal and regulatory landscape.
The Board does not classify Ali Al-Husry asan Independent X External training on Anti-Bribery andAnti-Corruption.
Director because of his involvement with Darhold Limited, Hikmas largest shareholder.
He was also a Director of Hikma prior to listing.
X The Company Secretary made regular updates to the Directors However, he continues to bring to the Board broad financial experience on relevant regulatory and governance matters.
and a detailed knowledge of the MENA region which represents the majority ofthe Groups business.
X Directors attended several externally provided seminars and discussion forums.
Further training is scheduled for 2013.
EFFECTIVENESS X Hikmas brokers and financial advisers presented industry Skills and Experience and market updates tothe Board on several occasions.
The Board keeps the skills and experience of its members under X The Investor Relations department reportedto the Board on its constant review.
The Directors believe in the necessity for challenge and activities andissues arising in the market on aregular basis.
debate in the boardroom and consider that existing Board dynamics and processes encourage honest and open debate with the Executive Directors.
Evaluation The Board and the Committee undertake an externally moderated evaluation each year.
The key points of the programme are: BOARD EXPERIENCE X The process is coordinated by the Senior Independent Director International exposure 100% at the request of the Chairman.
X Lintstock, our external moderator preparedonline questionnaires Pharmaceutical 67% for both the Directors and Senior Management designed to build on previously identied themes.
Manufacturing 67% X In 2012 the Board enhanced the evaluationwith new questionnaires which were sent to senior management.
Such an extra participation Sales 100% injected a wider perspective into the evaluation.
X Lintstock managed the process and  to the Regulatory 67% Chairman and the Senior Independent Director.
Lintstock presented the results and findings to the full Board in the context of Hikmas Listed business and that of its peers.
56% environment X In the FTSE and international markets and provided their Finance 67% independent feedback on the results.
X A similar process was followed for each Committee.
GEOGRAPHICAL SPLIT 68 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 The main elements of the questionnaire were: MEETINGS X Board composition Information Flow The Company Secretary supports the Chairman in setting the Board X Time management agenda, ensuring appropriate reports from executive management and advisors are delivered in a timely manner and that Directors have X Board information the information they need in order to make fully-informed decisions.
X Strategic oversight During the year the Board received presentations and considered the following matters: X Operational oversight X Financial performance X Succession planning and human resourcemanagement X Divisional operational performance and business development X Case study X Legal update X Priorities for change X Corporate governance update The key conclusions and observations from the 2012 evaluation were: X Executive Committee and Strategic updates X The Board continues to operate effectively X Committee Chairmen report X The views of each member were openly communicated and appropriately taken into account X Acquisitions X The Board will continue to work on Strategy, Risk and Succession X Investor relations X Financial markets performance broker update significant progress had been made on previously identied issues: X Risk management OBSERVATIONS ACTION TAKEN X Insurance Focus upon Board andexecutive A succession manual has been successionplanning approved by the Board and X Human resources lays downthe procedures for Board and executive succession.
X Compliance Duplication in reviewing detailed Financial presentation format X Research and development financial information atthe was changed toimprove X Board and AuditCommittee clarity of information and Tax presentation style.
The Board Governance Manual contains the policy for Directors to Increased communication Enhanced use of the obtain independent legal advice at Hikmas expense.
on Hikma Strategy Executive Committee to consider Group Strategy.
Company Secretary The Company Secretary reports to the Chairman.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is In 2013 the Board will consider whether to enhance the externally responsible for ensuring good information ow to the Board and its moderated evaluation with face-to-face Director interviews, based on committees, and that sound Board procedures are followed.
The the continued added value this could bring to the Boards operations.
appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter The results of the evaluation process formed part of the Chairmans reserved for the Board.
appraisal of the overall effectiveness of the Board and its members.
The Senior Independent Director met with the Non-Executive Non-Executives Directors to undertake a formal appraisal of the performance of the The Chairman holds meetings with Non-Executive Directors without Chairman.
This review addressed the effectiveness of his leadership, the executive management present to discuss issues affecting the the setting of the Board agenda, communication with shareholders, Group.
As in previous years, theIndependent Non-Executive Directors internal communication and Board efficiency.
The Non-Executives havemet without the Chairman or Executive Directors being present concluded that the Chairman gave clear leadership and direction on several occasions during the year.
to the Board, and that the Board is run in an appropriate and effective manner.
Attendance During the year under review the Board heldnine scheduled meetings and one unscheduled meeting.
The annual cycle of theBoards work is detailed in the Calendar section below.
The Company Secretary attended all Board Meetings and Committee Meetings.
Atthe discretion of the Board or relevant committee, senior management are invited to attend meetings and make presentations on developments and results in their businessdivisions.
HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 69 4.1 GOVERNANCE REPORT continued The table below shows attendance at the Board and Committee meetings.
To the extent directors were unable to attend additional meetings called on short notice, or were prevented from doing so by prior commitments, they received and read the papers for consideration at that meeting, relayed their comments in advance and, where necessary, followed up with the Chairman on the decisions taken.
DIRECTOR BOARD AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATION COMPLIANCE Samih Darwazah 100% Said Darwazah 100% Mazen Darwazah 100% 75% 100% Ali Al-Husry 100% Sir David Rowe-Ham 100% 100% 100% 100% Breffni Byrne 100% 100% 100% 100% Michael Ashton 100% 100% 100% 100% Ronald Goode 100% 100% 100% 100% Robert Pickering 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Total Meetings Held 9 10 7 4 7 Mr. Mazen Darwazah was unavailable for one Nomination Committee meeting due to his attendance being required at an Executive Committeemeeting Duties and Commitment DIRECTORS The Directors commit an appropriate amount of time to their roles and Terms of Appointment are readily available at short notice.
The letters of appointment require Details of the Executive Directors service arrangements and NonNon-Executive Directors to commit 20days during each year to the Executive Directors letters of appointment are contained in the execution of their duties.
However, all of the Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Report on pages 91 to 93.
Theyare made available for devote at least 30 days per annum totheir Hikma responsibilities.
In inspection before the Annual General Meeting and during business addition, thecommittee chairmen spend a significant amount of time hours at Hikmas registered ofce at 13Hanover Square, London.
on their respective areas of responsibility and Non-Executive Directors take time to meet with management and visit operations where External Commitments there have particular areas of interest.
Consequently, the independent The Directors external commitments are detailed in their proles on Non-Executive Directors dedicate substantially more time to Hikma pages 60 to 62.
TheAudit Committee operates, monitors and reviews than their appointment requires.
the conicts of interest procedures, which have operated effectively The duties of the directors, Chief Executive, Chairman and during the year.
A register of external commitments is maintained by Committee chairmen are set out in the Board Governance Manual.
the Company Secretary and is reviewed, updated at each Audit Committee and Board meeting.
Where new commitments are Remuneration proposed, these are reviewed in advance by the Audit Committee The Remuneration Report is on pages 82 to 103. and where appropriate, recommendations on necessary controls are made to the Board.
Indemnities and Insurance Hikma maintains an appropriate level of Directors and Ofcers The Board considers that a degree of outside commitments enhances a Directors ability to perform the role.
The Directors benefit from qualifying third party indemnities made by Hikma which were in force during the year and as at the date of this report.
These indemnities are uncapped in amount in relation to losses and liabilities which Directors may incur to third parties in the course of the performance of their duties.
70 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY Introduction to the Committees The Board has an extensive workload and, therefore, has delegated the detailed oversight of certain items to four committees: MATTERS RESERVED TO THE BOARD X Audit Committee Hikma maintains a formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board in X Nomination Committee the Board Governance Manual.
This includes the following items: X Remuneration Committee X Operational Management Approval of strategy, operations oversight, X Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee CREC performance review Each committee has terms of reference which were reviewed during X Structure & Capital the year.
Copies are published on the Groups website and are available Approval of changes to Group structure or changes for inspection at the registered ofce at 13 Hanover Square, London.
to capital structure X Financial Reporting & Controls Reporting to the Board Approval of financial announcements, accounts, The Chairmen of each Committee report on that Committees business dividends, conducting significant changes to treasury at every Board meeting.
The minutes of each Committee aremade and accountancy practice available to the entire Board.
Each Committee makes a formal annual report toshareholders in the Annual Report.
X Internal Controls Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups risk For and on behalf of the Board of Directors ofHikma and control processes, including an annual assessment Pharmaceuticals PLC X Contracts Approval of significant contracts, investments Peter Speirs and projects which meet pre-set monetary thresholds Company Secretary X 12 March 2013 Communication Approval of certain press releases, and all circulars and prospectuses X Board Membership and Other Appointments Approval of changes to board structure and composition, succession, auditors, company secretary X Remuneration Determining remuneration policy for senior management and Directors and ofcers, amendingor introducing share incentive plans X Corporate Governance Annually reviewing Board, Committees and individual Director performance, and reviewing corporate governance arrangements HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 71
