10 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 How we are going to get there OUR STRATEGY Our strategy is to create value through optimising our current operations, extensive exploration and opportunistic acquisitions.
OPERATING RESPONSIBLY Our strategy is underpinned by our commitment to ensuring a safe and healthy workplace for all of our employees, to manage and minimise the environmental impact of our operations and CORE ASSETS to encourage sustainability by respecting the communities surrounding our operations.
EXPLORATION ACQUISITIONS For more information on our strategy please 18 see our ChiefExecutives review on page 18 At our core assets we are sustainability.
We have also CORE ASSETS focused on improving we have doubled the overall consistently increased our Improve productivity operational productivity, throughput capacity at our resource base and continue to maximising the life-of-mine operations and have achieved receive positive results from our Optimise life-of-mine and ensuring their long-term all of our annual production mines and brownfield exploration.
Our substantial exploration Our signi cant spend on the contribution that our EXPLORATION programme and extensive exploration demonstrates exploration team makes to Land package project pipeline are our strong strategic focus on the long-term success of our fundamental elements of growth through exploration as business, we have an incentive People our strategy.
We believe they well as our con dence in the programme to retain and attract Incentives off er not only optionality, but considerable potential of our geologists, with direct economic also considerable scope for project pipeline.
rewards for geological Budget growth and creating value.
We also have Underpinning our exploration educational initiatives including We have an extensive pipeline strategy is our team of partnerships with local and of brown eld and green eld over 120 geologists with international universities and projects with drilling considerable technical a graduate trainee programme campaigns in numerous experience and expertise and where graduates from local locations across four countries an unrivalled knowledge of the universities are trained and in the Americas, as well as Americas.
We have exploration recruited by the Company.
over one million hectares offi ces in Peru, Chile, Argentina of premium geological land.
In recognition of We have a proven track Our Business Development acquisition of Andina Minerals ACQUISITIONS team has a clear mandate record of identifying early that added to our project Early stage stage, value accretive to pursue opportunities that pipeline, with the Volcan gold are early stage, with strong opportunities, such as our deposit located in Chile.
Geological potential acquisition of a controlling geological potential, highly Highly accretive value accretive, but also with stake in the Inmaculada project, and the recent a clear path to control.
Control Overview p2-13 MEDIUM SCALE www.
com 11 OUR GROWTH PYRAMID Our growth pyramid includes and categorises our projects, from current operations, to AdvancedProjects, to Company Maker and Medium Scale targets and prospects, and nally, ourpremium land package.
The pyramid also illustrates how these projects move up the pipelinefrom prospects, to drill testing, to Advanced Projects through to producing operations.
Learn more about each stage of our exploration programme in Our Exploration in Action section.
Company Makers: Medium scale: We currently have 16 potential Company We currently have 20 potential Medium Makers which are projects that have Scale projects which have the potential to the potential to achieve 20-30 million silver achieve 5-10 million silver equivalent equivalent ounces of production per year.
ounces of production per year.
Ares KEY Arcata Argentina Pallancata Peru San Jose Chile CURRENT Moris Mexico OPERATIONS Inmaculada Crespo Volcan Azuca ADVANCED PROJECTS KEY TARGETS KEY TARGETS Encrucijada El Mosquito Victoria La Flora Valeriano Jasperoide Cu Soranpampa Argenta Mercurio Cuello Cuello DRILL TESTING Apacheta Farallon Alpacocha Cu San Martin Huachoja Astana La Falda Huacullo Potrero El Tanque Baborigame Ccellopunta KEY PROSPECTS KEY PROSPECTS Coriwasi Pomona PROSPECTS Josnitoro Ibel Corazon fide Tinieblas Moctezuma Antay Cu Numa Julieta Mira ores Fresia Sipan Millohuayco Cu Santo Tomas LAND PACKAGE 22 For more information please see our Operating review and Exploration review on pages 22-36 12 See overleaf for an explanation of each stage of our growth pyramid in action COMPANY MAKERS
