64 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Board of Directors and Senior Management BOARD OF DIRECTORS EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Eduardo Hochschild Ignacio Bustamante Roberto Daino Sir Malcolm Field Dr Graham Birch Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Deputy Chairman Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Eduardo Hochschild joined the Ignacio Bustamante joined the Roberto Daino joined the Sir Malcolm Field joined the Dr Graham Birch joined the Hochschild Group in 1987 as Board as CEO in April 2010.
He Board in 2006 as an Executive Board in 2006.
He serves as a Board in July 2011.
Prior to his Safety Assistant at the Arcata previously served as Chief Director and became a NonNon-Executive Director of retirement in 2009, Graham unit, becoming Head of the Operating Officer from January Executive Director on 1 January Petropavlovsk Plc and Ray was a Director of BlackRock Hochschild Mining Group in 2008 and prior to that as 2011.
In 2001 Roberto served in Berndtson.
Between 2002 and Commodities Investment 1998 and Chairman in 2006.
General Manager of the the Peruvian Government as 2006 Sir Malcolm served as Trust plc and manager of Eduardo has numerous Groups Peruvian operations.
Prime Minister and thereafter Chairman of Tube Lines BlackRocks World Mining Trust directorships, amongst them Ignacio served as Chief as the countrys Ambassador Limited, one of the London and Gold and General Unit Cementos Pacasmayo S. A.
Financial Officer of Cementos to the United States.
Between Underground consortia, and Trust.
Previously he worked COMEX Peru, Banco fide Crdito Pacasmayo S. A.
A, an affiliate of 2003 and 2006 Roberto was from 2001 to 2006, as an at Kleinwort Benson Securities del Per and a number of the Company between 1998 Senior Vice President and external policy adviser to the and Ord Minnett Fleming Ord positions with non-profit and 2003, and as a Board General Counsel of the World UKs Department of Transport.
Minnett before joining Mercury entities such as TECSUP, the member from 2003 to 2007.
Bank Group and Secretary Sir Malcolm was Group Asset Management in 1993, Sociedad Nacional fide Minera y Ignacio is a graduate of General of ICSID.
Previously, he Managing Director of WH Smith where he launched a number Petrleo and the Conferencia Business and Accounting was a partner of Wilmer, Cutler plc between 1982 and 1993 of mining and natural Episcopal Peruana.
In addition, having studied at the & Pickering in the US and and served as Chief Executive resources funds.
In 1997, Eduardo serves as Chairman of Universidad del Pacfico in Peru founding General Counsel of from 1993 to 1996.
From 1996 Mercury Asset Management the Board of the Universidad fide and he holds an MBA from the Inter-American Investment to 2001 Sir Malcolm chaired was acquired by Merrill Lynch Ingeniera y Tecnologa.
Roberto is the Civil Aviation Authority.
Investment Managers which Chairman of Fosfatos del Sir Malcolm has held nonwas itself eventually acquired Committee membership Committee membership Pacifico S. A. part of the executive directorships with by BlackRock in 2006.
Graham CSR Committee Chairman None Cementos Pacasmayo Group numerous companies, has a PhD in mining geology of companies, among various including Scottish and from Imperial College, London Nominations Committee other boards.
He is a graduate Newcastle plc and Evolution and is currently Senior Chairman of Harvard Law School and Beeson Gregory.
Committee membership Committee membership Audit Committee Committee membership CSR Committee Audit Committee CSR Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Chairman The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company by monitoring the implementation of the Groups strategic objectives and, through their collective experience, providing leadership and support to the senior management team to achieve sustainable added value for all stakeholders.
BOARD COMPOSITION LENGTH OF TENURE OF INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 2 3 3 3 3 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 1.
com 65 Enrico Bombieri Jorge Born Jr. Nigel Moore Rupert Pennant-Rea Fred Vinton Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Enrico Bombieri joined the Jorge Born Jr. joined the Nigel Moore joined the Board Rupert Pennant-Rea joined the Fred was appointed to the Board on 1 November 2012.
He is a Chartered Board in September 2011.
He holds He previously served as Head President and Chief Executive Accountant and currently is Chairman of Henderson directorships of a number of of Investment Banking for Officer of Bomagra S. A. and serves as Chairman of JKX Oil Group plc and of the Economist companies including Unipart Europe, Middle East and Africa a Director of Caldenes S. A.
& Gas plc and as a NonGroup and is a Non-Executive Group of Companies UK, GP EMEA at JP Morgan.
Executive Director of The Vitec Director of Go-Ahead Group plc, Investments Ltd and Dinamia joining JP Morgan in 1989, Previously, Jorge served as Group plc and Ascent Gold Fields Limited South SCR S. A.
He was a director of Enrico held a variety of Head of Bunges European Resources plc.
Nigel was a Africa and Royal London European Goldfields Limited positions in the London and operations from 1992 to 1997 Partner at Ernst & Young from Group.
He was Deputy until its acquisition by Eldorado Milan offices.
In addition to and as Head of Bunges UK 1973 to 2003 during which Governor of the Bank of Gold Corporation in February acting as Head of Investment operations from 1989 to 1992. time he was responsible in England from 1993 to 1995, 2012.
Between 1995 and 2006 Banking for EMEA, Enrico also He acts as a Director and particular, with respect to the prior to which he spent 16 Fred served as Chairman Chief served as a member of JP Deputy Chairman of Bunge provision of audit services, for years with The Economist, Executive Officer of Electra Morgans Executive Committee, Limited and Mutual Investment several of the firms significant where he was editor from 1986 Partners Limited and prior to the Investment Banks Limited.
In addition, Jorge is a clients.
Rupert served on the that as Chief Executive of Operating Committee and the Director of Dufry AG, Zurich firms Regional Managing Board of First Quantum Quilvest Ltd between 1992 and European Management and President of the Bunge and Partner for Eastern Europe and Minerals Limited between 2001 1995.
Over the course of his 25 Committee.
Prior to joining Born Charitable Foundation.
Russia from 1989 to 1996. and 2011 and various other year career with J. P. Morgan, JP Morgan, Mr Bombieri companies including British Fred was responsible for the Committee membership Committee membership worked for Guinness Mahon in American Tobacco p. l. c. banks business in the UK, Latin Nominations Committee Audit Committee Chairman London and Lehman Brothers between 1998 and 2007, Rio America and Scandinavia in New York and London.
Narcea Gold Mines, Ltd before joining N M Rothschild & Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee between 2003 and 2007.
Sons Ltd in 1988 as Chief Committee membership Operating Officer.
Audit Committee Committee membership Committee membership Remuneration Committee Audit Committee SENIOR MANAGEMENT Csar Aguirre Ramn Bara Isac Burstein Jos Augusto Palma Eduardo Villar Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Vice President, Business Vice President, Legal & Vice President, Exploration & Geology Development Corporate Affairs Human Resources Csar Aguirre joined Ramn Bara was appointed Isac Burstein joined the Group Jos Augusto Palma joined Eduardo Villar has been with Hochschild Mining as VP CFO of Hochschild Mining on as a geologist in 1995.
Prior Hochschild in July 2006 after the Group since 1996.
Prior to of Exploration & Geology in 1 June 2010.
Prior to his to his current position, Isac a 13 year legal career in the his current position, he served April 2011.
Csar has over 20 appointment, he served as CEO served as Manager for Project United States, where he was as Human Resources Manager, years experience in exploration of Fosfatos del Pacifico S. A, Evaluation, Exploration a partner at the law firm of Deputy HR Manager and Legal and project management in owned by Cementos Manager for Mexico, and Swidler Berlin, and Counsel.
Eduardo holds a Law South America, principally in Pacasmayo, an associate Exploration Geologist.
He holds subsequently at the World Degree from the Universidad Peru, Argentina and Chile.
Prior company of the Hochschild a BSc in Geological Engineering Bank.
He also served two fide Lima and an MBA from the to joining Hochschild, he Group.
During 2008, Ramn from the Universidad Nacional years in the Government of Universidad Peruana fide worked for Newcrest Mining, was the General Manager for fide Ingeniera, an MSc in Peru.
Jos has Law degrees Ciencias Aplicadas.
Yanacocha, Noranda Inc. and Hochschild Minings Mexican Geology from the University from Georgetown University Barrick Gold Corp. Csar holds operations, having previously of Missouri and an MBA from and the Universidad a BSc in Geological Engineering worked as Deputy CEO and CFO Krannert School of Iberoamericana in Mexico from the Universidad Nacional of Cementos Pacasmayo.
Prior Management, Purdue and is admitted to practice as fide Ingeniera and an MSc in to joining Hochschild Ramon University.
Isac is on the Board a lawyer in Mexico, New York Economic Geology from the was a Vice President of Debt of Gold Resource Corp. and the District of Columbia.
Capital Markets with Deutsche Prior to his current role Jos Bank in New York for four served as Senior Adviser to years and a sales analyst with the Executive Committee.
Ramn is an economics graduate of Universidad fide Lima and holds an MBA from Columbia Business School.
