12 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Our exploration in action We have a solid asset base and an extensive project pipeline with projects across the Americas.
Our strategy is to create value through optimising our current operations, extensive exploration and opportunistic acquisition of early stage projects.
DRILL TESTING In order to progress the project in the pipeline, drilling is conducted to con rm the potential for an economic resource and possibly delineate an inferred resource.
PROSPECTS At the Prospects level, the goal is 11 to identify and fide ne the potential For more information of an ore body through geological 1.
LAND PACKAGE studies and surface sampling.
Hochschild Mining has an extensive and highly-prospective land package with more than one 11 For more information million hectares of premium geological land.
10 For more information Overview p2-13 www.
com 13 MINE-SITES & BROWNFIELD EXPLORATION Our mine-sites and brown eld exploration programme is focused in and around our current mines and is aimed at optimising our core assets by increasing their life-of-mine and improving the quality of their resources.
Exploration work is concentrated on the fide nition of new high grade structures and the incorporation of high quality resources.
We also invest in advanced stage projects located either in or around the Companys existing clusters, or in new mining-friendly districts.
CURRENT OPERATIONS Our three core assets are currently ranked amongst the 13 leading primary silver 4.
Since our IPO in 2006, we have doubled the throughput capacity of The Company has four Advanced Projects: our operations and delivered on all of our Inmaculada, Crespo and Azuca in Peru, and the annual production targets.
Volcan gold deposit in Chile.
See them in action: Our strategy consists of: p. 2 Consistently improving operational Inmaculada productivity and effi ciency Optimising the resource base and p. 14 life-of-mine at our core operations Crespo Safe and sustainable mining p. 62 Azuca p. 98 Volcan Keep up to date with the latest information on our current operations at www.
com 22 For more information 14 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Exploring for growth Crespo The Crespo Advanced Project will contribute an average annual production of 2.7 million silver equivalent ounces.
View more information on Exploring for Growth online www.
com 15 Business review In this section 16 Chairmans statement 18 Chief Executives review 20 Market & geographic overview 22 Operating review 30 Exploration review 37 Financial review 42 Sustainability report 57 Risk management n 2012 we progressed the detailed Projects Environmental Impact Study engineering for the mine and plant and we also had both the surface water Iand completed the final engineering study and land agreement approved by 2.7million for the camp layout and construction at the local community, all key steps in the Crespo and we continue to anticipate projects permitting process.
Silver equivalent ounces that production will commence in the In 2013 we will complete the detailed per annum second half of 2014.
We also saw good engineering at Crespo and continue with progress in our community relations the extensive exploration programme at initiatives at Crespo during the year.
held a successful public hearing for the
