66 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Directors report The Directors have pleasure in presenting their report for the The trustee of the Hochschild Mining Employee Share Trust year ended 31 December 2012. the Employee Trust has waived dividends declared by the Company on shares held by the Employee Trust.
Principal activities Hochschild is a leading precious metals company with a Directors primary focus on the exploration, mining, processing and sale The names and biographical details of the Directors serving at of silver and gold.
the date of this report are given on pages 64 and 65.
All Directors were in office for the duration of the year under Information incorporated by reference review except for Enrico Bombieri who was appointed by the This Directors Report should be read in conjunction with the Board as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 November following parts of the Annual Report which are incorporated by 2012.
Dionisio Romero retired from the Board at the conclusion reference to satisfy the relevant disclosure requirements.
of the Annual General Meeting on 23 May 2012. Business review Each of the Directors will be retiring at the forthcoming The information required to be disclosed in the Business Review Annual General Meeting and seeking re-election by can be located as summarised below.
shareholders in line with the recommendation of the UK Section Pages Requirement Corporate Governance Code.
Chairmans statement 16 and 17 Main trends Directors interests and factors likely to Chief Executives review 18 and 19 Details of the interests of the Directors in the Companys shares affect the Group Market & geographic 20 and 21 are shown below: overview Ordinary Operating review & 22 to 36 Review of shares as at Exploration review performance with Ordinary 1 January 2012 or shares as at 31 date of appointment, KPIs, development of December 2012 if later the Groups business, 1 Eduardo Hochschild 182,415,206 182,415,206 year-end position 2 Roberto Daino 200,000 200,000 and prospects Ignacio Bustamante 26,944 14,054 Financial review 37 to 41 Sir Malcolm Field 14,285 14,285 Sustainability report 42 to 56 Information on employees, Graham Birch 10,000 0 3 environmental and Enrico Bombieri 0 0 social matters Jorge Born Jr. 0 0 Risk management 57 to 61 Principal risks Nigel Moore 14,285 14,285 and uncertainties Rupert Pennant-Rea 7,000 7,000 Fred Vinton 25,000 25,000 Corporate Governance Statement The requirements for a Corporate Governance Statement are 1 Eduardo Hochschild holds an indirect interest in the Company through an intermediate holding company which he controls and which owns the entire fulfilled by the Corporate Governance report on pages 69 to 78. issued share capital of Pelham Investment Corporation which, in turn, owns shares in the Company.
Results and dividend 1 2 Roberto Dainos interest is held by Navajo International Holdings Ltd.
The Groups adjusted EBITDA for the year amounted to 3 Enrico Bombieri was appointed a Director of the Company on 1 November 2012.
Revenue for the year was $818.0 million 2011: $987.7 million and attributable profit to In addition, Fred Vinton has an interest in Convertible Bonds of equity shareholders after tax before exceptional items was the Company with a nominal value of $500,000.
There have been no changes in the above interests in the period An interim dividend of $0.03 per share was paid to shareholders from 31 December 2012 to 13 March 2013. of the Company on 20 September 2012.
The Directors Relationship Agreement recommend the payment of a final dividend of $0.03 per share Prior to the Companys IPO, Pelham Investment Corporation, 2011: $0.03 per share.
Subject to shareholders approving this Eduardo Hochschild and the Company amongst others recommendation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting entered into a relationship agreement to regulate the ongoing AGM, the dividend will be paid in UK pounds sterling on relationship between them the Relationship Agreement.
4 June 2013 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 10 May 2013.
Shareholders may elect to receive their dividend in US dollars.
The US dollar dividend will be converted into UK pounds sterling at the exchange rate prevailing at the time of payment.
1 Calculated as profit from continuing operations before exceptional items, net finance income cost and income tax plus depreciation and exploration expenses other than personnel and other exploration related fixed expenses.
com 67 The principal purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to Accordingly, the Articles contain a provision whereby each of the ensure that the Group is capable of carrying on its business Directors is indemnified by the Company in respect of liability in for the benefit of the shareholders of the Company as a whole, relation to: i any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of and that transactions and relationships with the Controlling trust relating to the Company or any associated company: ii Shareholders and any of their respective associates are at execution of their duties as Directors of the Company: and iii arms length and on normal commercial terms.
the activities of the Company or any associated company as trustee of an occupational pension scheme.
For these purposes, Further details of the Relationship Agreement with regard associated company has the meaning given to it by section 256 to the conduct of the Major Shareholder are set out in the of the Companies Act 2006.
Corporate Governance report on page 70 and with regard to the right to appoint Directors to the Board are set out However, a Director will not be indemnified for any liability on page 72. incurred by him to the Company or Group companies: any criminal or regulatory fines: the costs of defending any criminal Supplier payment policy proceedings in which he is convicted: or the costs of defending It is the Companys policy that, subject to compliance with any civil proceedings brought by the Company in which trading terms by the supplier, payments to suppliers are made judgement is given against him.
in accordance with terms and conditions agreed in advance.
The Company has purchased and maintains liability insurance At 31 December 2012, the Company had an average of 22 days for its Directors and officers as permitted by law.
purchases owed to trade creditors 2011: 31 days.
Conflicts of interest Political and charitable donations The Companies Act 2006 allows directors of public companies The Company does not make political donations.
During to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts of interest of 1 the year, the Group expended $6.5 million 2011: $7.7 million directors where the Companys Articles of Association contain on social and community welfare activities surrounding its a provision to that effect.
Shareholders approved amendments mining units.
to the Companys Articles of Association at the AGM held on 9 May 2008 which included provisions giving the Directors Related party transactions authority to authorise matters which may result in the Directors Details of related party transactions undertaken during the year breaching their duty to avoid a conflict of interest.
under review are given in note 30 to the Consolidated financial statements on pages 147 and 148.
The Board has established effective procedures to enable the Directors to notify the Company of any actual or potential Essential contractual and other arrangements conflict situations and for those situations to be reviewed and, The Directors consider that the following are the contractual and if appropriate, to be authorised by the Board, subject to any other arrangements with customers, suppliers or contracts to conditions that may be considered appropriate.
In keeping with which Group companies are a party and which are considered the approach agreed by the Board, Directors conflicts were to be essential to the business: reviewed during the year under review.
the mining concessions and operating permits granted by Directors of the Company who have an interest in matters governmental authorities in the jurisdictions of the Groups under discussion at Board meetings are required to declare this operations: and interest and to abstain from voting on the relevant matters.
Any the collective agreements with trade unions in respect of the related party transactions are approved by a committee of the workers at the Groups mines in Peru.
Board consisting solely of Independent Directors.
In addition, the Directors will be able to impose limits or conditions when giving Policy on financial risk management any authorisation, if they think this is appropriate.
The Companys objectives and policies on financial risk management can be found in note 36 to the Consolidated Going concern financial statements.
Information on the Companys exposures This Annual Report provides details of the Companys business to foreign currency, commodity prices, credit, equity, liquidity, activities, its financial position and a description of the interest rate and capital risks can be found in this note.
Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its Directors and officers liability insurance financial instruments and hedging activities with respect to Since directors are increasingly being added as defendants interest rate risks : and its exposures to credit and liquidity risks.
in legal actions against companies, the Board believes that the risk of directors being placed at significant personal financial The Company benefits from considerable financial resources risk is increasing.
The Board also believes that the provision of and long-term relationships with a number of customers and appropriate indemnities and the funding of directors defence suppliers across different geographic areas.
These factors, costs as permitted by legislation are reasonable protections for together with the general macroeconomic outlook which the Directors and are important to ensure that the Company supports gold and silver prices, provide the Directors with continues to be able to attract and retain the highest calibre reassurance that the Company is well placed to manage its individuals as Directors.
1 Please refer to the Sustainability report for further details.
68 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 Directors report continued Having regard to the Financial Reporting Councils document Statement of Directors responsibilities entitled Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: Directors of UK Companies 2009, the Directors have considered the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the a five year cash flow forecast presented by management which, applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair amongst other things, reflects the financial requirements of view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the the Groups ongoing exploration programme and the Groups Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation Advanced Projects, Inmaculada and Crespo.
Consequently, taken as a whole: and the Directors have arrived at a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational the Management report includes a fair review of the existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt development and performance of the business and the the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual position of the Company and the undertakings included in the financial statements.
consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
AGM The seventh AGM of the Company will be held at 9.30 am on Disclaimer 30 May 2013 at the offices of Linklaters LLP.
The shareholder Neither the Company nor the Directors accept any liability to any circular incorporating the Notice of AGM will be sent separately person in relation to this Annual Report except to the extent that to shareholders or, for those who have elected to receive such liability could arise under English law.
Accordingly, any electronic communications, will be available for viewing at liability to a person who has demonstrated reliance on any www.
com untrue or misleading statement or omission shall be determined in accordance with section 90A of the Financial The shareholder circular contains details of the business to Services and Markets Act 2000. be considered at the meeting.
The names and functions of the current Directors of the Auditors Company are set out on pages 64 and 65 of this Annual Report.
A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
On behalf of the Board Statement on disclosure of information to auditors Having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the Companys Raj Bhasin auditors, each Director confirms that to the best of his Company Secretary knowledge and belief, there is no relevant audit information of 12 March 2013 which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Furthermore, each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given, and should be interpreted, in accordance with the provisions of section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006.
