O U R P 8 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2012 How we do it We believe that our sustainable business model and core strengths will not only create long-term value for our shareholders and all our stakeholders but also set Hochschild Mining apart, off ering a unique investment proposition.
We create value through our focus on exploration, supported by the strength of our core assets, the depth of our experience in the Americas and underpinned by our strong financial position, the contribution of our people, and our commitment to sustainability.
OUR BUSINESS MODEL EXPERIENCE IN STRENGTH OF THE AMERICAS CORE ASSETS COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS ON EXPLORATION For more information visit www.
com 9 OUR UNIQUE PROPOSITION We believe that the following qualities of Hochschild Mining set us apart and represent a unique proposition.
EXPERIENCE IN THE AMERICAS STRENGTH OF CORE ASSETS FOCUS ON EXPLORATION We have almost 50 years experience Since our IPO in 2006 we have delivered Our focus on exploration not only operating across the Americas and on all of our annual production targets delivers growth as we progress have a wealth of operating, exploration and achieved our resource life-of-mine projects through our extensive and business development knowledge targets.
Our substantial near-mine project pipeline, but also ensures the and experience within our teams.
We and brown eld exploration programmes long-term sustainability of our core are headquartered in Lima and have continue to deliver positive results and in producing assets as we maximise exploration offi ces in Argentina, Chile 2012 we have improved the quality of the their mine lives and the quality of and Mexico.
resource base at our core operations.
$77m 2013 exploration budget A view from the Crespo Advanced Project Workers at San Jose A geologist at Pallancata COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY OUR PEOPLE We rmly believe that our business success is due to our We value highly the depth of knowledge and experience approach of integrating and eff ectively managing the social we have within our Company and we encourage all of and environmental business impacts in our decision-making our employees to reach their full potential and ensure and across all of our operations.
We take great pride in that they are part of a leading team, with a culture of managing our business in a way that ensures returns not operational excellence and high standards of social only to our shareholders, but to all stakeholders including our responsibility and safety.
employees and the communities surrounding our operations.
For more information please see our 42 Sustainability report on page 42 A member of the community near Arcata
