REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Directors report The directors present their report and the audited financial statements Directors interests for the 53 weeks ended 3 March 2012 the period.
The beneficial interests of the directors, together with non-beneficial interests in Home Retail Group plc shares, are shown below: Principal activities and business review Number of ordinary shares Home Retail Group plc the Company is the ultimate parent company at 3 March 2012 of Home Retail Group the Group, which operates in the UK and in the Terry Duddy 2,655,854 Republic of Ireland.
A review of the activities of the Group, its financial performance during the period and its likely future business developments, Richard Ashton 765,760 including a description of the principal risks and uncertainties and key Oliver Stocken 164,493 performance indicators, is provided within the review of the business and the corporate governance report, which are incorporated into this report John Coombe 85,001 by reference.
Mike Darcey 19,036 On 24 June 2011 the Group announced the acquisition of rights for the exclusive use of the Habitat brand, its brand designs and intellectual Ian Durant 2,460 property in the UK and the Republic of Ireland, the Habitat UK website Cath Keers 0 and three of its London stores.
Profit and dividends There were no changes to the above interests as at 2 May 2012.
The Groups consolidated income statement on page 52 shows a profit for the period of 89.8m.
An interim dividend of 4.7p per ordinary share was Articles of Association paid on 18 January 2012.
The Board has decided not to pay a final dividend.
The Articles of Association set out the internal regulation of the Company The full-year dividend is therefore represented by the interim dividend of and cover such matters as the rights of shareholders, the appointment or 4.7p per ordinary share.
removal of directors and the conduct of the Board and general meetings.
Copies are available upon request and are displayed on the Companys Directors website at www.
In accordance with the Articles The names and biographical details of the directors are shown in the Board of Association, directors can be appointed or removed by the Board of Directors and Operating Board section on page 32.
On 30 June 2011, or shareholders in general meeting.
Amendments to the Articles of Penny Hughes resigned from the Board as a non-executive director.
Association must be approved by at least 75% of those voting in person On 6 July 2011, Ian Durant was appointed to the Board as a non-executive or by proxy at a general meeting of the Company.
Subject to company law director and, on 1 September 2011, Cath Keers was appointed to the Board and the Articles of Association, the directors may exercise all the powers as a non-executive director.
Particulars of directors remuneration are of the Company and may delegate authorities to committees.
Details of shown in the directors remuneration report on pages 38 to 46.
Details the main Board committees can be found in the corporate governance of the service contracts of the directors, and how a change of control will report on pages 34 to 36. affect the service contracts of the executive directors, are summarised within the directors remuneration report.
Neither contract for the executive directors provides for extended notice periods or compensation in the event of termination or a change of control.
During the period and up to the date of this report, the Group maintained liability insurance and third-party indemnification provisions for its directors under which the Company has agreed to indemnify the directors to the extent permitted by law in respect of all liabilities to third parties arising out of, or in connection with, the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as directors of the Company and any of its associated companies.
These indemnities are Qualifying Third-Party Indemnity Provisions as defined in Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 and copies are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during business hours on any weekday except public holidays.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 47 GOVERNANCE Share capital and control Employees As at 2 May 2012, the Companys issued share capital comprised a single The Group has in place measures to provide its employees with information class of shares, referred to as ordinary shares.
Details of the ordinary share on matters of concern to them as employees, including consulting capital can be found in note 28 to the consolidated financial statements employees or their representatives on a regular basis so that the views on page 91. of employees can be taken into account in making decisions which are The rights and obligations attaching to the shares are more fully set out likely to affect their interests.
Various communication routes are made in the Articles of Association of the Company.
There are no restrictions available to employees to give them awareness of the financial and on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than the following: economic factors affecting the performance of the Group and employees Certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and are also encouraged to be involved in the Groups performance through regulations such as insider trading laws.
a Save as You Earn share scheme.
Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, The Group has a policy in place for giving full and fair consideration the Company requires certain employees to seek the Companys to applications for employment by the Group made by disabled persons, permission to deal in the Companys ordinary shares.
having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities, and for continuing The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders which the employment of, and for arranging appropriate training for, employees may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
of the Group who have become disabled persons during the period when There are no shareholdings which carry special rights relating to control they were employed by the Group.
The policy also covers the training, of the Company.
A change of control of the Company following a takeover career development and promotion of disabled persons employed bid may cause a number of agreements to which the Company or its by the Group.
trading subsidiaries is party to take effect, alter or terminate.
In the context of the Company as a whole, these agreements are not considered to Employee share plans be significant.
Some of the Companys employee share plans include restrictions on the transfer of shares while the shares are subject to the plan.
As described in Purchase of own shares the directors remuneration report, non-executive directors use part of At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 30 June 2011, their fees to purchase shares, which may not normally be transferred authority was given for the Company to purchase, in the market, up to during a directors period of office.
At the Annual General Meeting Where, under an employee share plan operated by the Company, to be held on 4 July 2012, shareholders will be asked to give the Company participants are the beneficial owners of the shares but not the registered authority to purchase, in the market, up to 81,000,000 ordinary shares owners, the voting rights are normally exercised by the registered owner, of 10p each, details of which are contained in the Notice of Meeting.
at the direction of the participant.
Details of the Companys interests in its own shares are set out in note All of the Companys share plans contain provisions relating to a change 29 to the consolidated financial statements on page 91. of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction Substantial shareholdings of any performance conditions at that time.
As at 2 May 2012, the Company had been notified under Rule 5 of the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial risk management following holdings of voting rights in the issued share capital of the Company: The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group and the exposure of the Group to price, credit, liquidity and cash flow risk are set Total number of Percentage of out in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 67 to 70. voting rights total voting ordinary shares rights % Creditor payment Schroders plc 139,003,166 17.09 For all trade creditors, it is, and will continue to be for the next financial year, Group policy to: Tradewinds Global Investors LLC 64,232,637 7.90 agree and confirm the terms of payment at the commencement AXA S. A.
42,510,359 5.23 of business with that supplier: pay suppliers in accordance with applicable terms: and Sanderson 40,898,716 5.03 continually review the payment procedures and liaise with suppliers as a means of eliminating difficulties and maintaining a good working Citibank 37,392,176 4.60 relationship.
Legal & General Group plc 34,590,018 4.25 Trade creditor days of the Group at 3 March 2012 were 51 2011: 50, based on the ratio of Group trade creditors at the end of the year to the amounts invoiced during the year by trade suppliers.
The Company has no trade creditors.
48 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Political donations The Group has made no political donations and incurred no items of political expenditure during the period.
Relevant audit information As at 2 May 2012, so far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware and each director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to ensure that the auditors are aware of that information.
Going concern The business and financial reviews on pages 10 to 29 contain information on the performance of the Group, its cash flow and net cash position, capital structure and liquidity and funding.
Further information relating to the Groups financial risk management is set out in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 67 to 70 and the principal risks and uncertainties that could impact the Groups performance are set out on pages 30 and 31.
After making enquiries, the directors are satisfied that the Company has sufficient resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Auditors The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a resolution that they be reappointed will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the Jurys Inn Hotel, Midsummer Boulevard, Milton Keynes MK9 2HP, commencing at 11.00 am on Wednesday 4 July 2012.
The Notice of Meeting is included in a separate circular to shareholders which accompanies this annual report.
It is also available on the Companys website at www.
By order of the Board Gordon Bentley Registered Office: Secretary Avebury 2 May 2012 489-499 Avebury Boulevard Milton Keynes MK9 2NW Company no.
5863533 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 49
