REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Who we are and what we do We are the UKs leading home and general merchandise retailer, operating two key businesses: Argos and Homebase.
Home Retail Group continues to shape the future of shopping by investing in multi-channel initiatives, expanding choice and developing both product ranges and services, ensuring that we continue to build successful businesses that bring unrivalled convenience and value to customers everyday lives, whether shopping at home or on the move.
50,000 1,089 71,000 193m colleagues are at the heart stores in the UK and Republic products available across customer transactions of everything we do of Ireland RoI across the Argos and Homebase last year Argos and Homebase formats Argos, the UKs largest general merchandise Homebase is one of the UKs leading home retailer, has an unrivalled offer of choice, value enhancement retailers and offers a growing and convenience to meet customer needs.
range of home improvement products in a differentiated store environment.
748 430m 341 90% stores in UK and ROI website visits during stores in UK and ROI average recommendation for the year our installation services 33,000 48% 38,000 3rd catalogue and of sales are multi-channel branded, own-brand consecutive year of internet-only products and exclusive products market share gains 4 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 R RE EV VI IE EW O W OF T F TH HE B E BU US SI IN NE ES SS S G GO OV five ERNAN RNANC CE E F FI INAN NANC CI IAL AL S ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NT TS S M MO OR RE E I IN NF FO OR RM MA AT TI IO ON N We have maintained our market-leading position despite We have an efficient and integrated approach these challenging times Our clear scale advantage comes from our well-invested infrastructure, which has been built up over a period of many years.
The home and general merchandise market declined in the 2011 12 financial year, but we have maintained our market-leading position with approximately 10% of the 55bn market.
We therefore have significant opportunity for growth and are continually looking for opportunities to expand market share and move into new markets.
Multi-channel shopping Our highly-successful internet and mobile channels help us 55bn 10 % meet consumer demand and home and general our share of this market make us the market leader in merchandise market multi-channel retailing.
We have a strong portfolio of own brands Argos and Homebase are two of the UKs leading retail brands and our recent acquisition of the Habitat UK brand brings one of the UKs leading Country-wide coverage contemporary home retailers into Home Retail Group.
Habitats style-led Our extensive high street and credentials are a significant addition to our portfolio of own brands, which out-of-town store network and include Bush and Alba in consumer electronics and Chad Valley in toys.
comprehensive home delivery Our Schreiber and Hygena brands offer quality and stylish furniture operation bring our multi-channel at affordable prices.
convenience within easy reach of our customers.
Integrated infrastructure Our scale and infrastructure enables us to leverage financial benefits and synergies to give a competitive advantage which is difficult to replicate.
Financial Services Our Financial Services business works in conjunction with Argos and Homebase to provide our customers with the most appropriate credit offers to drive product sales.
International sourcing Our Group sourcing operations import products which account for more than a third of our sales.
This provides benefits to both businesses and across all major product groups.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 5
