REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MORE INFORMATION Our product markets Home Retail Group operates in the home and general merchandise market, worth approximately 55 billion in terms of retail sales.
With 5.5 billion worth of sales reported for its last financial year: Home Retail Group holds 10% of this market.
Home Retail Group continues to maintain Argos leading market positions in the product Unlike Homebase, Argos operates over a much The electricals market, which encompasses the categories within which it trades.
broader spectrum of product categories.
There large and small domestic appliances markets, are 24 markets in which Argos operates, with no also saw an overall decline in the financial year.
Homebase one single metric existing that measures Argos Despite this, Argos held its market share within Homebase trades within the DIY and home market share performance across all these this category.
Argos saw a small market share enhancement market, which in the UK is a very categories.
Argos refers to these 24 markets as loss within furniture, a market which continued fragmented market comprising the sheds tracked markets, and each market is reported to suffer from record low levels of housing together with a significant number of specialists on by a third-party source such as Gfk, National transactions and a reluctance of Argos core and independents.
These two components are Purchase Diary NPD and the Office of National customers to spend on big-ticket furniture each estimated to represent about 50% of the Statistics ONS.
purchases for the home, however this was overall DIY and home enhancement market.
Over the last financial year, these tracked offset by market share gains in homewares as The sheds market, until recently, contained the markets have indicated that Argos total market consumers, instead, spent on smaller ticket UKs four DIY shed retailers, these being B&Q, has declined by about 5%, with many categories, items to enhance their homes.
Wickes, Focus DIY and Homebase.
Following the especially those that are product innovation Overall Argos saw a small loss in market administration and subsequent closure of Focus driven or are susceptible to overlap by other share across the total of its tracked markets for DIY in 2011, the sheds market now consists of technologies, recording double-digit declines.
However, if the exceptional only B&Q, Wickes and Homebase.
A third-party Argos has seen the overall consumer electronics market declines seen in VGS, where Argos source, Gfk, tracks the sheds market and it is this market, as defined by Gfk, decline by around deliberately reduced its participation, and audio, metric against which Homebases performance 20%, with audio, televisions TV, mobiles and were excluded, Argos would have held share is measured to ascertain its market share.
video gaming systems VGS seeing the greatest across its market categories.
For this financial year, both the overall DIY declines.
Argos has grown its market share within and home enhancement market and the sheds the TV category despite a substantial decline in market, as measured by Gfk, have declined.
the market but it has lost market share in VGS The sheds market is divided into five product due to the conscious decision not to compete categories, these being DIY, decorating, big with loss-leading deals that existed in the market ticket, home and garden.
Over the same period, place at some points during the financial year.
In Homebase has held or gained market share in contrast to these market-declining categories each of these five product categories, with the within consumer electronics, there was strongest market share gain being within the considerable market growth in laptops and big-ticket category.
Over the last three years tablets, driven by new technology such as the Homebase has significantly improved its iPad and Kindle, and Argos recorded strong big-ticket offer, which principally comprises market share gains in this particular area.
kitchen, bathrooms and bedrooms and it has also introduced a highly regarded installation service.
As a result of these initiatives, Homebase has seen its share of the big-ticket market increase from 20% to 22% over this three-year period.
Homebase now holds an overall share of 23% of the sheds market: its highest recorded share since Gfk sheds market research was launched in 2007.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2012 9
