Overview Business review Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements We have also reviewed our channel strategy We also further enhanced the Board of Directors and concluded in February that our outbound of the UK business.
In November, we appointed telephony channel would, in the future, focus Diana Miller, who was previously Compliance primarily on cross-selling policies to existing Director at Legal & General, as a Non-Executive customers.
While this will reduce the number Director and we are in the process of finalising the of new customers acquired in the short-term, appointment of an Independent Non-Executive we believe the benefits in terms of retention, Chairman, who will provide significant experience reputation and value will offset this in the of working in the financial services industry.
IMPROVING CONTROLS & GOVERNANCE We are pleased to confirm that we recommenced We have commissioned an external review of outbound cross-sell activity with a pilot in early our governance and controls and a number of April.
We are monitoring the results of this pilot measures have already been implemented, closely and expect to roll out further activity over including the strengthening of the UK board and the coming weeks.
the implementation of new incentive schemes.
In July 2011 Ofcom announced an investigation We believe that Jonathan King and his into outbound marketing calls made on behalf management team, supported and challenged of HomeServe by one specific outsourced by the new independent Non-Executive supplier.
This concerned non-compliance with Directors, will be able to identify and complete rules regarding silent, abandoned or repeat calls the implementation of the changes necessary to between 1 February 2011 and 21 March 2011.
As a improve our controls and governance procedures result of the investigation Ofcom imposed a fine of and put the customer back at the centre of the 750,000 in April 2012.
We can confirm that all of business.
The team has developed a constructive our dialler systems have been fully compliant with relationship with the FSA over the past nine months Ofcom regulations since 22 March 2011. with regard to the business improvement initiatives being undertaken and our future plans in the UK.
UK MANAGEMENT CHANGES In August, Jonathan King returned from the US, where he had served as CEO of HomeServe USA for six years, to take over the leadership of the UK business.
The UK management team has seen significant change since the first half of FY2012.
We have appointed an experienced Compliance Director, a new Customer Relations Director and are in the process of appointing a new Marketing Director who has extensive experience in financial services.
The UK team is also benefitting from the support of Martin Bennett, Chief Operating Officer, who is supporting the UK on claims and network management, underwriting, systems and efficiency.
