CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HomeServe has also supported Comic Relief for HEALTH & SAFETY eight consecutive years, opening its Walsall call HomeServe considers the health, safety and centre and recruiting volunteers to take donation welfare of its employees, customers and third calls while the live show is broadcast by the BBC.
parties connected with its business to be of In March 2012, we opened 120 donation lines paramount importance.
We aim to provide a during the live BBC show.
A record 300 volunteers safe working environment and ensure that our answered nearly 2,000 calls and raised over employees have the information and resources to 60,000 to help vulnerable people both in the UK perform their duties safely.
We are committed to and Africa.
maintaining high standards and complying with relevant local legislation and guidelines in all of the HomeServes annual Youth Team Sponsorship areas in which we operate.
Scheme provides grants to teams associated with employees children.
In June 2011, 32 grants The health and safety of our people and activities were awarded of up to 400 each to youth teams is the responsibility of line management and including football and rugby teams, scout groups, employees themselves.
dance and drama schools in local communities.
RISKS HomeServe USA has selected Habitat for Humanity HomeServe has a variety of health and safety risks HFH as its nominated charity.
The charity seeks to manage.
HomeServe is committed to managing to eliminate poverty housing and homelessness these risks in a balanced and proportionate way.
by building houses in partnership with families in All the businesses are required to have a suitable need.
HFH has helped build over 400,000 decent, health and safety policy in place with a supporting affordable houses providing more than 2 million management system underpinned by a robust people around the world with homes.
They operate risk assessment process, reflecting the risks within in all 50 states in the US and staff have been able each particular business.
to volunteer at projects close to our offices in Stamford, Chattanooga and Miami.
Our services are often delivered via partnerships with contractors, franchisees and other suppliers.
In addition to this charity partnership, HomeServe We work with these partners to ensure that our USA has continued to support charities in the local health and safety expectations are understood community.
This has included volunteering at soup and met, and that the work they undertake on kitchens and toy collections.
The business aims to our behalf is managed as safely as is reasonably complete one volunteer initiative every quarter.
44 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Business review Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements PERFORMANCE Elsewhere, we have continued to utilise outside During the year we strengthened our focus on specialist expertise that provide H&S advice and the International businesses.
We have updated recommendations to local management, whilst our Group-wide Health & Safety H&S policy at the same time taking account of improvement commitment statement which provides guiding actions highlighted by our internal H&S review.
principles to all of our business units.
We have carried out H&S reviews across our four largest ACCIDENTS INCIDENTS business areas: the UK, the USA, France and Following the introduction of Group wide H&S Spain, resulting in a number of H&S improvement reporting requirements in 2011, our reporting actions.
We have improved our H&S co-ordination of accidents and incidents has improved which and interface processes, particularly focusing allows us to pick up trends, anticipate issues and on improved group wide reporting and group cascade this knowledge across our business units.
notification requirements in the unfortunate event 2012 2011 of a significant accident or incident occurring.
1 Frequency rate 11.65 13.26 2 Severity rate 0.57 0.43 In the UK, we have continued to deliver our IOSH 3 Incident rate 11 13 Managing Safely and IOSH Working Safely 1 training programmes to our Network management Per million hours worked 2 Number of days lost through injuries as calculated in total days lost employees and we successfully rolled out a per 1,000 hours worked 3 Rate per 1,000 workers computer based H&S awareness training package to all office based employees.
We have There have been no significant accidents or addressed improvement actions highlighted by health and safety events reported across the the aforementioned H&S review, and we have Group.
HomeServe has had limited contact with national health and safety enforcing authorities commenced a complete review of our current H&S during the reporting period, with no prosecutions policy manual.
This is with a view to improving or other enforcement action being taken against our arrangements and highlighting opportunities the Company for breaches of health and safety where we can standardise, reduce and simplify our regulations.
H&S processes across our UK sites.
Although our accident frequency rate and incident In the USA we took the decision to employ a full rate have both fallen slightly there is clearly a time H&S Manager who joined the business in need to ensure that successful health and safety December 2011.
We are already seeing the benefits management remains a continued priority for of our investment with a much more focused and HomeServe proactive approach to the management of H&S in the business.
The establishment of active Safety Committees has been one of our first priorities in order to ensure we engage staff in risk reduction and health and safety initiatives.
