BUSINESS REVIEW CUSTOMER COMPLAINTS SALES AND MARKETING ACTIVITY The winter of 2010 saw the most extreme weather Sales and marketing is one of our core value for over 100 years and, in the majority of cases, drivers and is at the heart of our relationships with we believe that we provided the best service customers and our business partners.
HomeServe we could in light of the unprecedented demand is committed to operating to the highest standards from our customers.
We did, however, receive an of sales practices in respect of both our existing unusually high number of customer complaints, and potential customers.
predominantly due to the number of customer calls and emergency repairs undertaken during During the year, our UK compliance function the period.
The majority of the complaints related continued its monitoring activities and in order to to the grade of service in response to a customers supplement this work the business commissioned emergency and none went unanswered.
an independent report from external consultants.
This report raised a number of points including a We have developed a plan to review all the potential issue around the way in which Complete complaints that were received during the period Cover policies had been sold as an upgrade to in which our procedures may not always have existing customers by telesales staff.
We took the operated correctly.
All customers that may not decision on 28 October to temporarily suspend all have received a fair outcome are being resales and marketing activity in the UK and since contacted and, where appropriate, compensated.
then we have developed new telesales scripts, The expected cost of this re-contact exercise, re-trained sales agents, improved compliance and including any compensation payments, has been monitoring processes across the whole business, included in the UK exceptional expenditure.
and reviewed and revised how we incentivise our sales staff.
We have also made improvements to The number of customer complaints has fallen the clarity of our sales and marketing materials.
significantly during the past 12 months, partly due to our winter planning which included the We are re-contacting any customers where there recruitment of an extra 140 call centre agents at is a risk that they may have suffered detriment as our 24 hour claims centre in Preston.
This gave us a result of the way in which they were sold their increased capacity over the 2011 winter period and policy.
The expected cost of this exercise has been was successful in ensuring that we maintained our included in the UK exceptional expenditure.
service standards throughout the peak period.
We re-started our inbound call centre activity in In addition, we have invested 2.5m in our early November on a phased basis, while direct Claims operations systems, which improves mail activity for new customer acquisition and the process for booking sub-contract engineers cross-sell re-started from January.
We have had following a customers call and enhances our mixed results to date from our direct mail activity, ability to manage those jobs, improving the overall with the acquisition campaigns under-performing customer experience.
our response rate expectations, while cross-sell has delivered good results.
We will continue to test alternative marketing approaches over the next few months as we aim to improve the response rates and meet our internal targets, while maintaining clarity in all our communications.
