GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT This report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 the Act and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and has been approved by the Board and the Remuneration Committee.
The report also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and describes how the Board has applied the principles within the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code relating to Directors remuneration.
A resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The Act requires the external auditor to report on certain parts of this report and to state whether, in their opinion, those parts of the report have been properly prepared in accordance with it.
The report has therefore been divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
UNAUDITED INFORMATION REMUNERATION COMMITTEE MEMBERS Ian Chippendale Chair Stella David JM Barry Gibson Mark Morris All of the members are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board determined that the Company Chairman, Barry Gibson, should remain a member of the Committee, taking into account that he was considered to be independent on appointment and also that, as a former Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, his knowledge of the development of the remuneration policy and practices at HomeServe is invaluable.
RESPONSIBILITIES The primary responsibilities of the Committee are to: determine the Groups overall remuneration strategy determine the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors and other members of the Executive Committee approve the grant and exercise of executive long-term incentive arrangements and oversee the operation of other share-based plans across the Group.
In determining remuneration policy, the Committee is free to obtain such professional advice as it sees fit, and regularly monitors both the policies of comparator companies and current market practice, in order to ensure that the packages provided are sufficient to attract and retain Executive Directors of the necessary quality.
62 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Business review Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements The Committee aims to develop and recommend remuneration strategies that drive performance and reward it appropriately.
In determining its policy, the Committee has paid regard to the principles and provisions of good governance contained in the Code, which was effective for the Company for the first time in 2011 12.
The Committee operates under the delegated authority of the Board and its terms of reference are available on the website.
The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is a matter for the Board.
No Director is involved in determining his or her own remuneration.
The Committee has also agreed and implemented a procedure for reviewing and assessing its own effectiveness.
ADVISERS During the year New Bridge Street NBS, a firm of independent remuneration consultants, served as advisers to the Committee.
The Company also instructed NBS to advise it on a limited number of remuneration matters concerning individuals below the Executive Committee during the year.
Other than in relation to advice on remuneration, NBS has no other connections with the Company.
NBS is a trading name of Aon Hewitt Ltd, the ultimate parent company of which is Aon Corporation.
Aon Benfield another Aon company provides underwriting advice and services to HomeServe.
The Remuneration Committee is comfortable that this does not present a conflict of interest as Aon Benfield and NBS operate entirely independently of one another.
The terms of engagement for NBS are available on request from the Company Secretary.
The Committee has also received assistance from Richard Harpin, Chief Executive Officer, Mike Winstone, Group HR Director and Anna Maughan, Company Secretary, all of whom attended meetings of the Committee as required.
No executive took part in discussions in respect of matters relating directly to their own remuneration.
