Overview Business review Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements We aim to: 3.
COMMUNITY Build enduring relationships with key Use our core skills to give something back to stakeholders, including our customers, the community, specifically in peoples homes.
partners and the community Support more vulnerable members of the Value our employees community by helping them in their homes.
Respect the environment Develop partnerships with charitable and other Use our core skills to give something back to organisations which are closely aligned to our the communities we operate in business activities and therefore maximise our Achieve sustainable profits for our contribution.
Support and encourage employee involvement in charitable giving and volunteering, using Our business is centred on providing emergency relevant employee skills to support the services to people in their homes and our community.
corporate responsibility objectives support this.
ENVIRONMENT Our key focus is around the following four areas: Reduce our carbon emissions per employee.
CUSTOMERS Support and educate customers and Implement ethical, sustainable and responsible employees to reduce emissions, specifically in principles throughout the supply chain.
Identify future risks and opportunities and ensure the customer is at the centre of our These Corporate Responsibility principles are business decisions.
part of the way we operate on a daily basis and Treat customers fairly throughout the customer are reflected in the way we deal with customers, experience: living and breathing HomeServes employees, partners and the community.
A Corporate Responsibility Committee was established in the UK in 2010 to govern and ensure 2.
EMPLOYEES successful implementation of our policy and during Embed customer focused values and the last twelve months, committees have been behaviours within our business operations.
established in all of our other geographies.
Hire, develop and retain talent to ensure our customers enjoy a consistently good CUSTOMERS experience in the event of a home emergency.
The UK business has recently introduced a Provide a safe, healthy and inclusive Customer Charter which outlines our commitment environment for our people.
to our customers: well make things easy for customers and treat customers fairly, every step of the way.
The charter has been committed to by all of our colleagues, from the management team to our front line.
