GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors have pleasure in presenting their Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2012.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES During the year the Group was engaged in the provision of home emergency repairs.
Details of the Groups activities and a review of the business including the key performance indicators used to manage it are set out in the Chairmans statement, Chief Executives review and Financial review.
A description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group is included in the Financial review.
Information relating to the environment and employees is included in the Corporate responsibility report.
FINANCIAL RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The Groups results are shown in the Group income statement.
The Directors are recommending the payment on 1 August 2012 of a final dividend of 7.67p per ordinary share to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 29 June 2012 which, together with the net interim dividend of 3.63p per ordinary share paid on 3 January 2012, results in a total net dividend for the year of 11.3p per share 2011: 10.3p.
For further details of the dividend see note 12 to the financial statements.
CAPITAL STRUCTURE The Companies Act 2006 abolished the requirement for a company to have an authorised share capital and the Articles of Association as approved and adopted at the AGM in 2010 reflect this.
Details of the issued share capital, together with details of shares issued during the year, are set out in note 26.
There is one class of ordinary shares which carries no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at a general meeting of the Company.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 37.
No votes are cast in respect of the shares held in the Employee Benefit Trust and dividends are waived.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Subject to the Companies Act 2006 and any relevant authority of the Company in general meeting, the Company has authority to issue new shares.
The AGM held in 2011 authorised the Directors to allot shares in the capital of the Company within certain limited circumstances and as permitted by the Companies Act.
A renewal of this authority will be proposed at the 2012 AGM.
