GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION POLICY The Committees remuneration policy for the remuneration of Executive Directors and other senior executives is based on the following principles: to provide a remuneration package that is sufficient, but no more than necessary, to attract, retain and motivate high calibre executives: to align rewards with the Groups performance: to reward good performance with remuneration that is in line with that payable by broadly comparable businesses i. e. companies of a similar size and those with similar operating characteristics: to reward exceptional performance in such a way as to align the executives interests with those of the Companys shareholders, with the potential to deliver above market levels of reward for outstanding performance.
To that end, the Committee structures executive remuneration in two distinct parts: fixed remuneration of basic salary, pension and benefits and variable performance-related remuneration in the form of a cash bonus and long-term incentive arrangements.
Remuneration for Executive Directors is structured so that the variable pay element forms a significant portion of each Directors package.
The charts below demonstrate the balance between fixed and variable pay at on-target and maximum performance levels under the normal remuneration policy for the Executive Directors.
In the case of the long-term incentive arrangements the charts assume certain levels of share price growth.
Maximum performance assumes the achievement of maximum bonus and full vesting of shares under the Companys long-term incentive arrangements.
They demonstrate the significant weighting of the package towards variable performance-related pay.
In particular, the majority of Executive Directors total remuneration at the maximum performance level will derive from the Companys long-term incentive arrangements, which are strongly aligned to shareholder value creation.
ON-TARGET REMUNERATION MAXIMUM REMUNERATION Fixed pay 43% Fixed pay 22% Short-term variable pay 19% Short-term variable pay 16% Long-term variable pay 38% Long-term variable pay 62% 64 Annual Report & Accounts 2012
