Overview Business review Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements We are planning to improve our cost efficiency SUMMARY by reducing the complexity of the UK business.
2012 was a challenging year for HomeServe with The continued investment in new technology and continued growth in our International businesses system improvements will be just one of the ways being overshadowed by issues in our UK business.
in which we aim to achieve this goal.
Whilst we test new marketing activity in FY2013, we will manage We took significant, pro-active action to tackle this expenditure carefully.
Savings in marketing the UK problems.
We are determined to put the costs will also be supported by other initiatives, as customer at the heart of everything we do and we align our people, infrastructure and marketing deliver against all our values.
activity with our smaller customer base.
Our International businesses were not affected Our expectations for UK profit remain unchanged by our UK issues and delivered strong growth.
As a result of the lower customer We are planning to invest in additional marketing numbers at the end of FY2013, we expect FY2014 expenditure in both our established and new renewals revenue to reduce accordingly, partly International businesses over the next 12 months offset by lower operating costs.
as we target continued customer and policy growth.
INTERNATIONAL In our established International businesses we We are confident that HomeServe can complete will be targeting continued growth by increasing the necessary changes in our UK business and at the penetration of existing partner households, the same time continue to grow our International new partner signings and the acquisition of operations and deliver a robust financial policy books.
We expect to increase our marketing activity in our Richard Harpin established International businesses in FY2013 as Chief Executive we build on the progress achieved over the past 22 May 2012 12 months.
We will also be continuing to invest in the development of our New Markets businesses with the expected operating loss in FY2013 increasing as a result of an additional 2m of marketing investment in Italy and Germany.
