Overview Business review Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements AMORTISATION OF ACQUISITION INTANGIBLES The costs of re-contacting customers and the AND JOINT VENTURE TAXATION extent of any compensation due has been based The amortisation of acquisition intangibles of on our best estimates at this time using the results 10.4m 2011: 9.3m principally relates to customer of internal and external reviews as well as the and other contracts held by the acquired entities early results from initial pilots.
It is possible that our at the date of acquisition.
The 1.1m increase in assumptions regarding the number of customers, the amortisation charge principally reflects the level of compensation payable, response rates acquisition of the 51% shareholding in Domo in and the upheld rate could be different to those December 2011. currently assumed such that the amount currently recognised in this regard could be higher or lower.
Domo was a joint venture in France for the first eight months of the year and for this period the Furthermore, there is currently no certainty as to operating result is defined under IFRS as profit after the nature or extent of the action, if any, that the tax and therefore a charge of 1.4m 2011: 3.0m FSA may seek to take following the conclusion of its of joint venture tax is reported within statutory investigation and accordingly any related financial operating profit and statutory profit before tax.
effect, which could include a fine, cannot be estimated reliably.
As a result, no provisions have EXCEPTIONAL EXPENDITURE been made in this regard in the current year.
The exceptional expenditure of 31.1m includes costs relating to addressing the issues in the Domo acquisition costs and Belgium UK, costs relating to the acquisition of the 51% asset values shareholding in Domo and a reduction in the carrying value of certain assets of our Belgian The exceptional expenditure also includes 3m businesses, which have now been sold.
of costs related to the acquisition of the 51% shareholding in Domo and a 3.9m reduction in UK exceptional expenditure the carrying value of certain assets of our Belgian businesses, which have now been sold.
The 24.2m one-off charge of addressing the issues in the UK include our estimated cost of Gain on re-measurement of joint venture re-contacting and, if appropriate, compensating interest on acquisition of control customers who may have suffered any detriment as a result of the way in which complaints have As part of the acquisition of the remaining 51% been handled or their policy purchased.
shareholding in Domo in December 2011 we are In addition, there are redundancy and required to re-measure the value of our original reorganisation costs, costs related to reviewing 49% shareholding.
This re-measurement has and improving our controls and governance and resulted in a reported gain of 54.9m.
sales and marketing materials and the Ofcom fine.
At the end of 2012, we had incurred 3.2m of actual expenditure, with the remaining 21.0m expected to be spent over the next 12 18 months.
