Overview Business review Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Domo achieved gross new policy sales of 0.4m We continue to have particular success in 2011: 0.5m with strong sales of water supply pipe selling our Club product in Spain.
Club provides policies and coverage relating to taps.
We are customers with access to our repair network continuing to test different marketing initiatives in and one hours free labour per annum across a order to make further progress with the apartment range of 25 trades.
The Club product is essentially segment of the market, which is significant in an entry level product and our goal for the France, as well as increasing the number of Veolia future is to retain and up sell these customers call centres that transfer calls into our sales teams.
a full water or electrical emergency cover policy thereby increasing income per customer and the All of our repairs in France are managed through membership operating margin.
our network of 980 sub-contract engineers with over 96% of customers who have had a claim Our claims handling business in Spain continues to being satisfied with the service they received.
perform well with continued growth in the number of claims managed and a tight control on margins.
SPAIN In Spain, revenue increased by 23% to 60.2m 2011: Our network of 1,450 sub-contract and Reparalia 1 48.8m and adjusted operating profit by 65% to franchised engineers completed over 0.35m 2.8m 2011: 1.7m reflecting growth in customer repairs over the past twelve months, with 91% of numbers as well as higher claims handling customers satisfied with the service they received.
volumes and margins, despite the very difficult economic conditions in Spain.
NEW MARKETS Continuing to test acquisition marketing We increased our investment in marketing in activity in Italy Spain over the past twelve months as we rolled Good progress in developing SFGs out activity to Agbar, whilst continuing to target manufacturer warranty operation sales to Endesa households.
This has resulted in Exited Belgium, as a result of being unable gross new policy sales increasing by 48% to 239k to sign a large utility partner 2011: 161k.
We continue to find outbound telesales Signed a test marketing agreement particularly successful in Spain with around in Germany 46% of gross new policy sales coming through this channel.
Our New Markets segment now includes our developing businesses in France, via our warranty Customer and policy numbers continue to show business Socit Francaise fide Garantie SFG, Italy strong growth.
Customer numbers have increased and Germany.
Despite positive discussions with a number of potential affinity partners in Belgium, we have been unable to reach agreement on any longterm partnership.
We have therefore sold the businesses we acquired to enter Belgium and refocused our European management efforts and marketing spend on France, Italy and on launching in Germany with our first utility partner, BS Energy.
