OUR HOW WE BUSINESS MODEL CREATE VALUE Our vision Our business is built on developing long-term affinity relationships with utility companies To be the first place and appliance manufacturers.
We deliver policies under their brands to our customers, people turn to for home capitalising on our product development knowledge and direct consumer marketing emergencies and repairs.
expertise as well as our skills in managing the claims handling process and engineer network management.
Our mission We fix our customers household emergencies through the use of our directly employed, To provide an affinity franchised and sub contract networks of engineers.
branded membership service which frees our Our products cover plumbing and drains, gas boiler and central heating, ventilation customers from the worry and air conditioning, electrics and household and inconvenience of home appliances such as showers and washing machines.
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS To assist in the management of our business and to provide evidence of achieving its strategic priorities, the Board regularly reviews a number of key performance indicators.
These key performance indicators are shown in the Chief Executives review.
8 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 E C I T C A R P T S E B Overview Business review Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements N E V I R D E L P O E P STRONG AFFINITY We build long term relationships with partners whose brands have an PARTNERSHIPS affinity with our products, providing us with direct access to millions of customers via trusted brands.
Our partners benefit from risk-free income and are able to offer their customers value-added products that build their customer relationships and differentiate them from competitors.
PRODUCT We create products that take the worry and inconvenience out of home DESIGN emergencies, offering simple introductory products for new customers, cross-sell products for increased cover and combined policies covering multiple emergencies for complete peace of mind.
SALES AND We use our expertise in direct marketing and telephony to sell our products MARKETING directly to customers, and constantly innovate to ensure our marketing is CAPABILITY fresh and relevant.
CLAIMS We operate our own local call centres to handle customers claims, and AND NETWORK manage our own networks of qualified engineers in order to offer our MANAGEMENT customers the best service when they experience a home emergency.
CUSTOMER We encourage our customers to renew their policies year after year, LOYALTY securing high levels of recurring income, by offering them great service and loyalty incentives.
UNDERPINNED BY OUR CORE VALUES Put our customers at the heart Develop people who are passionate of everything we do.
about taking responsibility and making things happen.
Combine relentless Expand our business into new innovation with integrity countries, transferring best and professionalism.
