GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS 01 Body copy 1 3 4 JM BARRY GIBSON 60 RICHARD HARPIN 47 MARTIN BENNETT 43 Appointed to the Board in Founder and Chief Executive A Board member since 2009.
April 2004 and appointed Officer of HomeServe which Appointed as Group Chief as Chairman on 1 April 2010 was originally a joint venture Operating Officer in January following a year as Senior with South Staffordshire Group 2012 following three years as Non-Executive Director.
Appointed to the chief financial officer.
Previously the non-executive chairman Board in May 2001.
Previously finance director of UK Membership of Harding Brothers Holdings a brand manager with Procter having been finance director of Ltd.
Previously group retailing & Gamble, followed by the Warranties business and director at BAA plc, group chief management consultancy with commercial director.
Prior to executive of Littlewoods plc Deloitte and his own company.
joining HomeServe in 2003, and non-executive director he spent three years as group of Somerfield plc, National finance director of Clarity Group Express plc and William Hill plc.
and ten years at Arthur Andersen where he qualified as a chartered accountant.
1 2 3 1 2 3 4 BEN MINGAY 47 MARK MORRIS 52 ANNA MAUGHAN 42 Appointed to the Board in January Appointed to the Board in Appointed Company Secretary in 2012.
Previously in July 2008 following twelve years of Smith Square Partners, an audit, business advisory and as assistant company secretary.
independent corporate finance corporate finance with Price Also a trustee of, and secretary advisory firm.
He has more Waterhouse before joining to, the industry wide Water than 20 years experience as a Sytner Group plc as finance Companies Pension Scheme.
corporate finance adviser and, director, later becoming prior to co-founding Smith Square managing director.
Currently Partners, he was a managing senior non-executive director of director of Hawkpoint Partners LSL Property Services plc and a Ltd and Credit Suisse First Boston former non-executive director Europe.
He is also a nonof Christian Salvesen plc and executive director of AIM-listed Maxima Holdings plc.
48 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Overview Business review Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements KEY: 1 Non-Executive.
2 Audit Committee Chairman: Mark Morris.
3 Nomination Committee Chairman: Barry Gibson.
4 Remuneration Committee Chairman: Ian Chippendale.
5 Member of Executive Committee only.
1 2 3 4 1 3 4 JONATHAN KING 51 IAN CHIPPENDALE 63 STELLA DAVID 49 A Board member since Appointed to the Board in Appointed to the Board in 2010.
Appointed as Chief January 2007 and as Senior November 2010.
Currently chief Executive Officer of HomeServe Non-Executive Director on executive officer of William Membership in the UK in 1 April 2010.
Currently an Grant & Sons having joined August 2011.
He spent six years independent director of them in 2009 following more as chief executive officer of Alleghany Corporation and than fifteen years with Bacardi HomeServe USA following four Chairman of Allen and Allen Ltd where she undertook a years as managing director of Group Ltd.
Previously chairman number of roles culminating the UK Membership business of RBS Insurance, group chief in four years as global chief and a year as business executive of the Direct Line marketing officer.
He Group of companies, chief a non-executive director of previously worked in retail executive of Privilege Insurance C&J Clark Limited, she also marketing with the Boots and chairman of the Insurance spent seven years as a Company as group brand Division of Provident Financial plc.
non-executive director at manager for No.
5 5 6 RACHAEL HUGHES 41 TOM RUSIN 43 DAVID BOWER 40 Appointed as Chief Executive Appointed as Chief Executive Appointed interim Chief Officer of HomeServe Europe in Officer, HomeServe USA in Financial Officer in January 2005 having been managing July 2011.
He joined the business in director of Domo, in France, Group where he undertook 2005 as head of group finance since its launch in 2001. a number of roles culminating before being appointed as Previously managing director in three years as president finance director of HomeServe of CHEP Argentina SA following and chief executive officer Emergency Services and then a total of seven years with CHEP of Affinion Groups North group finance director.
Prior to Equipment Pooling Systems in American Division from 2007 joining HomeServe he spent North and South America and to 2010.
Before joining Affinion, 12 years at Arthur Andersen, GKN Group in the UK.
he owned Just for Travel Inc. later Deloitte LLP, where he Currently a non-executive qualified as a chartered director of The Ambassadors accountant.
