GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The fees payable to the auditor for non-audit related work excluding compliance services totalled 0.6m which exceeded the fees payable in respect of audit and compliance services which totalled 0.3m.
During the year, the UK business instigated a number of reviews of its activities by external advisers.
Advisers were selected on the basis of their expertise and experience but in recognition of the number and quality of participants in the market, it was not deemed appropriate to exclude Deloitte LLP in every case.
Furthermore, it was felt that using a number of advisers would ensure that the advice received was appropriately diverse.
Deloitte LLP was selected to undertake a comprehensive review of the UK telephone sales operations and procedures and the fees in respect of this review represent the significant majority of the non-audit related work.
Further detail on the fees paid is provided in Note 7.
In accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK & Ireland 260 and Ethical Statement 1 issued by the Accounting Practices Board, and as a matter of best practice, the external auditor has confirmed its independence as auditor of the Company, in a letter addressed to the Directors.
The Committee has also agreed and implemented a procedure for reviewing and assessing its own effectiveness and that of the internal and external audit process.
The Committee reviews the performance of the external auditor annually.
Having reviewed the performance and independence of the external auditor, the Committee has recommended that Deloitte LLP be proposed for reappointment at the AGM.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE The day-to-day running of the business is delegated to an Executive Committee which is led by Richard Harpin.
Other members of the Executive Committee are Martin Bennett, Jonathan King, Rachael Hughes, Chief Executive of HomeServe Europe, Tom Rusin, Chief Executive of HomeServe USA and David Bower, Interim CFO.
The Committee has adopted formal terms of reference.
RISK COMMITTEE A Risk Committee, comprising the Executive Directors and other representatives of each business, operates across the Group and is chaired by Martin Bennett.
Its terms of reference have been approved by the Board and its purpose is to establish the Groups risk appetite, to evaluate the risk registers compiled by each of its businesses, to monitor the effectiveness of its action plans for the mitigation of those risks, and to report thereon to the Board: which retains responsibility for the overall evaluation of the Groups risk management processes.
DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES AND INSURANCE The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its Directors which were in place during the year and remain in force at the date of this report.
The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance for its Directors and officers.
ADVICE FOR DIRECTORS The Board has established a formal procedure for Directors wishing to seek independent legal and other professional advice and all members of the Board have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
