BUSINESS REVIEW The New Markets businesses, including those in We are pleased to have signed BS Energy part Belgium, reported revenue of 11.6m 2011: 9.9m of the Veolia group as our first partner in 1 and an adjusted operating loss of 3.4m which Germany and will shortly start our test marketing was in line with our expectations 2011: 1.1m and activity.
We will be promoting plumbing, electric reflects additional investment in marketing activity and gas home emergency services to BS Energys in SFG and our Italian businesses.
We expect 150k water, gas and electric households in to maintain this level of investment in our New Lower Saxony.
Markets businesses in future years as we aim to grow in Italy, Germany and the French THE FUTURE warranty market.
We are confident that our membership business model can continue to deliver value for customers, Our test marketing with Enel in Italy has proved affinity partners and shareholders.
We believe that successful in acquiring new customers and we can make the necessary changes to our we have therefore extended our original test UK business while at the same time growing agreement to ensure that we can also test and investing in our International operations.
In parallel, we are discussing The business remains very cash generative and the opportunity to agree a long-term affinity we are confident of continuing to deliver a robust partnership with access to an increased number financial performance.
UK We have also achieved encouraging results from The next 12 months will be a year of transition our marketing with Veolia Acqua, a small Italian as we refocus on the partner markets of water water utility, in addition to discussing potential utilities, manufacturers of installed appliances and agreements with a number of other Italian water financial services companies.
By reducing the use companies.
of high discounts and focusing on these markets, we expect the number of new customers acquired In SFG, we have continued to invest in the to reduce and for total UK customer numbers to fall development of a post-point of sale and from 2.7m to between 2.2m and 2.4m by the end of manufacturer warranty operation with marketing FY2013.
We expect the underlying UK retention rate activity with Indesit and Mistergooddeal.
We to remain stable in FY2013 and to increase in the are making good progress in developing the next few years as we focus more on the value of manufacturer warranty operation and are pleased customers and less on the quantity.
to have signed a new longer-term agreement with Indesit.
Revenues from the original retail warranty The customer need is unchanged, with customers customer base have, as we expected, reduced wanting to buy plumbing cover from their water during the year.
utility and heating cover from the appliance manufacturer.
We will be developing and testing a number of new propositions over the next 12 months, including offering our pay on use services under water company names for plumbing and boiler manufacturer names for heating emergencies.
