Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2012 HOWDEN JOINERY A young and successful business with prospects 1995 First 14 depots 28 staff 1995 2013 529 depots open 4,500 depot staff 2011 2013 30m invested in manufacturing in North of England Making 3.5m kitchen cabinets per year 2013 529 depots 6,300 staff 2 factories 1 distribution centre 270,000 trade account holders Over 2,800 UK suppliers of goods and services 11,500 pension members 56,000 hours of in-house training 180 apprentices and 50 more being recruited 01 2,100 local charities supported by our staff Working in partnership with Leonard Cheshire Disability Prospects 700 depots up to 1,500 new jobs More investment in UK manufacturing Keeping tradesmen competitive Investing in UK manufacture and design Howdens is an... that has been growing since the day it started in October 1995 To supply from local stock nationwide the small builders ever-changing, routine :e looO after Its ready!
aGGounts Lere 8Lat ts niGely 02 We understand Thats why we Howdens is an the importance of focus on selling entrepreneurial a working kitchen kitchens to business with The kitchen is and always has been the professionals 529 local depots focal point of the home, which is why The increasing complexity of the kitchen Howdens is a local business.
Since everything in it must work.
In the kitchen, means that it must be installed by a 1995 we have built a network of 529 we do much more than prepare, cook professional tter, which is why we only depots located around the country.
We spend much of our lives in the kitchen, and we expect more sell to trade customers.
The local builder Each depot is run by a manager who is and more from the cabinets, surfaces, who installs the kitchen serves all parts responsible for his or her profit and loss of the market, including owner-occupiers account.
Managers and their teams are ttings and appliances that go into it.
and landlords in both private and incentivised on a share of local profit Read more in Chief Executives statement, public sectors.
and are highly motivated to open local on pages 10 to 16. accounts and help drive the growth of Read more in Our market, on pages 4 the business.
Read more in Our model, on pages 6 to 7.
7ales m 4 1arKin 4&8 m ear end GasL m ull year dividend p original idea integrated kitchen and joinery requirements, assuring no-call-back quality and best local price.
:ell Lave tLe lot on site by &etter in every way 03 Our business We signicantly We have model is highly outperformed the many more differentiated market in 2012 opportunities Last year we signicantly improved The entire Howdens model has been built for growth profitability, increasing sales by 4% to from scratch to support our mission.
We We have already identied many 887.1m and improving gross profit control our own manufacturing, and our opportunities for further sales and margin by 1.8 percentage points to supply chain is focused on supplying one profit growth within our existing depot 61.5%.
customer, the local builder, with product Year-end cash was 96.4m, and we are network, as well as more ways to increase that is in stock locally every day, all year recommending a final dividend of 2.7p, manufacturing efficiency.
We also plan round, in low-cost trade depots.
We are to open more new depots to serve the bringing the total for the year to 3.0p.
extremely demanding in respect of both builders local needs, to introduce more quality and cost: our objective is to offer Read more in Chairmans statement, on new product and to continue to focus on the best, with no waste.
pages 8 to 9, and Operating and Financial performance improvement in every area of Review, on pages 17 to 24.
Read more in Chief Executives statement, the business.
on pages 10 to 16, and CSR report, Read more in Chief Executives statement, on pages 25 to 30. on pages 10 to 16.
Our market Understanding the builders world The builder Its Kot to be riKLt The builder is an entrepreneur running a business.
Its nature will vary according to where and how it was established.
It could be a family business that goes back several generations, or it could be a newly formed partnership.
It might have two employees, or it might have twenty.
It might be based in a big city, or at the end of a country lane.
Every job must look good, be sturdy, and be delivered on time, complete and at a satisfactory price.
Only when all of these conditions are fullled will the builder get paid.
demanding, ever-changing, 8Lis is muGL ou eat I need more resistant to watGL tLis 04 Raw materials Lifestyle and design trends Rapidly evolving technologies and increasing environmental We live in an increasingly design-conscious world in which new trends awareness are leading to the introduction of new materials and are discussed and shared via the internet and social media as well as nishes for cabinets, worktops, ooring and appliances.
Kitchens are becoming more complex as kitchen users tolerance of unreliability decreases, we are seeing more emphasis expect a well-designed, integrated kitchen at all price points, accessible on high performance, durable good looks, cost-competitiveness to users of all ages and different abilities.
Most importantly, we are and sustainability.
seeing the merging of cooking, eating and living space, reecting the growing focus on the kitchen as the centre of the home.
His customers His working day The local builder is mainly concerned with repair, maintenance and The builder is constantly juggling different jobs for different improvement in his local area.
A total house refurbishment or a contract customers with a number of other variables, some of which are to replace the kitchens in a block of ats can alternate with requests unpredictable even a week in advance.
Local emergencies, heavy to build a wall or install a new sink.
There is a marked trend in kitchen rain and customers who change their plans at the last minute all installation away from DIY and towards DFY Done For You, so the mean that the builder is managing chaos every day.
He has no skilled kitchen tter is in demand across the whole of the marketplace.
time to waste dealing with call centres or stuck in trafc jams, so The customer to whom the builder sells a Howdens kitchen can be the combination of reliable, personal advice and the availability of an owner-occupier, a private landlord, a local authority, a housing local stock of everything is all-important to his business.
Even small kitchens are becoming more time-consuming to plan as Its raininK so customers become increasingly conscious of the need to maximise use of space as well as to make best use of their budget.
8Lis Nobs really urKent complex, interconnected 8Lis is all new tLis year oesnt looO great 05 The economic picture Increasing regulation Fragile consumer confidence and the difficulty of obtaining credit have Regulation and legislation govern every aspect of kitchen reinforced the need for the builder to control costs and cash ow and construction, installation and use, from raw materials to electrical to manage his business effectively.
In recent years the builder has and gas appliances, from child safety to energy consumption seen many changes in the market, including decreasing public sector and waste disposal.
The builder must keep abreast of the latest spending, rising house prices, first-time buyers struggling to secure requirements, or face penalties, and is therefore heavily reliant on mortgages and little or no increase in the rate of new housebuilding, at his kitchen and joinery supplier to do the same.
All of this means it is more and more important for the builder to be exible, responsive and competitive.
Local Local means on the doorstep, not half an hours drive away.
The closer he is to Our model the depot, the easier it is for the builder to collect what he needs, arrange a visit for his own customer, or drop in for some Making the builder more competitive friendly advice.
Thats why Howdens have already opened 529 depots across the country and why we believe there is scope for at least 700.
In stock It Gan go straigLt Its all Lere into tLe van Howdens complete range of kitchens and associated joinery and hardware is available all the time in every depot.
This is only possible because we have built a dedicated and efficient supply chain and logistics operation focused on one customer, the builder.
And because everything is in stock, the builder can complete his job and get paid by his customer, which means he can then pay Howdens.
proven, flexible, 8Leres a two year 0ooOs good worOs 7erviGe !
margin guarantee well doesnt breaO 06 Range Best local price Howdens offers a range of 40 kitchens, Howdens is able to offer best local plus joinery, appliances and ooring at all price to the builder because our price points that reect the ever-changing business is designed to be low-cost.
needs and tastes of a wide range of High volumes, long runs, efficient sourcing Quality customers.
Howdens combination of and manufacturing, optimised logistics, We design and specify all our products design, quality, availability and price scalable systems and straightforward supports the builders sale.
and control our own manufacturing and trade depots means Howdens costs will sourcing, which means our product is of always be lower than those of a retailer.
consistently high quality, ensuring fast, easy installation.
Cabinets are rigid, not atpack, which saves the builder valuable time on site.
Howdens no-callback quality standards mean the builder can minimise waste and maximise his margin.
Trade only Credit terms Condential Howdens sell only to trade professionals, We run local, not national, accounts, discount and our 10,000 square-foot trade depots limiting our exposure to any one are suited to their needs.
When a builder opens a credit Our trade account customers benefit customers means no conicts of interest account with his local Howdens depot, from a condential discount on list price, in respect of product, pricing or service.
we offer nett monthly terms, which allows specic to them, which enables them the builder to get paid for a job by his to manage their margin on each job.
customer before he has to pay us.
We Discounts are set locally by managers provide the cash ow that is critical to who know their customers and are his business.
motivated to serve their needs.
Is tLat tLe new model tap# If Ive got up 8LanOs &ill tLats to days a good deal scalable and worthwhile oull Lave muGL more spaGe Its easier to t Ive used it myself 07 Planning Every successful kitchen begins with a good plan.
We have invested in industry-leading CAD software and a team of over 1,000 kitchen designers trained to make best use of it.
Builders and their customers benefit from our free planning service, which Advice includes detailed visualisations of the kitchen and the ability to Howdens depots are staffed by knowledgeable, professional make modications to the plan.
staff who can nurture long-term relationships with local builders.
They have access to comprehensive product information for every item we sell, but the real value of their expertise is in on-the-spot problem-solving in discussion with their customers.
