Directors report The directors have pleasure in containing environmental of the Articles of Association and submitting their report and the audited matters, social & community prevailing legislation.
The directors financial statements for the 53 week issues and additional information are not aware of any agreements period ended 29 December 2012. on employees.
between holders of the Companys Comparative gures relate to the 52 shares that may result in restrictions The full results for the period are weeks ended 24 December 2011. on the transfer of securities or on shown in the financial statements voting rights.
PRINCIPAL GROUP ACTIVITIES, Details of employee share BUSINESS REVIEW AND RESULTS Information about the use of financial schemes are set out in note 27.
The principal activity of Howden instruments by the Company and its Shares held by the Howden Joinery Group Plc and its subsidiaries is given in note 29 to the Joinery Group Plc Employee subsidiaries is the sale of kitchens financial statements.
Share Trust abstain from voting.
and joinery products, along with the associated procurement, The subsidiary and associated No person has any special rights manufacture and distribution of undertakings principally affecting of control over the Companys these products.
Further information the profits or net assets of the Group share capital and all issued on our business and the Howden in the year are listed in the table shares are fully paid.
model can be found on pages 1 to 7. of parent company and principal subsidiary undertakings on page With regard to the appointment The Company is required by the 116.
There have been no significant and replacement of directors, the Companies Act 2006 to include events since the balance sheet date.
Company is governed by its Articles a business review in this report.
of Association, the UK Corporate 32 The information that fulls the DIVIDEND Governance Code, the Companies requirements of the business Act and related legislation.
The The Board recommends the review can be found in the following Articles may be amended by special payment of a final dividend of sections which are incorporated in resolution of the shareholders.
2.7 pence per ordinary share to be this report by reference: The business of the Company is paid on 21 June 2013 to ordinary managed by the Board who may shareholders on the register on Chairmans statement on pages exercise all the powers of the 24 May 2013 2011: 0.5 pence.
Company subject to the provision interim dividend of 0.3 pence was Chief executives statement on of the Articles of Association, the paid during the year 2011: nil.
Companies Act and any ordinary resolution of the Company.
SHARE CAPITAL Review of operations and finance on page 17 to 24 Details of the issued share capital, There are a number of agreements including a review of principal together with details of the that take effect, alter or terminate risks and uncertainties and key movements in the Companys issued upon a change of control such as performance indicators and the share capital during the year are commercial contracts, bank loan illustrated business model on shown in note 24.
The Company has agreements and employee share pages 2 to 7. one class of ordinary share which plans.
The only one of these which is carry no right to xed income.
Each considered to be significant in terms Corporate governance report share carries the right to one vote at of likely impact on the business including Going Concern general meetings of the Company.
of the Group as a whole, is the statement on pages 50 to 57. bank facility as described in note There are no specic restrictions Audit Committee report on 21 which requires majority lender on the size of a holding nor on the pages to 58 to 62. consent for any change of control.
transfer of shares which are both Corporate social responsibility governed by the general provisions report on pages to 25 to 30 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2012 Should such consent not be directors seeking re-election and provided the goods or services in forthcoming, a change of control the contribution and commitment accordance with the agreed terms would trigger a mandatory of the directors that are required and conditions.
repayment of the entire facility.
to offer themselves for re-election.
The number of days purchases The directors are not aware of any He has confirmed to the Board that outstanding for payment by the agreements between the Company their performance and commitment Group at the period end was 46 and its directors or employees that is such that the Company should days 2011: 48 days and nil provide for compensation for loss support their re-election.
of ofce or employment that occurs Having served nearly seven years as because of a takeover bid.
a non-executive director and Chair FIXED ASSETS of the Companys Audit Committee, ESSENTIAL CONTRACTS There is no material difference Angus Cockburn has informed the between the book value and the The mission of the Group relies on Board that he intends to resign current open market value of the product of no-call-back quality as a non-executive director once Groups interest in land and buildings.
being in stock at all times in order a suitable candidate had been to service the needs of the builder.
In order to CHARITABLE AND The Group benets from a number ensure a smooth transition, Angus POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS of contracts which are key to will continue as non-executive providing the volume of product Kitchen and joinery products director and Chairman of the Audit required to enable the Group to and services donated to various Committee until after the AGM full this mission but is nevertheless charities, as well as charitable and thereafter until such time as confident that other commercial donations made during the period 33 a replacement can be appointed.
solutions would be available should amounted to 817k 2011: 814k.
Angus will therefore offer himself for these contracts be terminated.
re-election at the AGM along with The Group made no political the other directors.
The Nominations Contracts with key personnel are donations during the current and Committee has appointed an discussed in the review of principal previous period.
executive search agency to assist in risks and uncertainties on page 22. nding a suitable candidate.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS DIRECTORS AND THEIR As at 27 February 2013, the Information on the directors service INTERESTS Company had been notied in agreements, options and interests accordance with Chapter 5 of the Details of the directors in ofce of the directors and their families in on 29 December 2012 are shown Disclosure & Transparency Rules, the share capital of the Company, of the following voting rights as a on page 31. is set out in the separate Directors shareholder of the Company: remuneration report on pages 35 to All of the directors will retire at the 49.
Details of indemnity provisions Annual General Meeting AGM Standard Life Investments Ltd 14.16% made for the benefit of directors are in accordance with the UK Blackrock Inc 9.94% given in the Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Code and Jupiter Asset Management Ltd 5.28% report on pages 50 to 57. each will offer themself for reCazenove Capital election in accordance with Article Management Ltd 5.18% SUPPLIERS PAYMENT TERMS 118 of the Articles of Association.
Old Mutual Asset Managers The Group and Companys policy, in UK Ltd 4.11% In proposing their re-election, relation to all its suppliers, is to settle EES Trustees International Ltd the Chairman confirms that the its terms of payment when agreeing as Trustee of Howden Joinery Nominations Committee has the terms of the transaction and to Group Employee benefit Trust 3.35% considered the formal performance abide by those terms provided that Legal & General Assurance evaluation in respect of those it is satisfied that the supplier has Pensions Management Ltd 3.18% Directors report continued The percentage interest is as stated The Board remains committed AUDIT INFORMATION by the shareholder at the time of to linking reward to business AND AUDITORS notication and current interests budgets and targets thereby giving Each of the persons who is a may vary.
employees the opportunity to share director at the date of approval in the financial success of the of this Annual Report confirm that: ACQUISITION OF THE COMPANYS Group.
In keeping with the structure OWN SHARES of the business, the Company is so far as each of the directors committed to applying this policy is aware, there is no relevant At the end of the year, the locally, and as a result, staff of audit information of which directors had authority under the all levels regularly benefit from the Companys auditors are shareholders resolutions of 16 achieving local targets throughout unaware: and May 2012 to purchase through the the year.
The Board also recognises market 63,391,533 of the Companys the director has taken all the employees for their contribution ordinary shares at prices ranging steps that he ought to have taken through the use of employee between 10p and the higher of a as a director in order to make incentive plans and share plans 105% of the average middle market himself aware of any relevant audit within overall remuneration.
quotation for an ordinary share as information and to establish that derived from the London Stock The Group promotes the importance the Companys auditors are aware Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the of diversity and adopts an Equal of that information.
five business days immediately Opportunities Policy under which preceding the day on which the The conrmation is given and training and career development ordinary share is purchased and should be interpreted in accordance opportunities are available to all b an amount equal to the higher 34 with the provisions of s418 of the employees, regardless of gender, of the price of the last independent Companies Act 2006. religion or race.
The Group is trade of an ordinary share and the committed to meeting the code highest current independent bid for Deloitte LLP have expressed their of practice on the employment of an ordinary share as derived from willingness to continue in ofce as disabled people and full and fair the London Stock Exchange Trading auditors and a resolution to reappoint consideration is given to disabled System.
The authority expires at the them will be proposed at the applicants for employment.
It conclusion of the next AGM or 15 forthcoming AGM.
aims to do all that is practicable months from the date of passing.
to meet its responsibility towards ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING the employment and training of EMPLOYEES The Annual General Meeting is to disabled people and welcomes, The average number of employees be held at UBS Investment Bank, and considers fully, applications by 1 Finsbury Avenue, London, EC2M and their remuneration are shown in disabled persons, having regard note 8 to the financial statements.
2PP on 9 May 2013. to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
At the year end, the Group had 6,300 By order of the Board employees 2011: 6,397 throughout It is also the Groups policy to the United Kingdom and overseas retain employees who may become and strives to engage its employees disabled while in service and to Caroline Bishop wherever possible in its business provide appropriate training.
Secretary goals by means of regular regional and local staff meetings.
