Hunting PLC Annual Report 2012 36 Report of the Directors The Directors present their report, together with the audited No Director during the year had a material interest in any financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012. contract of significance to which either the Company or any of its subsidiaries were a party.
Directors interests in the Principal Activities and Business Review shares of the Company are shown on page 49.
As at 31 Hunting PLC is a holding company whose subsidiaries are December 2012, no Director of the Company had any primarily involved in the manufacture and distribution of beneficial interest in the shares of subsidiary companies.
products that enable the extraction of oil and gas for the worlds leading energy companies.
Directors and Officers Liability Insurance The Company maintains insurance against certain liabilities, The Company is UK domiciled and incorporated in England which could arise from a negligent act or a breach of duty by and Wales.
Details of the Companys principal subsidiaries its Directors and officers in the discharge of their duties.
This and associated undertakings are set out in note 44. is a qualifying third party indemnity provision, which was in force throughout the financial year.
The Business Review, encompassing the Chief Executives Review, Operating Review, the Financial Review and Review Annual General Meeting of Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 10 to 33, The Annual General Meeting of the Company will take place together with the Chairmans Statement on pages 6 and 7, on Wednesday 17 April 2013 at The Royal Automobile Club, reports on the principal activities of the Group and its 89 Pall Mall, London, SW1Y 5HS, commencing at 10.30am.
performance during the year ended 31 December 2012, At the meeting, as well as routine matters, members will be along with likely future developments in its operations.
This asked to receive the Report of the Directors and Accounts, to information, together with a description of financial capital approve the 2012 Remuneration Committee Report and to management page 25, details of the Groups policies on give authority to the Directors to reappoint the Groups employment, health, safety and the environment, which are external auditors and determine their remuneration.
contained within the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 29 to 33, and the Corporate Governance Report on Further details of the resolutions are set out in the letter pages 40 to 43, are incorporated into this report by reference.
concerning the Annual General Meeting, which accompanies the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Results and Dividends The results of the Group are set out in the Consolidated Powers of the Directors Income Statement on page 55.
Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, UK legislation and any directions prescribed by resolution of the The Directors, subject to approval by shareholders at the Company in general meeting, the business of the Company is Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 17 managed by the Board.
The Directors have been authorised April 2013, recommend a final dividend of 14.0p per share to allot and issue Ordinary shares and to make market 2011 11.0p, which together with the interim dividend of purchases of the Companys Ordinary shares.
These powers 4.5p 2011 4.0p, takes the total dividend for the year to are exercised under authority of resolutions of the Company 18.5p per share 2011 15.0p, an increase of 23%.
The final passed at its Annual General Meeting.
dividend will be paid on 1 July 2013 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 14 June 2013.
During the financial year ended 31 December 2012 733,055 Ordinary shares were issued pursuant to the Changes in the Group and its Interests During the Companys various share plans.
Financial Year On 27 April 2012, the Group disposed of Hunting Canadian Share Capital Airport Holdings Ltd. and its subsidiaries, including Field The Companys issued share capital comprises a single class, Aviation Company Inc. Further details can be found in note 43. which is divided into Ordinary shares of 25p each, details of which are set out in note 33 of the financial statements.
As at Post Balance Sheet Events 31 December 2012, there were 147,049,241 Ordinary shares There have been no disclosable post balance sheet events.
The rights and obligations attached to these shares are summarised on page 37 and are detailed in the Articles of Directors Association of the Company, copies of which can be The biographies of the Directors of the Company as at obtained from Companies House in the UK, or by writing to 31 December 2012 are set out on page 35 of this report.
the Company Secretary at the registered office of the As recommended by the UK Corporate Governance Code, Company.
Subject to applicable statutes, shares may be all Directors will submit themselves for re-election at the issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company may, Companys Annual General Meeting.
by ordinary resolution, decide, or if there is no such resolution or so far as it does not make specific provision as On 29 August 2012, both John Hofmeister and John Nicholas the Board may decide.
The movements in share capital were reappointed as non-executive Directors for a second during the year are detailed in note 33 of this report.
Mr Hofmeister will continue as the Senior Independent Director of the Company and Mr Nicholas will The Directors have the authority to allot shares and to disapply continue as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
This authority is renewed annually at the Annual General Meeting.
The Company has Company Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Hunting PLC Annual Report 2012 37 authority, renewed annually, to purchase up to 14.99% of the The Directors may decide to suspend the registration of issued share capital, equating to 22,042,681 shares at 31 transfers, for up to 30 days a year, by closing the register of December 2012.
Any shares purchased will either be shareholders.
The Directors cannot suspend the registration cancelled, and the number of Ordinary shares in issue reduced of transfers of any uncertificated shares without obtaining accordingly, or held in Treasury.
The Directors will be seeking consent from CREST.
a new authority for the Company to purchase its Ordinary shares at the Annual General Meeting.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary shares in the Company other than: The Company holds 986,731 shares in Treasury 2011 certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by 1,072,186, used to satisfy a proportion of the shares under laws and regulations, for example insider trading laws: award to employees who participate in the share-based pursuant to the Companys share dealing code whereby incentive schemes currently run by the Company.
This number the Directors and certain employees of the Company of shares is deducted from the Companys equity.
The Company require approval to deal in the Companys shares: and has a policy to purchase shares in the market or issue new where a shareholder with at least a 0.25% interest in the shares to meet future requirements of these incentive schemes.
Companys certificated shares has been served with a During the year, the Company, through the Employee Share disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company Trust, purchased 85,558 Treasury shares with an aggregate with information concerning interests in those shares.
Details of the employee share schemes can be found in the The Company is not aware of any agreements between Remuneration Committee Report on pages 45 and 46 and in shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer note 38. of Ordinary shares or on voting rights.
The rights to such shares are restricted in accordance with the Research and Development Companies Act 2006 and, in particular, the voting and Group subsidiaries undertake, where appropriate, research dividend rights attaching to these shares are automatically and development to meet particular market and product suspended.
The amount incurred and written off by the Group during the year was 1.7m 2011 0.6m.
Voting Rights and Restrictions on Transfer of Shares On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, Charitable and Political Contributions every holder of Ordinary shares present in person or by proxy, During the year, the Group donated 57,000 2011 and entitled to vote, has one vote, and, on a poll, every member 48,000 to UK charitable organisations and 125,000 2011 present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote 114,000 to overseas charities.
It is the Groups policy not for every Ordinary share held.
Further details regarding voting to make political donations, accordingly there were no at the Annual General Meeting can be found in the notes to political donations made during the year 2011 nil.
the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
None of the Ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to control Property, Plant and Equipment of the Company.
Proxy appointments and voting instructions Details of movements in property, plant and equipment are must be received by the Companys Registrars not later than shown in note 15 to the financial statements.
The Directors 48 hours before a general meeting.
are of the opinion that the net book value of Huntings properties at 31 December 2012 exceeded their market value Shareholders may submit votes electronically at by approximately 5.3m.
No impairment has been recorded www.
A Voting ID, Task ID and Shareholder as the Directors are of the opinion that the expected future Reference Number will be required to complete this method profits and cash flows generated from the properties support of voting: these details are included on shareholders voting the net book values as at 31 December 2012. proxy cards.
To be valid, an electronic proxy must be received by no later than 48 hours before a general meeting.
Any Registrar shareholder having difficulty submitting their voting The address and contact details of Equiniti Limited, the instructions electronically should contact the Companys Companys Registrar, are listed on the inside back cover Registrars immediately.
Equiniti is the Companys single alternative inspection location, whereby individuals can inspect the A shareholder can lose his entitlement to vote at a general register of members.
Individual shareholders may view meeting where that shareholder has been served with a their personal shareholder information online, through disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company with the www.
information concerning interests in those shares.
Shareholders rights to transfer shares are subject to the Companys Articles Articles of Association of Association.
The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using Where class rights are varied, such amendments must be CREST and the Directors can refuse to register a transfer of an approved by the members of each class of share separately.
uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations governing the operation of CREST.
Hunting PLC Annual Report 2012 38 Report of the Directors continued Significant Agreements all reasonable steps necessary in order to make himself aware The Company is a party to a revolving credit facility in which of any relevant audit information and to establish that the the counterparties can determine whether or not to cancel Groups auditors are aware of that information.
This the agreement where there has been a change of control of confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance the Company.
with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
The service agreements of the executive Directors include Going Concern provisions for compensation for loss of office or employment The Groups business activities, together with the factors as a result of a change of control.
Further details of the likely to affect its future development, performance and Directors service contracts can be found in the position are set out in the Chief Executives Review and the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 47 and 48.
Operating Review on pages 10 to 21.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position, borrowing Policy on the Payment of Creditors facilities and financial capital management are described on The Companys and Groups policy is to pay all creditors in pages 24 to 26 and the principal risks and uncertainties facing accordance with agreed terms of business.
The Company the business are described on pages 27 and 28.
The notes itself has no substantial trade payables.
The total amount of to the financial statements include the Groups objectives, Group trade payables falling due within one year at 31 policies and processes for managing its capital note 36, its December 2012 represents 41 days worth 2011 45 days, financial risk management objectives note 30, details of its as a proportion of the total amount invoiced by suppliers financial instruments note 29, hedging activities note 28 during the year ended on that date.
and sensitivity analysis note 31 and its exposures tocredit risk and liquidity risk note 30.
Statement of Disclosure of Information to Auditors In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, all Directors in The Group has access to considerable financial resources office as at the date of this report have confirmed, so far as including a 375m committed bank facility.
The main they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which financial covenants note 36 attached to this facility are 1 the Groups auditors are unaware and each Director has taken EBITDA should not be less than four times net finance Substantial Interests As at 31 December 2012, pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Directive, issued by the Financial Services Authority, the major shareholders of the Company are as follows: Percentage Number of of issued Ordinary Ordinary Notes shares shares AXA group of companies v 15,002,781 10.2 Hunting Investments Limited i iv 10,884,743 7.4 Threadneedle Asset Management 8,985,167 6.1 M&G Investment Management vi 8,944,131 6.1 Mirabaud Investment Management 8,123,430 5.5 BlackRock group of companies vii 6,745,747 4.6 Slaley Investments Limited 6,411,679 4.4 F Godson as trustee ii viii 5,861,575 4.0 Legal & General Investment Management 4,852,848 3.3 Standard Life Investments 3,877,605 2.6 JA Trafford as trustee ii viii 3,680,686 2.5 Norges Bank Investment Managers 3,457,059 2.4 Cooperative Insurance Society 3,319,647 2.3 Royal London Asset Management 3,071,984 2.1 David RL Hunting 199,910 0.1 as trustee ii 2,549,117 1.7 other beneficial iii 2,484,583 1.7 Notes i.
Included in this holding are 9,437,743 Ordinary shares held by Huntridge Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Hunting Investments Limited.
Neither of these companies is owned by Hunting PLC either directly or indirectly.
After elimination of duplicate holdings, the total Hunting family trustee interests shown above amount to 6,165,269 Ordinary shares.
Arise because David RL Hunting and his children are or could become beneficiaries under the relevant family trusts of which David RL Hunting is a trustee.
Richard H Hunting and David RL Hunting are both directors of Hunting Investments Limited.
v. On 21 February 2013, AXA group of companies notified the Company that it had increased its shareholding to 17,016,457 Ordinary shares, representing 11.6% of the issued share capital.
On 7 February 2013, M&G Investment Management disclosed to the Company that its total shareholding had decreased to 8,388,201 Ordinary shares representing 5.7% of the issued share capital.
On 21 February 2013, M&G Investment Management informed the Company that their holding had reduced to below 5% of the issued share capital.
On 22 February 2013, BlackRock group of companies disclosed to the Company that its total shareholding had increased to 7,875,629, representing 5.4% of the issued share capital.
On 5 March 2013, the Company was informed that, in their roles as trustees, Messrs Godsons and Traffords interest in the Companys Ordinary shares had reduced by 18,900 shares.
Company Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Hunting PLC Annual Report 2012 39 charges, and 2 net debt should be no more than three-anda-half times adjusted EBITDA.
In accordance with the terms of the facility agreement, the net debt covenant ratio changes to three times EBITDA in 2013.
EBITDA, for covenant test purposes, is based on the previous rolling twelve month period, measured twice yearly at 30 June and 31 December.
The Group has a broad range of products and services and a diverse, global customer and supplier base and meets its day-to-day working capital requirements through its cash and debt facilities.
The Group continues to have limited exposure to the Euro zone or other regions that are perceived as high risk or exposed to the direct impact of austerity measures.
The Group also retains limited exposure to credit risk as it has strong, well-developed relationships with its major customers and maintains insurance cover for 95% of its trade receivables.
The Groups results are exposed to currency risk, as a major portion of earnings is generated in several currencies, in particular the US dollar, prior to translation into sterling at the periods average exchange rate.
Movements in these rates do affect the Groups results and in response to this the currency impact on forecast results is monitored closely and certain derivatives are purchased to mitigate this risk.
The Groups forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group is well placed to manage its business successfully in the current economic climate.
Accordingly, the Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to meet the Groups operational requirements for the foreseeable future and consequently continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing these consolidated financial statements.
Auditors  LLP has indicated its willingness to continue in office as auditors.
A resolution to reappoint them as auditors to the Group will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 17 April 2013.
By Order of the Board Peter Rose Company Secretary 7 March 2013
