Hunting PLC Annual Report 2012 34 Board of Directors L-R John Nicholas, Peter Rose, Dennis Proctor, Richard Hunting, John Hofmeister and Andrew Szescila.
Board Subcommittee Membership Audit Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Executive Directors Dennis Proctor Peter Rose Non-executive Directors Richard Hunting John Hofmeister John Nicholas Andrew Szescila Company Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Hunting PLC Annual Report 2012 35 Richard Hunting C. B. E. John Hofmeister Non-executive Chairman Non-executive Director Was elected an executive Director and Was appointed a non-executive Deputy Chairman on the formation Director in 2009 and appointed the of Hunting PLC in 1989 and has been senior independent director of the Chairman of the Board since 1991.
A US citizen resident In 2011, Mr Hunting moved from an in Houston, Texas.
He is the founder executive to a non-executive role.
and chief executive officer of the Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Washington D. C. registered not-for-profit He is a non-executive director of the Citizens for Affordable Energy Inc, and a Royal Brompton & Harefield NHS non-executive director of US quoted Foundation Trust.
Lufkin Industries Inc and Camac Energy Inc.
He is the former President of Shell Dennis Proctor Oil Company and a former Group Chief Executive Director of Royal Dutch Shell PLC in Was appointed a Director in 2000 and The Hague, Netherlands.
He was chief executive of Hunting Energy Services John Nicholas from March 2000 after joining the Group Non-executive Director in 1993.
He is a US citizen based in Was appointed a non-executive Director Houston, Texas and has held senior in 2009 and is chairman of the Audit positions in the oil services industry in Committee.
He is a Fellow of the Europe, Middle East and North America.
Association of Chartered Certified Accountants and is a member of the UK Peter Rose Financial Reporting Review Panel.
He is Finance Director currently a non-executive director of Was appointed to the Board as Rotork PLC and Mondi plc.
He was Finance Director in 2008.
A Chartered formerly the Group Finance Director of Accountant, he joined Hunting PLC Tate & Lyle plc and prior to that Group in 1997 prior to which he held senior Finance Director of Kidde plc.
financial positions with Babcock International.
Andrew Szescila Non-executive Director Was appointed a non-executive Director in 2011 and is chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
A US citizen resident in Destin, Florida.
He is currently a non-executive director of UK quoted Frontera Resources Corporation.
He was formerly the Chief Operating Officer of Baker Hughes Inc.
