Hunting PLC Annual Report 2012 08 Growing our Global Presence North America The engineering hub for the development and testing of new technologies and techniques such as those used to access the shale plays.
Leveraging the benefits of an extensive field network through the cross selling of products and the concentration of manufacturing services for both onshore and 25 offshore energy industries.
service and distribution points Extending and integrating 66 facilities our reach Hunting Energy Services We aim to grow market share through our has significantly broadened expanding manufacturing and distribution its product offering and network around the world where new developed its international demand has been identified.
manufacturing presence through regional hubs.
Dennis Proctor, Chief Executive Company Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Hunting PLC Annual Report 2012 09 Europe and Central Asia Engineering services and manufacturing brought together to provide a focused presence for high specification machining.
State of the art pipe management facility with high volume threading capability servicing the expanded deep sea Asia Pacific and continental footprints.
Expansion of regional manufacturing base to incorporate new products and underpin existing capability with continued enlargement of existing facilities and development of new opportunities to meet local demand.
Co-location of central services in a regional hub.
Middle East and North Africa A regrouping of business streams into one area with a regional focus for high end services brought together in a single regional facility.
This brings a new impetus to bring products to mature and frontier projects.
41 manufacturing centres As new products are added to the Coiled tubing tools and pressure control These actions will facilitate new revenue inventory, steps have been taken to equipment have been integrated beyond opportunities and cost efficiencies as integrate and expand the local presence in their original acquisition sites to be the Group develops its offering from a tailored and targeted fashion.
Perforating replicated in regional centres within North established to new growth markets.
products are now manufactured at America and Asia Pacific.
Improved Underpinning these strategic objectives facilities in Canada while regional manufacturing efficiencies have been is the commitment to manufacture and warehousing has been established made and Lean Manufacturing principles deliver quality assured products with a throughout the Groups existing global embedded across our facilities to enhance reputation for total customer satisfaction presence.
This allows for an immediate the Groups competitive position.
