Directors and Advisers Geoff Shingles CBE, BSc Hons, FIEE, FBCS, Chairman Geoff was, until April 1994, Executive Chairman of Digital Equipment Co. Limited, where he served for 29 years.
While at Digital, he worked both in the US and Continental Europe.
He joined the Imagination Technologies board in 1994 becoming Chairman in 1996.
He is Non-Executive Chairman of Sarantel Group Plc and is also a Non-Executive Director of a number of private companies.
Hossein Yassaie PhD, Chief Executive officer After attaining his PhD, Hossein was a research fellow at the University of Birmingham.
He then joined STMicroelectronics Inmos, where he spent eight years, ultimately becoming responsible for the system divisions, including research and development, manufacturing and marketing.
After joining Imagination in 1992 as Technical Director, Hossein refocused the business on advanced technology development and created Imaginations successful silicon IP business model.
He became Chief Executive officer in June 1998.
Richard Smith MBA, MA, FCA, Chief Financial officer Richard holds an MBA from Henley Business School, is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and has an MA in Economics from Cambridge University.
His early career included positions with Porsche Cars and .
Richard has worked in a number of privately held technology businesses as CFO, and prior to that held senior financial roles at Vodafone.
Richard joined Imagination Technologies in May 2011 and was appointed to the Board as Chief Financial officer on 1 July 2011.
31 Ian Pearson Dip Tech Hons, C. Eng, FIEE, Non-Executive Director Ian has over 30 years experience with companies specializing in semiconductor design, manufacturing and management, with director level responsibilities.
These companies include Inmos and SGS Thompson.
He joined the board as NonExecutive Director in 1998.
He is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and serves on the Audit Committee.
Ian is the senior Non-Executive Director.
David Hurst-Brown BSc Hons, FSI, Non-Executive Director David worked for most of his career in the securities industry.
In 2002 he left UBS, where, for more than 10 years he had worked in Corporate Finance as adviser to a wide range of companies.
David now works mainly as a consultant and his NonExecutive Directorships include Anite plc and Ffastll plc.
He joined the board of Imagination Technologies as a Non-Executive Director in September 2000.
He is a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
David Anderson MA, Non-Executive Director David has 27 years investment banking experience including 17 years at Lazard and six years at JP Morgan Cazenove.
He joined the board of Imagination Technologies as a Non-Executive Director in November 2010.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Gilles Delfassy Non-Executive Director Gilles is a highly experienced and respected international gure in the semiconductor and mobile wireless industry with 35 years of highly relevant experience, including almost 30 years at Texas Instruments, Inc TI.
He was a key pioneer and driving force behind the mobile wireless initiative within TI, which helped to shape the industry.
Imagination Technologies Group plc Registered number Solicitors 2920061 Olswang Secretary A Llewellyn Financial advisers and Registrars stockbrokers Equiniti Registered Ofce J. P. Morgan Cazenove Imagination House, Home Park Estate Bankers Kings Langley, Hertfordshire WD4 8LZ Auditors HSBC Bank plc KPMG Audit Plc 32
