Directors Report The Directors submit their Annual Report and audited Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2012.
P Principal Activities and Operations The principal activities of the Group are to create and license market-leading processor solutions for graphics, video, display, embedded processing, multi-standard communications and connectivity, and cross-platform Video and Voice over IP.
These silicon and software intellectual property IP solutions for system-on-chip SoC are complemented by an extensive portfolio of software drivers, developer tools and extensive market and technology-focused ecosystems.
The target markets include mobile phone, handheld multimedia devices, connected home consumer, mobile and tablet computing, incar electronics, telecoms, health, smart energy and connected sensors and controllers.
The Groups licensees include many of the worlds leading semiconductor, network operator and electronics OEM ODM companies.
The Group has two divisions.
The Technology division is a semiconductor, software and cloud IP licensing business which provides market-leading multimedia and communications capabilities for complex SoC devices.
The Pure division designs and manufactures innovative consumer products, using Imagination's technologies as a key differentiator alongside high quality product design.
Review of Business The value and relevance of the Groups technologies is reflected in Imaginations continued strong growth despite the continuing challenges to the global economic environment.
The full year saw excellent financial and strategic progress for the Technology business, with strong chip volume and royalty growth and a very active licensing period.
The Group successfully closed a number of important licensing deals and secured many new partners.
This resulted in a significant jump in operating profit for the Technology business.
The Pure business continued to be constrained in the short-term by the general economic pressure on consumer spending.
This was particularly evident in the UK market, although stronger overseas sales helped to generate an overall increase in Pures revenue.
It is also important to note that Pure, in its own right, is making very valuable contributions to the development of fundamental intellectual property that are critical for key aspects of the Groups future strategies.
Cash resources, which have increased to 66.3m from 49.4m, are adequate for the Groups future needs.
A more detailed assessment of the Companys position and future prospects has been included in the Chief Executives Review.
This incorporates any significant events since the year end.
Further details are included in pages 3 to 9 of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The profit before tax for the Group for the year ended 30 April 2012 was 28.5m.
There was a taxation charge of 8.1m which resulted in a net profit for the year of 20.5m.
Full details are set out in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 51.
The Directors do not propose the payment of a dividend 2011: Nil.
The key performance indicators used in the business are summarised below.
The performance of the business in the terms of these indicators is considered in the Chief Executives Review in pages 3 to 9 of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Year to Year to 30 April 2012 30 April 2011 % Technology business Licensing Revenue 34.4m 28.5m 21% Partner Chip Design Wins 136 115 18% Partner Chips Shipping 60 48 25% Partner Chips Shipped units 325m 245m 33% Royalty Revenue 63.8m 41.3m 54% Pure business Revenue 29.3m 28.3m 4% Adjusted operating loss 2.9m 2.8m Group Revenue 127.5m 98.0m 30% Gross Profit 106.5m 77.3m 38% Adjusted Profit before taxation 36.8m 24.0m 53% Profit before taxation 28.5m 16.4m 74% Cash and cash equivalents 66.3m 49.4m 34% The reconciliation from reported profit to adjusted profit is set out in note 2.
33 P Principal Risks and Uncertainties There are a number of risks and uncertainties which could impact the Groups performance.
The Group has a risk management structure in place which is designed to identify, manage and mitigate business risk.
The relevant structures are more fully described in the Groups internal control and risk management procedures in the Corporate Governance Report on page 38.
The Group has experienced, and may in the future experience, fluctuations in the results of its operations.
There are a number of factors that can affect the results.
For the Technology business, these include the timing of new licence agreements with partners and the timing and volume of products incorporating the Groups technology shipped by our partners.
The Group seeks to reduce this risk by both broadening the number of partners who utilize the Groups technology as well as widening the number of market segments that are targeted by the Groups partners.
For the Pure business, these factors also include the rate of adoption of digital radio technologies worldwide and the continuation of the supply of products from Chinese manufacturers.
The Group has mitigated the latter by spreading the manufacture of the Groups products across a number of manufacturers in order to reduce the reliance on any one manufacturer.
The Group operates in fast moving competitive marketplaces characterized by rapid changes in technology.
The Groups result will be impacted by the introduction of new technologies and products by the Group and by the Groups competitors as they respond to these changes in technology.
In order to mitigate risk, the Group holds detailed dialogue with existing partners, as well as systems companies and industry bodies, in order to align its future products with advances in technology and market requirements.
As a technology business, the development and ownership of intellectual property is fundamental to the Groups performance.
Whilst the Group relies on patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property laws to establish and protect its proprietary rights, it cannot be certain that its proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or used without the Groups authorization.
The Group mitigates the risk by filing patents, trademarks and registered designs as appropriate to protect its intellectual property and through monitoring technologies promoted by third parties.
The Group transacts licence and development agreements with customers and purchases of products for Pure primarily in US dollars and, therefore, the Groups earnings are exposed to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
The Group reviews its foreign exchange exposure on a regular basis and, where there is a material exposure to exchange rate fluctuations and the Board considers it appropriate, the Group may reduce the risk by currency hedging on net receivable payable balances.
The Groups performance is also subject to external macro-economic conditions.
Changes in factors such as government debt levels, interest rates, inflation, unemployment and commodity prices can create uncertainty in the Groups markets and affect consumer spending.
This may result in the Groups customers and potential customers delaying the placing of orders with the Group and or the reduced shipment of products incorporating the Groups technology.
In turn, both of these would adversely affect the Groups result.
Future Developments The Group intends to continue to develop its range of graphics, video, display, processing and communication technologies for use in SoC devices.
The Group will market these technologies to existing and new customers with a view to entering into commercial agreements for customers to incorporate the Groups technology in their SoC devices.
The Pure business will continue to develop additional products using the Groups digital radio technology and internet connectivity streaming audio technology.
These products will be marketed to existing customers in the UK, and increasingly to overseas customers as digital radio markets emerge worldwide.
Research and Development The Group spent 59,633,000 2011: 44,696,000 on research and development and advanced technology projects.
Donations During the year the Group made donations for charitable purposes of 3,785 2011: 1,209.
There were no political donations during the year 2011: Nil.
The Parent Company made no donations in the current year 2011: Nil.
Purchase of own shares At the AGM in 2011, shareholders granted the Company the authority to purchase, in the market, its own shares.
During the year the Company did not undertake to purchase any of its own shares in the market place.
At the AGM in 2012, the Directors will be presenting and proposing similar authority to shareholders.
Directors during the Year G S Shingles, H Yassaie, R A B Smith, T Selby, I R Pearson, D A Hurst-Brown and D Anderson served as Directors during the year.
G Delfassy was appointed a Non-Executive Director of the Company on 1 June 2012.
Election and re-election of Directors In line with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code each Director will be standing for re-election at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 14 September 2012.
Trevor Selby left the Board on 1 July 2011 and Richard Smith was appointed as a Director and replaced him as Chief Financial Officer on that date.
Executive Directors service agreements are contracts of employment with a rolling notice period of less than one year.
Non-Executive Directors do not have any unexpired notice periods in their contracts.
34 The terms and conditions of appointment of Directors are available for inspection at the companys registered office and at the AGM.
The disclosable interests of Directors at 30 April 2012 including holdings, if any, of wives and children aged under 18 were as detailed in the Remuneration Report on page 45 and they remain unchanged as at 18 June 2012.
Details of incentive awards to Directors are shown in the Remuneration Report on page 45.
Corporate Governance The Corporate Governance statement on pages 38 to 41 forms part of the Directors Report.
Disclosure of information to auditors The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Share Capital The Companys share capital consists of ordinary shares with a par value of 10 pence each and there were 264,246,455 ordinary shares in issue as at 30 April 2012.
The rights attached to ordinary shares are as follows: 1.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company, and 2.
Shareholders are entitled to a dividend where declared.
There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than certain restrictions imposed by laws, regulations and Listing Rules.
There are no persons holding securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreement between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Substantial Interests As at 7 June 2012 the Company had been notified or was aware that the following had direct or indirect interests in 3% or more of the share capital of the Company: Ordinary Shares of 10p Percentage in the Company Holding Intel Capital Corporation 38,396,664 14.5% M&G Investment Management 25,628,416 9.7% Apple Inc 23,047,770 8.7% AXA Financial SA 22,694,557 8.6% Legal & General Investment Management 8,183,362 3.1% Going Concern Basis As set out in Basis of Preparation in note 1, the Group continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Qualifying Indemnity Provision The Companys Articles of Association has a qualifying indemnity provision.
The Company has in place insurance cover for its Directors and Officers with a cover limit of 10,000,000 throughout the year.
Change of Control The Companys share based incentive plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
The outstanding long-term incentive plans, share awards and performance share award to the CEO and the performance share award to the CFO would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control of the Company, subject to the satisfaction of the performance targets.
Employee Involvement The Group acknowledges the importance and contribution of its employees.
There is considerable value placed on the involvement of employees in the development of the business and their participation in the decision making process.
This is encouraged by the open environment in the Group and through the delegation of responsibility throughout the business.
Presentations are made to all staff on a regular basis to encourage a full understanding of the Groups performance, strategy, vision and operational developments.
All employees usually receive share awards on a bi-annual basis and are invited to participate in the SAYE scheme every year.
A number of employees have become shareholders thereby encouraging employee share ownership.
The Group is committed to the principle of equal opportunity in employment and to ensure that no applicant or employee receives less favourable treatment on the grounds of age, gender, disability, ethnic origin, political or other opinion, religion or sexual orientation.
We have an international workforce employing more than 20 nationalities from around the world in the UK and we have offices in India, Japan, China, Taiwan, Korea, USA, Poland, Italy, France, Germany and Australia.
35 Disability is not seen as an inhibitor to employment or career development.
Employees who become disabled are, wherever possible, given assistance to continue in their existing employment or to be trained for other positions.
Corporate Social Responsibility Statements Information relating to employees, shareholders, graduate recruitment, scholarship sponsorship, charitable work in the local community and environment are provided in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 38 to 41.
Significant Relationships The Group does not have any contractual or other relationships with any single party which are essential to the business of the Group and therefore no such relationships have been disclosed.
Creditor Payment Policy It is Group policy to agree payment terms with suppliers when negotiating contracts or transactions.
The Group ensures that, subject to any necessary variations which may result from supplier-related problems, the agreed payment terms are adhered to.
The number of days billings from suppliers outstanding to the Group at 30 April 2012 was 43 2011: 39 days.
The Parent Company is purely a holding Company with investments and does not have trade creditors.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Reportand the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors Responsibility Statement The Directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
36 Auditors A resolution is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company.
Annual General Meeting AGM The AGM will be held at 11.00 a. m. on 14 September 2012 at Imagination House, Home Park Estate, Kings Langley, Hertfordshire WD4 8LZ.
Business to be transacted at the Meeting is set out in full in the Notice of the AGM.
After the AGM, the Company will publish on its website the proxy votes cast in respect of each resolution voted on at the AGM.
By order of the Board A. Llewellyn Secretary 18 June 2012 Company Number: 2920061 37
