Understanding Imagination Who are we?
Imagination was established in the interoperability of our VoIP 1985 in Britain and has a long technology: and the streamlined history as an IP provider, with approach to handling high-realism partners amongst the worlds images in our Caustic Professional top-20 semiconductor and OEM and PowerVR ray tracing.
We license fundamental multimedia, communications and Imagination processor technologies and receive is different a royalty when products using those We have worked alongside some of the technologies ship into the market.
biggest semiconductor companies in the world and seen first hand how our Our job is to customers respond to our business add smartness model, which puts partnership and the to things mutual goal of volume shipment first, vs. the industry norms.
Imagination is more than a semiconductor IP company.
Our focus Imagination is focused on systems is increasingly on solutions, and that and solutions and takes the initiative to includes the extensive software and get inside how consumers think about infrastructure required for enabling and experience new technology.
understand market needs and work to drive markets in positive directions.
We Each of our core technologies is built think beyond the expected, using our on a smart-innovation.
These include imagination to visualise a better future.
#1 in the tile-based deferred rendering TBDR of PowerVR graphics: the One of our core beliefs is that digital efficient combination of xed and everything is possible.
recongurable elements in PowerVR radio video: the fully programmable heart of our Ensigma connectivity and communications core: the multithreading of our Meta processors: 12 #1 GPU for smartphones We are delighted to be one of the Imagination is springboards from which so much honoured to work innovation, change and delight has come.
with the best We constantly hear from our staff that Our partners include the best they are meeting with people whether companies in the semiconductor, strangers, family or friends whose electronics and consumer spheres.
lives have been changed by products They have created some of the most from our customers with Imagination iconic and culturally important products st inside.
The impact of our partnerships of the 21 century.
is a major motivation and source of We are proud to contribute satisfaction for each of us.
technologies which satisfy the creativity, attention to detail, and aspirations of some of the brightest stars of engineering, software development and innovative business.
#1 in mobile video 13 Communications Graphics GPU Compute Video Display Processor Imagination creates IP for every major function in todays SoCs Imagination customers create highly differentiated products using our technologies Consumer-centric companies are different power, performance and cost increasingly focused on delivering metrics, or design in to a wide variety complete application platforms which of processes and architectures.
include App Stores, Cloud content Our business is not just about our and more.
A consistent hardware ability to deliver proven and welland software platform based on supported IP today.
It is fundamentally our technologies makes it possible driven by our capability to create a to ensure the best environment roadmap of future technologies that for delivering rich multimedia accurately anticipates the requirements content to consumers, thanks to of tomorrows consumers and captures our thriving ecosystem of industrythe support and increasing involvement leading applications and middleware of our partners.
We have partnerships with the Our partners are amongst the best strongest suppliers in the markets we companies in electronics and the target and many of our partners now decisions they make about how to use ship products using our technology into our fully exible and synthesizable IP multiple markets.
help them to create solutions tailored Combined with our compelling IP for their customers and markets.
roadmaps, which are the cornerstone While our customers use the same of Imaginations on-going leadership, fundamental technologies, our these partnerships will continue to take whole range is designed to enable us forward to higher volumes and new differentiation, whether by using market areas.
differing API Application Programming Interfaces and OS Operating Systems, selecting parts optimized for 14 Our business is not built on achieving Partnership is the highest number of partners, but a core value of rather working closely with the very best in the industry and keeping in step Imagination with their long-term strategies.
These Each of our major IP families contains partners recognize that Imagination is innovations and capabilities that attract a leader in the market and value their world-leading partners, not only as engagement with us.
customers, but also as allies in the development of new markets, open A British company standards and opportunities.
with a world We have several main types of partner: outlook s IP core licensees, who are our main customers We have over 40 nationalities working at Imagination across our divisions, in s Industry partners, who include nearly 20 countries.
This year we have the alliances and organizations expanded into new countries, such as which help set the pace for Poland, and grew our teams in every technology change territory where we operate, with the s Technology partners, representing biggest growth in the UK.
the most innovative and successful Imagination has over 1,200 employees technology businesses and the majority are engineers s Branded consumer electronics around 80%.
manufacturers, including some of the We hold The Queens award for worlds most recognized OEMs Enterprise in the International Trade s Software developers, who engage category, the fifth Queens award we with us to benefit from our expertise have won.
and industry contacts This year we have run successful s Silicon industry partners, such as events with our partners around the engineering services, EDA Electronic world, including Korea, Japan, Taiwan, Design Automation companies and the USA, Poland, China, the UAE and silicon foundries, to ensure our IP of course the UK.
is ready for deployment in the Imagination has delivered on a strategy latest processes of innovation and diversication that 15 Headquarters UK Support Technology UK Europe, US, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and China R&D Sales Technology Technology UK, US, Poland, India, UK Europe, US, Japan, Australia and New Zealand South Korea, Taiwan and China Pure Pure UK, India and China UK, Australia, France, Italy, Germany, Finland and US has created a globally recognized Our Meta CPU processors have technology company.
Thanks to the shipped over 300m units.
In part this long and deep relationships we have is because they are the glue in many with our licensees, strategic partners of our video and communications and our shareholders, we believe solutions, though we are now seeing the lives of hundreds of millions of Meta being used on its own.
Our consumers around the world are being PowerVR Series6 graphics IP also enriched by Imagination.
We expect Meta to take off even further as we introduce both higher performance applications We expect our processor cores and connected partners to ship Imagination technology conference in Taiwan processor cores into the market soon.
co-sponsored by TSMC 1 billion units per Our Ensigma technologies have year by 2016 shipped in tens of millions of devices.
With strong tier one licensees gained At the time of writing Imagination IP for Ensigma this year we expect has shipped in over 800m devices, its volumes to grow notably as the cumulatively, with 325m of those market accepts the requirement shipping in the last year.
for its innovative approach to Many of those devices contain more communications.
than one of our technologies.
If you We know many people still think of break our technologies down by Imagination as that graphics company the number shipped youd nd that but the number and types of IP cores PowerVR graphics has shipped in over shipped is showing that our other 700m devices, making it our most technologies for video, connectivity, widely implemented technology.
communications and processing are all However today nearly half of our achieving strong unit volumes as well volume shipments annually contain our as success commensurate to the time video or display IP which has shipped theyve been in the market compared over 300m units to date, in many cases to our GPUs Graphics Processing alongside our graphics technology.
We have also acquired and Wed expect this, as video is a key developed new technologies that will technology for camera, phone and extend the range of markets we TV applications, and also our second can address.
16 There are four screens around which our lives are centred Increasingly consumer electronics CE We are already preparing to deploy our devices have to deliver the internet, IP into those new segments via both computing, TV, music, navigation and new and existing partners.
The biggest We focus on the four screens, which define the primary gateways changes can be for consumers to interact with their the hardest to spot connected world: mobile phones, We look for emerging markets, or ones mobile computers, home consumer in which discontinuities, or significant electronics and in-car.
It is vital that changes, are creating opportunities any app or service provider delivers a for disruptive new technologies and consistent converged experience to its technology providers.
We create customers when they move between exceptional technologies to exploit these devices, with particular focus those opportunities.
on multimedia and connectivity technology domains where While our technologies can be found Imagination excels.
in a wide variety of different product form factors, the markets we are The four screens represent already engaged in can be broadly classied well known segments.
But the into six categories: mobile phone segments are all still evolving: each of multimedia, handheld multimedia, them is increasingly getting smarter home electronics, mobile computing, and more connected.
In order to enable that connectivity, and Increasingly, consumers expect to to enable other new, more fragmented, be able to access the broad range of markets like healthcare and security, media and features they use every day we have developed an approach that no matter what device they are using.
combines our hardware processors This convergence means that the six with our software offerings, such as categories increasingly share common V. VoIP and Flow, to enable exible requirements.
Our common IP across and highly extendable solutions which all markets enables us to drive and ride will help our partners create both the convergence trend.
connected devices and enabling services.
17 Mobile Phone Mobile Computing Home Electronics Handheld Multimedia Automotive Emerging Markets 18 Future 4K TVs will show much more than TV Over 70% of internet trafc is people watching video And thats just the tip of the iceberg leading supplier in this market, where when it comes to the importance we already have around ten times the of video.
volume of our closest IP competitor.
Streaming, Ultra-HD 4Kx2K displays, Graphics, video OLED screens with 10-bit colour capabilities, wireless displays, over the and memory top services like Netix, smart TVs and have integrated the new high-efficiency video codec into the SoC: HEVC will drive new opportunities and challenges into the video communications technology market.
technology is next Imagination is at the forefront of video The TV market is lled with numerous technology, debuting unique features broadcast standards.
For consumers like 10-bit colour support and being this matters little, as the standards one of the first to adopt technologies are geographical and most of us only that will create new applications encounter a handful, such as the and markets.
DVB-T, DVB-T2, DVB-S, DVB-S2 and Stereoscopic 3D video has been a DVB-C used in the UK, or ISDB-T, disappointment to the industry, with ISDB-C, and ISDB-S in Japan.
This is driving However for manufacturers of TV SoCs suppliers to already look for new, more Systems on Chip the proliferation consumer engaging technologies, such of standards is a major headache, as 4K video, surface TVs where HD requiring the creation of dozens of video and apps are side by side on chips to cover all world markets, screen, and more realistic colour.
at a cost of several million dollars per Imaginations video solutions provide chip design.
the full range of technologies required Imagination has successfully developed for this market, including display a multi-standard baseband solution for enhancement technologies such this market space over the last decade.
Our new Notably this technology is one of the multi-processor solutions for video will major analog and digital radio receiver further establish Imagination as the technologies deployed worldwide.
19 Analogue Digital 1st Gen Digital 2nd Gen Digital 3rd Gen HD Converged Global PAL DVB-T or DVB-T DVB-Tn ISDB-T 1 3 13 DVB-S or DVB-T2 DVB-Sn GB20600 DVB-C DVB-S DVB-Cn Wireless HDM DVB-S2 DVB-Hn Wi-Fi ATSC M H FM AM DAB FM Plus: XM Sirius DAB FM ISDB-Tmm DAB DAB DAB Wi-Fi DMB-R HDRadio Ethernet Plus: NFC Ethernet 10 100 UWB 1G 10G Wi-Fi WiMax Powerline TACS GSM GSM Plus: PHS 3G 2G GSM Bluetooth LTE 3G LTE 4G Wi-Fi VoIP CDMA Bluetooth TD-SCDMA Ensigma is the only production IP solution with more than 20 standards Our Ensigma UCCP IP platform is an capability higher.
For example the rise RPU Radio Processing Unit which of digital dashboards and rear-seat includes digital TV, digital and FM entertainment units in cars, larger or radio, Bluetooth and Wi-Fi all on one multiple-screen displays in gaming, and programmable engine.
HD output even on mobile devices with sub-HD screens.
With around 30 standards now supported Ensigma is a compelling PowerVRs combination of wide technology, which this year has moved API and OS support, a exible from being a favoured technology of programmable architecture, and unique innovative start-ups to being licensed tile-based deferred pixel shading by tier one semiconductor companies.
technology, which only draws the visible parts of scenes to deliver the The next stage of evolution for this highest performance per mW has technology will come as the RPU is made it the choice of the mobile and integrated within SoC, a trend we embedded world.
think is inevitable for reasons of cost, efficiency and power.
Imaginations PowerVR graphics has a leading market share in the rapidly expanding mobile embedded graphics High pixel growth market and is very well positioned to rate demands remain the leading technology as the GPUs to be more market grows.
powerful than ever New generation PowerVR Series6 Rogue products use the next As screens move into the era of generation of tile-based deferred pixel-dense displays, where the pixels shading as well as increased compute cannot be made out with the naked density and parameter and frame eye, and graphical user interfaces buffer compression technology to take GUIs expand to take advantage of this performance to a new level.
visual real estate, systems need higher pixel processing capabilities.
PowerVR partners are already enjoying Series6 parts in their labs and Across mobile devices, automobiles, developing the products which, in due computing, gaming and other products course, will once again raise the bar for we are seeing developing trends mobile and embedded graphics.
that push the requirements for GPU 20 that the others are not architecturally GPUs are growing suited for.
This is a heterogeneous as part of the SoC processing architecture.
The current era of dual and quad core The best example of this is GPU CPU designs represents a sweet spot compute, where the central processing for CPU multi-core scalability.
Beyond unit CPU simply cannot cope with the two or four cores CPUs scale poorly large amount of parallel data it needs due to their inherently sequential to process.
Intrinsically a sequential nature and applications designed for design, this type of CPU processor is CPUs seldom use their multi-core better suited for control and scheduling capability effectively.
This is why the GPU, a true Photorealistic graphics with physics by GPU compute parallel engine, has to step in when In contrast, GPUs have better intensive data processing tasks are scalability due to their parallel tackled.
The same concept applies processing design.
Indeed, PowerVR for other processors that a typical GPUs can deliver up to 95% linear SoC might include, such as VPUs performance growth for key compute video processing units and RPUs applications as you add cores.
GPUs are using more and more of the We are optimistic about future overall area of the leading SoC designs, developments in optimally combining year on year.
This trend favours CPU, GPU and other processors in Imagination, whose design philosophy heterogeneous computing architectures.
has always been heterogeneous and which has the strongest GPU range Imagination is a founder member of the for SoC.
HSA Foundation with partners AMD, ARM, MediaTek, Texas Instruments Heterogeneous and Samsung to create standard APIs and tools, accelerating cross-platform processing and cross-operating heterogeneous unleashes full computing applications, which will GPU potential drive the next set of opportunities for SoC designers.
Heterogeneous means diverse in character.
Here at Imagination weve always felt that a SoC should be a collection of diverse processors in a peer-based system where each of them can accomplish certain tasks 21 Now Future Computer Healthcare Security Phone We need connected Home solutions for everything!
Automation Meta Ensigma HelloSoft Other Toys TV Radio Industrial Everything Car Imagination is The success of connecting people our technologies to the things that naturally gives rise matter to ecosystems Imagination seeks to drive and ride As use of our portfolio of IP key trends.
technologies grows we are continually expanding our ecosystems and Our technologies are designed in step strategic partnership programmes, with our vision of how wider technology making them ever more valuable, trends are transforming society.
We were one of the first to spot the These ecosystems consist of role mobile devices would play in our companies that create software or culture and we are an early supporter hardware using our IP, or create of how connectivity will transform devices with our IP inside.
Our ecosystem programmes provide More and more devices are requiring our licensees and partners with to connect to the internet across every everything they need to ensure success category of consumer entertainment and time to market.
and productivity product, as well as an emerging array of broader products Because our technologies lead, key Connecting people to the things that matter from consumer healthcare equipment applications are developed first and to home automation systems.
foremost for our technology with ports to other platforms coming much later, Imaginations Flow technologies, if at all.
HelloSoft communication software and Meta connected processors are We have continued to expand our helping to create this connected world ecosystem programmes, to help and drive the new connected products Imaginations licensees and key that will transform markets like smart partners meet and engage with a energy, security, healthcare, personal broad community of developers, and industrial monitoring, white and middleware providers, foundries, EDA brown goods and more.
and tool vendors, and third party support teams and provide extensive co-marketing opportunities for product manufacturers, content developers and semiconductor companies.
22 many of the leading players in our If you are in a target markets and displacing our market without competitors.
competition, you Our philosophy in this area is simple.
We dont design to beat our are in the wrong competitors.
We design to deliver the market broad range of technologies required Even as the competitive landscape has by our customers to drive and change become more crowded, evaluations of markets.
our IP by partners against alternatives have consistently shown our Imagination is technological and quality advantages.
more than just The quality of our service and support, graphics the reliability of our performance claims and the veracity of our R&D further Graphics processor IP is Imaginations reinforce these advantages with repeat core technology.
In the early 2000s business from many of our licensees.
when we first said we would focus on mobile graphics the market was While other IP companies compete sceptical about on-chip GPUs, but now with us it remains the internal design this technology is widely accepted, capability of our customers that is conrming our vision.
As such we must ensure that our IP offers benets Now Imagination can provide a wide to our customers that far outweigh range of SoC IP solutions.
any advantages they could achieve by By providing innovative technologies designing in-house.
across all the fundamental building Imaginations consistent strength blocks of modern SoCs Imagination remains our ability to offer our can develop deeper relationships exceptional performance, power with our partners and leverage the consumption and functionality synergies in modern heterogeneous advantages in every one of the IP cores SoC designs.
By providing core technology not just We have demonstrated our ability to for graphics but also video, display, be very robust and highly competitive communications and connectivity in increasingly dynamic IP markets, Imagination can be a one stop shop winning key design slots with for our partners.
23 major differentiator, from drivers and Entanglement is reference code right through to our the future HelloSoft software platforms and beyond to key software technologies, All mainstream consumer electronics such as Flow, which enables next products, including TVs, radios, generation cloud services.
cameras, printers and more will ultimately be connected to the internet and to each other.
Our goal is to This revolution will reach far beyond get our partners these traditional consumer devices shipping in volume into products as diverse as security Imaginations customers include the monitors, instrumentation, white goods, worlds most successful semiconductor toys and much more.
and consumer electronics companies, We provide a unique range of cloudas well as smaller innovative companies based technologies and services who are leaders in their markets.
specifically designed to meet the needs We are intensely relationship focused, of consumer and embedded product working closely with our partners designers, with much more to come.
to help them get successfully to Beyond this our connected processor market, shipping high volumes of IP is extremely small, low cost, and low advanced semiconductors containing power ideal characteristics to drive our technologies.
As a royalty based this key industry trend.
business, our partners success is our success.
Imagination is a The quality of support we offer our solutions company licensees both before and after licensing is a crucial differentiator of Despite being regarded as a hardware our business.
IP company, Imagination in fact has many more software engineers than As well as our core technologies we hardware engineers, reecting the have a number of important technology signicance of high quality software offerings that support our customers for our IP products.
designs and help them succeed.
Hardware does nothing without Codescape is our comprehensive suite software.
of development tools, which supports the advanced and unique features of Our extensive software capabilities Imaginations IP cores.
are a key part of our offering and a 24 Codescape already supports Beyond our direct licensees we heterogeneous multi-processor SoCs also work with a broad ecosystem making it a unique debug environment of developers whose energy is that works on all of the SoC, not increasingly focused on supporting just parts.
Imagination-based platforms as their top priority, with comprehensive tools, IMGworks is an SoC integration middleware and support as well as the support capability that we offer our most innovative and exciting content.
customers to help them deliver their SoC designs, totally focused on solving Imagination is the most difficult problems in specic and challenging areas of silicon design.
enabling the IMGworks offers the complete range of Things in The SoC integration, physical design, and Internet of Things custom development services.
Imagination is enabling ubiquitous We also have our Platform Services connectivity in all manner of embedded group which is dedicated to helping products across consumer, industrial customers accelerate time to market and enterprise segments.
Using our for their products by providing Flow technology it is possible for a wide software integration, customization and range of developers, large and small, to optimization services.
Together they prototype and deploy truly connected enable licensees to fully exploit our products and solutions.
Flow technology will enable the By working closely with EDA growth and acceleration of markets companies and foundries like TSMC, for products featuring connectivity IMGworks ensures our IP is ready to across an increasingly diverse range of be used in any design ow and at all applications such as home automation, process nodes.
security, entertainment, toys, and We only ship synthesizable IP that can healthcare.
be used at any silicon manufacture Just as we helped to revolutionize the process node, whether by companies use of graphics across the mobile and on the cutting edge of process embedded markets we intend to do development, or by smaller fabless the same for connected embedded companies using tried and trusted devices with Flow technology.
processes and aggressive cost engineering.
25 Imagination works Building a braining closely with up company market leaders As Sky News put it in a recent interview with Imagination CEO Hossein Yassaie, As you read the financial section of this building a braining up company is report you will see that Imagination has a challenge.
Our core markets are likely to grow by up to 300% by Education matters: getting talent 2016 which means that the success remains an issue and Imagination we have already achieved is just is putting strong resource into both the beginning.
Our shipped SoC volume, via our This year we have set up a global partners, last year was 325m units Imagination Academy programme across broad range of customers, to bring further management, markets and technologies.
As we technical, professional and personal move towards our target of 1 billion skills development to our staff, at all units annual shipments the width of levels.
The company wide Academy technologies and markets will programme will ensure our people increase further.
remain current in skills and innovative in viewpoint.
Imaginations wide range of partners are all very strong in their markets and Under the hood technology, built from together represent a competitive mix fundamental science, needs people that reduces the inherent risks of being who can develop not just evolutionary an IP supplier.
technologies but the innovative, unique, underlying technologies that enable Our strategy is to work with the best real change.
and to work with them closely over a number of years.
The majority of our If you know anyone who should work business is repeat business.
To that at Imagination, please tell them: we are end we are very closely involved with always hiring, but we are looking for our partners and satisfied that we have the best.
the best mix for on-going success.
