BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HIGHLIGHT RETAIL DISPENSE IMI Company: IMI Cornelius BEVERAGE DISPENSE Customer: Vivreau Location: UK Full year revenues in Beverage Dispense mix in the business, accelerating the were down 1% on both an organic and growth of higher margin new products reported basis.
The continued focus on and continuing to exit commoditised IMI Cornelius partnered with improving the quality of the business low margin product lines, like the UK Vivreau to develop a delivered a 9% increase in operating contract referenced above.
These low high performance profit to 45.0m and resulted in another margin exits reduced revenues by around hot cold and strong uplift in returns with an overall 2% and have resulted in an exit from sparkling bespoke operating margin for the year of 14.4% around 10% of the product portfolio over single-pour water 2011: 13.0%.
Operating margins in the the last three years.
This programme is dispenser with second half were ahead of the long held now largely complete, notwithstanding target of 15%.
the full year impact in 2013 of actions integrated touch sensing, taken partway through 2012. boiler and cooling The important Americas market ended electronics.
The tap the year at and we achieved a more We continue to focus our efforts on boasts a perfect ow of positive performance in continental delivering successful new products for water with zero splash and Europe.
We saw good growth in Asia our customers to meet their growing delivers consistent hot Pacic, with a particularly strong demand for innovative solutions to performance in China.
The most dispense health and wellness beverages water safely at the exact challenging market for Beverage such as smoothies, water, juice and temperature ideal for Dispense was in the UK where revenues frozen beverages and also a greater tea drinkers.
were signicantly below last year, variety and choice of drinks.
We are reecting in part the exit of a low margin working on several major new product contract at the half-year.
We have development opportunities which have recently taken actions to restructure the the potential to accelerate growth and UK business, reducing the cost base drive further margin improvement over and concentrating our efforts on a more the medium-term.
We were recently focused customer base.
Our parts awarded the contract to design and business, 3Wire, has continued to win manufacture the next generation of HIGHLIGHT new national food-service accounts in automated beverage dispensers to be North America.
sited in McDonalds drive-thru restaurants IMI Company: Artform on a global basis over the next few years.
During the year we remained focused on Customer: Coty improving the quality of the overall sales Location: UK Coty needed a fresh and impactful MERCHANDISING in-store display for Rimmel supported by further investment in Merchandising performed strongly cosmetics.
Artform created developing our In-Vision retail science throughout the year with revenues up an adaptable and unique laboratory which opened in the US in 8% on an organic basis.
In the summer merchandising design for effortless 2011. we commenced shipments for two shopping navigation and quick large multi-year contracts secured in our Segmental operating profits increased stock replenishment.
We have by 10% to 27.9m and operating margins also continued to perform well in the US at 15.2% were ahead of last year.
automotive sector where customers are As mentioned in the Chairman and upgrading their showrooms.
Chief Executives statement, with We continue to focus on higher value effect from January 2013 the beverage projects where we are able to leverage business of Display Technologies has our extensive consumer insight in our been transferred into Beverage Dispense target end-markets to deliver valuable and we are exploring options for the and compelling merchandising solutions divestment of the remainder of the for our customers.
This focus is being Merchandising business.
