BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIFFERENTIATED FLOW CONTROL TECHNOLOGIES For over forty years we have been at the forefront of ow control technology.
We combine technical expertise, application know-how and innovative custom designed products to deliver value and competitive advantage for our customers.
Our product portfolio includes some 0.5mm to over 4m: to withstand of the worlds most complex valve extreme pressures up to 1,660 bar: HIGHLIGHT and control systems.
Our products are temperatures as low as -163C and as IMI Company: STI engineered to the highest specication high as 1,650C: and to handle a wide enabling them to operate in ow paths range of corrosive or hazardous uids with orice diameters from as little as and gases.
CASE STUDY building in Salzburg that houses a IMI Company: TA Hydronics renowned institute for over 5,000 young Customer: Markus Stolz GmbH musicians.
& Co KG Location: Austria The solution involved hydronic balancing valves, pressurisation vessels and air and dirt separators and delivers correct Working in collaboration with design system conditions, water quality and rm Stolz Kramsach, IMIs Indoor pressurisation at all times.
The continual Climate business, TA Hydronics, support, design improvements and high has designed an energy efficient level of technical assistance provided system solution to address the specic by TA Hydronics Engineering Support STI, an IMI Severe Service company pressurisation and ow requirements Centre team ensured delivery of an specialising in linear actuators to of the water that heats and cools a new optimal energy efficient system.
support the global valve market, has designed a new range of quarter turn actuators specifically targeting a niche in the ball valve market, a new sector for them.
The actuator utilises STIs FasTrak positioner incorporating pneumatics from IMI sister company Norgren, to deliver a level of precision previously unavailable in the market, whilst facilitating simple testing for correct operation and easier maintenance.
The first application for the new STI actuator has been in combination with a new ball valve for critical applications recently launched by Truo Rona, another IMI Severe Service business.
