ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE FLUID CONTROLS SEVERE SERVICE Our Severe Service business delivered revenue growth of 20% on a reported basis, including the results of Remosa and InterAtiva since acquisition.
Revenue, on an organic basis, increased by 14% for the full year, reecting a strong shipment performance throughout the year.
We saw good growth in shipments in Fossil Power, Oil & Gas and in the aftermarket, whilst shipments in the Petrochemical market were down.
Shipments also benefitted from a catch up in backlog that existed at the end of 2011.
The order book remained unchanged projects secured in prior years and The acquisition of Remosa in February from a year ago despite record higher than expected costs associated 2012 signicantly strengthened shipments, and overall order intake was with our Brno manufacturing facility our capabilities in the downstream down 1% for the year on an organic in the Czech Republic.
Margins in Petrochemical sector which is enjoying basis.
Bookings momentum has been the order book continued to improve renewed investment in North America on particularly positive in the Petrochemical throughout the year as the backlog of the back of the availability of low cost sector which has offset lower activity lower margin projects was shipped, and shale gas.
The acquisition of InterAtiva, in the Nuclear sector and reduced was replaced by new projects at better also completed in February 2012, has bookings for new construction fossil margins.
In addition we have continued signicantly improved our sales and power projects in China and India to achieve improvements in productivity service infrastructure in South America, where we continue to exercise greater in the second half at the Brno facility.
opening up new sales opportunities selectivity on project bids.
Whilst there remain some lower margin across the Severe Service business.
contracts still to ship in 2013, mainly The strong order book position at Operating margins of 14.0% were down in the first half, we continue to the beginning of the year gives us on the 15.5% achieved in 2011.
As we expect margins to show progressive confidence that the business will deliver explained in our Interim Results, this improvement through 2013. modest growth in 2013. reects an adverse mix of lower margin HIGHLIGHT IMI Company: CCI The Valve Doctor team recommended Customer: Archer Daniels Midland installing nine 100 feedwater control Location: USA valves and eleven 100 spray water valves using CCIs DRAG technology.
The tortuous ow paths in the heart of Archer Daniels Midland ADM is one the valve disk stacks reduced exit of the worlds leading agricultural velocity eliminating erosion damage processors.
For nearly 10 years, and reduced the pressure drop on excessive and uncontrolled valve trim each stage.
Installation of CCIs velocities within the boiler system valves helped ADM signicantly at their Illinois HQ had caused reduce costs as maintenance erosion and increased vibration, intervals are expected to extend which compromised performance.
from 18 months to five years and To maintain levels of control and have provided added control and productivity, valves were regularly dependability to increase productivity.
replaced and complete maintenance procedures undertaken at great cost.
Group operating review 16 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FLUID CONTROLS FLUID POWER As anticipated, Fluid Power markets weakened in the second half after a at performance in the first half.
Overall revenues declined, on an organic basis, by 5% in the second half and by 3% for the full year.
Our sector business, which focuses Second half margins were slightly down trends we expect revenues in the first on bespoke solutions for key original at 19.6% compared to 20.0% in the half to be similar to the second half of equipment manufacturer OEM second half of last year on the reduced last year with first quarter destocking customers in global niche markets, volumes.
in the Commercial Vehicle sector continued to show greater resilience.
offsetting a gradually improving trend We are seeing more optimistic feedback This was down 1% on an organic basis, elsewhere.
We expect a return to from major customers in our regular compared to 4% down for the rest of stronger growth in the second half, conversations with them, although there Fluid Power.
The Commercial Vehicle as Commercial Vehicle volumes has been a slow start to the year in the sector was down around 10% in the normalise, and the contribution from a Commercial Vehicle sector as some second half and 2% down for the full number of recently launched products destocking continues.
The US truck market was notably accelerates.
latest customer insight and current order weaker in the second half after a strong performance in the first half.
We saw good revenue growth in the Energy sector, more stable performances in Food & Beverage and Life Sciences and a decline in the Rail sector.
Overall our HIGHLIGHT sector businesses represented 46% of total Fluid Power revenues in 2012.
IMI Company: Norgren Norgrens innovative Redundant Valve Product: Redundant Valve We continued to make good progress Manifold RVM system for the oil, Manifold with the ongoing development of our gas and chemical sectors is the first internet, phone and catalogue-based product of its kind to incorporate all aftermarket solution, Norgren Express.
key safety and availability functions yy y in a single integrated unit making n a single integrated unit making Fluid Power has continued to installation and maintenance nstallation and maintenance demonstrate good underlying margin easier and eliminating easier and eliminating momentum, with value engineering unplanned shutdowns.
and supplier rationalisation initiatives, together with our ongoing transfers of production to lower cost sites, delivering further cost reductions.
This has resulted in a further improvement in margins, despite lower activity levels, with full year margins of 19.8% compared to 19.6% last year.
com media case-studies IMI plc Annual Report 2012 17 ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE FLUID CONTROLS INDOOR CLIMATE Indoor Climate revenues were at on an organic basis for the full year, with growth in a number of emerging markets offsetting a decline in Western Europe, which suffered from some wholesaler destocking at the year-end after a more positive third quarter.
The new construction market in Europe remained subdued, whilst refurbishment activity continued to be more resilient.
During the year we signicantly rolled out to the global market in the first Looking at the general macro-economic increased our investments in sales half of 2013, opening up a new and background, and taking note of resource outside of Europe, opening adjacent market sector for the Indoor customer sentiment, we expect the new up four new hydronic demonstration Climate business.
construction market in Europe to remain centres and increasing the number of subdued but refurbishment activity to Operating margins in the second half of new seminar participants by 16%.
We do however expect 22.8% were in line with our expectations, This investment is starting to gain some an improving trend in both Asia and the leaving full year margin at 21.0%, traction, with strong double digit growth Americas which, coupled with the down from the 22.0% achieved in 2011. in Turkey, Russia, China and Brazil, but increased sales presence we now have As previously highlighted this reects disappointing results thus far in North in these markets and a progressively the incremental investments for growth America.
We also invested heavily in improving contribution from the newly and some additional costs associated a new range of control valves with launched control valves, should mark a with the centralising of the management integrated balancing, which is being return to growth in 2013. structure in Switzerland.
TA Hydronics, working with PWI Engineering and Victaulic, supplied hydronic HIGHLIGHT solutions to the Albert Einstein Medical Center in Philadelphia, a building in IMI Company: TA Hydronics which comfort, safety and peace of mind was an essential priority.
To ensure the Customer: PWI Engineering acute care centre met the required operational functionality, TA Hydronics worked Location: USA closely with the construction manager and mechanical contractor from the outset.
The system solution, comprising 900 balancing and differential pressure control valves, was engineered with the customer to meet specications for energy savings, water efficiency and improved indoor environmental quality.
This led to the building gaining Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design LEED certication.
