ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE DIRECTORS REPORT The directors present their report, together with the audited statements on pages 127 and 128.
The ordinary shares are financial statements, for the year ended 31 December 2012. listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company has a Level 1 American Depositary Receipt Business review ADR programme for which Citibank, N. A. acts as The information that fulls the business review requirements depositary.
The ADRs are traded on the US over-theof the Companies Act 2006 can be found on pages 4 to 33 counter market under the symbol IMIAY, where each ADR and 45, which are incorporated into this report by reference.
This includes a review of the development and performance As at 31 December 2012, 2,233,832 shares were held in of the business of the IMI group of companies the Group, an employee trust for use in relation to certain executive including the financial performance during the financial year incentive plans representing 0.7% of the issued share capital ended 31 December 2012, key performance indicators, the excluding treasury shares at that time.
The voting rights principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group and our attached to these unallocated shares held in the employee risk management processes.
trust were not exercised during the year.
Principal activities During the year, 471,119 new ordinary shares were issued IMI is a global engineering group focused on the precise under employee share schemes: 424,029 under the control and movement of uids in critical applications.
all employee share ownership scheme and save as you IMI plc is the ultimate holding company of the Group.
earn plans and 47,090 under executive share plans.
The Groups businesses comprise five operating segments Shares acquired through Company share schemes and organised into two principal activities: Fluid Controls, plans rank equally with the shares in issue and have no comprising Severe Service, Fluid Power and Indoor Climate: special rights.
and Retail Dispense, comprising Beverage Dispense and The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys Merchandising.
The main subsidiary companies operating ordinary shares are set out in the Companys articles within these two principal activities are listed on pages 138 of association, copies of which can be obtained from and 139.
The revenue, profit and capital employed Companies House in the UK, from the Companys website attributable to each of these operating segments is shown in www.
com or by writing to the Company Secretary.
Changes to the articles of association must be approved Results and dividend by a special resolution of the shareholders 75% majority required in accordance with the legislation in force at the The Group consolidated income statement is shown on time.
Subject to applicable statutes, shares may be issued page 72.
Segmental operating profit amounted to 373.0m with such rights and restrictions as the Company may by 2011: 374.1m and profit before taxation amounted to ordinary resolution decide or if there is no such resolution 317.0m 2011: 301.4m.
or so far as it does not make specic provision as the Board The directors recommend a final dividend of 20.7p per may decide.
share 2011: 19.0p per share on the ordinary share capital Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the payable, subject to shareholder approval, on 20 May 2013 Companys report and accounts, to attend, speak and to shareholders on the register at the close of business on vote at general meetings of the Company, and to appoint 12 April 2013.
Together with the interim dividend of 11.8p proxies to exercise their rights.
Holders of ordinary shares per share paid on 12 October 2012, this final dividend will may receive a dividend and on a liquidation may share in bring the total distribution for the year to 32.5p per share the assets of the Company.
Subject to meeting certain 2011: 30.0p per share.
thresholds, holders of ordinary shares may requisition a Research and development general meeting of the Company or propose resolutions at Expenditure on research and development in the year was annual general meetings.
Voting rights for ordinary shares 44.4m 2011: 43.2m : of this amount 5.2m 2011: 4.4m held in treasury are suspended and the treasury shares carry has been capitalised.
no rights to receive dividends or other distributions of assets.
Shareholders funds There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than: Shareholders funds increased from 564.8m at the end of 2011 to 635.5m at 31 December 2012. certain restrictions as may from time to time be imposed s by laws and regulations for example insider trading laws : Share capital and As at 31 December 2012, the Companys share capital pursuant to the Companys share dealing code whereby s comprised a single class of share capital which is divided the directors and certain employees of the Company into ordinary shares of 25p each.
Details of the share require approval to deal in the Companys shares.
capital of the Company are set out in note 22 to the financial Board reports 36 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Company is not aware of any arrangements between Employment policies shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer The Group continues to support employee involvement at all of ordinary shares or on voting rights.
None of the ordinary levels in the organisation and strongly encourages each of its shares carries any special rights with regard to control of businesses to keep its employees informed on Group and the Company.
The only restrictions on voting rights are individual business developments and to make its employees those that apply to the ordinary shares held in treasury, as aware of the financial and economic factors affecting the described above.
Electronic and paper proxy appointments performance of the business in which they work, using their and voting instructions must be received by the Companys own consultation and communication methods.
A European registrars not later than 48 hours before a general meeting, Works Council has been in operation since 2003 and meets or any adjournment thereof.
at least once a year to exchange views on pan-European issues facing the Group.
At the date of this annual report, Own shares acquired by the Company there are 15 members of the European Works Council At the annual general meeting of the Company held on 4 May comprising 13 employee representatives nominated from 2012 authority was given for the Company to purchase up to among employees from each of our European businesses, 48,161,000 of its ordinary shares of 25p each.
The Company covering 11 countries, with the balance being Company did not use this authority to make any purchases of its own appointees.
The Groups financial results and important shares during the period.
At the next annual general meeting initiatives such as Health & Safety, training and development, of the Company, shareholders will be asked to give a similar and employee engagement are communicated through authority, details of which are contained in the separate a number of mechanisms including the Works Council, notice of annual general meeting.
newsletters and intranets for the individual businesses and As at 31 December 2012, 19,124,700 ordinary shares the Companys website and town hall meetings.
nominal value 4,781,175 were held in treasury representing Share schemes are a long established and successful part 6% of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares of our total reward package, encouraging and supporting at that time.
Full details of employee share Substantial shareholdings schemes are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 69 and in note 20 to the financial statements on pages Information provided to the Company pursuant to the 123 to 126.
FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules is published on a regulatory information service.
As at 31 December 2012, A number of people development initiatives are co-ordinated the following voting interests in the ordinary share capital across the Group, which are based on the Companys values of the Company, disclosable under the Disclosure and of excellence, innovation and integrity.
These initiatives Transparency Rules, had been notied to the Company: include succession and development planning, leadership 1 % held development programmes, the IMI Global Graduate Development programme and the embedding of the Standard Life Investments Limited 7.98% Leadership Blueprint, our competency model, in Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 5.02% recruitment and selection, performance management AXA Investment Managers UK Limited 4.86% processes, and training programmes.
In 2012 we launched a Newton Investment Management Limited 3.96% global performance management process and trained over 1 700 managers globally to support the performance As of the date in the notication to the Company management of their people.
These initiatives and the Subsequent to 31 December 2012 the Company was notied Companys approach to employee investment and talent that the interests of Standard Life Investments Limited had development are explained on pages 30 and 31. changed to 6.98%.
Our policy on employee diversity and equal opportunity is to As far as the Company is aware, there are no persons with comply with relevant legislation in the countries in which we significant direct or indirect holdings in the Company other operate and to actively promote our diversity goal to recruit than those noted above.
the very best people to execute our strategic priorities Statement on corporate governance and to reect the diverse nature of our global business.
The required disclosures are contained in the corporate We ensure that our talent pipelines are diverse, for example governance report on pages 40 to 47 and are incorporated our Global Graduate Development and Alumni Programme into this report by reference.
includes people from more than 20 countries, with, in recent years, over 40% of our graduate intake being female.
IMI plc Annual Report 2012 37 ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE DIRECTORS REPORT Employment policies continued and 1 October 2012 respectively.
Carl-Peter Forster and Phil Bentley were appointed to the Board as non-executive At all levels we are focused on increasing our diversity as directors on 1 October 2012 and Birgit Nrgaard was reected in the composition of our Board: with the addition appointed to the Board as a non-executive director on of Birgit Nrgaard, we now have two female non-executive 6 November 2012.
Terry Gateley will be retiring from the directors, and with our Chairman Roberto Quarta and recent Board on 9 May 2013 when Phil Bentley will assume the recruit Carl-Peter Forster, our Board makes up a highly chair of the Audit Committee and Anita Frew will become the international and diverse team.
When recruiting we strive to senior independent director.
Sean Toomes stepped down as ensure that our shortlists of candidates are diverse and that a director with effect from 6 March 2013. our people are trained to avoid bias in the process in order to ensure fair selection criteria and in 2012 we piloted a The rules for the appointment and replacement of directors Master Class in Selection Interviewing globally with over are set out in the Companys articles of association.
Each new appointee to the Board is required to stand for 100 managers taking part.
This programme will now form election at the next annual general meeting following their part of our ongoing training curriculum and we will launch appointment and Carl-Peter Forster, Phil Bentley and Birgit our on-line tool kit for recruitment and selection in 2013.
Nrgaard will seek election having been appointed to the One way we measure progress is through the Employee Board during the year.
In addition, the Companys articles of Engagement Survey.
The 2011 survey confirmed that over association require each director to stand for re-election at 80% of our employees feel highly valued and respected for least once every three years.
However, in accordance with the diversity they bring to the business and the opportunities the UK Corporate Governance Code, all continuing directors they have within our meritocracy.
We will run the survey will submit themselves for re-election at the next annual again in 2013. general meeting and are recommended for re-election.
Every effort is made to ensure that applications for employment from disabled employees are fully and fairly The Company maintains directors and ofcers liability considered and that disabled employees have equal insurance and all directors of the Company benefit from opportunity in training and promotion.
qualifying third party indemnity provisions which were in place during the financial year.
At the date of this annual report Health, safety and the environment there are such indemnity arrangements with each director in It is Group policy to maintain healthy and safe working respect of the costs of defending civil, criminal and regulatory conditions and to operate in a responsible manner with proceedings brought against them, in their capacity as a regard to the environment.
Information on our key director, where not covered by insurance and subject always performance indicators in this area is given on pages 11 to the limitations set by the Companies Act 2006. and 27 and further information is available on pages 26 to 28 Directors powers and on our website www.
The powers of the directors are determined by UK legislation Policy and practice on the payment of trade creditors and the articles of association of the Company in force from Operating units are responsible for setting terms of payment time to time.
The directors have been authorised to allot and when agreeing the terms of each business transaction, issue ordinary shares and to make market purchases of the ensuring that suppliers are made aware of the terms of Companys ordinary shares.
These powers are exercised payment and abiding by such terms, subject to the supplier under the authority of resolutions of the Company passed at performing to its obligations.
IMI plc is a holding company its annual general meeting.
Further details of authorities the and has no trade creditors.
Company is seeking for the allotment, issue and purchase of its ordinary shares are set out in the separate notice of the Donations annual general meeting.
209,000 was given during 2012 2011: 214,000 for charitable purposes.
The Group supports a range of selected national Directors interests charities and smaller charitable organisations operating in The interests of the persons including the interests of any communities where the Group has a presence.
Our approach connected persons who were directors at the end of the to charitable and other donations is explained on page 29. year, in the share capital of the Company, and their interests No political donations were made during the year.
under share option and incentive schemes, are shown on pages 65 to 67 and 69.
Directors The membership of the Board and biographical details Essential contracts and change of control of the directors are given on pages 34 and 35 and are The Group does not have any single contract or other incorporated into this report by reference.
Ian Whiting and arrangement which is essential to its business taken as Kevin Beeston retired from the Board on 22 August 2012 a whole.
Board reports 38 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Company and its subsidiaries are party to a number of expressed or implied by such statements depending on a agreements that may allow the counterparties to alter or variety of factors including, for example, those described in terminate the arrangements on a change of control of the this annual report under the heading Principal risks and Company following a takeover bid, such as commercial uncertainties.
IMI undertakes no obligation to update any contracts and employee share plans.
Other than as referred forward-looking statements whether as a result of new to in the next paragraph, none of these is considered by the information, future events or otherwise.
Nothing in this Company to be significant in terms of its likely impact on the annual report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Annual general meeting In the event of a change of control of the Company, the The annual general meeting will be held at the Hilton Groups main funding agreements allow the lenders to Birmingham Metropole Hotel, National Exhibition Centre, renegotiate terms or give notice of repayment for all Birmingham on Thursday 9 May 2013.
Notice of the meeting outstanding amounts under the relevant facilities.
In the will be published on the Companys website, www.
current economic climate this could have a significant effect Auditor on the liquidity of the business.
Resolutions for the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as The Company does not have agreements with any director auditor of the Company and to authorise the directors to or employee that would provide compensation for loss of determine their remuneration will be proposed at the next ofce or employment specifically resulting from a takeover, annual general meeting.
although the provisions of the Companys share schemes include a discretion to allow awards granted to directors and employees under such schemes to vest in those By order of the Board circumstances.
John OShea Going concern Company Secretary A statement in relation to the adoption of the going concern 6 March 2013 basis in preparing the financial statements appears on page IMI plc is registered in England No.
714275 25 and is incorporated into this report by reference.
Disclosure of information to the auditor Each director confirms that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Cautionary statements The business review and other content of this annual report have been prepared for and only for the members of the Company as a body and no other persons.
Neither the Company nor its directors or ofcers accept or assume responsibility to any person for this annual report beyond the responsibilities arising from the production of this annual report pursuant to and for the purposes required by UK legislation.
Sections of this annual report may contain forward-looking statements about the Group including, for example, statements relating to: future demand and markets for the Groups products and services, research and development relating to new products and services, tax rates, liquidity and capital resources and the implementation of restructuring plans and efficiencies.
Any forward-looking statements are by their nature subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those www.
com investors shareholder-services agm IMI plc Annual Report 2012 39
