ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS TALENT DEVELOPMENT AND ENGAGEMENT Our people are crucial to the success of our business.
Name: Development programmes operate across the Group at all Kiet Huynh levels to ensure that we have the right skill sets to achieve our growth plan.
Company: Norgren Our talent management strategy is underpinned by our Leadership Blueprint which defines leadership activities Position: and behaviours for success.
The Leadership Blueprint is the General Manager of Webber, cornerstone of all our talent development initiatives including a Norgren business in Bristol recruitment and selection, performance management reviews, training and development, succession planning and reward programmes.
Kiet joined our Global Graduate Development GGD programme in 2001 after graduating from the University of Leadership programmes Birmingham with a first-class honours degree and a Over 70 of our senior leaders have participated in the leadership Masters in Mechanical Engineering.
As part of the GGD, development programme, the IMI Leaders Boot Camp, Kiet worked in a variety of functions and businesses which is designed to develop our business leaders in a highly across the organisation before securing the position of pragmatic and participative way.
The programme is delivered Project Engineer at Norgrens Licheld facility.
Kiets rise over a 1218 month period and includes business relevant through the ranks of Norgren has been swift.
First he was projects to support the learning and to contribute real promoted to Technical Manager and then to Technical benets to the business.
Previous projects have included the Director within the Food and Beverage sector before he development of a Group knowledge management strategy and was approached to take on the management of Webber in the creation of a post acquisition business integration model.
Bristol where he was challenged to grow the business by The programme is sponsored by the Executive team and Board over 10% year on year.
Kiet believes the GGD is perfect members.
for graduates like him who arent just passionate about Over 150 of our rising stars middle managers with high engineering but who have a genuine commercial focus potential participate in the Management Fundamentals and an aspiration to become an IMI leader of the future.
This prepares managers for greater responsibility It is this drive and development programmes like the and to date over 40% of the participants have been promoted Management Fundamentals which has supported Kiets to more senior roles.
rise to General Manager of Webber.
In 2012 we piloted our Emerging Managers Programme, designed to support the development of our junior managers.
In 2013 we will deliver the programme for around 100 are then monitored and supported into roles with increasing delegates, with a focus on the emerging markets.
Global Graduate Development and IMI Academy Diversity Our Global Graduate Development Programme provides a high Our policy is to recruit the very best people to execute our calibre and high potential engineering talent pool.
In 2012 we strategic priorities and to reect the diverse nature of the global recruited 10 engineers onto our development programmes footprint of our businesses, reecting where our customers and 10 interns.
They each have four exciting assignments and markets are.
To do this we are ensuring that our talent across the businesses and across the different business pipelines are diverse, in the broadest sense of the word.
disciplines, are assigned mentors and have tailored training and Today, 40% of our graduate programme intake is female development.
Many also go on to develop a post-graduate engineers and we are developing more targeted actions to chartered engineering qualication.
At the end of the two-year increase the number of female and international business programme they move into a permanent role in the business leaders in pivotal roles across the Group.
At the highest but their career development continues to be supported level, excluding the Chairman, one third of our six non-executive centrally, through the IMI Academy to ensure they are retained directors are female and five nationalities are represented.
This group of future business leaders Responsible business 30 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Engagement The programme takes seven years to complete and ensures that our best engineers are equipped with extensive technical Whilst our 2011 employee survey showed high levels of expertise and practical application knowledge enabling them engagement across the Group, feedback suggested that we to deliver value-adding solutions to customers.
In 2012 we could be more effective at performance management, personal launched the Severe Service University which is focused on development and career management.
We listened to this providing technical training for our people to enhance value for feedback and in 2012 we introduced a new performance the customer.
management process and implemented career ladders and job families in many functions.
In Indoor Climate the mission of the TA Hydronics College is to ensure that we have the system knowledge and capability The new group-wide performance management process is in our Sales team to live up to the proposition that we are simple to use and focuses on both managing performance the Leader in Hydronic Solutions.
For our people we develop through clear objectives and measures and on the personal this knowledge and capability through continuous internal development of our employees.
Training was delivered to over training and assessment in pressurisation and water quality, 650 managers to ensure they implemented the new process balancing & control and thermostatic control.
In 2012 we effectively and a Train the Trainer programme enables our delivered over 400 training sessions and over 16,000 hours of businesses to continue the training at a local level.
We have a programme of common job family frameworks for our Supply Chain, Health & Safety, Finance and Commercial & Sales functions.
The frameworks help us to assess the talent Name: we have in the job family across the Group, to consistently Martine fide Sutter assess and develop our employees, and to provide transparent Company: career development opportunities and career paths for our IMI Cornelius people.
We embedded the job family work in our new enhanced recruitment and selection tools to raise the calibre of Position: new hires into the functions.
During 2013 we will develop job Sales Director Western families for the Engineering, Project Management and HR Europe and Africa functions.
We will also repeat the employee engagement survey in 2013 to measure the progress we have made since 2011 and to identify new opportunities and those areas where further improvement is required.
Martine joined Cornelius as Area Manager of the Nordics at the beginning of 2005 and has since held a broad Divisional Development Programmes range of sales roles including Key Account Manager for Norgren University is the global provider of learning for the Heineken Group and General Manager of North East Norgrens employees.
In 2012, Norgren University provided Europe.
more than 19,000 hours of training to over 1,600 Norgren Martine completed the 18-month long Management people globally through its four faculties.
The Norgren Fundamentals programme in July 2011 during which University Online, launched in 2012, provides a cloud-based time she received training in areas of finance, operations university learning portal for managers and employees globally.
and team management and development.
Martine also Established in 2009 as the agship offer from Norgren completed a group assignment which focused on University, the IMI Fluid Power Engineering Advantage Master ways to enhance IMIs recruitment process by reducing Class is a four-day training programme that brings together time and costs relating to the attraction of talent and people from commercial and technical disciplines implementation of tools to retain our people.
to work in teams focused on live customer case studies.
Whilst the Management Fundamentals programme was These sessions focus on developing a deep understanding intense, Martine believes she now understands what it of customer needs and of how the Fluid Power Advantage is she does really well which has given a real boost to Engineering and Sales communities can engineer innovative her self-confidence.
Indeed, she was one of the 40% solutions to meet those needs.
This deep understanding of of participants on IMI development programmes our customers businesses better enables Norgren to provide who secured a promotion as a result of the course.
high value products for our niche sector clients.
Since 2009, In Martines case, she was promoted to Sales Director over 1,400 Norgren employees have participated in the Master for Western Europe and Africa in January 2012 which Class programme.
she hopes will be a launchpad for a General Manger role In Severe Service our Valve Doctor programme is designed to in the future.
develop a pool of next generation experts in our products and their application.
There are currently over 50 Valve Doctors and a further 83 in training.
