ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Our responsible business priorities To reect the values and standards that underpin The IMI Way, we have chosen four responsible business priorities: It is our desire to become the most admired and innovative Health and safety promotes the importance of a safe culture engineering solutions business of our size anywhere in the which protects our people, the environment and adjacent world.
We want to be admired for what we do - creating communities.
Over the last five years we have continued to market leading products and solutions and for the way we do improve our key lost time accident measures.
This year we it - being a responsible business.
launched our From Compliance to Competitive Advantage In the running of our businesses we have a duty to behave campaign with the objective of reaching world class health, responsibly to all our stakeholders, including our employees, safety and environment HS&E status by the end of 2015. our customers, our suppliers and the communities and the environments we operate within.
We believe that high Supporting our customers responsible business standards of responsibility impact positively on profitability, priorities is essential if we are to continue to occupy returns to shareholders, reputation and growth.
leadership positions in global niche markets.
We are Our commitment to responsible business starts with committed to helping our customers meet their own The IMI Way, our code of conduct which sets out our core responsible business objectives just as they value the high values of excellence, innovation and integrity and is part of ethical standards set out in The IMI Way.
It directly supports our responsible Supply chain risk management provides an opportunity to business priorities, guides our decision making and helps us work in partnership with our suppliers to share best practice do business in the right way so that we are focused on not and drive improvement.
In 2012 we added a new process to only what we want to achieve, but also on how we go about our supplier risk management systems which is designed to achieving it.
ensure that our suppliers remove conict minerals from our The values of The IMI Way are reinforced by the face-to-face supply chain.
IMI training we provide for more than 15,000 of our Energy efficiency and carbon management support our employees each year.
On 13 June 2012: for the first time growth drivers of climate change, resource scarcity and ever, all of our employees were given four hours of dedicated urbanisation: all of which are central to delivering responsible IMI Way training on exactly the same day followed by an solutions.
Integral to this is managing our own facilities and afternoon of voluntary work at a local charity or other we have various programmes in place to reduce energy community projects.
consumption and normalised CO emissions across our 2 locations around the world.
It is our duty to manage our business in a responsible and ethical way and in a manner in which IMI and our stakeholders can be justiably proud.
The above priorities are reviewed annually by the Executive Committee to ensure they remain relevant.
In addition each of our businesses must align their management plans to address these priorities and any other responsible business objectives that are relevant to their operation and their local community.
Typical local objectives may include waste minimisation, increase in recycling volumes and steps to gain relevant HS&E or quality Norgren employees training on The IMI Way Day in Osaka, Japan accreditation in particular facilities.
