Overview Strategic Review Performance Risk Governance Financials 20 Key Enablers Key enablers Consumer insights Operation & supply chain alignment Shaping our environment For an overview of our business model see p2 Consumer Insights Operation and Supply Chain Alignment Understanding What Drives our Consumers A Fast and Flexible Business Focused on Delivery Were focused on truly understanding consumer motivations Across our manufacturing and supply chain operations were and translating these insights into innovations and portfolio focused on operational excellence, delivering our sales growth strategies that provide our consumers with unrivalled choice.
strategy in the most ef cient way possible.
Were especially focused on maximising product availability and quality.
Our consumers are experimenting with more formats and were providing new experiences across the tobacco spectrum.
Were responding quickly to insights from our consumers to By actively listening to them and translating our learning across evolve our portfolio and deliver innovative brands and products our portfolio, were able to further build our brands and develop that enable us to maximise growth opportunities.
innovations that deliver high quality growth.
For example, in the 2012 Advantage International Survey of Global Duty Free Customers, Imperial Tobacco was ranked as the highest performing tobacco manufacturer, and third of all FMCG participants, in Logistics and Supply Chain management.
Supporting our sales growth strategy Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Review Overview Performance Risk Governance Financials 21 Matthew Phillips Proactively Shaping our Environment Corporate Affairs Director Our Proactive Approach Were partnering with Were very experienced at successfully developing our business in governments and law a highly regulated environment and we work constructively with governments and other organisations to nd reasonable solutions enforcement agencies to regulatory issues.
internationally to We support proportionate regulation thats based on sound evidence but will continue to speak out against regulatory proposals that dont meet proactively tackle these criteria.
the illicit trade in Were very concerned at how extreme regulation and excessive tobacco tobacco products.
tax increases can fuel the growth in illicit trade.
This is damaging to everyone except the criminals who pro t from tobacco smuggling and counterfeiting: children can more easily obtain tobacco products, governments are deprived of tax revenues and the livelihoods of independent tobacco retailers are threatened.
We regularly make these points through our global stakeholder engagement activities and encourage regulatory authorities in particular to recognise the relationship between regulation, excise and illicit trade.
We also partner with governments and law enforcement agencies internationally to proactively tackle the smuggling and counterfeiting of tobacco.
Our commitment to combating illicit trade is underpinned by the numerous anti-illicit trade agreements we have around the world, including a long-term partnership that we initiated with the European Commission and EU member states.
You can read more about regulation and our anti-illicit trade activities on p42 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012
