Overview Strategic Review Performance Risk Governance Financials 64 The Board and its Committees Board Iain Napier Overview Chairman The Board sets the strategic objectives for the Group and their measurement Board succession criteria, determines investment policies and delegates to management planning and risk the detailed planning and implementation of those objectives and policies in accordance with appropriate risk parameters.
The Board monitors management and compliance with policies and achievement against objectives by holding management accountable for its activities through monthly and quarterly assurance have been performance reporting.
key areas of focus At each meeting the Board receives regular updates from the Chief Executive this year.
on the Groups operations, reports from the Finance Director on financial performance and updates on compliance with corporate governance requirements and other regulations from the Company Secretary.
In addition, senior management makes regular presentations to the Board, enabling Directors to explore and consider speci c issues and developments in greater detail.
The Boards full terms of reference are available on www.
Members Achievements for 2012 2013 Objectives Ken Burnett Berge Setrakian Review and development of our Ensuring that through ongoing Alison Cooper Mark Williamson three year business plan.
succession plans the Board Senior Independent maintains the appropriate skill Robert Dyrbus Continued oversight of the Director set to continue to deliver our David Haines management team for successful Malcolm Wyman strategy and create long-term appointed 2 2 12 execution of our strategy.
appointed 3 10 11 value for our shareholders.
Michael Herlihy Continued focus on succession Oversee delivery against our Pierre Jungels planning with the appointment business plan for the year and retired 1 2 12 of a new Senior Independent John Downing the development of our next Susan Murray Director, two Non-Executive Secretary, three year business plan.
Matthew Phillips Directors and a Corporate appointed 1 6 12 appointed 1 6 12, Affairs Director.
Facilitate opportunities for the Secretary to 1 6 12 Non-Executive Directors to Further improvements to meet with the Groups senior our risk management and management team.
Further improvements to Remuneration review completed.
our risk management and New performance criteria assurance process.
identi ed and agreed, subject to shareholder approval at our 2013 Annual General Meeting.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Overview Strategic Review Performance Risk Financials 65 Board in 2012 In the 2012 financial year the Board considered the retirement and appointment of Directors, our corporate and annual plans, our funding arrangements speci cally re nancing through Bond issues and the outcome of the Board evaluation.
In addition, as part of the Board strategy meeting, senior managers from across the business presented on key strategic issues.
By reviewing the Groups results at each Board meeting we ensure Directors are kept informed of our progress.
Between Board meetings, Directors are supplied with monthly performance reports, including detailed commentary and analysis.
October 2011 Review of the 2011 financial results Consideration of the Groups Going Concern status Review of Corporate Responsibility Performance Review of Logista operations Consideration of final dividend Review of external operating environment Review of the 2011 Board evaluation January February 2012 AGM preparation including interim management statement Succession review including appointment of Non-Executive Director, Senior Independent Director and Chairman of Audit Committee Review of macro economic environment and impact on strategy Capital expenditure review Update on Investor Relations issues April 2012 Review of the 2012 Half Year Results Consideration of the Groups funding strategy Update on assurance and risk processes June 2012 Visit to Cantabria factory Financial performance update Consideration of interim management statement Market reviews including update on sales growth drivers and review of Spain and Russia September 2012 Review of the 2012 Board evaluation Consideration of the three year corporate plan Review of the risk, assurance and internal control processes Evaluation of future growth opportunities Review of potential impact of regulatory activity Board visit to Cantabria Its important for the Board to visit our operations, meet our Directors toured the factory, met employees and received people and see the progress were making at first hand.
detailed presentations from the Spanish and Russian management teams on how growth is being achieved.
In 2012 the Board visited our factory in Cantabria, Spain which is our centre of excellence for mass market David Haines, Non-Executive Director said: The Cantabria cigar-making.
visit allowed me to build my knowledge and understanding, but most importantly I was able to meet the people in the An investment of 9.5 million has seen the factory expand factory and gain exposure to our cigar centre of excellence.
and annual production has doubled in just three years.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic Review Performance Risk Governance Financials 66 The Board and its Committees continued Nominations Committee Iain Napier Overview Chairman During the year the Nominations Committee, which comprises all the NonWere focused on Executive Directors and meets as required, was chaired by Iain Napier.
ensuring the Board The Nominations Committee considers the composition of the Board and its Committees, the retirement, appointment and replacement of Directors, and has the right balance makes appropriate recommendations to the Board.
of skills and experience The Committee has continued to evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and to build on our long experience of the Board and remains committed to the progressive renewal of the Board through orderly succession.
Where vacancies arise the Committee track record of success.
prepares a description of the role and capabilities required for the appointment.
Appropriate succession plans for the Non-Executive Directors, for the Executive Directors and for senior management were also kept under close review.
Appointing the best people to our Board, regardless of gender, race, religion, age or disability, is crucial.
Board appointments are made purely on merit so that we have the right skill set to build on our long track record of success.
We appoint individuals from diverse professional and geographic backgrounds to ensure the Board has a wide range of business and financial expertise.
Given our commitment to appointing the best people we do not think it is appropriate to set targets for Board appointments.
The Nominations Committees full terms of reference are available on www.
Members Achievements for 2012 2013 Objectives Ken Burnett Malcolm Wyman Continued to evolve succession Maintain ongoing succession appointed 3 10 11 David Haines plans.
plans, specifically in respect of appointed 2 2 12 Directors approaching retirement Appointment of Mark Williamson Michael Herlihy and if required identify and as Senior Independent Director recommend to the Board Pierre Jungels Matthew Phillips succeeding Pierre Jungels.
appropriate candidates for retired 1 2 12 Secretary to 1 6 12 Appointment of David Haines appointment.
Susan Murray John Downing and Malcolm Wyman as Secretary, Berge Setrakian Review the balance of the Non-Executive Directors.
appointed 1 6 12 Board in terms of Executive Mark Williamson Appointment of Matthew Phillips and Non-Executive Directors.
as Corporate Affairs Director, Ensure the Board retains the re ecting the dynamic nature skill set appropriate to drive of the tobacco operating the Companys strategy whilst environment.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Overview Strategic Review Performance Risk Financials 67 that our remuneration policies and shareholding requirements Re-election of Directors encourage Directors to act in the best long-term interests of Following a rigorous selection process and recommendation stakeholders, for example through bonus targets and claw back by the Nominations Committee, all Directors are appointed by provisions, the long-term focus of our remuneration strategy and the Board and are subject to election and subsequent annual shareholding requirements.
The composition, skill set and balance of our Board, together Before recommending such election or re-election the with the length of service of each Director, is reviewed regularly performance of each Director is considered as part of the to identify the skills required of future directors.
annual evaluation of the Board.
Following the 2012 evaluation and consideration of each Directors attendance at Board and Accordingly, prior to the appointment of Malcolm Wyman and Committee meetings as detailed in the table below, the Board David Haines, skill set requirements were developed further recommends the election or re-election of all Directors who to which Korn Ferry Whitehead Mann was instructed to are standing for election or re-election at our 2013 AGM.
Following their appointments, Malcolm Wyman and David Haines underwent a tailored We recognise that a number of shareholders have expressed induction and brie ng programme, further details of which concern that annual re-election of Directors could encourage are on page 71. them to take a short-term view.
We are, however, con dent Meetings of the Board, Board Committees and AGM Nominations Audit Remuneration Annual General Board Committee Committee Committee Meeting Total number of meetings in Financial Year 52471 Number of meetings attended in Financial Year Executive Directors Mrs A J Cooper 5 5 1 1 Mr R Dyrbus 5 5 1 1 1 Mr M R Phillips 2 2 Non-Executive Directors Mr I J G Napier 5 5 2 2 1 1 2 Dr K M Burnett 5 5 2 2 2 2 6 6 1 1 3 Mr D J Haines 3 3 1 1 1 1 3 3 Mr M H C Herlihy 5 5 2 2 4 4 7 7 1 1 4 6 Dr P H Jungels 1 2 1 1 1 2 0 1 1 1 Ms S E Murray 5 5 2 2 4 4 7 7 1 1 2 Mr B Setrakian 5 5 2 2 6 6 1 1 Mr M D Williamson 5 5 2 2 4 4 7 7 1 1 5 6 Mr M I Wyman 5 5 2 2 4 4 6 7 1 1 1 Mr M R Phillips was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2012.
2 Dr K M Burnett was appointed to the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee and Mr B Setrakian was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 31 January 2012.
3 Mr D J Haines was appointed to the Board on 2 February 2012.
4 Dr P H Jungels retired from the Board on 2 February 2012.
5 Mr M I Wyman was appointed to the Board on 3 October 2011.
6 Due to prior commitments, Dr P H Jungels was unable to attend one Board meeting and its associated Committee meetings, and Mr M I Wyman was unable to attend one Committee meeting.
The maximum number of meetings for each individual Director is the number which they were eligible to attend.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic Review Performance Risk Governance Financials 68 The Board and its Committees continued Audit Committee Malcolm Wyman Overview Chairman The Audit Committee comprises six independent Non-Executive Directors.
Weve improved our Both Malcolm Wyman and Mark Williamson are quali ed accountants and, corporate assurance therefore, we meet the requirements of the Code and the Committees terms of reference that at least one of its members is a financial expert.
processes, further The responsibilities of the Audit Committee include assisting the Board in embedding our risk discharging its responsibilities for the integrity of the Companys financial statements, overseeing the internal control and risk management processes, management processes ensuring that appropriate standards of governance, reporting and compliance are being met, appointing the Groups Auditors and monitoring their performance and internal controls.
and independence and overseeing our Speaking Up whistle-blowing policy.
The Finance Director, the Director of Finance and Planning, the Group Financial Controller, the Head of Group Compliance and from January 2012 the Director of Corporate Assurance, the Deputy Company Secretary and other financial managers are invited to attend each meeting of the Committee, as well as our external Auditors.
Both the Director of Corporate Assurance and the external Auditors have separate formal meetings with the Committee, without any Executive Director or other manager being present, at each meeting.
The Audit Committees full terms of reference are available on www.
com Members Achievements for 2012 2013 Objectives Ken Burnett Mark Williamson Improved risk management and Oversee the embedding of our Chairman to 1 2 12 David Haines assurance process, re ecting revised risk management and appointed 26 4 12 our enhanced internal controls, assurance processes and our new risk and assurance ensuring their effective operation.
Michael Herlihy processes and the creation of Pierre Jungels Matthew Phillips Reviewing the Groups financial our new Corporate Assurance retired 1 2 12 Secretary to 1 6 12 results throughout the year.
Susan Murray John Downing Oversee the rotation of the Secretary from 1 6 12 Review of the Groups financial external audit partner and results throughout the financial reviewing the independence year including periodic of our Auditors and their announcements to the market ongoing effectiveness.
and the potential impairment adjustments as a result of the continued deterioration in the Spanish economy.
Considered the results of a net investment hedging review carried out during the first half of the year.
Reviewed the processes to ensure the Group has adequate procedures in place to control bribery and corruption risks.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Overview Strategic Review Performance Risk Financials 69 Activities of the Committee Statement of Auditors Responsibilities The Audit Committee held four meetings during the financial Our statutory Auditors are responsible for forming an year.
In addition to the achievements on page 68, the Audit independent opinion on the financial statements of the Group Committee considered the following standing items of business: as a whole and on the financial statements of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC as presented by the Directors, on other elements evaluating the Boards going concern review more details on of the Annual Report and Accounts as required by legislation page 36.
The Audit Committee is satis ed that the Board or regulation and for reporting their opinion to members has made an appropriate assessment taking into account page 95. the risks facing the Group:  LLP PwC have been the Companys the Groups net investment hedging and related foreign Auditors since its demerger in 1996.
The Audit Committee, exchange exposures: following a review during the year, remains satis ed with the reports from members of Corporate Assurance, Group effectiveness and independence of PwC.
It has not, therefore, Compliance Internal Audit, Group Finance and other considered it necessary to require the audit to be put out to functions.
These reports and the opportunity to ask tender.
In line with our Auditor Independence Policy, the Group questions provide the Committee with the information Audit Partner is required to rotate after a maximum of five years required to oversee our systems of internal control for seven years for subsidiary companies.
The Audit Committee financial reporting, internal control policies, corporate discusses engagement partner rotation with PwC on a regular governance procedures, the system of risk management basis and a succession plan is in place for David Charles to be and to assess the review and mitigation of associated replaced in 2013 at his normal rotation date after five years in risks: the role.
The Audit Committee will give further consideration during the incoming engagement partners term to the the internal audit plan for the financial year ending application of the audit tendering provision of the recently 30 September 2013: published 2012 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
an annual review of the external Auditors independence, The Audit Committee considers that for a major international proposed audit plan, fee proposal and con rmation of group these matters must be well planned to ensure that the their independence.
This, together with managements Group complies with best practice corporate governance as assessment of the Auditors effectiveness and independence, well as ensuring the Group receives a high quality, ef cient and allows the Committee to establish the scope, effectiveness, effective external audit service.
There are no contractual or independence and objectivity of our Auditors and, if similar obligations restricting the Groups choice of auditors.
appropriate, recommend to the Board their reappointment: Auditors and Disclosure of Information the output from the evaluation of the effectiveness of the Audit Committee, which con rmed the Committee continues to Auditors to operate effectively: Each of the Directors in of ce at the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts con rms that: approving accounting policies, as required: and so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information consideration of the accounting treatment relating to that is, information needed by the Companys Auditors in ongoing enquiries detailed on pages 74 and 75: connection with preparing their report of which the Companys Auditors are unaware: and External Audit each has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken Auditor Independence Policy as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of In order to ensure the independence and objectivity of our any relevant audit information and to establish that the Auditors we maintain and regularly review our Auditor Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
This policy provides clear fide nitions of services that our external Auditors can and cannot provide.
The Board accepted at its October 2012 meeting the Our Auditors may only provide non-audit services where those Committees recommendation to put a resolution to reappoint services do not con ict with their independence, for example PwC as Auditors to the Company to shareholders at the tax compliance work.
The policy also establishes a formal forthcoming AGM.
authorisation process, including the tendering for non-audit services expected to generate fees in excess of 250,000, and pre-approval by the Audit Committee for allowable non-audit work that they may perform.
Our policy also establishes guidelines for the recruitment of employees or former employees of our Auditors and for the recruitment of our employees by the Auditors.
Details of the audit and non-audit fees paid to the Auditors are shown on page 108.
To ensure compliance with this policy, during the year our Audit Committee carried out two reviews of the remuneration received by our Auditors for audit services, audit-related services and non-audit work.
The outcome of these reviews was that performance of the relevant non-audit work by our Auditors was in compliance with the policy and was the most cost-effective way of conducting our business.
No con icts of interest were found to exist between such audit and non-audit work which principally related to tax advisory work.
The Audit Committee con rms that we continue to receive an ef cient, effective and independent audit service.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012
