Overview Strategic Review Risk Performance Governance Financials 22 Driving Quality Growth in RUSSIA Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Review Overview Performance Risk Governance Financials 23 Our work on our three key enablers supports our sales On the following pages we performance.
Were developing deep consumer insights to show how different elements help shape our portfolio strategies, whilst managing complex manufacturing and supply chain operations that are aligned of our strategy come together with our sales ambitions.
to deliver success in one of our The regulatory and excise climate continues to evolve and through our focus on proactive stakeholder engagement were key emerging markets.
actively participating in the ongoing debates.
Critical to our Russian success story is our people and the unique Imperial values that bind them and guide the way they do business.
Growing a Successful Business Eastern Europe is a key strategic growth area for our business Building Sustainable Sales and we are delivering quality growth in Russia.
Over the years weve continually developed our portfolio to Russia is the largest country in the world and the second largest ensure its well positioned to deliver sustainable sales, focusing tobacco market, after China, with annual cigarette volumes of on the brands and tobacco market segments where consumer more than 350 billion.
We sell more cigarettes in Russia than in any other country: our By focusing investment and innovation on four key cigarette annual sales are 35 billion cigarettes and we have a 9.3 per cent brands, Davidoff, West, Style and Maxim, were making market share.
signi cant gains in high growth slimmer formats like slims, superslims and kingsize superslims.
Central to our success has been the strength and versatility of our portfolio and the consistent application of our four key sales Weve also been active in the eld of lter innovation and Russia growth drivers: portfolio management, innovation, customer was one of the first markets in which we launched West Duo, engagement and pricing.
a cigarette that offers consumers the option of a mint avour burst by squeezing a mint crushball in the lter.
Managing Regulatory Change We have a long track record of delivering international growth The evidence from other markets around the world is clear: against a backdrop of evolving tobacco regulation.
rapidly rising excise duties combined with excessive regulation increases the smuggling and counterfeiting of In Russia our engagement focus has been on highlighting the tobacco products.
adverse consequences of government plans to implement signi cant regulatory and excise change.
This illicit trade in tobacco is a signi cant and growing global problem and well continue to draw attention to the issue This could potentially involve considerable rises in tobacco whilst also partnering with law enforcement agencies to excise and restrictions on both smoking in public places and combat illicit trade.
the display of tobacco products in retail outlets.
Were encouraging our Russian stakeholders to recognise the impact that this disproportionate approach to regulation and excise has on illicit trade through our proactive engagement activities.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic Review Performance Risk Governance Financials 24 Driving Quality Growth in Russia continued In addition, our total tobacco focus means were able to meet Delivering Excellent Results consumer demand for cigars, including popular mass market This integrated strategic approach to maximising sales growth brands as well as prestigious Cuban premium brands through opportunities in Russia continues to deliver excellent results.
our exclusive partnership with Habanos.
In 2012 we again built on our track record of success, growing Offering consumers different brands and products across the our volumes by 4 per cent.
pricing spectrum, from premium to value, drives our focused Our four key cigarette brands delivered excellent performances: approach to pricing.
Maxim grew by 13 per cent, Davidoff by 16 per cent, Style by Through extensive ongoing price modelling we seek to 26 per cent and West was up by 6 per cent.
enhance revenue growth whilst giving our consumers a quality These portfolio achievements provide a strong platform for smoking experience.
future success and were very excited about our prospects And then theres our customer engagement work.
our trade partners to advocate our portfolio at the point of sale, Weve got the right strategic approach, the right portfolio so were building even stronger retail partnerships across and the right people to take our business forward which the country.
gives us great con dence in our ability to deliver long-term This is particularly true within the supermarket sales channel, sustainable growth.
which is growing rapidly and is responsible for an increasing volume of tobacco sales to consumers.
2 Factories Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Review Overview Performance Risk Governance Financials 25 Focused on Delivery The sheer size of Russia and its nine different time zones present unique regional and logistical challenges.
From an operational perspective our local team, led by General Manager Wayne Merrett, view Russia not as a single country but as several individual markets, each with their own very different characteristics.
Our strategic approach has to take regional differences into account, said Wayne, applying our portfolio and our sales growth drivers in different ways to re ect the wide range of local consumer and trade customer preferences.
Our opportunities for growth in somewhere like Siberia for instance, where we have a 15 per cent market share, are very different to those in the south of the country where we have a smaller market share.
Finding solutions to the logistical complexities of running a successful business in Russia is a stimulating challenge for Wayne and his team.
Not only are the winters very harsh but as we arrive at our Moscow of ce each morning, our people furthest east are coming to the end of their working day, he said.
1,900 Furthermore, products manufactured at our two Employees factories in Volgograd and Yaroslavl take three to four weeks to arrive at the furthest outposts in the east, some 8,000 kilometres away.
Having a reliable distributor in place is essential but this is backed up by our great portfolio, a clear strategy and our really motivated people, said Wayne.
The drive and enthusiasm of our people are critical to our ongoing success.
Our values underpin everything we do and we have a continual focus on employee engagement and development.
The drive and enthusiasm This includes performance recognition programmes and of our people are critical partnering with local universities to run leadership training to our ongoing success.
Wayne also chairs quarterly meetings with employee representatives and the local Board of directors that provides Wayne Merrett General Manager Russia and Belarus an opportunity to discuss business issues.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic Review Performance Risk Governance Financials 26 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Performance Overview Strategic Review Risk Governance Financials 27 What you will find in this section: Performance 28 Operating Review Were focused on driving quality 33 Logistics growth across our regions, building 34 Financial Review total tobacco brands that resonate 37 Corporate Responsibility Review with consumers and will deliver long-term sustainable sales.
Building Total Tobacco Brands Luxu u u ury ry ry ry ry ry y y y y y C C C Cub u ub u ub u u an c cig g gar r r rs s Ou Our ciga ga ar r r po po po po p p p po p p rtfo fo fo foli li li liiiio o o o o in incl clud des som ome e e e of of o o t t the he he wo o orl r ds mo mo mo ost st st st s st t t t t p p p p pre es st st s st st s s ig ig ig ig gio io o o ous brand ds in in n n ncl cllud u ud u in ing g Co C Co Cohi hib ba, Mont nt nt t t te ec ec ec e e e ec crist st st st sto o o o o o o o a a a a and n nd nd nd n Rome eo y Ju Ju uli li liet et eta a. W We W W Wer r re e co c nt tin nui ui u ng ng ng ng g g g g t t to fide fide e e e eli li li li li l five v five five ver r very y stron ng re re esu sult lts in in em me me merg rgin i g ma mark rk rk rk rk rket et et et e e e et t ts, s s s s s s ach ch ch h h h hie ie ie ie ie ievi v v v v ng e exc xcellent n gr grow w w wth th th in C China, a, R Rus us s s s s s ssi si si s s s a an an n n nd d d d d d d d th t th th the e Mi M dd d le Eas as as st. t. t t. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012
