Overview Strategic Review Performance Risk Governance Financials 70 Directors Governance Report Non-Executive Directors Application of the UK Corporate We see having a Board with the right skill set as vital to Governance Code our ongoing success.
Our Non-Executive Directors bring a The Board applied all of the principles and provisions of the diverse range of business and financial expertise to the Board, June 2010 Code throughout the year ended 30 September which complements and supplements the experiences of 2012 and is reviewing the provisions of the revised code the Executive Directors.
This broad range of expertise and published in September 2012 which will apply to the Group experience enables them to evaluate information provided from 1 October 2012. and constructively challenge managements viewpoints and assumptions.
Operation of the Board Our Non-Executive Directors also play a key role in corporate Our Board and Board Committee meetings encourage direct, accountability and governance through their membership of robust and constructive challenge and debate.
The membership and remit of each In order to deliver our strategy, enhance shareholder value and Committee are considered on pages 66 to 68 and page 77. ensure our long-term sustainability, we believe it is vital that The open atmosphere at our Committee meetings enables our our Directors have the right mix and diversity of backgrounds Non-Executive Directors to use their judgement, experience and experiences.
and independence to critically review and, where appropriate, challenge strategies proposed by management.
This ensures To ensure Directors are kept up-to-date on developing issues the further development of our business, effective use of our and to enhance the overall effectiveness of the Board and resources and that we maintain our high standards of conduct.
its Committees, our Chairman and Committee chairmen communicate regularly with the Chief Executive and other Following the annual Board evaluation, page 71, the Board members of the Operating Executive.
concluded at its meeting in September 2012 that all our Non-Executive Directors continue to contribute effectively and constructively to Board debate, to demonstrate commitment Matters Reserved for the Board to their role, to objectively challenge and robustly question There is a schedule of matters which are dealt with exclusively management and at all times to have the best interests of our by the Board and on which it must make the final decision.
These include approval of financial statements: the Groups business strategy: the annual capital expenditure plan: major We, therefore, con rm that, with the exception of our Chairman capital projects: major changes to the Groups management who met the independence criteria of the Code on appointment, and control structure: material investments or disposals: risk our Non-Executive Directors remain independent as fide ned in management strategy: sustainability and environmental policies: the Code.
the appointment or removal of Directors and the Company Con icts of Interest Secretary: and treasury policies.
The Directors are required to avoid situations where they have, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that con icts, Board Committees or possibly may con ict, with the Companys interests.
Each standing Board Committee has speci c written terms of In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 the Act, the reference issued by the Board and adopted by Committee.
Articles of Association of the Company allow the Board to These are available on our website.
All Committee chairmen authorise potential con icts of interest that may arise and to report verbally on the proceedings of their Committees at the impose such limits or conditions as it thinks t. next meeting of the Board and the minutes of the Committee meetings are included in the papers distributed to all Board Directors are required to give notice of any such potential members in advance of the next Board meeting.
situational and or transactional con icts which are considered at the following Board meeting and, if considered appropriate, Chairman and Chief Executive situational con icts are authorised.
We do not allow any Director Our Chairman and Chief Executive have clearly fide ned and to participate in such considerations or to vote regarding their separate responsibilities, whilst retaining a close working own con icts.
They meet regularly between Board meetings to ensure a full understanding of evolving issues and to facilitate The Board has considered and authorised a number of swift decision making.
They are responsible to our shareholders situations all of which relate to the holding of external for the successful delivery of our strategy.
directorships and have been entered in our Con icts Register.
No actual con icts have been identi ed.
The Board considers Through the effective leadership of the Board, our Chairman that these procedures operate effectively.
ensures all Directors are able to contribute to discussions such that we fully bene t from their wide range of skills As part of our annual review process, during the Board meeting and experience.
The Chairman, supported by our Senior in September 2012 we reviewed and reconsidered all situations Independent Director, is responsible for effective communication entered in the Con icts Register.
with our shareholders and ensuring they can raise any concerns.
In order to underpin his independence we entered into an Our Chief Executive, supported by the Operating Executive, is agreement with Berge Setrakian, Non-Executive Director, responsible for developing our strategy and presenting it to the in June 2008 to minimise the risk of any con ict of interest Board, as well as the successful implementation of the agreed between Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, of which he was a partner, and strategy and the day-to-day operational leadership of the Group.
This agreement remained in full force and effect until he left the partnership in May 2012.
In July 2012 a similar There were no signi cant changes to the Chairmans external agreement was entered into in respect of DLA Piper LLP US commitments during the year.
where he is now a partner, which remains in full force and effect.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Overview Strategic Review Performance Risk Financials 71 The Board con rms Berge Setrakians compliance with the Members of our Audit and Remuneration Committees received terms of these agreements and, therefore, his continued brie ngs from our external Auditors and remuneration advisor independence.
respectively to ensure they remain up-to-date with current regulations and developments.
Following the annual review the Board is satis ed that the independence of those Directors who have other external board Performance Evaluation appointments or relationships has not been compromised.
During the year the Board, assisted by an independent consultant, EquityCommunications Ltd, who provided no other Outside Appointments services to the Group, reviewed its performance, that of its Non-Executive Directors may serve on a number of other Committees and individual Directors.
The feedback, obtained boards provided they continue to demonstrate the requisite through detailed questionnaires, was collated into a report which commitment to discharge effectively their duties.
The Chairman was presented to the Board and used as the basis for one-toand the Nominations Committee review the extent of one discussions between the Chairman and each Director.
Non-Executive Directors other interests throughout the year.
The Board is satis ed that the Chairman and each of the Our Senior Independent Director met with the Non-Executive Non-Executive Directors commit suf cient time to their duties Directors and the Board, without the Chairman present, to in relation to the Company and the Non-Executive Directors consider the performance of the Chairman.
have also con rmed that they have suf cient time to ful l their The Chairman held meetings with the Non-Executive Directors respective obligations to the Company.
to consider, amongst other things, the performance of the The Board believes, in principle, in Executive Directors and Executive Directors.
members of the Operating Executive accepting non-executive The evaluation did not identify any signi cant areas for directorships of other companies in order to widen their concern nor any requirement to provide extra training for our experience and knowledge for the bene t of the Company.
Directors and, consequently, the Board and its Committees Accordingly, subject to the agreement of the Board, are satis ed they are operating and performing effectively.
Executive Directors and members of the Operating Executive The evaluation also con rmed that all our Directors have are permitted to accept one external non-executive board suf cient time, knowledge and commitment to contribute appointment and to retain any fees received from such effectively to our Board and its Committees and that it remains appointment.
Information and Training The main areas identi ed for review were the ongoing The Company is committed to the continuing development of succession plans for Directors approaching retirement, the Directors in order that they may build on their expertise and future balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors, develop an ever more detailed understanding of the business enhancing opportunities for Non-Executive Directors to meet and the markets in which Group companies operate.
with the wider management team and ensuring the revised risk The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, and assurance processes are embedded in the organisation through the Chairman, on matters of corporate governance.
The Board and its Committees are supplied with full and timely We have addressed the issues identi ed in the 2011 Board information, including detailed financial information, to enable evaluation and in line with the Boards succession plans, a Directors to discharge their responsibilities, and the Committees number of Directors were appointed during the year and the are provided with suf cient resources to undertake their duties.
Group undertook a review of its remuneration policies to ensure All Directors have access to the advice of the Company they continue to incentivise the delivery of its strategy and Secretary and, where appropriate, the services of other further align performance to results.
More details of the review employees for all governance and regulatory matters.
are contained in our Remuneration Report on page 77.
Independent professional advice is also available to Directors in appropriate circumstances, at the Companys expense.
Insurance We have purchased and maintain appropriate insurance Following their appointment to the Board, new Directors are cover in respect of Directors and Of cers liabilities.
briefed on the duties they owe to the Company as Directors.
The Company has also entered into qualifying third party Tailored induction programmes are arranged which include indemnity arrangements for the bene t of all its Directors, in a industry-speci c training, including visits to the Groups form and scope which comply with the requirements of the Act.
businesses and meetings with senior management, as These indemnities were in force throughout the year and up to appropriate.
They are briefed on internal controls at head of ce the date of this Report.
and business unit level and are advised of the legal and other duties they have as Directors of a listed company as well as on relevant Company policies and governance-related matters.
Other than the induction and brie ng programme, no training needs were identi ed in 2012, although ongoing training is available to all Directors to meet their individual needs.
We provide regular brie ngs to Directors on relevant issues such as legislation and regulation changes and corporate governance developments.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic Review Performance Risk Governance Financials 72 Directors Governance Report continued Geographical analysis of investors Shareholder structure as at 30 September 2012 as at 30 September 2012 Q UK 54% Q Institutions UK 46% Q United States 31% Q Institutions RoW 40% Q Japan 2% Q Employees 1% Q Rest of Europe 10% Q Retail investors 2% Q Rest of the World 3% Q Other 11% displayed.
Votes received at the AGM are added to the proxy Dialogue with our Investors votes and the final results published through a Regulatory We aim to provide balanced, clear and transparent Information Service, on our website and via OTCQX.
communications which allow our shareholders to understand how we see our prospects and the market environments in At our 2012 AGM we received votes representing approximately which we operate.
77 per cent of our issued share capital excluding shares held in treasury.
We maintain an active engagement with our key financial audiences including institutional shareholders and sell side Our next AGM will be held on Wednesday 30 January 2013. analysts as well as potential shareholders.
During the year there Full details are contained in the Notice of Meeting available on were regular presentations to and meetings with institutional our website and, where applicable, posted with this Report.
investors in the UK, Europe, Asia, Canada and the US to communicate our sales growth strategy and progress and answer questions from our investors.
Throughout the year our Share Capital senior management team present at industry conferences, Details of our share capital are shown in note 24 to the Financial organised by investment banks for their institutional investor Statements page 131.
All shares other than those held in base.
Our Director of Investor Communications manages the treasury are freely transferable and rank pari passu for voting interaction with these audiences with regular presentations and dividend rights.
taking place during the year.
We also undertake a regular At our AGM on 1 February 2012 shareholder authority for the communication programme with potential shareholders.
buyback of up to 106,794,000 ordinary shares of 10 pence The primary means of communication with the majority of our each was obtained.
shareholders is via our Annual Report and Accounts, Half Yearly As at 30 September 2012 we held 77,802,200 of our ordinary Report and website on which we publish Interim Management shares in treasury, which represent 7.3 per cent of issued share Statements and Trading Updates.
These are supported by a capital and have an aggregate nominal value of 7,780,000. combination of presentations, conference calls, one-to-one meetings and investor meetings in the UK, Europe and America.
We have not cancelled these shares but hold them in a treasury We have also attended numerous investor conferences, where shares reserve within our pro t and loss account reserve and we presented various aspects of the business to shareholders they represent a deduction from equity shareholders funds.
Treasury shares do not carry any voting or dividend rights.
To ensure our shareholders have time to consider our Annual At 30 October 2012 we had been noti ed of the following Report and Accounts and Notice of the AGM and lodge their interests in 3 per cent or more of our ordinary shares.
proxy votes, the documents are made available to them more Number of Percentage than 20 working days prior to the meeting.
ordinary shares of issued millions share capital We offer all our shareholders the choice of submitting proxy 1 Invesco Limited 61 6.03 votes either electronically or in paper format.
We also offer them 2 BlackRock 53 5.25 the facility to abstain.
Morgan Stanley Investment At the AGM, our Chairman and Chief Executive give 1 Management Limited 42 4.17 presentations on our performance and current business 2 Franklin Resources Inc 41 4.04 activities and all Directors make themselves available to meet Legal & General Investment shareholders after the conclusion of the formal business.
1 Management Limited 41 3.99 To ensure compliance with the Code, at all general meetings separate resolutions are proposed on each subject and all 1 Direct holding.
resolutions are put to a poll.
At the AGM the number of proxy votes for, against and abstentions for each resolution are Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Overview Strategic Review Performance Risk Financials 73 We have not received noti cation that any other person holds Creditor Payment Policy 3 per cent or more of our ordinary shares.
Our current policy concerning the payment of the majority of our trade creditors is to follow the Prompt Payment Code The share interests of the Directors, their families and any sponsored by the Department for Business, Innovation and connected persons are shown on page 92.
Other than as Skills copies are available from the Prompt Payment Code disclosed on page 73, there are no agreements between website at www.
For other the Company and its Directors or employees providing suppliers, our policy is to: for compensation for loss of of ce or employment due to a takeover.
agree the terms of payment with those suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction: Information concerning employees and their remuneration is given in note 6 to the Financial Statements page 108 and in ensure that those suppliers are made aware of the terms of the Directors Remuneration Report.
payment by inclusion of the relevant terms in contracts: and pay in accordance with our contractual and other legal Financial Results and Dividends obligations.
We include a review of our operational and financial This policy applies to all payments to creditors for revenue performance, current position and future developments in and capital supplies of goods and services without exception.
our Directors Report: Strategy, Risks, Performance and Wherever possible, UK subsidiaries follow the same policy Governance sections on pages 8 to 76. and international subsidiaries are encouraged to adopt similar The pro t attributable to equity holders of the Company for the policies by applying local best practices.
financial year was 678 million, as shown in our consolidated The amount of trade creditors outstanding as at 30 September income statement on page 96.
Note 3 to the Financial 2012 was equivalent to 37 days 2011: 40 days of trade Statements gives an analysis of revenue and pro t from purchases.
Pension Fund An analysis of net assets is provided in the Consolidated Our main pension fund, the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund, is Balance Sheet on page 98 and the related Notes to the not controlled by the Board but by a trustee company, the board Financial Statements.
of which consists of five directors nominated by the Company, The Directors have declared and proposed dividends as follows: one director chosen by employees and two by current and deferred pensioners.
This trustee company looks after the million 2012 2011 assets of the pension fund, which are held separately from those Ordinary Shares of the Group and are managed by independent fund managers.
Interim paid, 31.7p per share The pension fund assets can only be used in accordance with 2011: 28.1p 314 284 the funds rules and for no other purpose.
Further details are Proposed final, 73.9p per share contained in our Remuneration Report on pages 77 to 93.
2011: 67.0p 729 674 Signi cant Agreements That Take Effect, Alter or Total ordinary dividends, 105.6p Terminate on Change of Control 2011: 95.1p 1,043 958 The following agreements, summarised below, are those which we consider to be signi cant to the Group as a whole and which The final dividend, if approved, will be paid on 18 February 2013 contain provisions giving the other party a speci c right to to our shareholders on the Register of Members at the close of terminate them if we are subject to a change of control following business on 18 January 2013.
The associated ex dividend a takeover bid.
We paid an interim dividend on 17 August 2012 to shareholders on the register at the close of The Group has four credit facility agreements that provide, business on 20 July 2012. unless the Lenders otherwise agree, if any person or group of associated persons acquires the right to exercise more than Relations with Other Stakeholders 50 per cent of the votes at a general meeting of the Company, Charitable and Political Donations the respective borrowers must repay any outstanding utilisation We continue to support the communities in which we operate made by them under the respective facility agreement and the by allocating 3.1 million 2011: 3.1 million to partnership total commitments under that facility agreement will be investment.
From this gure, we have donated 0.2 million immediately cancelled.
2011: 0.2 million to UK registered charities operating in the The four credit agreements are: UK, 0.3 million 2011: 0.3 million to UK registered charities operating abroad and 1.6 million 2011: 1.3 million through a credit facilities agreement dated 16 December 2010 the UK Charities Aid Foundation to charities based overseas.
under which certain banks and financial institutions made available to Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC and Imperial No political donations were made to EU political parties, Tobacco Enterprise Finance Limited committed credit organisations or candidates 2011: Nil.
facilities across three tranches of $632 million, 600 million and 1,785 million and uncommitted credit facilities in a maximum amount of 800 million, for a period of five years: Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic Review Performance Risk Governance Financials 74 Directors Governance Report continued a letter of credit facility agreement dated 2 March 2011 under Update on Ongoing Enquiries which certain banks and financial institutions made available German Investigations to Imperial Tobacco Limited a Letter of Credit in a maximum Certain investigations were initiated by German authorities in amount of 232.8 million until 31 August 2016: January 2003 into alleged foreign trading and related violations by a number of people, including Reemtsma employees, during a credit facility agreement dated 16 November 2011 under a period prior to its acquisition by Imperial Tobacco Group in which certain banks and financial institutions made available May 2002.
A Board Committee established in 2003 remains to Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC a committed credit facility in place to monitor the progress of the investigations and the of 300 million for a period of two years: and Groups responses on behalf of the Board.
a credit facility agreement dated 15 August 2012 under Between 2005 and 2007, the investigations against all but five which certain banks and financial institutions made available of the individuals were terminated, either for lack of evidence or to Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC and Imperial Tobacco on terms agreed by the individuals with the authorities.
Enterprise Finance Limited a committed credit facility of 400 million for a period of two years.
Settlement was made at no cost to the Imperial Tobacco Group of any duty payable as a result of certain of the activities Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC the Issuer has issued bonds being investigated.
under the Euro Medium Term Notes Debt Issuance Programme as noted below.
The Company acted as guarantor.
The final In September 2006, charges relating to smuggling were brought terms of this series of notes contain change of control provisions against 18 individuals, one of whom is a former Reemtsma under which the holder of each note will, subject to any earlier employee.
Proceedings against the former Reemstma employee exercise by the Issuer of a tax call, have the option to require the were terminated on terms agreed by the former employee with Issuer to redeem or, at the Issuers option, purchase that note at the authorities.
its nominal value if: a any person, persons acting in concert or In November 2006, charges relating to violations of the German on behalf of any such person s becomes interested in: i more foreign trade act were brought against four other former than 50 per cent of the issued or allotted ordinary share capital Reemtsma employees.
The individuals pleaded guilty and of the Company: or ii such number of shares in the capital of financial penalties were ordered against them and Reemtsma.
the Company carrying more than 50 per cent of the voting rights These were paid at no cost to the Imperial Tobacco Group.
normally exercisable at a general meeting of the Company: and b as a result of the change of control, there is either: i a Of ce of Fair Trading reduction to a non-investment grade rating or withdrawal of the As previously reported, on 15 April 2010 the UK Of ce of Fair investment grade rating of the notes which is not raised again, Trading OFT reached a decision nding that Imperial Tobacco reinstated to or replaced by an investment grade rating during Group and Gallaher had separately engaged in unlawful the change of control period speci ed in the final terms: or ii to practices with 10 tobacco retailers in breach of Chapter I the extent that the notes are not rated at the time of the change of the Competition Act 1998.
The OFT imposed total fines of control, the Issuer fails to obtain an investment grade credit of 225 million on the parties involved, including a ne of rating of the notes within the change of control period as a result 112.3 million on Imperial Tobacco Group.
Imperial Tobacco Group lodged an appeal with the Competition The bonds issued in such manner are as follows: Appeal Tribunal CAT on 15 June 2010 against the OFTs findings of infringement and the level of the ne.
Five retailers 15 September 2008 600,000,000 8.125 per cent Asda, the Co-operative Group, Morrisons together with guaranteed notes due 2024: Safeway and Shell also appealed against the decision and 15 September 2008 750,000,000 7.25 per cent guaranteed the fines imposed on them by the OFT.
notes due 2014: The CAT heard the appeals between September and November 17 February 2009 1,000,000,000 9 per cent guaranteed 2011.
On 12 December 2011, following an admission from the notes due 2022: OFT that it could no longer defend the findings in the decision, the CAT upheld the appeals and quashed the findings of 17 February 2009 1,500,000,000 8.375 per cent infringement and the fines imposed on Imperial Tobacco Group guaranteed notes due 2016: and the other appellants.
24 June 2009 500,000,000 7.75 per cent guaranteed notes The OFT decided not to appeal against the CATs judgment due 2019: and subsequently announced that it would not reopen its 5 July 2011 850,000,000 4.5 per cent guaranteed notes investigation.
Accordingly Imperial Tobacco Group is no longer due 2018: liable to pay the ne.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Overview Strategic Review Performance Risk Financials 75 Update on Tobacco Related Litigation In France, we are facing pre-action summary proceedings In the Republic of Ireland, the number of tobacco-related brought by an individual who, according to his summons, later claims has fallen from 307 in 1997, to 11.
Ten of these claims intends to seek an undisclosed level of compensation for the are subject to dismissal motions.
The other claim is inactive.
emotional damage he is alleged to have suffered for the loss The dismissal motion in respect of one claimant was heard by of his former partner who, it is alleged, smoked 3 packets of the Dublin High Court in 2006.
In April 2007, the court ruled Gauloises cigarettes a day for 20 years and died of lung cancer that this claim should be dismissed.
This Decision has been in April 2012.
The claimant alleges that tobacco leaves absorb appealed and the dismissal motions in respect of the nine other Polonium 210, a radioactive element, which the claimant active claims have been stayed pending the appeal.
The hearing alleges passes into the lungs of smokers causing them to be of the appeal was listed for mention before the Supreme Court radioactively contaminated, and has asked a court in Paris on 11 July 2012.
In advance of the hearing, the plaintiffs lawyers to appoint an expert to analyse the alleged radioactivity of issued a motion to come off the record that is returnable on Polonium 210 in Gauloises cigarettes: examine his former 5 November 2012.
At the hearing on 11 July, the Chief Justice partners medical records: and assess whether there is a put the appeal in for mention on 8 November 2012 to allow for causal link between any radioactivity in the cigarettes and the hearing of the motion that the plaintiffs lawyers come off his former partners alleged lung cancer.
An initial hearing has the record and to give the plaintiff the opportunity to obtain new been scheduled for 16 November 2012. representation if he wishes to do so.
To date, no action has been successful or settled in favour of Following our acquisition of Altadis in January 2008, we are any claimant in any tobacco-related litigation against Imperial currently facing a claim in Spain brought in the Administrative Tobacco or any of its subsidiaries.
Imperial Tobacco has been Court the CADAN on behalf of the Regional Government of advised by its lawyers that it has meritorious defences to the Andalucia the Junta for reimbursement of hospitalisation legal proceedings set out above.
We will continue to vigorously expenses allegedly incurred in treating smokers.
The claim contest all such litigation against us.
was served on Altadis in July 2009.
In May 2010 preliminary objections were led by Altadis and the other tobacco company Statement of Directors Responsibilities defendants.
These were rejected by the court in May 2011.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, The CADAN issued a further decision in July 2012 ordering the Directors Remuneration Report and the Group and the the Junta to provide the co-defendants with a full set of parent Company financial statements in accordance with the documentation which was attached to the claim.
The co-defendants have not yet received a copy of the Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial documentation and are awaiting a decision from the CADAN statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors on whether the Junta complied with the order and how this have elected to prepare the Group financial statements in case should proceed.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards We are currently facing two claims in Italy.
One against Logista IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the parent which is the subject of a challenge on grounds of jurisdiction Company financial statements in accordance with United and the admission of evidence.
This challenge was heard in Kingdom GAAP United Kingdom Accounting Standards and 2006 but judgment is still awaited.
The other against Imperial Applicable Law.
Under company law, the Directors must not Tobacco Italia S. r. l. is a claim recently led in Sicily for 5,000 approve the financial statements unless they are satis ed that relating to damage allegedly caused by a humidifying stone.
they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group Imperial Tobacco Italia S. r. l. led its defence at a hearing on and the parent Company and of the pro t or loss of the Group 26 September 2012.
The claimant has been ordered to le for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the its rebuttal evidence at the next hearing on 26 January 2013.
Directors are required to: Following our acquisition of Commonwealth Brands in April select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 2007, we are currently facing one claim brought by an consistently: individual in the United States.
A motion for summary judgment make judgements and accounting estimates that are was led by Commonwealth Brands in October 2005 and reasonable and prudent: remains pending.
state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and We understand that the Saudi Ministry of Health has issued applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, legal proceedings against distributors for international tobacco subject to any material departures disclosed and explained companies to recover the alleged costs of providing medical in the Group and parent Company financial statements care to individuals.
No Imperial Tobacco Group company has respectively: and been served with any court documents in relation to this claim.
We understand that the Ministry of Health sought a six month prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis stay of proceedings at a hearing on 11 December 2010 and has unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will not applied for the case to be reopened following the expiry of continue in business.
The Ministry of Health may still apply to reopen the case but we are not aware that it intends to do so.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic Review Performance Risk Governance Financials 76 Directors Governance Report continued The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are suf cient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Act and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on page 62, con rms that, to the best of their knowledge: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and pro t of the Group: and the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
By order of the Board John Downing 30 October 2012 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales No: 3236483 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012
