Overview Strategic Review Performance Risk Governance Financials 60 Board of Directors Our Skills and Experience Our Directors bring together the right mix of skills and diversity of backgrounds and experiences to deliver our strategy, enhance shareholder value and ensure our long-term sustainability.
The in-depth tobacco experience of our Executive Directors is supported by our independent NonExecutive Directors who bring a wide range of global experiences, including FMCG, finance, mergers and acquisitions, and sales and marketing.
Our Values and Code of Conduct Were responsible for ensuring that high standards of behaviour begin at Board level and are embedded throughout our business.
Key Executive Director Non-Executive Director Company Secretary N Nominations Committee A Audit Committee R Remuneration Committee Matthew Phillips Iain Napier Alison Cooper Robert Dyrbus Corporate Affairs Director Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Matthew has held a number of As a former Chief Executive of Since being appointed as Chief Robert draws on over 25 years senior roles including Company Taylor Woodrow PLC and main Executive Alison has led the of financial experience in listed Secretary, General Counsel and board Director of Bass PLC, Iain development and implementation companies and has been Group Corporate and Legal Affairs brings considerable senior level of the Groups sustainable sales instrumental in the Groups Director prior to his appointment board and general management growth strategy.
He has to the Board as Corporate Affairs experience to the Group.
the Group in 1999 and, through overall responsibility for the Director in June 2012.
He played a number of senior roles, has financial management and N Chairman a key role in the acquisitions of contributed significantly to the control of the Group, including Altadis and Reemtsma and has international expansion of the its treasury, tax, information been closely involved in developing Group including leading the services, corporate assurance and supporting the Groups sales Altadis acquisition team.
Governance Overview Strategic Review Performance Risk Financials 61 Berge Setrakian David Haines Malcolm Wyman Michael Herlihy Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Berge is a senior partner in the David brings considerable senior As a qualified accountant and Michael is General Counsel for law firm DLA Piper LLP US and level board experience and is former Chief Financial Officer of Smiths Group plc.
He was formerly brings extensive expertise in currently Chief Executive Officer SAB Miller plc, with responsibility General Counsel and Head of international transactions.
He joined Grohe in for the groups financial operations, Mergers and Acquisitions for brings significant experience as a 2004 from Vodafone Group PLC corporate finance and development ICI PLC with overall responsibility Non-Executive Director, including where he was Global Marketing and group strategy, Malcolm for corporate acquisitions and within the tobacco sector having Director.
He is also a former brings not only a wealth of financial divestments and has extensive been appointed to Altadis S. A. s Chairman of Vimpelcom A O. expertise but also considerable experience of both private and board in 2004.
David gained extensive general general management experience public market transactions.
management and sales experience to the Board.
He also meets the N R N A R Chairman with Vodafone and Mars earlier in financial expert requirements of the his career.
N A R N A R Chairman Mark Williamson John Downing Ken Burnett Susan Murray Senior Independent Company Secretary Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience John joined Imperial in 2005 having Ken, an independent management Susan brings to the Board a Mark is a qualified accountant, worked for law firm Linklaters.
consultant, brings significant wealth of international general who brings considerable financial He has had a number of senior experience of the consumer goods management, strategy and and general managerial experience legal roles in Imperial and was sector in the Asia Pacific region.
marketing experience, as a former to our Board and who meets the appointed Head of Group Legal He was President, Asia Pacific Chief Executive of Littlewoods financial expert requirements of the in 2010.
He played a leading role of Allied Domecq from 1996 until Stores Limited and worldwide UK Corporate Governance Code.
in the Altadis acquisition and its acquisition by Pernod Ricard President and Chief Executive of Mark was Chief Financial Officer of has considerable experience in in 2005.
International Power plc until 2012 managing key corporate projects Prior to joining Allied Domecq, Susan has considerable experience and has considerable experience related to financing, business he held senior management as a Non-Executive Director.
of managing relationships with the development and other positions in the Asia Pacific region She is a former Non-Executive investor and financial communities.
with Seagram, Interbrew and Director of SSL International plc, International Distillers & Vintners Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, Prior to joining International Power Ltd now part of Diageo plc.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets plc plc, Mark was Group Financial and a former council member Controller and Group Chief N A R of the Advertising Standards Accountant of Simon Group.
N A R N A R Overview Strategic Review Performance Risk Governance Financials 62 Board of Directors continued Iain Napier, FCMA Michael Herlihy, MA Oxon, Solicitor Chairman Non-Executive Director Appointment Appointment Appointed Chairman in January 2007.
Appointed Non-Executive Director in July 2007.
External appointments Serves on the board of Compass Partners International LLP External appointments and is currently General Counsel of Smiths Group plc.
Non-Executive Chairman of McBride PLC and John Menzies plc, and a Non-Executive Director of Molson Coors Brewing Berge Setrakian Company and William Grant & Sons Holdings Limited.
Non-Executive Director Appointment Alison Cooper, BSC, ACA Appointed Non-Executive Director in June 2008.
Chief Executive Appointment External appointments Appointed Director in July 2007.
Appointed Chief Executive in Partner of DLA Piper LLP US, Executive Chairman and CEO of May 2010.
AGBU, Non-Executive Director of Interaudi Bank of New York, Non-Executive Director of The Morganti Group, Inc.
External appointments Non-Executive Director, Inchcape plc since July 2009.
Malcolm Wyman, CA SA Non-Executive Director Robert Dyrbus BSC, FCA Appointment Finance Director Appointed Non-Executive Director in October 2011 and Appointment Chairman of the Audit Committee in February 2012.
Appointed Finance Director on demerger in 1996.
External appointments External appointments Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of Nedbank Group No external Director appointments.
Limited and a Non-Executive Director of Tsogo Sun Holdings Matthew Phillips LLB Limited, both listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
Corporate Affairs Director Susan Murray CCMI Appointment Non-Executive Director Appointed Corporate Affairs Director in June 2012.
Appointment External appointments Appointed Non-Executive Director in December 2004.
External appointments Mark Williamson, CA SA Non-Executive Chairman of Farrow & Ball and Non-Executive Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Director of Pernod Ricard SA, Compass Group PLC and Appointment Enterprise Inns Plc.
Susan is also a fellow of the Royal Society Mark joined the Board in July 2007 and was appointed Senior of Arts.
Independent Non-Executive Director in February 2012.
John Downing External appointments Company Secretary Serves on the board of National Grid plc.
Appointment Appointed Company Secretary in June 2012.
Ken Burnett, MA, MBA, PHD, M Inst M Non-Executive Director Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director in April 2006.
Tenure of Non-Executive Directors External appointments Director of Elemental Energy Technologies Limited.
David Haines Q 8 years and over 2 Non-Executive Director Q 5 to 7 years 1 Appointment Q 3 to 4 years 3 Q 1 to 2 years 2 Appointed Non-Executive Director in February 2012.
External appointments Chief Executive Of cer of Grohe AG, Director of Joyou AG.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Governance Overview Strategic Review Performance Risk Financials 63 Operating Executive Alison Cooper Overview Chief Executive and Chairman of OPEX The Board delegates responsibility for developing and implementing the Our focus on building Groups strategy and for day-to-day management to the Chief Executive, total tobacco brands Alison Cooper, who is supported by the Operating Executive OPEX, which she chairs.
has driven quality OPEX members are appointed by the Chief Executive, after consultation sales growth in 2012. with the Board.
The OPEX meets on a monthly basis and its purpose is to support the Chief Executive in carrying out the duties delegated to her by the Board.
In that context, the OPEX oversees brand and operational execution, delivers strategic plans, financial plans and reports for the Boards consideration and, through the Chief Executive, reports on these matters to the Board.
The OPEX also ensures that effective internal controls are in place and functioning, and that there is an effective risk management process in operation throughout the Group.
Members Achievements for 2012 2013 Objectives Robert Dyrbus Andrew Newall Continued delivery of sales Building momentum across our Finance Director Group Human growth strategy.
total tobacco portfolio and to Resources Director Helen Clatworthy further develop our consumer from October 2012 Effective day-to-day operational Group Supply insights.
management of the Group and Chain Director Matthew Phillips detailed monitoring of operational Accelerate the international Corporate Fernando Dominguez Affairs Director performance across all aspects roll-out of Davidoff iD and Chief Operating Officer of the business.
capitalise on the growth potential Cigar Business Walter Prinz of core heritage brands.
Group Manufacturing, Roberto Funari Increased risk management Research & Group Marketing focus and oversight as part of Further embed our values across Development Director Director our enhanced risk management the business.
Arthur van Benthem Kathryn Turner process.
Group Sales Director More detail on our 2013 priorities Group Human The launch of our new values is on page 10.
Resources Director across our global operations.
to December 2011 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012
