Performance Overview Strategic Review Risk Governance Financials 33 Logistics Our logistics business has operations in Spain, France, Italy, Portugal and Poland and is one of the largest of its kind in Europe.
Logistics Overview Our logistics business has operations in Spain, France, Italy, Portugal and Poland and is one of the largest of its kind in Europe.
We make more than 40 million deliveries every year and specialise in different sectors and channels.
There are two key aspects to our business: tobacco and non-tobacco logistics.
We offer our customers a comprehensive, high quality logistics service encompassing order taking, storage and stock management, order preparation, transport and distribution, invoicing and collection and customer services.
We reach a wide network of 300,000 points of sale in the European countries we service, including tobacconists, convenience stores, grocery stores, kiosks and bookshops, pharmacies, hospitals and petrol stations.
Logistics Performance Highlights Our logistics business delivered a good performance in a challenging operating environment.
Distribution fees were 872 million and on a constant currency basis we grew our adjusted operating pro t by 2 per cent to 176 million.
We delivered a good performance in tobacco logistics with cost saving initiatives and tobacco price increases, offsetting tobacco volume declines.
In non-tobacco logistics, we have continued to focus on maintaining our pro tability while looking for opportunities to pro tably grow our business.
Our pharma business grew sales as a result of market share gains and the development of our direct distribution business.
Our lottery business grew by adding new points of sale to the network and launching new games.
Our wholesale business also performed well and we made further ef ciency gains in our transport business.
Our focus remains on continuing to identify and develop growth opportunities while ensuring all aspects of our logistics operations are effectively and ef ciently structured to drive success in a trading environment that we expect to remain challenging in 2013.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012
