Overview Strategic Review Performance Risk Governance Financials 2 Business Model Our Strategy We focus on delivering high quality sustainable sales growth, Its a portfolio for all consumers, whatever their choices, whilst effectively managing our costs and cash ows.
and includes new and exciting consumer experiences were creating through innovation.
Our success is built around our differentiated approach: applying our in-depth consumer understandings to realise The work were doing with all our sales growth drivers and our the potential of our total tobacco portfolio.
key enablers is essential to our long-term sustainability, and our business model below shows how we bring our strategy to life Our portfolios a unique asset encompassing a diverse array to maximise returns for our shareholders.
of great brands and products, from cigarettes to smokeless, from ne cut tobacco to cigars.
Read more in our strategic review on p8 Our Business Model Portfolio Management Innovation see p14 see p15 Sales Total growth Tobacco drivers see p18 Customer Pricing Engagement see p16 see p17 Key enablers see p20 Consumer insights Operation & supply chain alignment Shaping our environment How we create value How we create value Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Strategic Review Performance Risk Governance Financials 3 Supporting Sustainable Sales Growth Governance Responsibility Risk Management Reward The high standards of Operating in a responsible We actively identify, manage We want our people to be corporate governance weve manner is how we do and mitigate the risks facing fairly compensated and embedded throughout the business and supports our business.
incentivised to deliver on business are essential for sustainable value creation.
Read about our Read about how we Read about how we Read about our policy governance on p58 operate responsibly on p37 manage our risks on p48 on remuneration on p77 How our Business Model Works High Were building total tobacco brands that deliver high Margin quality sustainable growth.
Pro ts This generates strong cash ows which we use to reinvest in the business and reward our shareholders.
Applying our sales growth drivers to our total tobacco portfolio, supported by our focus on key enablers, drives sustainable sales growth at Strong high margins.
Sales Cash Flow Read more on our sales growth drivers on p14 and our key enablers on p20 Reinvest Maximising Shareholder Returns Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012
