Other statutory information The information that fulls the requirements of the business review EMPLOYEE BENEFIT TRUST can be found in the Operating Review on pages 22 to 30, which The Executive Directors of the Company, together with other is incorporated into this Report by reference.
Information on the employees of the Group, are potential beneciaries of the environment, employees, community and social issues is given Inchcape Employee Trust Trust and, as such, are deemed in the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 34 to 37. to be interested in any ordinary shares held by the Trust.
At 31 December 2012, the Trusts shareholding totalled 1,692,848 DIRECTORS ordinary shares.
Between 1 January 2013 and 11 March 2013 The names of the Directors, plus brief biographical details are the Trust transferred 8,610 ordinary shares to satisfy the exercise given on page 38 to 39.
Each Director held ofce throughout of awards under employee share plans.
the year except David Scotland who retired from the Board SIGNIFICANT SHAREHOLDINGS on 10 May 2012.
As at 11 March 2013, the Company had been notied of the In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code all following significant interests: of the Directors will stand for re-election at the Annual General Holding percentage notied Meeting AGM on 16 May 2013.
Prudential plc 10.94% Mr George Horesh 7.99% PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES A description of the principal activities of the Group and likely Standard Life 6.05% future developments and important events occurring since the Schroders plc 5.07% end of the year are given in the Operating Review on pages Legal & General 3.99% 22 to 30.
The Capital Group Companies, Inc 3.12% RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS Source: TR-1 notications.
These are updated on the Companys website The Groups audited Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 are shown on pages 66 to 134.
The Board SHARE CAPITAL recommends a final ordinary dividend of 10.5p per ordinary As at 31 December 2012, the Companys issued share capital of share.
If approved at the 2013 AGM, the final ordinary dividend 46,810,820.20 comprised 468,108,202 ordinary shares of 10.0p.
will be paid on 19 June 2013 to shareholders registered in the Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys books of the Company at the close of business on 24 May 2013.
Report and Accounts, to attend and speak at General Meetings Together with the interim dividend of 4.0p per ordinary share paid and to appoint proxies and exercise voting rights.
The shares on 4 September 2012, this makes a total ordinary dividend for the do not carry any special rights with regard to control of year of 14.5p per ordinary share 2011 11.0p.
DIRECTORS INTERESTS The rights are set out in the Articles of Association of The table shows the beneficial interests, other than share options, the Company.
including family interests, in the ordinary shares of the Company There are no restrictions or limitations on the holding of ordinary of the persons who were Directors at 31 December 2012. shares and no requirements for prior approval of any transfers.
Name 31 December 2012 1 January 2012 There are no known arrangements under which financial rights Ken Hanna 70,000 70,000 are held by a person other than the holder of the shares.
Andr Lacroix 536,148 507,124 Shares acquired through the Company share schemes rank pari John McConnell 210,676 181,038 passu with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
Simon Borrows 1,000,000 1,000,000 Alison Cooper 2,500 2,500 AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE SHARES At the Companys AGM on Thursday 10 May 2012, the Company Nigel Northridge 25,000 25,000 was authorised to make market purchases of up to 46,139,276 Will Samuel 12,000 12,000 ordinary shares representing approximately 10.0% of its issued Till Vestring 30,000 30,000 share capital.
No such purchases were made during 2012.
There have been no changes to the number of shares held by Directors between 31 December 2012 and 11 March 2013.
62 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION AUDITORS AND DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS Under company law the Directors must not approve the Financial So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
The view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and Directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant these Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors t select suitable accounting policies and then apply are aware of that information.
them consistently: DIRECTORS INDEMNITY t make judgements and accounting estimates that are A qualifying third party indemnity QTPI, as permitted by the reasonable and prudent: Companys Articles of Association and sections 232 and 234 t state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and of the Companies Act 2006, has been granted by the Company applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards have been to each of the Directors of the Company.
Under the provisions followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and of the QTPI the Company undertakes to indemnify each Director explained in the Group and parent Company Financial against liability to third parties excluding criminal and regulatory Statements respectively: penalties and to pay Directors costs as incurred, provided that they are reimbursed to the Company if the Director is found guilty t prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will or, in an action brought by the Company, judgement is given against the Director.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting GOING CONCERN records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys A full description of the Groups business activities, financial transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time position, cash ows, liquidity position, committed facilities and the financial position of the Company and the Group and borrowing position, together with the factors likely to affect its enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements and the future development and performance, is set out in the Operating Directors report on remuneration comply with the Companies and Financial Reviews on pages 22 to 31 and in the notes to the Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article accounts on pages 80 to 124.
They are also responsible for safeguarding The Group has significant financial resources and the Directors, the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking having reviewed the Groups operating budgets, investment reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and plans and nancing arrangements, have assessed the future other irregularities.
funding requirements of the Group and compared this to the The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity level of committed facilities and cash resources.
Legislation in the United Kingdom The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial and the Group have adequate resources to continue in Statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
operation for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Directors Each of the Directors confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: are satisfied that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
t the Group Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Group: and the Directors report on remuneration and the Financial t the Operating Review contained on pages 22 to 30 includes Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
a fair review of the development and performance of the Company law requires the Directors to prepare Financial business and the position of the Group, together with a Statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
have prepared the Group Financial Statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
com 63 Other statutory information continued CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL DONATIONS CHANGE OF CONTROL The Company made a charitable donation to Kids Company of The Company is not party to any significant agreements that 13,616.39 during 2012.
In 2011, the Company donated 19,290 would take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control to Chase Shooting Star Childrens Hospice.
No political donations of the Company following a takeover bid.
However, certain of the were made during 2012.
Groups third party funding arrangements would terminate upon a change of control of the Company.
The Groups relationships PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL RISK FACTORS with its brand partners are managed at Group level, however the These risks are shown on pages 32 to 33. relevant contracts are entered into at a local level with day to day management being led by each operating business.
Certain of EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE the contracts may terminate on a change of control of the local The Group acquired the Trivett Automotive Group on contracting company.
The Company does not have agreements with any Director or employee providing compensation for loss of ofce or CREDITOR PAYMENT POLICY employment that occurs because of a takeover bid, except for The Company has no trade creditors 2011 nil.
The Group provisions in the rules of the Companys share schemes which is responsible for agreeing the terms and conditions including may result in options or awards granted to employees to vest terms of payment under which business transactions with the on a takeover.
Whilst the Group does not follow any single external code or standard, in line with Group TRANSACTIONS WITH DIRECTORS policy, payments to suppliers are made in accordance with No transaction, arrangement or agreement required to be agreed terms and conditions.
disclosed in terms of the Companies Act 2006 and IAS 24 Related Parties was outstanding at 31 December 2012, or was EMPLOYEES entered into during the year for any Director and or connected The Company is committed to a policy of treating all its person 2011 none.
colleagues and job applicants equally and to increasing the involvement of colleagues through engagement activities.
Full ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING details can be found in the Corporate Responsibility Report on The AGM will be held at 11.30 a. m. on Thursday 16 May 2013 at pages 34 to 37.
MWB Business Exchange, 1st Floor, 55 Old Broad Street, London, We are committed to the employment of people with disabilities EC2M 1RX.
The notice convening the meeting and the resolutions and will interview those candidates who meet the minimum to be put to the meeting, together with the explanatory notes, are selection criteria.
We provide training and career development for given in the Circular to all shareholders.
our employees, tailored where appropriate to their specic needs, The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their to ensure they achieve their potential.
If an individual becomes willingness to continue in ofce.
A resolution to reappoint them disabled while in our employment, we will do our best to ensure as auditors will be proposed at the AGM.
continued development in their role, including consulting them about their requirements, making appropriate adjustments and By order of the Board providing suitable alternative positions.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION The appointment and replacement of Directors are governed by the Companys Articles of Association.
Any changes to the Articles of Association must be approved by the shareholders Tamsin Waterhouse in accordance with the legislation in force from time to time.
Group Company Secretary The Directors have authority to issue and allot ordinary shares pursuant to article 10 of the Articles of Association and shareholder authority is requested at each AGM.
The Directors have authority to make market purchases of ordinary shares and this authority is also renewed annually at the AGM.
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The Articles of Association permit the Board to authorise any matter which would otherwise involve a Director breaching his duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid conicts of interest.
When authorising a conict of interest the Board must do so without the conicting Director counting as part of the quorum.
In the event that the Board considers it appropriate, the conicted Director may be permitted to participate in the debate, but will neither be permitted to vote nor count in the quorum when the decision is being agreed.
The Directors are aware that it is their responsibility to inform the Board of any potential conicts as soon as possible and procedures are in place to facilitate disclosure.
64 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Financial statements 66 Consolidated income statement 67 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 68 Consolidated statement of financial position 69 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 70 Consolidated statement of cash ows 71 Accounting policies 80 Notes to the accounts 125 Five year record 126 Report of the auditors Group 127 Company balance sheet 128 Accounting policies 129 Notes to the accounts 135 Report of the auditors Company www.
