OV GOE VERN RVIEA W NCE Informa plc Directors Report The Directors present their Annual Report and Accounts t our strategy in action is described on pages Consolidated Financial Statements on the affairs of 12 to 19: Informa plc the Company and its subsidiaries the Group t principal risks and uncertainties are described on or Informa, together with the financial statements and pages 28 to 31: auditors report, for the year ended 31 December 2012. t financial risk management objectives and policies CORPORATE STRUCTURE including a description of when hedge accounting Informa plc is a public company limited by shares, has been applied and the Groups exposure to price risk, incorporated in Jersey and domiciled in Switzerland.
credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk are explained It has a primary listing on the London Stock Exchange.
in Note 31: REGISTRATION AND DOMICILE t information about the Groups Corporate Responsibility As at 31 December 2012, the Companys registered policies, including environmental, employee and social office was 22 Grenville Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE4 8PX.
and community issues are set out in the Corporate On 19 February 2013 the Companys registered office was Governance section on pages 44 to 49: and changed to Lime Grove House, Green Street, St Helier, Jersey, t the results for the year are explained in detail in the JE1 2ST.
The Company is registered in Jersey under number Financial Review and are summarised in the Consolidated 102786.
The Company is domiciled in Switzerland with its Income Statement on page 64 and the related Notes.
head office at Gubelstrasse 11, CH-6300, Zug.
In relation to the use of financial instruments by the Group, PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES a review is included within Note 31 to the Consolidated Informa provides academics, businesses and individuals Financial Statements.
There are no significant differences with unparalleled knowledge, up-to-the minute information between the market value of any interests in land of the and highly specialist skills and services.
Our Academic Group and the amount at which those interests are included Information division publishes books and journals with in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
in excess of 88,000 titles available that provide individuals As a whole the Annual Report provides information about the and organisations with the knowledge they need to carry Groups businesses, its financial performance during the year out their work.
Our Professional and Commercial Information and likely future developments.
Other than as described in businesses offer structured databases, subscription-based this report, there have not been any significant changes to the services, real-time news, research and business-critical Groups principal activities during the year under review and information creating business advantage.
We are the the Directors are not aware, at the date of this report, of any largest publicly-owned organiser of exhibitions, Events likely major changes in the Groups activities in the new and Training in the world providing inspiring marketplaces financial year.
There have been no significant events since and the opportunity for knowledge to be shared.
The the reporting date, except as outlined in Note 39. principal subsidiary undertakings affecting the profits or net assets of the Group in the year are listed in Note 22 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
A report on corporate governance, and the ways in which BUSINESS REVIEW the Company complies with the provisions of the UK The Business Review includes details of the risks and Corporate Governance Code the Code as published in uncertainties facing the Company and Group, along with June 2010 is set out on pages 44 to 49, and forms part of a review of the development and the operations and financial this report by reference.
performance of the business during the year, and is a true and The Directors Report including details of the business, the fair review of the business conducted throughout the year.
development of the Group and likely future developments Information that forms part of the Business Review is found as set out in pages 2 to 61 of this document, forms the in the following sections of this Annual Report: management report for the purposes of the UK Financial t information about the strategy, development and Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rule performance of the business during the financial year DTR 4.1.
and future prospects are set out in the Chairmans The notice concerning forward-looking statements is set Statement and the Chief Executives Review on out on page 142.
References to the Company may also include pages 2 to 11: references to the Group.
t key performance indicators of the Group are described on pages 26 to 27: Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 39 Informa plc Directors Report CONTINUED ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held on Indemnities are in force under which the Company has 15May2013, at Informa plc offices, Gubelstrasse 11, agreed to indemnify the Directors, to the extent permitted CH-6300 Zug, Switzerland, at 9am Central European Time.
by Jersey law and the Companys Articles of Association The notice is being dispatched as a separate document to Articles, in respect of any liability arising out of, or in all shareholders and is also available at www.
connection with, the execution of their powers, duties and The notice sets out the resolutions to be proposed at the responsibilities, as Directors of the Company, any of its AGM and an explanation on each resolution.
subsidiaries or as a trustee of an occupational pension scheme for employees of the Company.
The Company has DIVIDENDS purchased and maintains Directors and Officers insurance The Directors have declared a second interim dividend for the cover against certain legal liabilities and costs for claims in year of 12.50p per ordinary share, to be paid on 21 May 2013 to connection with any act or omission by its Directors and ordinary shareholders registered as at the close of business on officers in the execution of their duties.
Together with the first interim dividend of 6.00p APPOINTMENT AND REPLACEMENT per ordinary share paid on 12 September 2012, this makes a OF DIRECTORS total for the year of 18.50p per ordinary share 2011: 16.80p.
The rules for appointment and replacement of the Directors The Company operates a Dividend Access Plan for all its are set out in the Articles.
Directors can be appointed by the shareholders and as a result of this pays a second interim Company by ordinary resolution at a General Meeting GM dividend rather than a final dividend.
Those shareholders or by the Board upon the recommendation of the Nomination who hold fewer than 100,000 shares are deemed to consent Committee.
The Company can remove a Director from office, to receive their dividends from Informa DAP Limited, a UK including by passing an ordinary resolution or by notice being incorporated Informa company.
Those shareholders holding given by all the other Directors.
over 100,000 shares may elect to join the Dividend Access Plan by completing an Election Form.
This form is available from POWERS OF THE DIRECTORS the Companys Registrars whose contact details can be found The powers of the Directors are set out in the Articles and on page 143.
If shareholders holding over 100,000 shares do provide that the Board may exercise all the powers of the not elect to join the Dividend Access Plan, dividends will be Company including to borrow money up to an aggregate of received from the Company, which is domiciled in Switzerland three times a formula based on adjusted capital and reserves.
and may be subject to Swiss tax regulations.
Shareholders The Company may by ordinary resolution authorise the Board may elect to receive shares instead of cash from their dividend to issue shares, and increase, consolidate, sub-divide and allocation through the Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP.
cancel shares in accordance with its Articles and Jersey law.
DIRECTORS AND DIRECTORS INTERESTS CHANGES TO THE COMPANYS ARTICLES The names of Directors of the Company are set out on The Company may amend its Articles by special resolution pages 36 to 37, which includes brief biographical details.
The Non-Executive Directors of Informa, being Derek CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS Mapp, Dr Pamela Kirby, John Davis, Dr Brendan ONeill and The Group made charitable donations during the year of Stephen Carter were all re-elected as Directors at the AGM 0.2m 2011: 0.3m, principally to local charities serving some held on 17 May 2012.
There were no changes to the Board of the communities in which the Group operates.
No political during the year.
The remuneration and interests of the Directors who held SUPPLIER PAYMENT POLICY office as at 31 December 2012 in the share capital of the The Companys policy, which is also applied by the Group, is Company are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report to settle terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the on pages 52 to 61.
All the Directors offer themselves for terms of each transaction, to ensure that suppliers are aware re-election by the shareholders at the AGM to be held on of the terms of payment and to abide by the agreed terms, 15May 2013.
Details of the contracts of the Executive and provided that the supplier has provided the goods or services Non-Executive Directors with the Company can be found in accordance with the relevant terms and conditions.
There are no agreements in place between the payables of the Group at 31 December 2012 were equivalent Company and its Directors and employees providing for to 37 days purchases 2011: 45 days, based on the average compensation for loss of office of employment whether daily amount invoiced by suppliers during the year.
through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
No Director was materially interested in any contract of significance.
40 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV GOE VERN RVIEA W NCE Informa plc SHARE INFORMATION Substantial Shareholdings As at 31 December 2012, the Company had been notified of the following substantial interests over 3% in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
This table details those shares held under discretionary management and therefore total voting rights.
As at 31 December 2012 As at 13 March 2013 Number of Number of shares % held shares % held Lazard Asset Management 36,677,954 6.09 39,344,490 6.52 M&G Investment Management 29,666,391 4.92 29,952,844 4.97 Norges Bank Investment Management 28,689,657 4.76 28,689,657 4.76 Standard Life Investments 28,343,473 4.70 30,959,621 5.13 Artemis Investment Management 27,826,743 4.62 25,666,557 4.26 Marathon Asset Management 27,411,539 4.55 27,721,748 4.60 Legal & General Investment Management 24,627,959 4.09 23,608,073 3.91 Fidelity Management & Research 22,696,561 3.77 26,668,578 4.42 Invesco Perpetual 22,534,383 3.74 22,768,698 3.77 BlackRock 18,462,289 3.06 Share Capital appointments and voting instructions must be received not As at 31 December 2012, the Companys issued share capital later than 48 hours before a GM.
A holder of ordinary shares comprised 602,707,165 ordinary shares with a nominal value can lose the entitlement to vote at GMs where that holder has of 0.1p each.
Details of the authorised and issued share been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide capital, together with movements in the issued share capital the Company with information concerning interests held in during the year, are shown in Note 32 of the Consolidated those shares.
Except as set out above and as permitted under Financial Statements.
applicable statutes, there are no limitations on voting rights of holders of a given percentage, number of votes or deadlines Rights and Obligations Attaching to Shares for exercising voting rights.
The rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, being the only share class of the Company, are set out in the Articles, Restrictions on Transfer of Securities in the Company which can be found at www.
Subject to Jersey There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the law, any share may be issued with or have attached to it such Company except that: preferred, deferred or other special rights and restrictions as t the Directors may from time to time refuse to register a the Company may by special resolution decide or, if no such transfer of a certificated share which is not fully paid, provided resolution is in effect, or so far as the resolution does not make it meets the requirements given under the Articles: specific provision, as the Board may decide.
No such resolution is currently in effect.
Subject to the recommendation of the t transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out Board, holders of ordinary shares may receive a dividend.
On using CREST and the Directors can refuse to register a liquidation, holders of ordinary shares may share in the assets transfer of an uncertificated share in accordance with of the Company.
Holders of ordinary shares are also entitled the regulations governing the operation of CREST: to receive the Companys Annual Report and Accounts and, t legal and regulatory restrictions may be put in place subject to certain thresholds being met, may requisition the from time to time, for example insider trading laws: Board to convene a GM or the proposal of resolutions at AGMs.
None of the ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard t pursuant to the Companys share dealing code whereby to control of the Company.
the Directors and certain employees of the Company Voting Rights require approval to deal in the Companys shares: Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and speak t where a shareholder with at least a 0.25% interest in the at GMs of the Company and to appoint one or more proxies Companys certificated shares has been served with a or, if the holder of shares is a corporation, a corporate disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company representative.
On a show of hands, each holder of ordinary with information concerning interests in those shares: or shares who being an individual is present in person or being a corporation is present by a duly appointed corporate t the Directors may decide to suspend the registration of representative, not being himself a member, shall have one transfers, for up to 30 days a year, by closing the register vote and on a poll, every holder of ordinary shares present in of shareholders.
The Directors cannot suspend the person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of registration of transfers of any uncertificated shares which he is the holder.
Electronic and paper proxy without obtaining consent from CREST.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 41 Informa plc Directors Report CONTINUED Restrictions on Transfer of Securities in the Company continued presentations finish with a Q&A session.
The webinars are There are no agreements between holders of ordinary shares recorded and posted on the Companys intranet so that those that are known to the Company which may result in employees who are unable to attend can view them.
restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
All UK employees are eligible to participate in the HM Revenue Shares Held on Trust & Customs Approved Share Incentive Plan SIP once they Shares are from time to time held by a trustee in order to have completed six months service with the Company.
Further satisfy entitlements of employees to shares under the Groups information on the SIP can be found in the Remuneration share schemes.
Usually the shares held on trust are no more Report on page 58. than sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the Groups share EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES schemes for one year.
The shares held by these trusts do not have any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Informa believes in equality of opportunity for all While these shares are held on trust their rights are not employees based on merit and that no employee or exercisable directly by the relevant employees.
The current job applicant should receive less favourable treatment arrangements concerning these trusts and their shareholdings on the grounds of age, gender, sexual orientation, are set out on page 60. disability, colour, race, religion, nationality or ethnicity.
The Companys equal opportunity policy not only covers Purchase of Own Shares fair recruitment, but also the opportunities given to staff At the end of the year, the Directors had authority, under a on training and development, and the Groups views shareholders resolution passed on 17 May 2012, to purchase on equal opportunities form a part of the employee through the market up to 10% of the Companys issued induction training.
ordinary shares as at 4 April 2012 the date on which the AGM notice was published.
This authority expires at the conclusion The Groups objective is to provide continued suitable of the AGM of the Company to be held on 15 May 2013. employment to staff whose circumstances change, with appropriate training if necessary.
Informas offices are CHANGE OF CONTROL required to enable access for all abilities and comply There are no significant agreements to which the Company with all applicable local laws.
is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change AUDITOR of control following a takeover bid nor any agreements Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval between the Company and its Directors or employees of this annual report confirms that: providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid except for the Groups t so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant private placement loan notes and facilities described in Note audit information of which the Companys auditor 30 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
is unaware: and EMPLOYEE CONSULTATION t the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to The Group places considerable value on the involvement have taken as a director in order to make himself herself of its employees and continues to keep them informed on aware of any relevant audit information and to establish matters affecting them and on the various factors affecting that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
the performance of the Group.
This is achieved principally Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in through webinars, formal and informal meetings, email office as auditor and a resolution to reappoint them will be updates and posting news and relevant articles onto the proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
The Group regularly undertakes staff surveys.
In 2012, a GOING CONCERN BASIS comprehensive survey was undertaken across all UK The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely based employees.
The results of this were shared with to affect its future development, performance and position each Divisional Chief Executive Officer CEO who held are set out in the Chairmans Statement and Chief Executives responsibility for creating action plans and communicating Review on pages 02 to 11. the results to their staff.
As in previous years, Taylor and As set out on pages 28 to 31 a number of risk factors and Francis continued with their annual All Employee Survey.
uncertainties could potentially affect the Groups results The results of the survey and the resulting action plans and financial position.
In particular the current economic were shared with all staff.
climate creates uncertainties over the level of demand for All employees worldwide are also invited to attend webinars the Groups products and services.
The Group adopts an after the announcement of the half year and full year results.
extensive budgeting process in forecasting its trading results Employees are encouraged to ask the Executive Directors and cash flows and updates these forecasts to reflect current questions about the business and its future, and these trading on a regular basis.
42 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV GOE VERN RVIEA W NCE Informa plc The Groups net debt and banking covenants are discussed t make an assessment of the Companys ability to in the Financial Review on pages 20 to 25 and the exposure to continue as a going concern.
liquidity risk is discussed in Note 31 to the Consolidated The Directors are responsible for Financial Statements.
t keeping proper accounting records that disclose with The Group sensitises its projections to reflect possible reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position changes in trading performance and cash conversions, of the Company and enable them to ensure that the taking into account its substantial deferred revenues 308.1m financial statements comply with the Companies at 31December 2012.
These forecasts and projections for the Jersey Law 1991: period up to 30 June 2014, show that the Group is expected to be able to operate within the level of its current facility and t safeguarding the assets of the Company and for taking meet its covenant requirements for a period of one year from reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of the date of the signing of the Groups financial statements for fraud and other irregularities: and the year ended 31 December 2012. t the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable financial information included on the Companys website.
expectation that there are no material uncertainties that may Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and cast significant doubt about the Companys ability to continue dissemination of financial statements may differ from as a going concern.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the legislation in other jurisdictions.
going concern basis in preparing the annual report and financial statements.
12R, the Directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors, whose names are set out on pages 36 to 37, t the financial statements have been prepared in are responsible for preparing the annual report and financial accordance with the applicable set of accounting statements in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law standards and give a true and fair view of the assets, 1991.
Under that law the Directors have elected to prepare liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the the financial statements in accordance with International Company and the undertakings included in the Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the consolidation taken as a whole: and European Union.
t the management report, which is incorporated into International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial the Directors Report, includes a fair review of the statements present fairly the Companys financial position, development and performance of the business and financial performance and cash flows for each financial year.
the position of the Company and the undertakings This requires the faithful representation of the effects of included in the consolidation taken as a whole, transactions, other events and conditions in accordance together with a description of the principal risks with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, and uncertainties that they face.
liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
Rupert Hopley However, the Directors are also required to: Company Secretary t properly select and apply accounting policies: 21 February 2013 t present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: t provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 43
