Informa plc Our Strategy in Action HIGH QUALITY SUBSCRIPTIONS Specialist knowledge and proprietary content strengthen our position in both digital and print formats Want to know more?
com what-we-do OUR PUBLISHING BUSINESSES ARE DOMINATED BY SUBSCRIPTION ASSETS WITH HIGH RENEWAL RATES 12 12 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV BUSIN ERVEIS ES W REVIEW Informa plc INFORMA TELECOMS & MEDIA ITM ITM portfolio of global database products includes World Cellular Information Service, World Broadband Information Service and the recently launched World TV Information Service.
The products reputations attract loyal customers including communication service providers, equipment and device vendors, content owners and pioneering internet players, such as Google, Facebook, Skype and Spotify.
These high value services are DATAMONITOR HEALTHCARE KNOWLEDGE CENTRE embedded in the strategic, operational and marketing The new Datamonitor Healthcare Knowledge Centre was Informa Business processes of ITMs clients, helping Informations biggest product launch in 2012.
For customers, it breaks down them to deliver efficiency, barriers to better understand pharma intelligence on drugs, companies, innovation and growth.
epidemiology and disease to enable sharper decision making on unfolding trends and issues.
The new Datamonitor Healthcare service not only provides new advancements in content delivery and interactivity, but also fundamentally restructures its analysts publication model.
It also incorporates content from its sister brand, SCRIP, for the first time.
Clients helped build the service, and with their support, research has become clearer, richer and more responsive, ensuring they gain a path to insight, not just content.
New technology means this insight isnt only available in the office, but on the go.
The service is available on tablets, while mobile compatibility will arrive in 2013, alongside new visualisation tools which allow analysts to present their findings in video presentations and podcasts.
Built-in Ask the Analyst access is also available for bespoke consultation.
THE PUBLIC LEDGER The Public Ledger, part of Informa Business Information, has added new technology to its service which visualises millions of rows of in-house and industry data.
The Public Ledger is a leading information specialist on soft commodities, agriculture, markets and trade.
This new technology moves it from a traditional print product to a system that allows subscribers to manipulate variables within a clear, simple layout.
For example, over 400,000 US Department of Agriculture data points visually show the progress and conditions of US crops.
Users can then interrogate this data to assess how the current situation might develop based on past trends.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 13 13 Informa plc Our Strategy in Action CONTINUED DIGITAL EXCELLENCE Bringing us closer to our audience and creating more opportunities for richer information Want to know more?
com what-we-do PRIMAL PICTURES WE CONTINUE TO INVEST IN DIGITAL INNOVATION, BOTH IN GENERATING NEW, VALUABLE DIGITAL CONTENT BUT ALSO IN PLATFORMS TO BETTER ANALYSE, INTERPRET AND CUSTOMISE INFORMATION 14 14 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV BUSIN ERVEIS ES W REVIEW Informa plc LLOYDS LIST The Costa Concordia cruise ship capsizing off the Italian coast is one of the many disasters that will remain in our memories from 2012.
The team at Lloyds List, part of Informa Business Information, used online and digital networks to distribute exclusive news from Lloyds List Intelligence vessel tracking data.
The data showed that in a previous voyage five months earlier, the liner had sailed within 230 metres off the coast of Giglio Island, even closer to shore than where it hit rocks in January.
The evidence indicated that it may not have been a black and white case of shipmaster error.
Lloyds List analysts led global thought and opinion.
A Google search for Lloyds List Costa Concordia yields over 59,000 results.
Highlights consisted of global television clips from BBC Newsnight where the story broke, and CNN, as INFORMA RESEARCH SERVICES well as The New York Times and numerous UK broadsheets, including Microsofts latest operating system, Windows 8, was launched in October The Times, The Telegraph, The 2012 and if it follows previous releases, will be the most used operating Financial Times and hundreds of system in the world.
It features financial data from California-based Informa newspapers around the globe.
The company worked with Microsoft under great security and confidentiality to develop the Finance Live tile feature, which comes with every copy of Windows 8.
It means that, over time, its likely that Informa financial data will be powering the data we use in our businesses, homes and many other aspects of our daily lives.
During 2012, Primal Pictures joined Informa Business TAYLOR & FRANCIS SOUTH ASIA ARCHIVE Informations healthcare portfolio, in another innovative development for the Group.
Primal Pictures is the The South Asia Archive, a new initiative worldwide leader in the digital 3D anatomy market, from Taylor & Francis and described as creating what is widely accepted as the most accurate visionary by The Times of India, will 3D digital modelling of the human body available.
This archive will put five million pages of heritage The software allows people to see inside the body, material online making it available for zoom, rotate and look through different layers in 3D.
The library dates between UK-based business has won a number of major awards 1790 and 1955 and features material including the Queens Award for Enterprise: Innovation from across the Indian Subcontinent.
2012 and seven British Medical Association Awards.
It provides access to culturally and historically important documents Its recognised by academic institutions and for researchers, teachers, librarians and students in Humanities and commercial customers globally as best in class.
The digital archive has been created in association profile clients range from eminent surgeons and with the South Asia Research Foundation which collected the original radiologists to a world famous Premiership football documents.
The sophisticated search tool that lies at the heart of this club.
The technology has featured in several TV series, archive provides instant access to rare primary content.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 15 15 Informa plc Our Strategy in Action CONTINUED RESILIENT EVENTS Highly specialised events providing opportunity for growth and high quality earnings Want to know more?
com what-we-do CONSTRUCT CANADA OUR FOCUS IS ON BUILDING Construct Canada has been held annually for the last 25 years and is the countrys largest ANNUAL EVENTS, WHERE show to support the design, construction and management of all forms of buildings.
Its held CUSTOMERS RETURN TO concurrently with PM Expo, Concrete Canada, DesignTrends, National GreenBuilding Conference, and HomeBuilder & Renovator ENGAGE WITH A COMMUNITY Expo at the Metro Toronto Convention Centre.
Together, the shows feature over 100,000 net square feet of exhibits of products, services, technologies, and systems of interest to over 24,000 attendees including architects, builders, building owners, contractors, developers, designers, engineers, facility managers, property managers and specifiers.
16 16 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV BUSIN ERVEIS ES W REVIEW Informa plc CITYSCAPE GLOBAL Launched in 2002, Cityscape has grown to become the leading real estate event brand globally, with its international flagship event held annually in Dubai.
Cityscape Global regained strong positive momentum with a growth of 50% in exhibition space featuring 172 exhibitors, and a 25% growth in overall attendance on the 2011 event exceeding 25,000 real estate investors and professionals THE RUSSIAN PHARMACEUTICAL FORUM from 93 countries.
Adam Smith Conferences is one of the Russian and Commonwealth of The strength of the Cityscape brand Independent States CIS market event leaders and is part of Informas IIR allows it to continue to successfully brand.
Eighteen years ago, it created the Russian Pharmaceutical Forum, with launch real estate events across the aim of providing the leading platform for the key players in the multiemerging markets, with Qatar and billion dollar Russian pharmaceutical market.
The success of the platform has Egypt as the most recent additions in enabled the development of a portfolio of events, including CIS 2012.
Today, Cityscapes portfolio of Pharmaceutical Forum, Ukrainian Pharmaceutical Forum, Innovative Drug R&D events includes exhibitions and and Healthcare & Medical Devices in Russia.
Plans for 2013 involve three new conferences held in Dubai, Abu Dhabi, events, including Russian Pharmaceutical Regulatory Affairs.
Cairo, Doha, Jeddah and Riyadh.
The Russian Pharmaceutical Forum has become Adam Smith Conferences largest and most profitable event, against strong competition and the global economic crisis, in a region more volatile than most.
The event meets every success criteria including increasing sponsorship revenue and delegate numbers as well as improving profit.
MINING AND ENERGY The Informa Australia resources team was created 16 years ago and now produces over 50 mining and energy events in Australia and another 20 globally.
It supports the multi-trillion dollar mining and resources sector.
The events attract 5,000 attendees annually including government, mining companies, financiers and equipment suppliers.
Its the largest organiser of resources conferences in the world, including commodities such as coal, iron ore, copper and nickel from countries and regions as diverse as Mozambique, Kalimantan, Botswana, CIS, Indonesia, China, New Caledonia and Brazil.
From its expertise and contacts in the Australian resources sector it was able to create events globally, including Global Iron Ore which started in 1997 and has now been geo-cloned to EU Iron Ore: African Iron Ore and Americas Iron Ore.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 17 17 Informa plc Our Strategy in Action CONTINUED GEOGRAPHIC EXPANSION Bringing our knowledge and expertise to new people in new regions Want to know more?
com what-we-do WE CONTINUE TO EXPAND OUR GEOGRAPHIC FOOTPRINT, WITH A PARTICULAR EMPHASIS ON INCREASING OUR EMERGING MARKETS PRESENCE 18 18 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV BUSIN ERVEIS ES W REVIEW Informa plc SUPERRETURN INFORMA BRAZIL SuperReturn is a private equity and venture capital conference with a unique The Informa Brazilian office has dynamic that helps it grow, both in strength and geographically.
Its first been established for 17 years.
conference, which took place in Germany in 1998, has created a platform Through mergers and acquisitions that can be geo-cloned to other parts of the world, under both the and organic growth, it now SuperReturn and SuperInvestor brands.
manages events not only in Brazil The shows strength is that it puts Limited Partners LPs in touch with but also in the Caribbean and other General Partners GPs, meaning GPs are able to network directly with those Latin American regions including who are able to invest in their funds.
The SuperReturn brand is known Chile, Colombia, Argentina and globally for bringing a high quality and quantity of international LPs to its Peru.
The operation also hosts events.
Its that track record that supports the opportunity for international other Informa businesses, such as growth.
Providers like law firms, accountants and consulting firms are also AchieveGlobal, ESI International, attracted because of the quality audience of GPs.
In addition, months of Informa Telecoms & Media and the detailed research for each individual event ensures that the content and Taylor & Francis Group.
topics are at the cutting edge of current industry debate.
Its exhibition business is now the SuperReturn China won Best New Conference Launch at the June 2012 second largest trade show operator Conference Awards.
2013 will see the launch of SuperInvestor Asia, as well in Brazil.
Events support a range as new formats that maximise the SuperReturn brand.
of sector needs including food processing and services, machinery, legal, visual communication, franchising, agribusiness, retail pharma, electronic payments and identification and health care.
EUROMEDICOM EuroMediCom, the organiser of some of the worlds largest anti-ageing events, was bought by Informa in 2010.
It is expanding by taking tried INFORMA CANADA INC. and tested major congresses to different parts of the world, including Singapore, Thailand, Russia, China, Canada, Dubai, France, and Monaco.
Informas acquisition of MMPI Canada Inc. creates a solid foothold for growth in a stable EuroMediComs growing family of products congresses, training and economy with many opportunities for organic publications provide information about anti-ageing sciences.
The newly branded Informa the market understand everything about enhancing longevity, quality of Canada Inc. currently runs some 45 events life and rejuvenation.
They attract more than 5,000 exhibitors and over 330,000 attendees Two conditions allow expansion.
Firstly, the market boomed at the end annually.
Sector events include construction, of 2008.
Since acquisition, the main Monaco event has seen an average design, craft, art, real estate, furniture, 45% growth each year and has become the largest event of its type in furnishings and food, and in all of their core the world.
Secondly, its integration with Informa has provided expansion sectors they are the leading national event.
Global networks, event marketing, data, publishing and other interests enable EuroMediCom to improve, simplify and speed up Informa Canada Inc. retains a strong research and development.
management team many of whom were responsible for initially creating these events.
Today EuroMediComs strategy is to expand its activities worldwide Plans are underway to bring new Informa by cloning the model of its leading event, the Anti-aging Medicine branded events to Canada and take some World Congress.
of the Canadian shows to other markets.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 19 19
