Informa plc Board of Directors DEREK MAPP PETER RIGBY Non-Executive Chairman 62 Chief Executive 57 Chairman of the Nomination Committee Appointed: 17 March 2008 Appointed: 17 March 2008 After graduating from Manchester University, Peter qualified Derek Mapp joined the Board of Taylor & Francis Group plc as an accountant working at Metalbox Company and then as a Non-Executive Director in 1998.
He is currently Nonworked at W H Smith.
In 1983 he was appointed Finance Executive Chairman of Salmon Developments plc and Director of Stonehart Publications, which was acquired by Executive Chairman of Imagesound plc.
He is also Chairman IBC Group plc of which he became CEO in 1989.
Since of the British Amateur Boxing Association.
Following the becoming CEO, Peter has completed two on-market mergers merger of Informa and Taylor & Francis in May 2004, he was with LLP to form Informa in 1998 and Taylor and Francis appointed as Non-Executive Director and was designated which, together with the major acquisitions of IIR and the Senior Independent Director on 10 March 2005.
Datamonitor and substantial organic growth has helped establish Informa as a major international business.
Peter is also Non-Executive Chairman of Electric Word plc.
ADAM WALKER DR PAMELA KIRBY Finance Director 45 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 59 Appointed: 28 March 2008 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Member Adam Walker joined Touche Ross in 1989.
Following his of the Nomination Committee qualification as a Chartered Accountant he specialised in Appointed: 1 September 2004 Non-Executive corporate finance work.
In 1994 he joined NatWest Markets Director and 17 March 2008 Senior Independent as an Associate Director.
In 1998 his team joined Arthur Non-Executive Director.
Andersen where he became a Director of Corporate Finance.
Dr Kirby is currently Chairman of Scynexis Inc.
In 2001, he joined National Express Group Plc as Head of a privately held chemistry-focused drug discovery and Corporate Development, and was appointed to the Board as development company based in the US.
She is also a Finance Director in 2003.
Non-Executive Director of Smith & Nephew plc and Victrex plc and a member of the Board of Simmons and Simmons LLP.
She was previously Non-Executive Chairman of Oxford Immunotec Limited, Non-Executive Director of Novo Nordisk A S and was the CEO of US-based Quintiles Transnational Corporation.
Prior to joining Quintiles, Dr Kirby held various senior positions in the pharmaceutical industry.
36 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 OV GOE VERN RVIEA W NCE Informa plc JOHN DAVIS DR BRENDAN ONEILL Non-Executive Director 51 Non-Executive Director 64 Member of the Audit, Remuneration and Chairman of the Audit Committee and Member of the Nomination Committees Remuneration Committee Appointed: 1 October 2005 Appointed: 1 January 2008 Having qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Price Dr ONeill is currently a Non-Executive Director of Tyco Waterhouse, John has worked extensively within the media International Inc, Towers Watson Inc and Endurance sector most recently as the Chief Financial Officer of Yell Group Speciality Holdings Limited.
From 1999 to 2003 he was Chief plc where he spent over 10 years.
Previous roles include Group Executive of ICI plc.
Prior to joining ICI in 1998 he was an Finance Director of the FT Group, Chief Financial Officer of Executive Director of Guinness plc with responsibility for the Pearson Inc and Director of Corporate Finance and Treasury at Guinness Groups worldwide brewing interests.
John has a Masters in Management from The Non-Executive Director on Emap plc from 1995 to 2002.
Stanford Graduate School of Business.
STEPHEN A. CARTER CBE RUPERT HOPLEY Non-Executive Director 49 Company Secretary 43 Member of the Audit Committee Appointed: 1 November 2011 Appointed: 11 May 2010 Rupert is the Company Secretary and Group General Stephen A. Carter CBE is the President Managing Director, Counsel.
He trained as a solicitor at Allen & Overy and Europe, Middle East & Africa for Alcatel Lucent, and is a worked in their corporate finance department before member of the Executive Management Board.
He is also joining Cable and Wireless plc in 2004.
He held various Chairman of the Board at the Ashridge Business School, and roles at Cable & Wireless, including Head of M&A and a Governor of the Royal Shakespeare Company.
He is a law Deputy General Counsel, before joining Expedia Inc. graduate, holds an Honorary Doctorate of Laws, has in 2008 as their General Counsel EMEA.
completed the Harvard Business School Advance Management Program, and is a Life Peer.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 37
