Report of the Directors For the year ended 31 December 2012 Business review and state of affairs The Directors are required to provide a comprehensive review of the development, performance and future prospects of the Groups operations during the financial year ended 31December 2012, and the position at year-end.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business Review can be found in the Business Model, the Executive Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executive Officers strategic review and review of the business on pages 2 to 19, the Chief Financial Officers Review on pages 20 to 31 and the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 32 to 35, all of which are incorporated into this report by reference.
Post-balance sheet events Details of material post-balance sheet events are included in note 37 to the consolidated financial statements.
Results and dividends The results for the year are shown in the Consolidated Income Alison Horrocks Statement on page 61.
Senior Vice President Corporate Governance and Company Secretary A final dividend of 27.45 cents US$ will be paid on 24 May 2013 to shareholders on the share register at the close of business on The Directors have pleasure in submitting their report 17 May 2013. Dividend payments are made in Pounds Sterling andtheaudited financial statements for the year ended based on the exchange rate prevailing in the London market 31December 2012. four business days prior to payment.
References to Group include Inmarsat Global, and the Inmarsat Share capital and control Solutions operations unless otherwise noted.
Inmarsat The Companys ordinary shares of Euro 0.0005 each are listed Solutions includes the operations of our subsidiary companies: on the London Stock Exchange LSE: ISAT.
L. Details of the Stratos, Segovia and Ship Equip.
issued share capital of the Company, together with movements in the issued share capital during the year can be found in Principal activities note24 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Group is the leading provider of global mobile satellite communications services MSS, providing data and voice The Company has one class of ordinary share which carries connectivity to end-users worldwide.
We have over 30 years no rights to fixed income.
On a show of hands, each member of experience in designing, launching and operating a satellitepresent at our general meetings has the right to one vote.
With a fleet of 10 owned and operated On a poll, each member is entitled to one vote for each share geosynchronous satellites, we provide a comprehensive of Euro0.0005 held.
There are no specific restrictions on the portfolio of global mobile satellite communications services size of holding or on the transfer of shares, which are both for use on land, at sea and in the air: a broad portfolio of governed by the general provisions of the articles of association remote telecommunications services to end-user customers, and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of offering services over mobile and fixed satellite systems, any arrangements between shareholders that may result in at L-band, Ku-band or VSAT, and through our owned and restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
operated microwave and satellite telecommunications facilities.
No person has any special rights of control over the We also provide secure, end-to-end telecommunication Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
solutions for USgovernment operations worldwide.
On-market purchase Areas of operation On 4 August 2011, the Company announced a US$250m We have several branch and regional offices throughout the on-market share repurchase programme.
The subsidiary and associated undertakings principally 2012, a total of 15,252,658 Inmarsat plc shares had been affecting the profits or net assets of the Group in the year repurchased for a total of US$108.3m of which 1,344,908 shares are listed in note 36 to the consolidated financial statements.
had been repurchased for a total aggregate consideration of A full list of subsidiary undertakings will be attached to US$9.9m between 1 January 2012 and 31 December 2012.
All the Companys next annual return to be submitted to shares purchased were subsequently cancelled.
shares were held during the year.
38 Inmarsat plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2012 2012 Operations Governance Financial statements Directors We maintain open and productive relationships with our The names of the Directors who served during the year, employees by effective communication and employee together with their biographical details and other information engagement through the use of intranets and other are shown in the Board of Directors section on pages 36 and 37. communication channels.
These include regular briefing sessions and discussions with groups of employees.
Two Staff Details of Directors service contracts and letters of Forums and a Works Council are established in some of the appointment and amount of each element of the remuneration operating businesses in accordance with local legislative including share awards of each of the Directors can be found in requirements.
We encourage two-way communications the Remuneration Report.
between employees and management as it enables the views of employees to be taken into account in making We do not have agreements with any Director or Officer that decisions which are likely to affect their interests.
For all would provide compensation for loss of office or employment our offices, appropriate employee relations practices are in resulting from a takeover, except legacy employment place.
Employees are able to join Trades Union organisations agreements for certain senior executives of our subsidiary if they wish.
companies where a change of control provision was in place at the time of our acquisition of the respective subsidiary Participation in the Groups share plans is encouraged and a companies.
The provisions of the Companys share option new employee share savings plan was offered to employees schemes and share plans may cause options and awards in 2012.
Details of employee share awards and option granted under such schemes to vest on a takeover.
schemes can be found on pages 53 to 56 of the Remuneration Report.
Shares acquired through Company share schemes The Directors authorities are determined by UK legislation and and plans rank pari passu with the shares in issue.
All 891,714 the articles of association in force from time to time.
At the 2012 ordinary shares held by the Inmarsat Employee Share AGM, the Directors were authorised by shareholders to allot Ownership Trust carry voting rights.
ordinary shares up to agreed limits and to have the ability to make market purchases of ordinary shares.
Shareholders are Equal opportunities being requested to renew these authorities at the 2013 AGM.
We give full consideration to applications from disabled persons and to the continuing employment of staff that The rules about the appointment and replacement of become disabled, including making reasonable adjustments Directors are contained in the Companys Articles of where appropriate or considering them for alternative positions.
Changes to the Articles of Association must There is significant interest in the United Kingdom currently as be approved by shareholders in accordance with legislation to the numbers of women engaged in management positions in force from time to time.
All Directors will retire and put in business.
Across the Inmarsat Group, women make up themselves forward for re-appointment at the 2013 AGM.
approximately 30% of the workforce, and represent slightly more than 30% of our managers.
We are pleased that this The Directors shareholding details are disclosed in the percentage representation has remained consistent with the Remuneration Report.
None of the Directors have at any time levels reported last year.
had any interests in subsidiary company shares.
Health and safety Indemnities and insurance The Group is committed to maintaining high standards of Inmarsat plc maintains appropriate insurance to cover Directors health and safety for its employees, customers, visitors, and and Officers liability for itself and its subsidiaries as permitted contractors and anyone affected by its business activities.
under the Articles of Association.
The insurance covers During 2012, we have worked closely with our subsidiary individual Directors and Officers personal legal liability and companies to harmonise health and safety best practice.
legal defence costs for claims arising out of actions taken in Rupert Pearce, our CEO, is the Director designated for health connection with Group business.
Neither the insurance nor the and safety matters at Board level.
indemnity provides cover where the Director Officer is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
The Directors, the Significant contracts Company Secretary, and certain employees serving as directors The Group has in place several significant agreements, of subsidiaries at the Groups request have been granted which include, inter alia, its banking and debt arrangements, indemnities on terms consistent with the applicable statutory distribution agreements with its distribution partners DPs, provisions.
No amount has been paid under any of these manufacturing agreements and contracts for the in-orbit indemnities during the year.
Subject to the identity of a third-party bidder, in the event of a change of control following a takeover Employees bid, the Group does not believe that these agreements would Inmarsat has a positive attitude towards the development of all suffer a material adverse effect or be subject to termination.
our employees and does not discriminate between employees However, there are customary clauses in the long-term debt or potential employees on grounds of race, ethnic or national funding agreements specifying that in the event of a change origin, sex, age, marital status or religious beliefs.
Our workforce of control following a takeover bid, the lenders have the option is diverse in that we have more than 45 different nationalities to have the debt repaid under the specific terms of each type amongst our staff.
Inmarsat plc 39 AnnuAl report And Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors For the year ended 31 December 2012 continued The majority of the space segment revenue of Inmarsat Global Policy and practice on payment of creditors is derived from sales to its DPs who operate in accordance with It is our policy to agree terms of payments with suppliers when a suite of agreements regarding the distribution of Inmarsats entering into contracts and to meet our obligations accordingly.
Our subsidiary companies, Stratos and Segovia We do not follow any specific published code or standard on Commercial Services Inc are two of the DPs to whom payment practice.
At 31 December 2012, the Groups trade these distribution agreements apply.
Both have operating creditors represented 62 days equivalent of aggregate amounts agreements with their own customers.
These contracts vary invoiced by suppliers during the year 2011: 66 days.
in monetary value and length of term.
Interests in voting rights In addition, we have significant on-going contracts with As at 7 March 2013, the Company had been notified, in our suppliers regarding the construction of the Alphasat accordance with chapter 5 of the Financial Services Authoritys satellite and its subsequent launch, and for the Global Xpress Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following significant programme which includes the construction of three Ka-band interests: satellites and its related ground infrastructure: and with third parties for the manufacture and production of new terminals Percentage of voting rights for the Alphasat and Global Xpress programmes and also for over ordinary our global satellite phone service GSPS.
shares of 0.0005 each None of the current Directors had a material interest in any Lansdowne Partners Limited 13.38% contract to which the Company or any of its subsidiary BlackRock Inc. 10.00% undertakings was a party during the financial year.
KDDI Corporation 4.85% F&C Asset Management 4.28% Financial instruments Legal and General Group plc 3.81% Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies Allianz SE 3.09% of the Group, including hedging policies and exposure of the Note: Voting rights are based on the information notified as a disclosable interest to the entity to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk are Company, adjusted for the issued share capital as at 7 March 2013. given in notes 3 and 32 to the consolidated financial statements.
Auditors Research and development Each of the Directors has confirmed that: The Group continues to invest in new services and technology i S o far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit necessary to support its activities through research and information of which the Companys Auditors are development programmes.
unaware: and ii T he Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to Charitable and political donations have taken as a Director to make him herself aware of During the year, the Group donated in aggregate US$367,458 any relevant audit information and to establish that the 2011: US$370,889 to charities worldwide.
This amount included Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
a donation of US$200,000 to the telecommunications relief aid organisation, Tlcoms Sans Frontires and a payment of This confirmation is given and should be interpreted US$111,000 to the World Maritime University as part of our inaccordance with the provisions of s418 of the support for the education of maritime specialists.
Inmarsat Global provides satellite telecommunication services and equipment, in conjunction with support offered by its DPs A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as Auditor of the and manufacturers, to service providers and customers in Company and to authorise the Board to determine its support of disaster relief management in affected areas of the remuneration will be proposed at the 2013 AGM.
Our subsidiary companies also made contributions to local charitable causes.
Our CSR report provides further detail 2013 Annual General Meeting about these activities.
The Annual General Meeting will be held on 2 May at 10.00am at 99 City Road, London, EC1Y 1AX.
The Notice of Meeting No political donations were made during the year.
It remains which sets out the resolutions to be proposed at the the policy of the Company not to make political donations or forthcoming AGM is enclosed with this Annual Report.
However, the Directors recognise that occasions arise where it may be in the best interests of By order of the Board shareholders for the Company to be able, if appropriate, to participate in public debate and opinion-forming on matters which affect its business.
To avoid inadvertent infringement of Alison Horrocks FCIS the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, shareholders are Senior Vice President Corporate Governance asked annually to give authority at the Annual General Meeting and Company Secretary for the Company to make political donations and to incur 7 March 2013 political expenditure.
40 Inmarsat plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2012
