Rick Medlock Executive Chairman Chief Financial Officer Dates of Appointment: Chairman December 2003 Date of Appointment: September 2004 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer March 2004 Background and relevant experience: Rick joined Inmarsat in December 2011 2004.
In addition to his CFO responsibilities he is also responsible Executive Chairman January 2012 for the customer services, commercial management and global Committee Membership: Chairman of the Nominations IT functions.
He served as Chief Committee Financial Officer and Company Secretary of NDS Group plc, a provider of digital technology solutions listed on Nasdaq Background and relevant experience: Andy joined Inmarsat in and Euronext for eight years.
His previous career has included December 2003 and held the joint role of Chairman and Chief serving as Chief Financial Officer of several private equity backed Executive Officer until 2011.
He became Executive Chairman in technology companies in the UK and the US.
Andy served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Economics from Cambridge University.
Sprint PCS, a NYSE listed global national wireless carrier for four years, and previously as Chief Executive Officer of NTL Limited.
External Appointments: Non-Executive Director of Momondo His previous career has included various management positions Group Ltd formerly Cheapflights Media Ltd and Edwards with US West and AT&T and as a non-executive director on various Vacuum Ltd. listed companies.
Mr Sukawaty holds a BBA and MBA respectively from the University of Wisconsin and Minnesota.
Sir Bryan Carsberg Independent Non-Executive Director External Appointments: Non-Executive Chairman of Ziggo B. V. Date of Appointment: June 2005 2.
Rupert Pearce Committee Membership: Member of the Audit and Chief Executive Officer Remuneration Committees Dates of Appointment: Executive Director July 2011 Background and relevant experience: Sir Bryan is a Chief Executive Officer January 2012 Chartered Accountant.
He spent eight years as Director General Background and relevant experience: Rupert joined Inmarsat in of the Telecommunications head of Oftel, and then served as January 2005 as Group General Counsel and from January 2009, Director General of Fair Trading and Secretary General of the additionally held the position of Senior Vice President, Inmarsat International Accounting Standards Board.
He became an Executive Director in July 2011 and Chairman of the Council of Loughborough University, a nonCEO in January 2012.
Previously, Rupert worked for Atlas Venture, executive director of Cable and Wireless Communications plc, where he was a partner working with the firms European and RM plc and a non-executive Chairman of MLL Telecom Limited.
He has also been a partner at the He was knighted in January 1989. international law firm Linklaters, where he spent 13 years External Appointments: Novae Group plc.
specialising in corporate finance, mergers & acquisitions and private equity transactions.
Stephen Davidson Rupert received an MA First Class in Modern History from Independent Non-Executive Director Oxford University and won the 1995 Fulbright Fellowship in Date of Appointment: June 2005 U. S. securities law, studying at the Georgetown Law Center.
He Committee Membership: Chairman of the Remuneration has been a visiting fellow of the Imperial College Business School, Committee.
Member of the Audit and the Nominations London lecturing on the schools Entrepreneurship programme, Committees and is the co-author of Raising Venture Capital Wiley.
Background and relevant experience: Stephen was Global Head External Appointments: None of Media and Telecoms Investment Banking and subsequently Vice Chairman of Investment Banking at West LB Panmure.
His previous career has included various senior positions in investment banking.
He was Finance Director, then Chief Executive Officer of Telewest Communications plc and has been Chairman of the Cable Communications Association.
External Appointments: Chairman of Datatec Limited and Mecom Group plc LSE and holds several other non-executive directorships.
36 Inmarsat plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2012 2012 Operations Governance Financial statements 6.
Admiral James Ellis Jr. Rtd 8.
Ambassador Janice Obuchowski Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Date of Appointment: June 2005 Date of Appointment: May 2009 Committee Membership: Member of the Remuneration Committee Membership: Member of the Audit Committee and Nominations Committees Background and relevant experience: Janice held several senior Background and relevant experience: Jims last military positions both in the US government and in the private sector.
assignment was as Commander of the US Strategic Command She was formerly Head of Delegation and US Ambassador to the responsible for the global command and control of US strategic World Radiocommunications Conference, Assistant Secretary forces.
He is a graduate of the US Naval Academy and was for Communications and information at the Department of designated a Naval Aviator in 1971.
He was President and Chief Commerce and Senior Advisor to the Chairman at the Federal Executive Officer of the Institute of Nuclear Power Operations from Communications Commission in the US.
2005 to 2012 and has held a variety of sea and shore assignments External Appointments: Non-Executive Director of Orbital in the US and abroad.
Sciences Corporation and CSG Systems, Inc.
External Appointments: Non-Executive Director of the Lockheed Martin Corporation, Level 3 Communications 9.
John Rennocks and of the not-for-profit Space Foundation.
Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Date of Appointment: January 2005 7.
Kathleen Flaherty Committee Membership: Chairman of the Audit Committee Independent Non-Executive Director and member of the Nominations Committee Date of Appointment: May 2006 Background and relevant experience: John has broad experience Committee Membership: Member of the Remuneration in emerging energy sources, support services and manufacturing.
Committee He served as an Executive Director Finance of a number of Background and relevant experience: Kathleen served on the public companies including British Steel plc Corus Group plc, Board of a number of public companies including Marconi Powergen plc and Smith & Nephew plc.
Corporation plc and Telent plc.
She was President and Chief External Appointments: Non-Executive Chairman of Diploma plc Operating Officer of Winstar International.
Her previous career and Non-Executive Director of Greenko Group plc has included senior roles as Chief Marketing Officer with AT&T and other senior roles with BT and MCI Communications Inc. Kathleen 10.
Alison Horrocks was a Non-Executive Director of GenTek Inc until October 2009.
Senior Vice President Corporate Governance External Appointments: Non-Executive Director of hibu plc LSE.
and Company Secretary A member of the McCormick Advisory Board and its executive Date of Appointment: February 1999 committee of Northwestern University.
Background and relevant experience: Alison joined Inmarsat in 1999 and provides corporate governance advice and acts as Company Secretary to the Board and its Committees.
She is Chairman of the Trustee Company responsible for Inmarsats UK pension plans.
She was Group Company Secretary of International Public Relations plc, a worldwide public relations company, for 11 years prior to joining Inmarsat.
Inmarsat plc 37 AnnuAl report And Accounts 2012
