GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Business Review Our strategy With a portfolio of preferred Brands in the most attractive markets, our talented People are focussed on delivering Great Hotels Guests Love and executing a clear set of priorities to achieve our Vision of becoming one of the great companies in the world Where we compete How we win Portfolio of preferred Brands Relevant consumer segments Talented People Most attractive markets Best-in-class Delivery Appropriate business model Responsible Business A good strategy makes clear choices against a range of business IHGs strategy determines a set of choices to balance the quality of opportunities in order to achieve a set of defined goals.
An IHG branded hotels and the speed at which we grow.
We measure organisation needs to be able to execute these decisions and this through key performance indicators KPIs such as growing measure its success using a clear set of comprehensively RevPAR, System size and fee based margins.
In addition, we ensure aligned metrics.
we continue to improve employee engagement, guest and owner satisfaction and increase the proportion of hotel room demand that we generate for our owners through our proprietary distribution and reservation systems.
Delivering the elements of our strategy Where we compete Competing in relevant consumer segments The hotel industry is usually segmented according to price point and IHG is focussed on the three segments that generate over 90 per cent of branded hotels revenue, namely midscale broadly three star, upscale mostly four star and luxury five star.
However, to build preferred Brands, we believe we need to advance our understanding of our guests and their needs to ensure our brands remain contemporary and relevant.
We have therefore completed a fundamental occasion-based needs segmentation analysis to understand why guests book hotels looking at who they are, the occasion they are travelling for and their needs when travelling.
Many guests no longer have a single purpose for their hotel stay for example, business trips turn into family holidays, and we need to meet these demands, focussing more on the needs of our guests, to deliver loyalty and brand preference.
We used this analysis to develop the brand proposition for our two new brands, HUALUXE Hotels & Resorts and EVEN Hotels, and we continue to work on this needs-based segmentation to help inform our view of the hotel market and our brand strategies going forward.
Competing in the most attractive markets Our strategy is to build preferred Brands with scale positions in the most attractive markets globally.
Concentrating growth in the largest markets means IHG and owners can operate more efficiently and benefit from enhanced revenues and reduced costs.
Our key markets include large developed markets such as the US, UK and Germany, as well as emerging markets like China and India.
The US is the largest market for branded hotels, with 3.38 million rooms, accounting for 69 per cent of all US rooms available.
The segment in the US with the greatest share is midscale, with 1.38 million branded hotel rooms, and IHGs Holiday Inn brand family, comprising Holiday Inn, Holiday Inn Express, Holiday Inn Club Vacations and Holiday Inn Resort, is the largest brand in this segment.
In China, IHG sees the greatest opportunity for growth of any single country and our strategy has been to enter the market early, to develop our relationships with key local third party owners and grow our presence rapidly.
In a country with 659,000 branded hotel rooms, IHG is the largest international hotel company with over 61,000 rooms across our brands and more than 50,000 in the planning phase or under construction.
This rapid pace of openings for IHG has been in anticipation of increasing demand for hotels, driven by a large, emerging middle class and growing domestic and international travel.
IHG is also focussed on developing in other high priority markets.
We seek to develop our portfolio of brands in those markets which will be sources of strong hotel demand in the future.
We have continued to build our position in these markets in the last year.
For example, we increased the distribution of our core brands in India, building upon our leadership position of Holiday Inn.
In Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent States CIS, there are opportunities for new construction and conversions as well as strong demand for branded hotels.
IHG continues to adapt its business model by market, choosing partnerships and joint ventures where appropriate.
Outside the largest markets, we focus on building presence in key gateway cities where our brands can generate revenue premiums from high business and leisure demand.
During 2012, we opened 33,922 rooms in 26 countries and territories, and signed a further 53,812 rooms into our development pipeline hotels in planning and under construction but not yet opened across 33 countries and territories.
As part of our ongoing commitment to maintaining the quality of our brands, we removed 16,288 rooms during the year.
As at 31 December 2012, IHG had the second largest pipeline in the industry, with 169,030 rooms in 1,053 hotels across 60 countries and territories.
This represents a market share of 12 per cent of all hotels under development, including those that are independent or unaffiliated with a brand.
Industry overview and Our strategy 11 Business Review: Our strategy continued Competing with an appropriate business model Brand Marketing and Hotel ownership distribution Staff ownership IHG capital IHG income Franchised IHG IHG Third-party Third-party None Fee % of rooms This is the largest part of our revenue business: 3,934 hotels operate under franchise agreements Managed IHG IHG IHG usually Third-party Low none Fee % of total supplies revenue plus We manage 658 hotels COPY TO COME General % of profit worldwide Manager as a minimum Owned and leased IHG IHG IHG IHG High All revenues and profits We own 10 hotels worldwide less than one per cent of our portfolio As can be seen in the diagrams above and below, our business model operating profit from owned and leased hotels, managed leases and is focussed on franchising and managing hotels, rather than owning significant liquidated damages.
them, enabling us to grow at an accelerated pace with limited capital Currently 86 per cent of our Group operating profit before regional and investment.
This allows IHG to focus on building strong, preferred central overheads and exceptional items is derived from franchised Brands based on relevant consumer needs, leaving asset management and managed operations.
In some situations, IHG supports its brands and real estate to our local third party owners with the necessary by using its capital to build or support the funding of flagship assets in expertise.
With this asset-light approach, IHG also benefits from high-demand locations in order to drive growth.
We plan to recycle the reduced volatility of fee based income streams, as compared with capital by selling these assets when the time is right and to reinvest the ownership of assets.
It allows IHG to focus on building strong elsewhere in the business and across our portfolio.
Delivery systems such as our branded hotel websites and call On 6 November 2012, we announced that the InterContinental London centres, creating greater returns for owners.
Park Lane would be the next hotel considered for sale and that A key characteristic of the franchised and managed business discussions regarding the disposal of the InterContinental New York model is that it is highly cash generative, with a high return on Barclay were progressing and would be opened to a wider group of capital employed.
It enables us to focus on growing our fee revenue prospective buyers.
Group revenue excluding owned and leased hotels, managed We continue to invest for growth, strengthening both our existing leases and significant liquidated damages and fee based margins brands and launching new ones.
operating profit as a percentage of revenue, excluding revenue and IHG global hotel count by ownership type IHG continuing operating profit by ownership type at 31 December 2012 for the year ended 31 December 2012 Franchised 61% Franchised 3,934 hotels Managed 658 hotels Managed 25% Owned and leased 10 hotels Owned and leased 14% Before regional and central overheads and exceptional items How we win Winning with a portfolio of preferred Brands We aim to build a portfolio of brands that are bigger, better, and stronger: As of 31 December 2012, IHGs portfolio comprised the following brands: Bigger means we have prioritised our growth strategy to Our new brands build brand scale and leverage this scale through greater EVEN Hotels was launched in February 2012 following extensive operational efficiency.
customer research in order to create a brand that meets travellers holistic wellness needs.
EVEN Hotels is aimed at business and leisure Better means a focus on continuous improvement in how we travellers who are looking for a wellness experience in a hotel stay develop and deliver our brands to ensure guest needs are met with a consistent, high-quality experience.
IHG is investing up to $150 million in establishing the brand, owning and managing the first hotels to ensure Stronger means a focus on driving brand preference among the brand achieves its potential and market share growth in the US.
guests, owners, investors and employees.
During 2012, IHG signed the first EVEN hotel located in the heart of As part of our commitment to deliver against our brand strategy, midtown Manhattan, New York.
in 2012, IHG launched two unique new brands to the market, which complement our overall portfolio of brands.
12 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION HUALUXE Hotels & Resorts was officially launched in March 2012 Holiday Inn Club Vacations, our timeshare business in North and is the first international upscale hotel brand designed specifically America, provides guests with all the benefits of a vacation home for Chinese guests, to take advantage of both the supply and demand with none of the hassle.
It expanded its portfolio in 2012 with the side opportunities we see in China.
The brand is tailored to address opening of three new resorts, including a new 658-room resort in the specific needs of domestic Chinese guests focussing on the Las Vegas, Nevada.
unique aspects of Chinese etiquette, the importance of rejuvenation, Holiday Inn Resort is our Holiday Inn resort proposition with 37 status recognition and local customs and heritage.
It will enable us properties currently in the portfolio, for guests who work hard but to expand in Chinas key gateway cities but will also drive growth in also want to lead a balanced life.
Seven new resorts opened in 2012, its secondary cities where a specifically Chinese offer is appealing.
including the Holiday Inn Resort Changbaishan in China.
The brand could open in key global gateway cities in the future as Holiday Inn Express is a brand for the traveller looking for efficiency.
outbound travellers from China are forecasted to reach 100 million in The brand offers a straightforward, uncomplicated guest experience the next 10-15 years.
During 2012, we signed 15 hotels for the brand.
providing the things a guest needs, and is delivered in a way that is Our established brands stimulating and engaging.
As one of the worlds fastest growing hotel InterContinental Hotels & Resorts is IHGs luxury brand located in brands, it is geared to the smart business or private traveller who key cities and resort destinations across more than 60 countries appreciates value without compromising on comfort and style.
The brands ethos is to empower guests to share their continued to grow the brand in all regions with 114 new openings in knowledge to enjoy great experiences that enrich their lives.
Hotels 2012, including hotels in Thailand and India.
under this brand tend to be managed by IHG.
In 2012, we opened six Staybridge Suites is IHGs upscale extended stay brand for guests more properties around the world, including the InterContinental on longer trips, offering studios and suites complete with full London-Westminster in the UK, the InterContinental Sanctuary Cove kitchens and separate sleeping and work areas in a sociable, Resort, IHGs first InterContinental Resort in Australia, and two new family-like atmosphere.
During 2012, Staybridge Suites opened 11 resorts in Asia InterContinental Samui Baan Taling Ngam Resort hotels, including the prominent Staybridge Suites London-Stratford in Thailand and InterContinental Danang Sun Peninsula Resort in City as part of IHGs London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games Vietnam.
We also signed 10 hotels in 2012. legacy, taking the total number of Staybridge Suites hotels to 189.
Crowne Plaza Hotels & Resorts is IHGs upscale brand and is In 2012, 17 Staybridge Suites hotels under IHGs management currently the fourth largest full-service hotel brand in the upper were renovated as part of a renovation programme with the owner, segments with nearly 400 hotels and resorts in 66 countries.
Hotels under this brand tend to be brand continues to appeal to business travellers, providing facilities under franchised and management contracts.
and services that cater to these types of travellers.
We continue to Candlewood Suites is IHGs midscale extended stay brand in North progress the three-phase, multi-year Crowne Plaza repositioning America and is primarily franchised by IHG.
As part of IHGs commitment to strengthen the brand, to provide guests with a home-like stay at great value.
A trust system quality audits have been carried out at almost all Crowne Plaza has always prevailed for this brand the Candlewood Cupboard hotels in The Americas and Europe and we have been actively which is a convenient place for our guests to stock up on essentials managing the estate in order to drive brand consistency.
Crowne and treats on an honour system and our newly launched Lending Plaza also saw significant growth in 2012, particularly in China with Locker, which enables guests to borrow kitchen apparatuses, such eight new hotel openings making it the largest international upscale as coffee grinders.
During 2012, 59 Candlewood Suites hotels under brand in China.
management by IHG were renovated with the owner, Hospitality Hotel Indigo is our boutique brand, and the worlds first global boutique Properties Trust, as part of our commitment to deliver a great brand hotel brand focussed on guests who appreciate art and design and who for guests.
We opened 12 hotels during 2012, taking the total number want to experience something different.
Hotel Indigo provides guests of Candlewood Suites hotels to 299. with the refreshing design and service experience synonymous with a boutique hotel, aligned with the local neighbourhood story.
During 2012, External recognition we opened 13 Hotel Indigo properties, six in The Americas, two in We have received a number of awards for our brands and hotels Greater China and five in Europe, expanding the brands footprint.
during 2012, including the following: In 2012, the brand also reached its 50th hotel milestone with the InterContinental Hotels & Resorts was named 2012 World openings of Hotel Indigo London Kensington-Earls Court in the UK Travel Awards Worlds Leading Hotel Brand for the fourth and Hotel Indigo New Orleans Garden District in the US.
year running and Worlds Leading Business Hotel Brand for The Holiday Inn brand family, which comprises Holiday Inn, Holiday the second year running: Inn Club Vacations, Holiday Inn Resort and Holiday Inn Express, is InterContinental Hotels & Resorts won Best Business Hotel the worlds largest midscale hotel brand by number of rooms at Brand in the World at the 2012 Business Traveller Awards 31 December 2012.
It is the largest brand in IHGs portfolio Asia-Pacific Awards for the third year running: predominantly operating under franchise agreements in The Holiday Inn was ranked Highest in Guest Satisfaction Among Americas and Europe and management agreements elsewhere.
Mid-Scale Full Service Hotel Chains, Two Years in a Row by Holiday Inn is for the contemporary traveller looking for innovative J. D. Power and Associates see page 141 : comfort in a relaxing hotel environment.
Holiday Inn aims to provide Hotel Indigo Shanghai on the Bund was named Best Boutique guests familiarity, convenience and reliability while supporting and Hotel in Asia-Pacific at the 2012 Business Traveller Asia-Pacific meeting all guest needs.
As official hotel provider to the London 2012 Awards: and Olympic and Paralympic Games, we opened the Holiday Inn Hotel Indigo San Diego Gaslamp Quarter featured as one of the London-Stratford City.
In 2012, the brand celebrated its 60th Top 25 Hotels in Southern California in the Cond Nast 2012 anniversary and we opened our largest Holiday Inn to date the Readers Choice Awards.
stunning Holiday Inn Macao Cotai Central in China with 1,224 rooms.
Our strategy 13 Business Review: Our strategy continued Winning with our talented People IHG believes that our preferred Brands are brought to life by our Making IHG a great place to work: We believe in treating people talented and passionate People.
Therefore to deliver on our brand as individuals and celebrating achievements.
In our employer promise, we must attract, retain and develop the very best talent brand, we call this Room to be yourself and this commitment in the industry to service our guests and bring our Brands to life.
is brought to life by four key promises as explained on pages 31 and 32.
IHG continues to be recognised around the globe as an IHG directly employed an average of 7,981 people worldwide in the employer of choice.
year ended 31 December 2012, whose costs were borne by the Group.
When the whole of IHGs estate is taken into account including staff Delivering world-class People Tools to our owners: By working in the franchised and managed hotels over 350,000 people partnering with the hotel human resources community, we have worked globally across all IHGs brands as at 31 December 2012. developed a set of award-winning People Tools that not only help increase employee retention and guest satisfaction but also drive The four pillars of our People strategy are: efficiencies and increase revenue for our owners.
Developing a BrandHearted culture: Our brands are brought to Building a strong leadership team: To grow our business life by our talented and passionate People and we have focussed sustainably and responsibly, we need a strong BrandHearted on developing and improving our tools, to make it easy for our leadership team.
Therefore, we have created a Leadership People to deliver the brand promise.
In 2012, we launched a new Framework, which clearly defines what great leadership looks brand framework focussed on transforming our brand standards like to help develop our leaders of tomorrow.
and looked at how we manage projects all part of developing a BrandHearted culture.
Being the first hotel company to be trusted to run the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Village was a groundbreaking opportunity for IHG, giving our People the opportunity to benefit from new skills and experiences.
See pages 30 to 33 for more information.
Winning with our best-in-class Delivery During 2012, IHG remained focussed on driving guests room nights Social media has also changed the way in which we communicate to its hotels and its portfolio of brands.
IHG leverages its size and with guests and with our stakeholders in general.
Our new Guest scale to drive demand to its hotels, executing a multi-channel Ratings and Review tool launched on our websites in 2012 enables strategy that enables guests to search and book in the most guests to share their thoughts about their hotel experiences so appropriate mode for them, either over the phone, by computer or that other future guests can take this into account during the via an application on a mobile device.
We maximise the demand we booking process.
deliver through these channels through advanced techniques that Priority Club Rewards manage revenue per booking, drive customer loyalty and maximise Priority Club Rewards was the hotel industrys first loyalty owner returns.
programme and is the largest of its kind in the world with 71.4 million Our channels and loyalty programme, Priority Club Rewards, are the members at the end of 2012, an increase of 13 per cent during the engine of our business, and in 2012 delivered on average 69 per cent year.
In 2012, it won Premier Traveler magazines inaugural award for of total rooms revenue direct to hotel.
Best Hotel Loyalty Program and Global Traveler magazines award for Best Hotel Rewards Program for the eighth consecutive year.
Our channels As part of our multi-channel strategy, we aim to drive revenue and We also leverage sales and marketing expertise in order to support bookings using our direct channels.
During 2012, hotel revenue our multi-channel strategy.
The System Fund is a $1.2 billion fund of generated through our websites increased to $3.4 billion whilst our cash assessments and contributions, collected by IHG from hotels global call centres answered more than 23 million inbound contacts within the IHG System, and proceeds from the sale of Priority Club and drove more than $1.9 billion in revenue for our hotels.
The System Fund is managed by IHG for the benefit of hotels in the IHG System with the objective of driving revenues for Mobile communications are also having profound effects on the hotel the hotels.
It is therefore used to pay for marketing, the Priority Club industry and IHG has been quick to adapt to these new channels with Rewards loyalty programme and the global reservation system.
significant growth in revenue generated through our branded mobile applications, across all major platforms, rising from $2.4 million in As a result of the power of our revenue delivery systems, IHG has 2009 to more than $330 million in 2012. built strong relationships with its owners.
These relationships are founded on the ability to deliver high returns to owners using We are also a founding member of roomkey.
com, which was premium revenue generating products.
IHG meets with the IHG launched in 2012 as the first industry-owned hotel metasearch Owners Association on a regular basis to facilitate the continued engine, providing another innovative channel to drive guest nights development of IHGs brands and systems.
A message from the to our brands.
IHG Owners Association can be found on page 7.
14 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Scale Brand portfolio Priority Club Rewards Web Mobile 4,602 hotels Nine preferred 71.4 million members, 13 language sites 157 million room nights hotel brands contributing over $7.2 billion to six language apps annually global system rooms revenue Revenue Management Food and beverage World-class Over $4.7 billion of food 69% systems and beverage revenue and room revenue delivery over 4,500 outlets worldwide Reservations systems Market coverage Sales force System Fund 10 call centres In nearly 100 countries 17,600 sales professionals Annual fund totalling $1.2 billion 12 languages and territories 2,020 accounts to maintain marketing and systems that generate demand for our hotels Winning with our Responsible Business practices With over 4,600 hotels in nearly 100 countries and territories around hotels and our compliance teams ensure that our hotels deliver in the world, our commitment to being a Responsible Business is accordance with these.
Our brand safety standards assist hotels central to our Vision of becoming one of the great companies in the in providing a safe and secure environment for our guests and world.
Our People understand how important it is to champion and employees.
Our Corporate Responsibility programmes have also protect the trusted reputation of IHG and its brands and this is been designed so that they can be implemented throughout our embedded in our culture.
We believe that being a Responsible hotel brands and corporate offices in any region.
Information on Business is necessary to enable us to stay ahead of the competition our approach to Corporate Responsibility can be found on pages and grow, creating value for all of our shareholders and stakeholders 34 to 37. in the long term.
Amongst other things, it offers us a huge opportunity People to innovate, create employment, empower people to perform at their At the core of being a Responsible Business is ensuring that the best and feel good about what they do, and drive value for our business.
actions of all of our employees working at our corporate offices and Thats why, for us, Responsible Business underpins each of our three hotels maintain our trusted reputation.
Operating an ethical business strategic corporate priorities of preferred Brands, talented People is vital to maintaining and protecting this trusted reputation and and best-in-class Delivery, which work together to determine How therefore we continually keep under review our internal policies We Win to create Great Hotels Guests Love.
and training to promote understanding, awareness, accountability Governance and leadership and transparency.
Our Chairman and the Board and its Committees provide a strong Delivery leadership and promote a responsible business culture, by Having in place an effective system of internal controls and risk maintaining high standards in corporate governance, corporate management is essential to being a Responsible Business.
Our tools, responsibility and internal controls and risk management.
Information processes and procedures ensure a business based on a solid on our Board and governance processes can be found on pages foundation with a commitment to doing the right thing for the benefit 45 to 80. of all our stakeholders.
Information on our risk management Brands processes can be found on pages 38 to 44.
Trusted brands deliver a superior and consistent brand experience and to achieve this, we require a clear brand framework.
Brand standards are the foundations of a clear brand framework for all our Our strategy 15
