Governance The Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 1 Patrick Cescau, Non-Executive Chairman 2 Richard Solomons, Chief Executive Appointed to the Board: 1 January 2013 Appointed to the Board: 10 February 2003 Skills and Experience: From 2005 to 2008, Patrick was Group Chief Skills and Experience: A chartered accountant and a member of Executive of Unilever Group, having previously been Chairman of the Executive Committee of the World Travel & Tourism Council.
From Unilever PLC, Vice-Chairman of Unilever NV and Foods Director, following 2003 to 2011 Richard was Chief Financial Officer and Head of Commercial a progressive career with the Company, which began in France in 1973.
Since joining the Group in 1992 he has held a variety of Prior to being appointed to the Board of Unilever NV in 1999, as Finance senior financial and operational roles, including Chief Operating Officer Director, he was Chairman of a number of the Companys major operating of The Americas Hotels division and Finance Director of the Hotels companies and divisions, including in the USA, Indonesia and Portugal.
business prior to the separation of Six Continents PLC in April 2003.
He became Chief Executive in July 2011.
Board Contribution: Patrick has held Board positions for more than 12 years in leading global businesses and brings extensive Board Contribution: Richard has extensive experience in finance international experience in brands, consumer products, as well as and is responsible for the executive management of the Group and finance.
As Chairman, Patrick is responsible for leading the Board and ensuring the implementation of Board strategy and policy.
ensuring it operates in an effective manner and promoting constructive 3 Tom Singer, Chief Financial Officer relations with shareholders.
Appointed to the Board: 26 September 2011 Other Appointments: Currently a Non-Executive Director of International Skills and Experience: Prior to joining the Group, Tom was Group Consolidated Airlines Group S. A. and the Senior Independent Director Finance Director and a main board member of Bupa, a global healthcare and Non-Executive Director of Tesco PLC.
Patrick is also a trustee of the provider.
Previously Group Finance Director and Chief Operating Officer Leverhulme Trust and Chairman of the St Jude India Childrens Charity.
at William Hill PLC and Finance Director at Moss Bros Group PLC.
He was formerly a Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive Director of Pearson PLC and a Director at INSEAD.
Board Contribution: Tom has extensive financial experience obtained from UK and international finance roles.
He is responsible, together with the Board, for overseeing the financial operations of the Group and setting its financial strategy.
46 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OV OVE ER RV VI IE EW W BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 4 Kirk Kinsell, President, The Americas 8 Jonathan Linen, Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board: 1 August 2010 Appointed to the Board: 1 December 2005 Skills and Experience: Kirk has 30 years experience in the hospitality Skills and Experience: Jonathan was formerly Vice Chairman of the industry, including senior franchise positions with Holiday Inn American Express Company, having held a range of senior positions Corporation and ITT Sheraton.
He joined the Group in 2002 as Senior throughout his career of over 35 years with American Express.
Vice President, Chief Development Officer for The Americas region.
Board Contribution: Jonathan has over 25 years experience working He became an Executive Committee member in September 2007 and in the financial and branded sectors and is a member of the was previously President, Europe, Middle East and Africa until June 2011.
Board Contribution: Kirk has vast experience in the hospitality industry Other Appointments: Currently a Non-Executive Director of Yum!
and is responsible for the business development and performance of all Brands, Inc. and Modern Bank, N. A. a US private banking company.
the hotel brands and properties in The Americas region.
Jonathan also serves on a number of US councils and advisory boards.
5 Tracy Robbins, Executive Vice President, Human Resources 9 Luke Mayhew, Independent Non-Executive Director and Group Operations Support Appointed to the Board: 1 July 2011 Appointed to the Board: 9 August 2011 Skills and Experience: Luke is currently a Non-Executive Director of Skills and Experience: Tracy has over 27 years experience in human Brambles Limited, a global provider of supply chain and information resources roles in service industries.
She joined the Group in management solutions.
Previously he served for 12 years on the Board December 2005 from Compass Group PLC, a world-leading food of John Lewis Partnership, including as Managing Director of the service company, where she was Group Human Resources Leadership Department Store Division.
Luke also spent five years at British Airways & Development Director.
Previously Group HR Director for Forte Hotels PLC and seven years at Thomas Cook Group PLC in senior positions.
She also spent seven years at Tesco PLC as a Retail Human He was also a Non-Executive Director of WH Smith PLC and Chairman Resources Manager where she implemented a culture change and of Pets at Home Group Limited.
Board Contribution: Luke has over 30 years experience in senior Board Contribution: Tracy has many years of experience in human roles in the branded sector and is Remuneration Committee chairman resources and is responsible for global talent management, leadership at Brambles Limited and has been since 2006.
As Chairman of development, employee reward strategy and implementation, the IHG Remuneration Committee he is responsible for setting the organisational capability and operations support.
Other Appointments: Currently a Non-Executive Director of 6 David Kappler, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Brambles Limited.
Appointed to the Board: 21 June 2004 Skills and Experience: David is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of 10 Dale Morrison, Independent Non-Executive Director Management Accountants.
Formerly Chief Financial Officer of Cadbury Appointed to the Board: 1 June 2011 Schweppes plc and Non-Executive Chairman of Premier Foods plc.
Skills and Experience: A founding partner of TriPointe Capital Partners, He also served as a Non-Executive Director of Camelot Group plc and a private equity firm.
Dale was previously President and Chief Executive HMV Group plc.
Officer of McCain Foods Limited and President and Chief Executive Officer Board Contribution: David brings over 35 years knowledge and of Campbell Soup Company.
experience in financial reporting, risk management and internal financial Board Contribution: Dale has over 10 years experience in sales controls.
As Chairman of the Audit Committee he is responsible for and marketing positions, and over 25 years experience in general leading the Committee to ensure effective internal controls and risk management, having held senior positions in the branded foods sector.
management systems are in place.
Other Appointments: Currently a Non-Executive Director of International Other Appointments: David is a Non-Executive Director of Shire plc, Flavors & Fragrances Inc. a producer of flavours and fragrances, and a member of the Europe Advisory Council of Trilantic Capital Partners Chairman of Findus Group Limited, a frozen food company.
and Chairman of ADS2 Brands Limited.
11 Ying Yeh, Independent Non-Executive Director 7 Jennifer Laing, Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board: 1 December 2007 Appointed to the Board: 25 August 2005 Skills and Experience: Ying was formerly Vice President and Chairman, Skills and Experience: Jennifer was Associate Dean, External Relations Greater China Region, Nalco Company and Chairman and President, at London Business School, until 2007.
A fellow of the Marketing Society North Asia Region, President, Business Development, Asia Pacific Region and of the Institute of Practitioners in Advertising, she has over 30 years and Vice President, Eastman Kodak Company.
She was, for 15 years, a experience in advertising including 16 years with Saatchi & Saatchi.
diplomat with the US Foreign Service in Hong Kong and Beijing until 1997.
Board Contribution: Jennifer has over 30 years experience in marketing Board Contribution: Ying has over 20 years experience gained from and advertising and is Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility working in senior positions in global organisations across a broad range Committee, responsible for the Corporate Responsibility objectives of sectors.
Other Appointments: Currently a Non-Executive Director of AB Volvo, Other Appointments: Currently a Non-Executive Director of Hudson a transportation related products and services company, ABB Ltd, Global, Inc. a US human resources company and Premier Foods plc, a global leader in power and automation technologies, and Samsonite a branded food producer.
International S. A. a travel luggage company.
Audit Committee member Corporate Responsibility Committee member Nomination Committee member Remuneration Committee member The Board of Directors 47
