GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Delivering Great Hotels Guests Love The IHG Owners Association is continuing to strengthen its alignment Preferred Talented Best-in-class with IHG weve been on this journey for Brands People Delivery nearly 60 years, and this latest chapter is perhaps the most exciting yet.
Responsible Business practice In autumn 2012, the Executive Committee of the IHG Owners Invest in growth Association and the IHG Executive Grow market share Sustainable margin growth Committee met in Oklahoma City to fashion a plan that launched this latest chapter.
Together we agreed to rene service, irrespective of ownership model.
industry-owned online hotel search the focus of our work and established This is a complex task and our success engine.
Revenues from mobile devices five key priorities around which to has required significant innovation and generated $330 million in 2012.
During organise our work: effort as we have worked hand-in-hand 2012, Holiday Inn was the first major 1. deliver the strongest brand portfolio with our owners to deliver on it.
hotel brand to launch a travel app on the in the industry: Windows 8 platform.
In 2012, 69 per cent Our suite of People Tools help our owners 2. deliver the strongest set of tools of total rooms revenue was delivered and General Managers to develop a in the industry: through IHGs channels, including our BrandHearted culture, make IHG and its 3. develop the strongest approach call centres and websites, and our hotels a great place to work and deliver the to standards in the industry: award-winning Priority Club Rewards brand promise to our guests.
To support 4. develop the strongest General programme.
This is the largest loyalty and communities and aid recruitment we have Manager talent in the industry: and rewards programme in the industry with developed the IHG Academy programme, 5. maintain the strongest reputation 71.4 million members worldwide and is a which is a collaboration between IHG for doing business the right way.
very important way in which we retain and hotels or corporate ofces and local reward loyal guests.
In 2012 Priority As a result of establishing these focussed education providers and or community Club Rewards members accounted for priorities, the IHG Owners Association organisations around the world, providing 41 per cent of the revenue generated in is reorganising its committee structure the opportunity to develop skills and our hotels.
Our scale advantage means to work towards this shared vision.
We Our goal is to work closely with IHG that we can offer guests more choice, celebrated the opening of our 150th IHG to increase owner margins by which better meet their needs, and this Academy in January this year and to date strengthening the IHG brands.
is a key driver of our outperformance.
over 10,000 participants have benefited We plan to begin by working in three from the IHG Academy programme.
Looking forward we remain confident.
specic areas: energise General Despite the uncertain economy in some We continue to be rewarded for our efforts Managers to be our brand promise markets, long-term travel trends are in this area and have been recognised in keepers: master the IHG revenue tools positive, particularly in developing The Sunday Times 25 Best Big Companies in every hotel: and relentlessly pursue markets such as China and Asia generally.
to Work For in 2012, as well as winning a these brand standards that matter.
The drivers of demand in the hotel number of other awards globally.
IHG owners are proud of their hotels, industry remain positive and IHG is and the IHG Owners Association is proud Best-in-class Delivery well-placed to benefit from these as we to work with IHG.
Our mutual focus on continue to deliver against our clearly IHG provides our hotels with a powerful strengthening the IHG brands gives us dened strategy with preferred Brands combination of best-in-class revenue the greatest opportunity to increase delivered by talented People and platforms, programmes and tools with hotel value and owner margins.
best-in-class Delivery systems, all which to drive profitable revenue to our Mike Hembree underpinned by our strong governance branded hotels what we call our System.
2013 Chairman structure and Responsible Business The scale and power of this System IHG Owners Association practices.
enables us to outperform by creating, converting, yielding and retaining demand.
We continue to lead industry innovation, and this can be seen in our progress with For information on the mobile and web booking solutions.
We are IHG Owners Association a founding member of roomkey.
com, Richard Solomons go to www.
org which was launched in 2012 as the first Chief Executive Chief Executives Review 7
