Preferred Brands Delivering nine preferred hotel Brands: a portfolio that covers everything from luxury hotels in the worlds major cities and resorts to reliable family-orientated hotels that offer great service and value.
Holiday Inn EVEN Hotels InterContinental Hotels & Resorts Weve been on the international scene for over Our guests appreciate innovation, but they also EVEN Hotels uniquely provides solutions for all want to be comfortable, both emotionally and aspects of business and leisure travellers holistic 60 years, so no-one knows the world like we do.
Located in more than 60 countries, we know physically.
The Holiday Inn brand promise is to wellness needs.
Our guests want to maintain their that well-travelled, afuent guests want to be deliver comfort in a way that is new, yet familiar.
balance and well-being on the road and were connected to whats special about a destination.
1,200 hotels 170 hotels 1 hotel in development pipeline 218,981 rooms 57,314 rooms 231 hotels in development pipeline 48 hotels in development pipeline Holiday Inn Club Vacations We give our guests all of the benets of a vacation home with none of the hassle.
While staying with Staybridge Suites us, they dont have to compromise on space or daily routines.
We provide guests with a warm and welcoming environment and the modern comforts of Crowne Plaza Hotels & Resorts 10 hotels home-like surroundings.
Our guests are high achievers that strive to be 3,701 rooms 189 hotels successful in everything they do.
We provide the Holiday Inn Resort facilities and service they need to help them on 20,696 rooms their upward journey.
We offer effortless choice for a relaxing break that 71 hotels in development pipeline is safe and inviting, where everyone has activities 392 hotels with indulgent touches along the way.
108,307 rooms 37 hotels 98 hotels in development pipeline 8,806 rooms 12 hotels in development pipeline Candlewood Suites Our guests turn to us for all the comforts of home when home is temporarily left behind.
Guests have the space to stretch out and relax, with on-site amenities and services always available.
HUALUXE Hotels & Resorts HUALUXE Hotels & Resorts is the first upscale 299 hotels Holiday Inn Express international hotel brand designed specifically for 28,675 rooms Chinese guests focussing on unique aspects of Our guests want a straightforward, uncomplicated Chinese etiquette, the importance of rejuvenation, 78 hotels in development pipeline experience, delivered in an engaging manner.
A status recognition and enabling spaces that hotel that provides just what they need enabling reect local customs and heritage.
them to manage their money wisely and stay smart.
15 hotels in development pipeline 2,192 hotels 205,631 rooms 452 hotels in development pipeline Hotel lndigo Our guests appreciate art and design, the latest fashion and new experiences.
They are looking for the individuality and style of a boutique hotel, but with the reliability and consistency of a big brand company.
50 hotels 5,661 rooms 47 hotels in development pipeline 8 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
