Governance Executive Committee 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 In addition to the Executive Directors on the Board, the Executive Committee comprises: 1 Keith Barr, Chief Executive, Greater China 5 Jan Smits, Chief Executive, Asia, Middle East and Africa Joined the Group: 2000 Joined the Group: 2002 Skills and Experience: Keith has over 20 years experience in the Skills and Experience: Jan has 31 years experience in the hospitality hospitality industry.
He has held senior appointments including Vice industry.
He held various senior positions in the Asia and Australasia President of Sales and Revenue Management, Vice President of region.
He became Managing Director, Asia Australasia in June 2009.
Operations and Chief Operating Officer, Australia, New Zealand and Following the amalgamation of our Middle East and Africa region South Pacific.
He was appointed Managing Director, Greater China in with our Asia Australasia region, he became Chief Executive, Asia, June 2009 and became Chief Executive, Greater China in April 2011.
Middle East and Africa in August 2011.
Key Responsibilities: These include business development and Key Responsibilities: These include business development and performance performance of all the hotel brands and properties in the Greater of all the hotel brands and properties in Asia, Middle East and Africa.
6 George Turner, Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Company Secretary 2 Angela Brav, Chief Executive, Europe Joined the Group: 1988 Joined the Group: 2008 Skills and Experience: Angela has over 24 years experience in the Skills and Experience: George is a solicitor and qualified to private hospitality industry, including hotel operations, franchise relations and practice in 1995.
Prior to joining the Group, George spent 12 years with technology solutions.
She has held various senior roles in the Groups Imperial Chemical Industries PLC where he held a number of key positions US and European businesses prior to becoming Chief Operating Officer, including Deputy Company Secretary.
He was appointed Executive Vice North America.
She was appointed Chief Executive, Europe in August 2011.
President, General Counsel and Company Secretary in January 2009.
Key Responsibilities: These include corporate governance, risk Key Responsibilities: These include business development and performance of all the hotel brands and properties in Europe.
management, insurance, regulatory, internal audit, legal, corporate responsibility and public affairs.
3 Larry Light, Chief Brands Officer 7 Steven Sickel, Interim Global Head of Sales and Distribution Joined the Group: 2012 Joined the Group: 2000 Skills and Experience: Larry is one of the worlds leading brand consultants and was formerly Chief Marketing Officer for McDonalds.
Skills and Experience: Steven has over 20 years experience in sales and marketing.
Prior to joining the Group over 12 years ago, he was Managing Larry has held previous executive roles in media, marketing and advertising for BBDO Worldwide and Ted Bates Advertising and has made many Director, Loyalty Marketing at Continental Airlines for eight years.
academic contributions on branding principles and methods.
Key Responsibilities: Has interim responsibility for revenue management, revenue systems and worldwide sales, in addition to his Key Responsibilities: These include building on the Groups strategy of developing and nurturing a powerful portfolio of preferred Brands.
existing responsibilities as Senior Vice President, Distribution Relationship Marketing, where he is responsible for e-commerce, reservations and 4 Eric Pearson, Executive Vice President and loyalty programmes.
Chief Information Officer In April 2013 Kenneth MacPherson will join the Group as Chief Executive, Greater Joined the Group: 1997 China having previously been General Manager and Board Director of Sichuan Skills and Experience: Eric has a background in engineering and Shuijingfang Company Ltd, a Diageo joint venture in China.
With effect from 1 June technology and started his career at IHG over 15 years ago.
Since 2013 Keith Barr will be appointed to the newly created position of Chief Commercial then he has held various senior positions in the field of emerging Officer, responsible for brands, sales, marketing and distribution, and will remain a member of the Executive Committee.
During the transition Larry Light will continue technologies and global e-commerce.
Eric most recently held the in his role as Chief Brands Officer and as a member of the Executive Committee.
position of Chief Marketing Officer for The Americas region.
Following the transition Larry will stay on as a senior IHG advisor.
Key Responsibilities: These include global technology, including IT systems and information management, throughout the Group.
Steven Sickel, who has been an interim member of the Executive Committee, will return to his full-time role leading Distribution Relationship Marketing in June 2013.
48 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012
