42 Interserve AnnuAl report 2012 GovernAnCe dIreCtors report dIreCtors report The Board aims to provide a balanced and understandable Computershare Nominees Channel Islands Limited formerly assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
It held in the name of Greenwood Nominees Limited in respect uses the Chairmans Statement and the explanation of of the dividend paid in May 2012 June 2011: 1,089,702 the Companys business model, markets and strategy on shares and 1,057,217 shares in respect of the dividend paid in pages 4 to 9, the Business Review which includes the Chief October 2012 October 2011: 1,083,263 shares.
Executives Q&A, Operational Review, Principal Risks and shAre CApItAl Uncertainties, Financial Review and Sustainability Review on pages 10 to 39 and the Corporate Governance report on General pages 48 to 55 which are incorporated in and form part of this The Companys issued share capital as at 31 December 2012 Directors Report to assist with this.
comprised a single class of ordinary shares.
All shares rank The directors responsibility for the preparation of the Annual equally and are fully paid.
No person holds shares carrying Report and Financial Statements and the statement by the special rights with regard to control of the Company.
auditors about their reporting responsibilities are set out on During the year 929,883 shares were issued fully paid to pages 69 and 70, respectively, of this Annual Report.
participants of the Performance Share Plan on the vesting of Group results And dIvIdends awards granted in March 2009.
A further 112,710 shares were issued fully paid to a participant of the 2002 Executive Share Financial reporting Option Scheme.
As a result of the foregoing allotments, the The Groups Consolidated Income Statement set out on page 72 Companys issued share capital at the end of the year stood at shows an increase in Group profit before taxation to 126,846,939 2011: 125,804,346 ordinary shares of 10p each 182.9 million 2011: 67.1 million.
There has been no Group are given in the financial statements on pages 72 to 117 change since the year end.
and further comments on divisional results are given in the Details of outstanding awards and options over shares in the Operational Review on pages 15 to 20.
Company as at 31 December 2012 are set out in notes 27 and 29 Since the balance sheet date, the Company has entered into to the financial statements on pages 108 and 109 respectively.
an agreement to acquire Willbros Middle East Limited and its Issue of shares subsidiaries.
In addition, at a general meeting of the Company held on 7 January 2013, shareholders approved the disposal of Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act all of the Groups interests in a portfolio of 19 PFI investments provides that the directors may not allot shares unless to the Interserve Pension Scheme.
Further details are included empowered to do so by the shareholders.
A resolution giving in note 34 to the financial statements on page 117.
There such authority was passed at the AGM held on 16 May 2012. have been no further post balance sheet events that require The AGM authorities were used in 2012 only in relation to the disclosure or adjustment in the financial statements.
issue of shares pursuant to the Performance Share Plan and the 2002 Executive Share Option Scheme as described above.
dividends In accordance with the guidelines issued by the Association of An interim dividend of 6.4p per 10p ordinary share 2011: British Insurers the ABI, the directors propose Resolution 17 6.0p was paid on 24 October 2012.
The directors recommend set out in the Notice of AGM to renew the authority granted a final dividend of 14.1p per 10p ordinary share, making a total to them at the 2012 AGM to allot shares up to an aggregate distribution for the year ended 31 December 2012 of 20.5p nominal value of one-third of the Companys issued share per 10p ordinary share 2011: 19.0p.
Subject to approval of capital plus a further one-third i. e. two-thirds in all where shareholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM on the allotment is in connection with a rights issue.
13 May 2013, the final dividend will be paid on 20 May 2013 to shareholders appearing on the register at the close of business Under section 561 of the 2006 Act, if the directors wish on 5 April 2013.
The shares will be quoted ex-dividend on to allot unissued shares for cash other than pursuant to 3 April 2013. an employee share scheme they must first offer them to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings a preThe Companys dividend reinvestment plan will continue to be emptive offer.
Resolution 18 set out in the Notice of AGM available to eligible shareholders.
Further details of the plan will be proposed as a special resolution in order to renew the are set out in the Shareholder Information section on page 139. directors authority to allot shares for cash other than by way EES Trustees International Limited, the trustee of the of rights to existing shareholders.
By restricting such authority Interserve Employee Benefit Trust during the period under to an aggregate nominal value of no more than 5 per cent of review the Trust, waived its right to receive a dividend the Companys total issued equity capital, the Company will over 1,072,720 shares held by the Trust in the name of be in compliance with the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles the Principles.
overview business review governance financial statements Interserve AnnuAl report 2012 GovernAnCe dIreCtors report 43 Shareholders should note that the Listing Rules of the its employee share schemes.
The authority sought by this Financial Services Authority do not require shareholders resolution is intended to apply equally to shares to be held specific approval for each issue of shares for cash on a nonby the Company as treasury shares in accordance with the pre-emptive basis to the extent that under section 570 of Treasury Shares Regulations.
the 2006 Act the provisions of section 561 are disapplied rIGhts AttAChInG to shAres generally.
If given, this authority will expire on the date of the next AGM of the Company.
The Principles also request that in General any rolling three-year period a company does not make nonThe rights attaching to the ordinary shares are set out in pre-emptive issues for cash or of equity securities exceeding the 2006 Act and the Companys Articles of Association.
A 7.5 per cent of the companys issued share capital without copy of the Articles can be obtained on request from the prior consultation with shareholders.
The percentages of Company Secretary.
The Articles may only be changed by shares issued by the Company on a non-pre-emptive basis in special resolution of shareholders which requires, on a vote on 2012 and in the period 2010 to 2012 pursuant to employee a show of hands, at least three-quarters of the shareholders share schemes calculated by reference to the Companys or proxies present at the meeting to be in favour of the closing issued share capital at 31 December 2012, were resolution or, on a poll, at least three-quarters in nominal 0.82 per cent and 1.17 per cent respectively.
value of the votes cast by shareholders or their proxies to be Save for issues of shares in respect of various employee in favour of the resolution.
share schemes, the directors have no current plans to make A shareholder whose name appears on the register of use of the authorities sought by Resolutions 17 and 18 members may choose whether those shares are evidenced by although they consider their renewal appropriate in order share certificates certificated form or held in electronic form to retain maximum flexibility to take advantage of business uncertificated in CREST.
voting repurchase of shares Subject to the restrictions set out below, a shareholder The Company has authority under a shareholders resolution is entitled to attend or appoint another person as his passed at the 2012 AGM to repurchase up to 12,580,434 of representative a proxy to attend and to exercise all or any the Companys ordinary shares in the market.
The shares of his rights to speak, ask questions and vote at any general may be purchased at a price ranging between the nominal meeting of the Company.
A shareholder may also appoint value for each share and an amount equal to the higher of more than one proxy, provided that each proxy is appointed i 105 per cent of the average of the middle-market price to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares of an ordinary share for the five business days immediately held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder preceding the date on which the Company agrees to buy of the Company.
the shares concerned and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest independent current The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to a person who bid on the London Stock Exchange at the time the purchase has been nominated under section 146 of the 2006 Act to is carried out.
This authority expires at the conclusion of enjoy information rights a Nominated Person.
He she the forthcoming AGM on 13 May 2013.
No shares have been may, however, have a right under an agreement with the repurchased by the Company under the authority granted at registered shareholder holding the shares on his her behalf to the 2012 AGM.
be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if a Nominated Person does not have such a Resolution 19 set out in the Notice of AGM will be proposed as right, or does not wish to exercise it, he she may have a right a special resolution in order to renew this authority.
Although under such an agreement to give instructions to the person the directors have no immediate plans to do so, they believe holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
it is prudent to seek general authority from shareholders to be able to act if circumstances were to arise in which In accordance with section 327 of the 2006 Act, in order they considered such purchases to be desirable.
This power to be valid, any form of proxy sent by the Company to will only be exercised if and when, in the light of market shareholders or any proxy registered electronically in relation conditions prevailing at that time, the directors believe that to any general meeting must be delivered to the Companys such purchases would increase earnings per share and would registrars not later than 48 hours before the time fixed for be for the benefit of shareholders generally.
Any shares holding the meeting or any adjourned meeting.
In calculating purchased under this authority will be cancelled unless the the 48 hour period no account shall be taken of any part of a directors determine that they are to be held as treasury day that is not a working day.
Full details of the deadlines for shares and the number of shares in issue will be reduced exercising voting rights in respect of the 2013 AGM are set out accordingly.
Whilst the Company does not presently hold shares in Subject to any rights or restrictions for the time being treasury, the Treasury Shares Regulations allow shares attached to any class or classes of shares and to any other purchased by the Company out of distributable profits to be provisions of the Articles of Association or statutes, on a vote held as treasury shares, which may then be cancelled, sold on a resolution at a general meeting on a show of hands every for cash or used to meet the Companys obligations under shareholder present in person, every proxy present who has 44 Interserve AnnuAl report 2012 GovernAnCe dIreCtors report been duly appointed by one or more shareholders entitled to Providing that notice is given to the Company no later than six vote on the resolution and every authorised representative of weeks before an AGM or no later than the date on which the a corporation which is a shareholder of the Company entitled notice of an AGM is given, shareholders representing at least to vote on the resolution, shall have one vote.
If a proxy has 5 per cent of the total voting rights of all the shareholders been duly appointed by more than one shareholder and has who have a right to vote at the AGM or at least 100 been instructed by one or more of those shareholders to vote shareholders who have that right and who hold shares in the for the resolution and by one or more of those shareholders to Company on which there has been paid up an average sum vote against it, that proxy shall have one vote for and one vote per shareholder of at least 100, may require the Company to against the resolution.
On a poll, every shareholder present in include an item in the business to be dealt with at the AGM.
person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share held.
dividends A resolution put to the vote at a general meeting shall be Subject to the provisions of the 2006 Act, the Company may, decided on a show of hands unless the notice of the meeting by ordinary resolution, declare a dividend to be paid to the specifies that a poll will be called on such resolution or a poll shareholders but the amount of the dividend may not exceed is before the resolution is put to the vote on a show of hands the amount recommended by the directors.
The directors may or on the declaration of the results of the show of hands also pay interim dividends on any class of shares on any dates directed by the Chairman or demanded in accordance with the and in any amounts and in respect of any periods as appear to Articles of Association.
the directors to be justified by the distributable profits of the If a person fails to give the Company any information required Company.
by a notice served on him by the Company under section 793 of liquidation the 2006 Act which confers upon public companies the power to require information to be supplied in respect of a persons If the Company is wound up the liquidator may, with the interests in the Companys shares then the Company may, sanction of a special resolution of the Company, and any other no sooner than 21 days later, and after warning that person, sanction required by law, divide amongst the shareholders serve a disenfranchisement notice upon the shareholder the whole or any part of the assets of the Company.
He may, registered as the holder of the shares in respect of which for such purposes, set such value as he deems fair upon any the section 793 notice was given.
Unless the information property to be divided and may determine how such division required by the section 793 notice is given within 14 days, shall be carried out as between the shareholders or different such holder will not be entitled to receive notice of any classes of shareholders.
The liquidator may also transfer the general meeting or attend any such meeting of the Company whole or any part of such assets to trustees to be held in and shall not be entitled to exercise, either personally or by trust for the benefit of the shareholders.
No shareholder can proxy, the votes attaching to such shares in respect of which be compelled to accept any shares or other securities which the disenfranchisement notice has been given unless and until would give him any liability.
the information required by the section 793 notice has been ModIFICAtIon oF rIGhts provided.
If at any time the capital of the Company is divided into General meetings different classes of shares, the rights attached to any class No business may be transacted at a general meeting unless a or any of such rights may be modified, abrogated, or varied quorum is present consisting of not less than two shareholders either: present in person or by proxy or by two duly authorised a with the consent of the holders of 75 per cent of the representatives of a corporation.
Two proxies of the same issued shares of that class: or shareholder or two duly authorised representatives of the same corporation will not constitute a quorum.
b w ith the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of the shares of An AGM must be called on at least 21 days clear notice.
other general meetings are also required to be held on at least 21 days clear notice unless the Company offers shareholders The rights attached to any class of shares shall not unless an electronic voting facility and a special resolution reducing otherwise provided by the terms of issue of the shares of the period of notice to not less than 14 days has been passed.
that class or by the terms upon which such shares are for The directors are proposing Resolution 21 set out in the the time being held be deemed to be modified or varied Notice of AGM to renew the authority obtained at last years by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu AGM to reduce the notice period for general meetings other therewith.
than AGMs to at least 14 days.
It is intended that this shorter The Company may by, ordinary resolution, convert any paid-up notice period will only be used for non-routine business and shares into stock, and reconvert any stock into paid-up shares where merited in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
The business of an AGM is to receive and consider the accounts and balance sheets and the reports of the directors and auditors, to elect directors in place of those retiring, to elect auditors and fix their remuneration and to declare a dividend.
overview business review governance financial statements Interserve AnnuAl report 2012 GovernAnCe dIreCtors report 45 trAnsFer oF shAres dIreCtorAte, dIreCtors Interests And IndeMnItIes There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of securities The following have been directors throughout the year: in the Company, or on the size of a shareholders holding, Lord Blackwell Group Chairman which are both governed by the Articles of Association Adrian Ringrose Chief Executive and prevailing legislation.
In accordance with the Listing, Les Cullen Prospectus, and Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Steven Dance Financial Services Authority, certain employees are required Tim Haywood to seek the approval of the Company to deal in its shares.
Keith Ludeman The Company is not aware of any agreements between Bruce Melizan shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of David Paterson securities or on voting rights.
Dougie Sutherland David Thorpe Subject to the 2006 Act, the directors may refuse to register David Trapnell Senior Independent Director any transfer of any share which is not fully paid whether Non-executive director.
certificated or uncertificated, provided that the refusal does not prevent dealing in shares in the Company from taking Since the year end, Anne Fahy was appointed on 1 January 2013 place on an open and proper basis.
David Paterson will retire from the Board on 30 April 2013.
David Trapnell will also retire The directors may also decline to register the transfer of any from the Board following the conclusion of the AGM and will certificated share unless the instrument of transfer is duly be succeeded as Senior Independent Director by Les Cullen, stamped if stampable and accompanied by the certificate who will in turn be succeeded as Chair of the Audit Committee of the shares to which it relates and such other evidence as by Anne Fahy.
the directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, any director appointed by the Board since the last AGM may only hold Transfers of uncertificated shares must be conducted through office until the date of the next AGM, at which time that CREST and the directors can refuse to register transfers in director must stand for election by shareholders.
Anne Fahy accordance with the regulations governing the operation of will therefore be standing for election at the AGM on CREST.
All share transfers must be registered as soon as practicable.
The directors acknowledge the Corporate Governance Code AppoIntMent And replACeMent oF dIreCtors provision which encourages board members to stand for annual re-election at the AGM and, as last year, each director The Board must comprise of not less than three and no save for David Paterson and David Trapnell will submit more than twelve directors.
Directors may be appointed by himself for re-election at this years AGM.
shareholders by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
Further information regarding the re-election of directors can be The directors beneficial interests in, and options to acquire, found on page 51 in the Corporate Governance report.
ordinary shares in the Company at the year end are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 66 to 68 of this No person other than a director retiring at a general meeting Annual Report and Financial Statements.
shall, unless recommended by the directors for election, be eligible for election to the office of director unless, not less Between the year end and the date of this report, than seven nor more than 21 days beforehand, the Company Steven Dance, Adrian Ringrose and Dougie Sutherland have has been given notice, executed by a shareholder eligible to purchased an additional 57 shares each and David Paterson vote at the meeting, of his intention to propose such person has purchased 56 shares pursuant to the Interserve Share for election together with a notice executed by that person of Incentive Plan 2009.
Further details are disclosed on page 68 his willingness to be elected.
in the Directors Remuneration Report.
There have been no further changes in the shareholdings of the directors who held The Company may, by ordinary resolution, of which special office at the year end.
notice has been given in accordance with section 312 of the 2006 Act, remove any director before the expiration of his The directors do not have any interest in any other Group period of office and may, by ordinary resolution, appoint company, other than as directors.
No director has, or has another person in his stead.
had, a material interest, directly or indirectly, at any time during the year under review in any contract significant to the Companys business.
On 26 September 2007 the rules of the Interserve Pension Scheme were amended in order to provide the directors of Interserve Trustees Limited, the corporate trustee of the Interserve Pension Scheme, with a qualifying pension scheme 46 Interserve AnnuAl report 2012 GovernAnCe dIreCtors report indemnity to the extent that insurance has not been taken out sIGnIFICAnt AGreeMents by the trustee to cover its liabilities, or such liabilities cannot ChAnGe oF Control provIsIons be paid from the proceeds of any insurance taken out by the The following significant agreements contain provisions trustee.
That qualifying pension scheme indemnity remains in entitling the counter parties to exercise termination rights in force at the date of this report and is available for inspection the event of a change of control in the Company: by shareholders at the Companys registered office.
Under the terms of the banking facility agreements detailed In January 2011 an indemnity was given to the trustees of the on page 26 of the Financial Review, if any person, or group Douglas Group Compass Pension Plan for any claim, costs, loss, of persons acting in concert, gains control of the Company damages and expenses which may be made against them or any lender i is no longer obliged to fund any loan, save for which they may pay or incur save as a consequence of breach a rollover loan: and ii may, by not less than 15 days notice, of trust committed knowingly and intentionally or as a result cancel its commitment under the facility and declare its of negligence in connection with the administration of the participation in all outstanding loans, together with accrued Plan and the winding-up of the Plan.
Two of the trustees were interest and all other amounts payable under the facility, also directors of one or more Group subsidiary companies.
This Plan was formally wound up on 7 January 2011 but the indemnity remains in force.
The Groups share schemes also contain provisions relating to the vesting and exercising of awards options in the event of a In January 2012 an indemnity was given to the trustees of change of control of the Group.
the Interserve Retirement Plan against all and any claims, costs, damages and expenses which may be made against There are no provisions in the directors service agreements nor them or which they may pay or incur in connection with in any employees contracts providing for compensation for loss their administration of the Plan and the winding-up of the of office or employment occurring because of a takeover.
Plan other than liabilities arising as a consequence of breach ChArItAble And polItICAl donAtIons of trust committed knowingly and intentionally.
One of the trustees was also a director of various Group subsidiary Charitable donations made by the Company during the companies.
This Plan was formally wound up on 31 January 2012. year amounted to 54,366 2011: 40,610.
Details of the beneficiaries of donations are given on page 34 in the substAntIAl shAreholdInGs charitable giving section of the Sustainability Review.
As at 31 December 2012 the Company had been notified No political donations were made during the period 2011: of the following interests in the voting rights over shares, nil.
It is not the Companys policy to make cash donations to as shown in the table below: political parties.
This policy is strictly adhered to and there is Number of % of total Nature no intention to change it.
However, the definitions used in the Name of holder ordinary shares voting rights of holding 2006 Act for political donation and political expenditure Henderson Global remain very broad, which may have the effect of covering Investors Ltd 9,454,140 7.45 Indirect a number of normal business activities that would not be considered political donations or political expenditure in the Mondrian Investment usual sense.
These could include support for bodies engaged Partners Ltd 7,587,521 5.98 Indirect in law reform or governmental policy review or involvement JPMorgan Asset in seminars and functions that may be attended by politicians.
Management Holdings Inc 6,354,368 5.01 Indirect To avoid any possibility of inadvertently contravening the 2006 Standard Life Direct & Act, the directors are again seeking shareholder authority Investments Ltd 6,159,114 4.86 indirect at the AGM Resolution 16 to ensure that the Company acts within the provisions of current UK law when carrying out its Sageview Capital MGP, normal business activities.
LLC 5,653,026 4.46 Indirect CredItor pAyMent polICy Prudential plc group of companies 4,634,407 3.65 Direct It is the Groups normal practice to agree payment terms with its suppliers and abide by those terms.
Payment becomes due Between the year end and the date of this report, the when it can be confirmed that goods and or services have been Company has been notified of the following: provided in accordance with the relevant contractual conditions.
The Groups trade creditor days at 31 December 2012 were the interest of JPMorgan Asset Management Holdings Inc in 63 days 2011: 82 days.
The Companys trade creditor days at the voting rights has increased to 6,492,194 shares 5.12 per 31 December 2012 calculated in accordance with the 2006 Act cent of total voting rights : and were 23 days 2011: 19 days.
This represents the ratio, expressed the interest of Sageview Capital MGP, LLC in the voting in days, between the amounts invoiced to the Company in the rights has decreased to 4,774,780 shares 3.76 per cent of year by its suppliers and the amounts due, at the year end, to total voting rights.
trade creditors falling due for payment within one year.
overview business review governance financial statements Interserve AnnuAl report 2012 GovernAnCe dIreCtors report 47 AudItors Cautionary statement Resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys The Directors Report the Report set out above is the auditors and to authorise the directors to determine their management report for the purposes of paragraph 4.1.
8R of remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
statement on information to auditors The Report has been prepared solely for existing members of the Company in compliance with UK company law and the Each person who is a director at the date of approval of this Listing, Prospectus, and Disclosure and Transparency Rules of report confirms that: the FSA.
The Company, the directors and employees accept no responsibility to any other person for anything contained in a so far as he she is aware, there is no relevant audit the Report.
The directors liability for the Report is limited, information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: as provided in the 2006 Act.
The Companys auditors report and to the Board whether, in their opinion, the information given b h e she has made such enquiries of his her fellow directors in the Report is consistent with the financial statements, but and of the Companys auditors and has taken such other the Report is not audited.
Statements made in this Report steps as were required by his her duty as a director of reflect the knowledge and information available at the time the Company to exercise due care, skill and diligence in of its preparation.
The Report contains forward-looking order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit statements in respect of the Groups operations, performance, information and to establish that the Companys auditors prospects and financial condition.
By their nature, these are aware of that information.
In particular, outcomes often differ from plans or expectations expressed through forwardAnnuAl GenerAl MeetInG resolutIons looking statements, and such differences may be significant.
The resolutions to be presented at the AGM to be held on Assurance cannot be given that any particular expectation will 13 May 2013, together with the explanatory notes, appear be met.
No responsibility is accepted to update or revise any in the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting sent to all forward-looking statement, resulting from new information, shareholders and which is also available on our website at future events or otherwise.
Liability arising from anything in www.
this Annual Report and Financial Statements shall be governed by English law.
Nothing in this Annual Report and Financial Statements should be construed as a profit forecast.
Interserve House Approved by the Board of Ruscombe Park directors and signed on Twyford behalf of the Board Reading Berkshire RG10 9JU t bradbury Company Secretary 27 February 2013
