40 inTerServe annual reporT 2012 Governance direcTorS direcTorS 1. norman Blackwell 1997 he joined Building & Property Group 5.
Bruce melizan 1 3 lord Blackwell as Head of Business Development.
Adrian execuTive direcTor holds a BA Hons in Political Theory and cHairman Bruce is Managing Director of Interserves Institutions from Liverpool University and Norman was appointed Chairman of Support Services division.
He was is Chairman of the CBIs Public Services Interserve in January 2006 having joined appointed to the Board of Interserve in Strategy Board, a Member of the CBIs the Group as a non-executive director January 2008.
Bruce joined Interserve Presidents Committee, past-President the previous September.
He is a nonin 2003 and was Managing Director of of the Business Services Association, a executive director of Lloyds Banking Interserve Investments before being companion of the Chartered Management Group and was appointed Chairman of appointed to head Interserve Facilities Institute and a member of the Chartered its insurance subsidiary Scottish Widows Management in 2006.
He has been in Institute of Marketing.
He is also a the outsourcing industry for nearly non-executive director of Halma and a 20 years and has held a wide variety 3.
Tim Haywood non-executive board member OFCOM of roles ranging from direct delivery Group Finance direcTor and of the Centre for Policy Studies.
A through to sales, marketing and general Tim joined Interserve as Group Finance former partner of McKinsey & Company, management.
Previous organisations Director in November 2010 and was Norman was Head of the Prime Ministers include Amey, Mowlem, Schlumberger previously Finance Director of St Modwen Policy Unit from 1995 to 1997 and was and TYE Manufacturing both in the Properties.
Earlier roles include Group appointed a life peer in 1997.
Bruce holds an MBA Finance Director at Hagemeyer UK and business roles have included Director from Cranfield School of Management senior finance director and financial of Group Development at NatWest and a BSc in Electrical Engineering controller positions in Williams Holdings.
Group, non-executive directorships at from Queens University, Canada.
He Tim is a Fellow of the Institute of Standard Life, SEGRO and Dixons Group, is a member of the Business Services Chartered Accountants in England and Non-Executive Board Member of the Association Council and a Trustee of the Wales.
Office of Fair Trading and Commissioner Safer London Foundation.
STeven dance 6. david paTerSon Nomination Committee.
execuTive direcTor execuTive direcTor 1 Steven is Managing Director of RMD 2. adrian rinGroSe David is Managing Director of Kwikform, the Groups Equipment cHieF execuTive Interserves Construction division Services division.
He was appointed to the and was appointed to the Board of Adrian is Chief Executive of Interserve.
Board of Interserve in January 2008.
Steven He is responsible for developing and Interserve in January 2011.
David began his career with Schlumberger in joined Interserve in 1994 and became implementing the Groups business the Middle East in the oilfield sector, strategy and for ensuring that the Managing Director of the Infrastructure after which he completed his MBA and business unit in 1997.
In 2005 he right people are in place at the head moved into manufacturing.
He then of Interserves operational divisions was appointed Managing Director of served 12 years with Coats Viyella where Constructions UK operations and then, with the necessary support to achieve he held a variety of general management their targets.
Adrian joined Interserve in 2009, of the international division.
positions and was based in Germany, He was involved in the early designin December 2000 with the acquisition Portugal, South America and the UK.
He of the Building & Property Group.
He  road schemes, subsequently worked for four years with forerunners of the PFI approach, and was appointed Business Development ScottishPower, executing a number of Director of Interservefm and a year later also led the development of strategy for M&A transactions including the disposal Constructions UK business.
David is a was promoted to Managing Director.
of utility subsidiaries in Australia and In January 2002 he joined the Board Chartered Civil Engineer and worked in the UK, and the flotation of Thus.
Most senior management positions for Costain of Interserve, becoming Deputy Chief recently he spent three years with Executive in January 2003 before and Birse prior to joining Interserve ERICO heading divisions supplying the then Tilbury Douglas.
His early career assuming the role fully the following international construction market with July.
Adrian began his career as a included working on the construction of couplers, fixing and fastening systems, the M25 and the Conwy Crossing.
David will market researcher and then business before joining Interserve in 2004.
Steven analyst with London Electricity.
Over the retire from the Board on 30 April 2013. is a Chartered Director and a member of following nine years with the company the Board of Examiners at the Institute 7. douGie SuTHerland he progressed rapidly through a variety of Directors.
He holds an MA in Natural execuTive direcTor of roles including the commercial Sciences from Oxford University and an Dougie is Managing Director of Interserve management of subsidiaries in power MBA from London Business School.
He was appointed to distribution, mechanical and electrical the Board of Interserve in January 2011. contracting and fleet management.
In 1 Member of the Nomination Committee I 2 Member of the Audit Committee I 3 Member of the Remuneration Committee I 4 Senior Independent Director O Ov five er rv viie ew w business review gOvernanCe FinanCiaL statements interserve annuaL repOrt 2012 gOvernanCe DireCtOrs 41 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 1 2 3 Dougie joined Interserve in September 2006 9.
DaviD thOrpe from 3i, where he was a partner in its nOn-exeCutive DireCtOr nOn-exeCutive DireCtOr infrastructure team.
He began his career Les brings a wealth of experience from David joined Interserve as a nonwith seven years in the Royal Engineers.
executive director in January 2009. a number of senior financial roles in Between 1995 and 1999 he worked for HM He is non-executive Chairman of The the UK and internationally.
He joined Treasury leading deals on behalf of the Innovation Group.
Davids executive Interserve as a non-executive director government, including the redevelopment career included a decade at Electronic in October 2005.
He is a non-executive of the HM Treasury, GCHQ and National Data Systems EDS which culminated director of F&C Global Smaller Companies Savings buildings.
From 1999 to 2004 in his becoming President of EDS and a former director of Avis Europe Dougie was Managing Director of Amey Europe, and senior leadership roles and Sustrans.
He has held the post of Ventures where he was responsible for at Bull Information Systems.
He has Group Finance Director at fide La Rue, also been Chairman of the Racecourse a wide portfolio of bids and investments Inchcape and Prudential.
Previous non-executive in the education, defence, rail and roads Audit Committee.
Les will hand over roles include Arena Leisure, VT sectors.
He then moved to Lend Lease chairmanship of the Audit Committee Group, Anite and Tunstall Holdings.
where he was Managing Director of its to Anne Fahy and become Senior David is a County Councillor and the PFI hospitals and schools business before Independent Director at the conclusion of Cabinet Champion for Change for joining 3i.
Dougie has a BSc Hons from the AGM.
Gloucestershire County Council and a Edinburgh and an MBA from Cranfield Liveryman of the Worshipful Company 1 2 3 School of Management.
Keith LuDeman of Information Technologists.
David retirement of David Paterson on 30 April 2013, nOn-exeCutive DireCtOr chairs the Remuneration Committee.
Dougie will also assume responsibility for Keith was appointed as non-executive 1 2 3 Constructions UK operations.
12. anne FahY director of Interserve in January 2011.
He 1 2 3 4 is also non-executive Chairman of Bristol nOn-exeCutive DireCtOr 8.
DaviD trapneLL Water, and a non-executive director of Anne was appointed as non-executive nOn-exeCutive DireCtOr Network Rail, Network Rail Infrastructure director of Interserve and as a member of David, who has extensive international and Network Rail Consulting.
Keith has the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration experience in manufacturing, distribution many years experience in consulting Committees on 1 January 2013.
She and installation of building materials is also Chief Financial Officer of BPs in the rail and bus service industries, gained in positions in the USA and Global Fuels marketing business which including some 15 years with Europe, was appointed as non-executive trades in 50 countries.
During her time Go-Ahead Group, of which he was Chief director of Interserve in July 2003 and at BP Anne has gained experience of Executive for five years and where he became Senior Independent Director in global business and knowledge of the was responsible for the negotiation and May 2011.
Previous roles include a nondeveloping markets including China, operation of complex public service executive directorship at Newman Tonks UAE and Brazil, as well as a deep contracts and the management and understanding of internal control, risk and Chairman of the Audit Committee at motivation of large workforces.
His early management and compliance.
Anne is The Royal Mint, Group Chief Executive career included nine years working with a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered of Marley and Vice President of the Greater Manchester Transport and three Accountants in Ireland having worked Construction Products Association.
years working on transport policy in at KPMG in Ireland and Australia prior David will retire from the Board at the Hong Kong.
Anne will become conclusion of the AGM.
chair of the Audit Committee at the conclusion of the AGM.
1 Member of the Nomination Committee I 2 Member of the Audit Committee I 3 Member of the Remuneration Committee I 4 Senior Independent Director
