06 interserve annual repOrt 2012 OvervieW Our markets Our markets W We e O Op pe er ra at te e iin n Our markets t th he e O Ou ut ts sO Ou ur rc ce ed d suppOrt services s se er rv viic ce es s a an nd d c cO On ns st tr ru uc ct tiiO On n Our market includes facilities uk management FM i. e. activities m ma ar rk ke et ts s, b bO Ot th h With a continued trend towards concerned both with maintaining outsourcing and service buildings or estates and with iin n t th he e u uk k a an nd d integration, we are well-placed to supplying services to people using take advantage of market growth iin nt te er rn na at tiiO On na al ll ly y.. the facilities.
in mature markets such as the UK.
We also deliver a broader set of In a fragmented UK market, with a services as part of our support range of small providers, Interserve services provision for specific is among the leaders source: Frost groups, such as employment and Sullivan.
assistance, healthcare, waste management and training.
The UK leads the way in the adoption of modern outsourcing Our specific skills are in providing and co-ordinated concepts.
The end-to-end capability, including trend is towards both bundling design, management and delivery where a single provider provides of such services.
several services and integrating We are making progress on where the provider also manages increasing our footprint in a the whole package and advises strengthening healthcare market the client on how best to run its for outsourced services driven by operational services.
A widening range of operations Reduced funding in local includes Work Programme services, government is stimulating new helping to get the long-term models for partnership unemployed back into work and and delivery.
O Ov five er rv viie eW W business revieW gOvernance financial statements interserve annual repOrt 2012 OvervieW Our markets 07 cOnstructiOn cOnstructiOn internatiOnal uk internatiOnal Almost all international markets Our strategic focus is on long-term Working with strong partners, for outsourcing of FM services are repeat business with clients that we focus on key sectors across significantly less developed than the trust us to deliver on our promise.
UK providers therefore have an rail, port schemes, power, water We have the capacity to deliver a opportunity to use their experience to and drainage.
range of projects from small works enter these markets at an advantage.
through to complex and high profile We operate from a network Our presence in the Middle East projects of up to 250 million in value.
of regional offices, specialising provides a base from which to in mid-sized contracts, while our Our expertise encompasses all introduce our support services across specialist fit-out business provides technical and commercial aspects several countries and markets in the joinery, steelwork and specialist of building and engineering services region.
This includes conventional temporary buildings.
and we are experienced in delivering building repairs, plant maintenance, complex high-value, multi-site We have been active in the Middle health and safety training and assurance projects in both the public and East for over 30 years, where services in the oil and gas sector.
our client base is more oriented The Middle East outsourcing market towards the private sector.
We have a number of strands to our continues to emerge, following construction proposition: Drawing on the market positioning significant increase in infrastructure of our local partners, our businesses development over recent years.
As a contractor, taking are also characterised by a focus We are making strategic progress in responsibility for the construction on recurring work from long-term the region evidenced through our of buildings and infrastructure relationships.
investment in oil and gas maintenance As a site services provider business TOCO Willbros Middle to companies undertaking East Ltd. construction, engineering and FM Interiors design and fit-out equipment services RMD Kwikform is a well-respected The business operates around and established brand, as centres of excellence in the UK, a designer and provider of Australia and the Middle East specialised formwork, falsework from where design and engineering and shoring equipment used in support is provided to the major projects across the world.
operating units based in the UK and across international markets.
