Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 63 Directors report Governance Other statutory information In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 Directors indemnities the Act and UK Listing Authority Disclosure and Transparency The Board believes that it is in the best interests of the Rules, the following section describes the matters that are Group to attract and retain the services of the most able required for inclusion in the Directors Report and were approved and experienced Directors by offering competitive terms of by the Board.
Further details of matters required to be included in engagement, including the granting of indemnities on terms the Directors Report that are incorporated by reference into this consistent with the applicable statutory provisions.
Qualifying report are set out below.
third-party indemnity provisions as dened by section 234 of the Act, were accordingly in force during the course of the financial Directors year ended 31 December 2012, for the benefit of the Directors The Directors who held ofce during the year are set out below.
and, at the date of this report, are in force in relation to certain Sir David Reid Chairman losses and liabilities which they may incur or have incurred in Wolfhart Hauser Chief Executive officer connection with their duties, powers or ofce.
Lloyd Pitchford Chief Financial officer Principal activities and business review Edward Astle Non-Executive Director The Groups principal activities, business and principal risks Alan Brown Non-Executive Director and uncertainties are contained in the Business Review, on Christopher Knight Non-Executive Director pages 4 to 35 and the Corporate Governance section, on pages Louise Makin Non-Executive Director appointed 1 July 2012 38 to 46 which are incorporated by reference into this report.
Michael Wareing Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Lena Wilson Non-Executive Director appointed 1 July 2012 Dividend The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 28.0p per The biographies of the Directors at the date of this report are set ordinary share 2011: 23.0p making a full year dividend of 41.0p out on page 37. per ordinary share 2011: 33.7p which will, if approved at the The Companys Articles of Association contain provisions relating AGM, be paid on 7 June 2013 to shareholders on the register to the retirement, election and re-election of Directors but, in at close of business on 24 May 2013. accordance with best practice, all directors will stand for election Share capital or re-election at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
The issued share capital of the Company, and details of the Directors powers and Articles of Association movements in the Companys share capital during the year, The Directors are responsible for the management of the are shown in note 15 to the financial statements.
Company and their powers to do so are determined by the The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends provisions of the Act and the Companys Articles of Association.
when declared, to receive the Companys report and accounts, to The Articles of Association set out the internal regulation of the attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint Company and cover such matters as the rights of shareholders, proxies and exercise voting rights.
A waiver of dividend exists in the appointment or removal of Directors and the conduct of the respect of 24,754 shares held by the Intertek Group Employee Board and general meetings.
Copies are available upon request Share Ownership Trust at 31 December 2012.
There are no from the Group Company Secretary and are available at the restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company.
Further powers are granted by members in general meeting and those currently in place are set out in detail The rights attached to shares in the Company are provided by the within the appropriate section of this report.
Articles of Association, which may be amended or replaced by means of a special resolution of the Company in a General Directors interests Meeting.
The Directors powers are conferred on them by UK Other than employment contracts, none of the Directors of the legislation and by the Companys Articles of Association.
Company had a personal interest in any business transactions of the Company or its subsidiaries.
The terms of the Directors No ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to control service contracts and the Directors interests in the shares and of the Company and there are no restrictions on voting rights share awards of the Company, in respect of which transactions except that a shareholder has no right to vote in respect of a are notiable to the Company under the UK Listing Authority share unless all sums due in respect of that share are fully paid.
2 are disclosed in the There are no arrangements known to the Company by which Remuneration Report on pages 51 to 62. financial rights carried by any shares in the Company are held by a person other than the holders of the shares, nor are there any arrangements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights known to the Company.
All issued shares are fully paid.
Shares are admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange and may be traded through the CREST system.
64 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report Governance Other statutory information continued Allotment of shares t BlackRock Inc. gave notice on 8 October 2012 that they At the AGM held in 2012 the shareholders generally and had an indirect interest on 5 October 2012 in 8,157,265 unconditionally authorised the Directors to allot relevant securities ordinary shares, representing 5.07% of the ordinary shares up to approximately two-thirds of the nominal amount of issued in issue at that date.
It is the Directors intention to seek renewal of this t Capital Research and Management Company gave notice on authority in line with guidance issued by the Association of British 4 September 2012 that they had an indirect interest on Insurers.
The resolution will be set out in the Notice of AGM.
3 September 2012 in 10,818,828 ordinary shares, representing 6.73% of the ordinary shares in issue at that date.
Also at the AGM in 2012 the Directors were empowered by the t Legal and General Group plc gave notice on 15 June 2012 that shareholders to allot equity securities, up to 5% of the Companys they had a direct interest on 14 June 2012 in 4,840,713 issued share capital, for cash under section 570 of the Act.
It is ordinary shares, representing 3.01% of the ordinary shares in intended that this authority be renewed, up to 5%, at the issue on that date.
t Morgan Stanley Investment Management Inc gave notice on Purchase of own shares 15 March 2012 that they had an indirect interest on 14 March Shareholders also approved the authority for the Company to buy 2012 in 8,027,805 ordinary shares, representing 5.01% of the back up to 10% of its own ordinary shares by market purchase ordinary shares in issue at that date.
until the conclusion of the AGM to be held this year.
The Directors Charitable and political donations will seek to renew this authority for up to 10% of the Companys During 2012 the Group made charitable donations of 146,000 issued share capital at the forthcoming AGM.
This power will only 2011: 117,000 to a wide variety of charities.
be exercised if the Directors are satisfied that any purchase will increase the earnings per share of the ordinary share capital in At the AGM in 2012 shareholders passed a resolution, on a issue after the purchase and accordingly, that the purchase is in precautionary basis, to authorise the Company to make donations the interests of shareholders.
The Directors will also give careful to EU political organisations and to incur EU political expenditure consideration to gearing levels of the Company and its general as such terms are dened in the Act not exceeding 90,000. financial position.
Any shares purchased in this way may be held During the year the Group did not make any political donations in treasury which, the Directors believe, will provide the Company 2011: nil.
It is the Companys policy not, directly or through any with exibility in the management of its share capital.
Where subsidiary, to make what are commonly regarded as donations to treasury shares are used to satisfy share options or awards, they any political party.
However, at the forthcoming AGM of the will be classed as new issue shares for the purpose of the 10% Company, shareholders approval will again be sought to limit on the number of shares that may be issued over a 10-year authorise the Group to make political donations and or incur period under our relevant share plan rules.
political expenditure as such terms are dened in Sections 362 to 379 of the Act.
Further details of this will be contained in the Policy and practice on payment of suppliers Notice of AGM.
The Group does not follow a single standard on payment practice but has a variety of payment terms with its suppliers.
Payment Auditors terms are agreed at the commencement of business with each The auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, have indicated their willingness to supplier and it is the policy of the Group that payment is made continue in ofce and a resolution that they be reappointed will accordingly, subject to the terms and conditions being met.
be proposed at the forthcoming AGM in accordance with Section The holding company, Intertek Group plc, does not trade 489 of the Act.
and therefore has no trade payables.
Annual General Meeting significant relationships The Notice convening the AGM, to be held on 17 May 2013, will The Group does not have any contractual or other relationships be available for download from the Companys corporate website with any single party which are essential to the business of the at www.
The Notice will detail the business Group and therefore no such relationships have been disclosed.
to be conducted at the meeting and include information concerning the deadlines for submitting proxy forms and in Social and community issues relation to voting rights.
We encourage our local managers to foster community links appropriate to the businesses they manage.
Further details Statement of disclosure of information to auditors are given in our Sustainability and CSR Report on page 28.
The Directors who held ofce at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is Material interests in shares no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors The following disclosures of major holdings of voting rights have are unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that he or been made and have not been amended or withdrawn to she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself the Company pursuant to the requirements of the UK Listing aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Authority Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5: Companys auditors are aware of that information.
