36 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report Governance Board of Directors Sir David Reid Wolfhart Hauser Lloyd Pitchford Chairman Chief Executive officer Chief Financial officer Christopher Knight Edward Astle Alan Brown Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Michael Wareing CMG Louise Makin Lena Wilson Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 37 Sir David Reid Alan Brown Chairman Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board in December 2011 and became Chairman Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in April in January 2012.
Sir David Reid retired as Non-Executive Chairman 2011.
He is currently Chief Executive officer of Rentokil Initial plc, of Tesco PLC in November 2011 after serving in that role since a position he has held since April 2008.
Alan spent 25 years at April 2004.
Prior to that he was Deputy Chairman of Tesco Unilever PLC where he rose through a variety of finance roles in PLC and had served on the Tesco Board since 1985.
David is the UK and Europe and then general management in Taiwan and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of Reed Elsevier China.
His last four years were as Executive Chairman of Unilever Group PLC and Chairman of the charity Whizz-Kidz.
Following this, Alan returned to the UK as Chief Financial formerly Chairman of Kwik-Fit Group Ltd, Non-Executive Director officer at Imperial Chemical Industries PLC taking a leading role at Greenalls Group Plc now fide Vere Group, Legal & General in the divestment of the company.
Group Plc and Westbury plc.
In November 2010 David Michael Wareing CMG was appointed one of Prime Minister David Camerons Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Business Ambassadors.
Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in April Wolfhart Hauser 2011.
He has major international and board level knowledge Chief Executive Officer gained during an extensive global career up to senior partner Appointed to the Board as Chief Executive officer in March 2005 level at KPMG.
His last position at KPMG was as International after serving as a Non-Executive Director since November 2002.
Chief Executive officer, a position he occupied for four years.
Wolfhart Hauser was previously Chief Executive officer and He is currently a Non-Executive Director and Audit Committee President of TV Sddeutschland AG for four years and Chief Chairman at Wolseley plc and at Cobham plc.
He was appointed Executive officer of TV Product Services for 10 years.
Starting as the Economic Development Adviser to the Government of his career with various research activities he went on to establish Afghanistan in August 2011. and lead a broad range of successful international service industry Louise Makin businesses.
He has held several non-executive board director and Non-Executive Director chairman roles in a variety of technology companies.
He was a Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in July Non-Executive Director of Logica plc until August 2012.
She is currently Chief Executive officer of BTG plc, a Lloyd Pitchford growing international specialist healthcare company, a position Chief Financial Officer she has held since 2004.
Before joining BTG, Louise was at Appointed to the Board as Chief Financial officer in April 2010.
Baxter Healthcare from 2000, holding the roles of Vice President, Lloyd Pitchford previously spent 10 years with BG Group plc in Strategy & Business Development Europe, and from 2001, various operational and corporate finance roles in the UK and President of the Biopharmaceuticals division of Baxter Healthcare, Middle East: including five years as Group Financial Controller.
where she was responsible for Europe, Africa and the Middle East.
He previously worked for Mobil Oil Corporation in various Prior to her time at Baxter, she was Director of Global Ceramics financial, commercial and management roles.
Lloyd is a Fellow at English China Clay, and in her earlier career, held a variety of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and of roles at ICI between 1985 and 1998.
Louise is a Trustee holds an MBA from Heriot-Watt University.
of The Outward Bound Trust and was previously a Non-Executive Director of Premier Foods plc.
Christopher Knight Lena Wilson Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in March Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in July 2012.
He was an investment banker for nearly 30 years, for much of that time with Morgan Grenfell and Deutsche Bank.
He is a She is currently Chief Executive officer of Scottish Enterprise, Chartered Accountant and has extensive corporate finance Scotlands national economic development agency and a member experience gained during his banking career in London, New York of Scotlands Financial Services Advisory Board.
Prior to this she and Hong Kong.
He is Chairman of Brooks Macdonald Group plc, was Chief Executive officer of Scottish Development International Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of Powerute Oyj Scotlands international trade and investment arm and Chief and a Trustee of the Churches Conservation Trust.
Between 1998 and 2000, Lena was a Senior Advisor to The World Bank in Washington DC Edward Astle on private sector development for developing countries.
Lena Non-Executive Director is a member of the University of Strathclydes Business Advisory Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in September Board, and an Ambassador for the Prince and Princess of Wales 2009.
He is currently Pro Rector Enterprise at Imperial College Hospice.
She has served on the Board of the Princes Scottish London where he oversees the universitys relationships with Youth Business Trust for 10 years as well as numerous arts, industry, and leads business development opportunities in the UK culture and sport organisations.
Edward was an Executive Director of National Grid plc from 2001 to 2008, a Managing Director at the BICC Group from 1997 to 1999 and an Executive and Regional Director at Cable & Wireless plc from 1989 to 1997.
Previously he held senior business strategy positions in the UK and France.
He is a Trustee of the Shannon Trust.
