Our Business Model Invensys Operations Management Our specialty is in providing systems that help ourcustomers  plants andoptimise their performance 50% of Group revenue iom.
com Invensys Operations Management What products and solutions do we provide?
is aleading global technology, :systems, softwareandequipment, whichareoutlined software and consulting business below.
Across all three of our lines of business, we have an integrated offering, which we refer that creates and applies advanced to as our enterprise control offerings.
technologies to enable the safe and Line of business Overview Examples of our core brands efficient operation of industrial and 1 1.
Systems Integrated solutions providing Foxboro commercial operations such as oil control and safety equipment Triconex refineries, fossil fuel and nuclear andservices powerplants, petrochemical works 2 and other manufacturing sites.
Software  Wonderware toimprove and optimise SimSci-Esscor We offer a holistic and cost-effective way customers performance Avantis tooptimise our customers operational 3.
Equipment Measurement and Foxboro performance and overall profitability  Eurotherm byimproving the performance of key resources includingpeople, equipment, 1 .
We do so at the same time as maintaining our absolute commitment to safety.
Ourcustomers are principally large, global industrial companies with complex processes and activities.
We have a large installedbase:   the world.
Our customers include AmcorPET BootsUKLimited DaifukuCo.
Ltd. GreatLakes  BP DatangPower GSEngineering&Construction   DeltaBioFuels Corporation ArkemaGroup CastlePeakPower DiGeronimoAggregates Hanover Compressor Company AshGroveCement CFIndustries  Hendrick Motorsports AssmangLimited Chevron DukePower Hydro Aluminum BaltikaBreweries  Eastman Chemical Infineum BayerCropScience ChinaHuanengGroup Echelon Corporation JGC BeamGlobalSpirits&Wine China Ministry of Railways  Luminant  .
Limited Codelco Gazprom   ConocoPhillips GenOn NanjingRail Plant DaelimIndustrialCo.
Ltd. , LLC 10 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information 1 Revenue by line of business % Systems 60 Software 18 Equipment 22 1 Our enterprise control offerings are spreadacross all three lines of business.
Software Enterprise control offerings OurFoxboroI ASeries distributed  controlsystem DCS, isaworldleader leading software, technology and offering based on our world-leading inmeeting the automation needs of engineering solutions to help our Wonderware operations management complex integrated systems that control customers to improve and optimise software, leverages an open architecture critical or hazardous operations and theirperformance.
to seamlessly integrate the Invensys require non-stop operation.
We have  Operations Management portfolio,  platform for open connectivity to plant as well as new and legacy third-party market based on the strength of this floorsystems.
our software applications is that they integrates all aspects of plant operations  can operate within plants that use spanningDCS, safetysystems, decision safety system and is used extensively in our competitors systems.
support,  nuclear power stations, petrochemical  much the same way that Enterprise plants and oil refineries.
The Triconex allows existing and new operators to ResourcePlanning ERP platformshave system will automatically take over the practice dealing with different scenarios done for back office systems.
plant in the event of a problem and return without affecting the plant.
 it quickly to asafe state.
 recognise that profit management  monitors equipment in a plant to enable continues to be increasingly challenging integrators is fundamental to our success in predictive maintenance and replacement with different needs and priorities of  to prevent unexpected downtime.
various user groups within a plant or of our customers, in particular those with siteforexample, prioritiessuchas 3.
improving asset effectiveness,  maximising production or looking to used in industrial plants, including achieve visibility across the enterprise.
measurement and instrumentation Our customers have a growing need  to manage their operations holistically brand and our Eurotherm recorders and in real time.
technologies into a single offering addresses these dynamics and enables the linking of strategy with execution in ways that lead to an improvement in business performance.
NefteChimService Phillips66   YaYa Oil Refinery PuertoRicoWater&Sewage GenerationGroup  Shell  Authority Westshore Terminals  PVCCompoundersLLC   NucorSteel QatarPetroleum  Yellow River Conservancy Ontario Clean Water Agency Qatargas SSE Commission OntarioPGNanticoke  TecnimontS.
9REN OrleyFoods Company PetroRabigh TheGoAheadGroup PavanGroup RasGas  PEMEX .
Limited  SaltRiverProject  Petrobras SanofiPasteur Hotels & Casino PetronCorporation Sasol TOTAL Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com 11 Our Business Model Invensys Operations Management continued Expand geographically How do we generaterevenue?
Invensys Operations Management is Our revenue can be broken down as The key elements of our strategy are targeting a greater proportion of revenue follows:60%systems:18%software:and tocontinue to support our existing from the faster-growing economies of Asia 22%equipment.
Ourportfoliocovers customers, to expand our customer Pacific, .
 base, to broaden our geographic profile This will enable us to build and consolidate more discrete and batch processing and to ensure the highest standards of a base for future brownfield and software industries e. g. biotechnology, mining, projectexecution.
growth within our core verticals.
pharmaceutical tothemorecomplex We will focus on our world-class control  e. g. refining, As at 31 March 2012, 55% of our order and safety systems and on high-margin chemicals, oilandgas.
Duringtheyear, book was to emerging markets andfaster-growing segments of the 6% 2011:60%.
marketsuch as advanced software nuclear vertical, which forms part of our applications, equipment and enterprise systems category.
The development of world-class Our large installed base provides a Support existing customers technology remains core to our strategy.
platform for us to generate sales from Continuing to ensure that our installed We will invest in relevant areas across our brownfield contracts.
Our traditional base of existing customers receives portfolio to defend our core business and markets have been affected by the difficult outstanding service and solutions will be  economic climate but, in recent years, an important source of future revenue.
an emphasis on reducing our customers we have been particularly successful in There will be significant opportunities initial and lifecycle cost of ownership.
Our winning large greenfield contracts in the to replace or upgrade control and safety network of technology and distribution oil and gas, petrochemicals and power systems, as well as up-sale opportunities partners increases our ability to develop industries.
 to provide advanced software applications and deliver value-adding technology to .
During the year, 15% of the divisions Commitment to project execution Duringtheyear, weinvested5%ofrevenue revenue was from large contracts We are investing in the best people  2011:6% 2011:16%.
with long-standing and proven domain in areas including enhancements to our knowledge to manage rigorously our , advanced : .
Thiswillbe applications and our enterprise managed within our recently established control offerings.
 strong line of business organisation.
Acquisitions direct: Expand customer base We will continue to make bolt-on  A key tenet of our strategy is to secure new acquisitions to deliver unique technologies throughdistributors: greenfield contracts that expand our that increase the breadth of our offerings.
 installed base and provide opportunities through distributors and via systems .
Currently79% integrators:salesofouradvanced of Invensys Operations Managements software applications are direct.
revenue derives from the oil and gas, petrochemicals, utilities and power, and general industries sectors.
Our aim is to expand the reach of the division into a  through the software business.
12 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information Our Business Model Invensys Rail Our focus is on safety-critical and efficient software-based signalling, communication and control systems for the rail industry 31% of Group revenue invensysrail.
com Invensys Rail is a multinational What products and solutions do we provide?
provider of state-of-the-art :mainline, , offeringabroadrange software-based signalling, .
: communication and control Product category Overview systems that enable the safe European Rail  and efficient operation of trains TrafficManagement protection for the mainline market in mainline and mass transit System ERTMS networks across the world.
Communication  Our systems and solutions enable our BasedTrain protection for the mass transit market customers to control rail networks safely, Control CBTC increasing capacity at the same time as Interlockings  lowering their cost of ownership.
both mainline and mass transit We operate in a highly regional rail industry where different geographies frequently Control centres Highly complex, integrated control centres that supervise and have varying operational and signalling control mainline and mass transit systems requirements.
Within our traditional core Products Complete range of trackside products, including crossings, point marketsoftheUK, Iberia, NorthAmerica machines, relays and track circuits  railsignalling systems.
In recent years, we have successfully expanded our business into new markets, includingBrazil, Venezuela, Singapore, SaudiArabia, Malaysia, China, India, NewZealandandTurkey.
Our customers include ADIF MTR Corporation BrookfieldRail NetworkRail CN NorfolkSouthernCorp.
KiwiRail QRNational  Queensland Rail LondonUnderground RENFE Madrid Metro Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com 13 Our Business Model Invensys Rail continued Revenue by sector % Mainline engineering and contracting 44 Mass transit engineering and contracting 32 Products 24 Our core strengths lie in the breadth and Expand geographically Commitment to project execution sophistication of our technology, our Our four traditional core markets of the We adopt a best-in-class commercial domain knowledge and our reputation UK, Iberia,    accountfor77%: management operating model to ensure  thiscompareswith78%in2011.
we satisfy our customers needs for customers and partners.
 accelerate rail investment and over the Expansion of partnering capability How do we generate revenue?
coming years we expect to increase With the consortia business model significantly the contribution from becoming more prevalent in the industry, Invensys Rails revenue can be broken other, faster-growing markets.
we will expand our partnerships and downasfollows:44%mainlineengineering , andcontracting:32%masstransit A key part of our strategy is to establish including local partners and global :and24% new home markets where we have the players within relevant areas such as products.
Duringtheyear, 54%ofthe necessary domain knowledge, local civil engineering, rolling stock and divisions revenue was generated from presence and infrastructure to meet system integrators.
Realise synergies within Invensys Rail signalling and control is a specialist 64% of our order book at 31March 2012 We will continue to leverage Invensys market within the rail industry as awhole related to projects outside our traditional Operations Managements technology.
and is a higher-margin segment compared core markets 2011: 44%.
Examples to date include safety systems with rolling stock and infrastructure.
In the forinterlockings, asset management for majorityofcases,  development trains and track, and the use of Wonderware based and involves long-term contracts  technology for control room displays and spread over a number of years.
a standards-based approach to technology passenger information systems.
, intherailindustry, withERTMSandCBTC Acquisitions depending on what is appropriate for becoming recognised as global standards.
Invensys Rail will continue to make bolt-on aparticular market or specific contract.
With signalling and rail control having an acquisitions that deliver unique technologies Contracts are bid directly with customers, increasing role in meeting the growing and .
through consortia or alliances, or via demands for rail as a result of urbanisation a subcontract.
and a need for a reduced carbon footprint, new technology implementation remains What is our strategy?
We have established a leadership The success of Invensys Rail will positionthrough sustained investment  inthe research and development of and commercial value we provide to our state-of-the-art technology solutions and customers by managing the whole railway acommitment to the highest standards system: ofprojectexecution.
Thisdualapproach journeytimes, energyusageand remains at the heart of our strategy.
operational costs, while maintaining an We will continue to expand geographically absolute commitment to safety.
To address and build sustainable businesses in new this challenge, we will invest in creating the home markets.
To support this strategy, required technical solutions to provide new wewill expand our partnership capability products, and to deliver smaller, smarter and make select bolt-on acquisitions.
We invested 6% of the divisions revenue on research and development during the year 2011: 7%.
14 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information Our Business Model Invensys Controls Our focus is on value-engineered components anddevices usedinappliances, heating, air conditioning and refrigeration  markets 19% of Group revenue invensyscontrols.
com Invensys Controls is a leading What products and solutions do we provide?
global engineering and technology :appliance, , withinwhich provider that designs, engineers : and manufactures products, Line of business Overview components, systems and services 1.
Appliance Design,  used in appliances, heating, that control the operation of appliances, including cooking, airconditioning cooling and refrigeration, laundry and dishwashing, in both the residential refrigeration products across and commercial sectors awide range of industries in 2.
Wholesale A vast array of commercial and residential products and residential andcommercial markets.
replacement products for original equipment manufacturers OEMs, , valves, sensors, zonecontrols Our products measure variables, including and timers temperature and pressure, and control the operation and optimisation of the 3.
Commercial  performance of our customers appliances.
refrigeration, cooking, heating, ventilation, air conditioning, water heating and transportation Invensys Controls customers are principally comprised of global residential and commercial appliance manufacturers, but also include wholesalers and distributors of heating, ventilation, air  HVACR controls and services.
Our customers include Royal Range Crosslee Gorenje Alladio Dufrio H&VControls Samsung Amica Sub-ZeroWolf Eliwell Iberica Haceb Arcelik Esmaltec Haier TravisPerkins Asko VikingRange FagorAppliances Hydralectric Atlant Fisher&Paykel Indurama WatkinsSpa BakerDistributing Whirlpool Corporation Frigelar ITWFoodEquipment Berker Gefest JohnstoneSupply Wilbur Curtis  Merten WorcesterBoschGroup Gira Candy GISCalorex Metalfrio Criotec Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com 15 Our Business Model Invensys Controls continued Revenue by line of business % Appliance 59 Wholesale 24 Commercial 17 1.
Appliance Expand geographically How do we generaterevenue?
 Our focus will continue to be on fastOur revenue can be broken down as thefeatures of their appliances while  follows:59%appliance:24%wholesale: alsoexceeding the energy-saving  and17%commercial.
Wegeneraterevenue standards set by the regulating agencies engineering capabilities, optimise from the sales of OEM components and and reducing the raw material content products and grow market share.
We supply the oftheir products.
also expand our wholesale channels further midto high-end of the home appliance  into Europe and leverage our commercial market.
platforms, includingHydrawater portfolio globally by transferring proven  products, technology, applications and What is our strategy?
systems, are industry-leading patented customer relationships.
innovations with the highest standards The key element of our strategy is to Broaden addressable market for quality and performance.
drive growth through value-engineered We plan to expand our addressable market solutions and best-in-class global 2.
Wholesale by continuing to provide a cutting-edge products, manufactured to deliver value  product range and working closely with toourcustomers.
Byutilisingproven the Invensys Controls global portfolio of our customers.
We will increase our technologies, our innovative designs well-recognised products and brands, investment and focus on our high growth differentiate our solutions in our industries.
includingEliwell, Ranco, Drayton, higher-margin commercial and wholesale  segments, while also continuing to invest We will focus on delivering growth in our and installers and has a trackrecord for in our appliance segment.
high-margin commercial and wholesale quality, reliability and technical businesses while protecting our core excellence.
During the year, approximately 13% of appliance business.
Ourtechnicalsupport, customerfocus thedivisions revenue was derived from Our successful restructuring and and partnering approach are regarded new product introductions 2011: 10%.
productivity programme has enabled us as industry-leading, by installers, to price competitively by increasing our specifiers and wholesalers alike who efficiency and lowering cost.
Continuous  improvement remains at the heart of our in the most effective way.
Commercial Support existing customers  Our principal customers operate in the manufacturer of  global appliance market.
optimised products that use the latest We help these customers to maintain a in electronic and electromechanical competitive advantage in the delivery of controls to regulate temperature, market-leading appliances.
We supply pressure and humidity in residential all of the worlds top seven appliance and light commercial applications.
 with our remote data management and control capabilities.
This allows us to  customers that meet or exceed their requirements for productivity, safety and energy savings.
16 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information Business Review 18 Key Performance Indicators 20 Invensys Operations Management 22 Invensys Rail 24 Invensys Controls 26 Financial Review 31 Financial Policies 32 Corporate Responsibility 37 Risks and Uncertainties Invensys Operations Management Systems to help customers operate and optimise their industrial plants: featuring heavily in our portfolio are complex, heavy process industries, such as oil refining in the Middle East.
Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
