Invensys Rail A successful year in significantly growing our order book 1 Year ended 31 March 2012 2011 % change at CER % total change 2 Orders m 991 558 77 78 2 Order book m 1,202 1,021 22 18 Revenue m 775 772 3 Operating profit m 116 129 11 10 3 Operating margin % 15.0% 16.7% Operating cash flow m 35 71 48 51 Operating cash conversion % 30% 55% Employees at year end numbers 3,960 4,009 1 1 % change is measured as the change at CER as a percentage of the 2011 adjusted base and is calculated on underlying amounts in 000s.
2 Orders and order book exclude framework agreements.
3 All references to operating profit and operating margin are arrived at before exceptional items, unless otherwise stated.
Invensys Rail is a multinational provider Markets Developments of state-of-the-art software-based The global market for rail signalling and There have been several major signalling, communication and control train control remained steady during developments in the year, in both our systems that enable the safe and the year with prospects continuing to home and our export markets.
efficient operation of trains in mainline be strong due to industrialisation, and mass transit networks across urbanisation, increasing capacity Home markets theworld.
Our aim is to deliver needs and the recognition of rail as Activity with Network Rail, which named highercapacity safely and an environmentally sustainable and us their Supplier of the Year in July 2011, reducedtraveltimes.
was strong in the year and underlines ourposition as the UKs leading supplier In our major traditional core markets, the ofsignalling and train control systems.
UK market is supported by government commitments to continue to fund Network In July 2011, we were selected by Rail and other rail infrastructure projects Network Rail to deliver the Thameslink such as Crossrail and the second High resignalling project, one of Britains Speed Line.
Network Rail has retendered largest and most complex resignalling its signalling framework agreements schemes covering London Bridge Station covering the UK and we were successful and the approaching railway.
This infour out of the nine regions.
In Spain, framework agreement was the first of activity levels were down significantly due nine awards to be made, under which to government austerity measures and there will be a series of individual future investment will be reliant upon commission contracts.
Work commenced private sector financing.
In the US, the in August 2011 and runs through to the market for grade crossings remains robust completion of the Thameslink project and we have had success in building our inDecember 2018. presence in the mass transit and mainline In January 2012, we achieved further signalling markets.
success with the Network Rail framework contracts when we were appointed There is a significant level of rail Primary Contractor in three of the other infrastructure investment being made eight areas Scotland, Central West and outside our traditional core markets, Wales & West and named Secondary especially in South America, the Middle Contractor for a further four areas East and Asia and we have been successful Central East, Sussex & Wessex, Great in winning several major projects.
In China Western Inner and Great Western Outer.
for example, major mass transit schemes Where we have been named Secondary will be implemented in many regional cities Contractor, we could be called upon over the next few years and we remain to lead the delivery of a project if the confident that we will participate in this Primary Contractors for these areas do market through our agreements with China not have the capacity.
These framework South CSR, Chinas largest rolling stock agreements run from 2012 to March manufacturer.
We are also reviewing 2014, at which point there will be an potential contracts for future bidding with option for Network Rail to continue with CSR outside of China.
each agreement on an annual basis for a further five years.
22 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information Revenue by sector % Revenue by destination % Mainline engineering UK 27 and contracting 44 Rest of Europe 22 Mass transit engineering North America 22 and contracting 32 South America 8 Products 24 Asia Pacic 21 Africa Middle East 0 We were also awarded a 28 million Spain to this new line.
As a member of Performance signalling contract for the Reading the Al Shoula consortium, Invensys Rail Orders for the year were near record levels Western Mainline programme and the will provide the full turnkey signalling at 991 million 2011: 558 million, up 77% 35 million Glasgow South Suburban and train control systems, including its at CER, due to major awards in both new Resignalling contract.
The scope of FUTUR 3000 and FUTUR 2500 and core markets, particularly in Saudi the Reading programme covers the Level2 ERTMS solution.
Invensys Rails Arabia and Turkey.
In addition we won remodelling of the Reading Station area share ofthe three-year construction four of the nine framework agreements from Sonning to Pangbourne, a new train phase isvalued at 298 million around awarded by Network Rail: we do not care depot and four new platforms which 260 million.
In addition, there will be a include framework agreements in order will provide increased capacity at, and 12-year maintenance contract which will intake or order book.
The Glasgow be signed at the end of the construction contract includes the Cathcart Signal phase and our share will be 185 million Our order book at 31 March 2012 was Box area, the East Kilbride branch lines around 160 million.
and the Barrhead lines up to the limit We were awarded the contract to Inaddition, the three-year pipeline of of control from the West of Scotland provide the signalling technology for orderprospects remains strong at around Signalling Centre.
This will include new Istanbuls CR3 Marmaray Project, a 77km 6billion.
Westlock interlockings and see a new commuter line linking Gezbe and Halkali Revenue in the period was flat at CER at generation of signalling introduced to under the Bosphorus.
The value of the 775 million 2011: 772 million with good control the area.
contract is 195 million approximately growth in the UK and North America offset We were appointed preferred bidder 170 million.
In a joint venture with by an anticipated reduction in Spain and on one of four European Rail Traffic Spanish civil construction company delays in mobilisation on some of the large Management System ERTMS OHL, we will be responsible for designing new market contracts.
This contract and supplying a new signalling and initially covers the development stage Automatic Train Protection ATP system Operating profit was down 11% at CER of ERTMS provision across the UK for the line.
The project will utilise a at 116 million 2011: 129 million and network, after which we will demonstrate range of Invensys Rails state-of-the-art operating margin was 15.0% 2011: 16.7%.
our solution at Network Rails Integration signalling and communication solutions Operating profit and margin were below Facility at Hertford.
The final part of including SIRIUS CBTC Communication last year due to a greater proportion ERTMS deployment will see the rollout Based Train Control and FUTUR of revenue arising from lower margin of trackside equipment on selected ERTMS Level 1. projects, together with the effect of parts of the UK mainline network.
In January 2012, we achieved further previously announced additional costs success in Turkey when a joint venture amounting to 20 million on a handful of New and emerging markets including Invensys Rail was awarded contracts within the Asia Pacific region.
The Saudi Railways Organization SRO a project from Turkish State Railways Operating cash flow was 35 million announced that the Al Shoula consortium TCDD to install ERTMS signalling 2011: 71 million due to the investment had been awarded the contract to and communications on the 310km in working capital on some of our major provide the superstructure, systems, Bandirma-Menemen railway, the main export contracts ahead of reaching rolling stock, signalling, operation and rail link between the Marmaray and payment milestones and continued maintenance for the Haramain HighMediterranean seas.
Invensys Rails delayed payments from customers in Speed Line linking the two Holy Cities share of the award is worth 59 million.
Also we have not yet received ofMakkah and Madinah.
This consortium some significant upfront payments on the is a Saudi-Spanish group which will large contracts awarded in the second implement the successful high-speed half of the year, which are now expected line model and technology applied in to be received later in the current year.
Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
