Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information Directors Report The directors submit their Report and Review of the business: key sections theaudited accounts for the year ended Section Nature of relevant content Pages 31March 2012 as set out on pages 80 to Chairmans Further commentary on the Groups strategy, 6 to 7 164 and page 169.
This Report should be Statement performance and future development read in conjunction with the Corporate Governance report on pages 48 to 59.
Chief Executives Further commentary on the Groups strategy, 8 to 9 Statement performance and future development Principal activities The principal activities for the year are Key Performance A discussion of key financial performance measures 18 to 19 contained in the Business Review on pages Indicators 17 to 44.
The principal subsidiaries which contributed to the Groups profit or net Financial A discussion of key financial performance measures 26 to 30 assets in the year are listed on page 169. Review Business Review Financial Information on our use of financial instruments and 31 The Company is required by the Policies adescription of our financial risk management Companies Act 2006 to set out in this objectives and policies report a fair review of the business of the Risks and Identification of principal risks and uncertainties 37 to 44 Group during the financial year ended Uncertainties facing the Group, their impact and mitigation 31March 2012 and the position of the Group at the end of the year.
This review is contained in the Business Review section of Board of directors The Chairmans Letter and Notice of the Annual Report and Accounts on pages The current directors of the Company AGMexplains the Boards reasons for 17 to 44 with further commentary and andtheir biographical details are given andrecommendations regarding the specific areas of note incorporated into onpages 46 and 47.
A statement of their election and reelection of all directors.
thesections shown in the adjacent table.
remuneration and interests in the ordinary The powers of the directors are determined shares of the Company are set out in the The Business Review contains the by UK legislation and the Articles of Remuneration Report on pages 71 to 74. information required for a management Association of the Company, together with report as set out in the Disclosure and As previously announced, David Thomas any specific authorities that may be given Transparency Rules DTRs and takes was appointed Chief Financial Officer and to the directors by shareholders from time account of the best practice guidance a director of the Company on 28 July 2011, to time, such as the power to allot shares contained in the Accounting Standards and Victoria Hull was appointed as a and the power to make market purchases Boards Reporting Statement Operating director of the Company on29November of the Companys shares.
The rules governing the appointment information regarding matters reserved and retirement of directors are contained forthe Board is set out in the Corporate Dividend in the Companys Articles of Association, Governance report on page 48.
The Board has recommended the payment which provides thatany director appointed o f a final dividend for the year of 2.75 pence during the yearholds office only until the Directors indemnity and insurance per share which, subject to approval by next AGM and is then eligible for election The Company maintains directors and shareholders at the AGM on 13 July 2012, by theshareholders and that, in any case, officers liability insurance which provides will be paid on 3 August 2012 to one third of the directors or if their number appropriate cover for legal actions brought shareholders on the register at 22 June is not a multiple of three the number against its directors or officers.
With an interim dividend of 1.65 nearest to one third shall retire from office pence per share paid during the year, the and, ifthey wish, put themselves up for Acquisitions and disposals total dividends payable in respect of the reelection by the shareholders.
However No acquisitions or disposals of operations year ended 31 March 2012 are 4.4 pence in accordance with the Code, all directors took place during the year under review.
per share 2011: 4.0 pence per share.
will seek reelection by shareholders at the We intro duced a dividend reinvestment 2012 AGM.
In addition David Thomas and plan DRIP in 2011, which enables Victoria Hull who joined the Board during shareholders to reinvest their dividends the year, will stand for election at the directly into Invensys shares.
Further information can information on the DRIP please contact befound in the Corporate Governance Equiniti, the Companys registrars.
Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com 75 Directors Report continued Capital structure At the 2011 AGM, the directors were Supplier payment policy Details of the issued share capital, together authorised to issue relevant securities It is the policy of the Group that subsidiary with details of movements in the issued uptoan aggregate nominal amount of companies should develop longterm share capital of the Company during the 26.7 million approximately one third relationships with suppliers and establish year, are shown in Note 27 on pages 133 ofthe issued ordinary share capital as at terms of trade consistent with established and 134.
In addition, the directors practice in their country of operation, and were authorised to allot an extra third of to ensure that suppliers are aware of the The Company has one class of ordinary theissued share capital in respect of a fully terms of payment and that such terms are shares which carry no right to fixed income.
The Company is a holding Each share carries the right to one vote sought for the directors authorisation to company and has no trade creditors.
atgeneral meetings of the Company.
allot relevant securities and to allot equity Whether or not a shareholder intends to securities for cash up to a maximum Employee policy and development attend the AGM, votes on the resolutions aggregate nominal amount of 4.1 million Invensys has a range of active policies are to be lodged by no later than 48 hours on a preemptive basis.
The directors did thatextend from business compliance, before the meeting takes place.
There are not use this authority during the year under asreflected in our Code of Conduct, to no specific restrictions on the size of a review, other than to issue shares to satisfy developing the full capabilities of our holding nor on the transfer of shares save awards under the Companys share people.
We continue to focus on as detailed below, both of which are incentive plans.
The directors will seek to promoting diversity and equal governed by the general provisions of the renew allotment authorities at the 2012 opportunities in areas ranging from Articles of Association and prevailing AGM in line with revised guidelines issued selection and recruitment to training and legislation.
by the Association of British Insurers.
development so that we can meet the The Company operates an employee needs of our businesses and customers benefit trust in Jersey called the Invensys In addition, the Company was authorised at around the world.
2 Employee Benefit Trust EBT which the 2011 AGM to purchase in the market up adjustments will be made for the benefit may be used to deliver ordinary shares in to 80,971,705 ordinary shares, representing ofdisabled employees.
People with the Company under certain executive approximately 10% of the issued share disabilities are given full and fair share schemes, as appropriate.
The EBT capital of the Company.
Although this consideration for employment and has an independent trustee which waives authority was not used by the Company, subsequent training including, if needed, its rights to dividends and to vote on the approval will be sought from shareholders retraining for alternative work where shareholding.
Details of executive share atthe 2012 AGM to renew this standard employees have become temporarily schemes and shares held by the EBT are set authority for afurther year.
The Company will orpermanently disabled, career out in Notes 27 and 29 on pages 133 to 134 only buy back shares if the directors believe development and promotion on the and 135 to 142 respectively.
that it is in the shareholders best interests.
basisof their aptitudes and abilities.
Shares acquired through the Companys The Group recognises the need to consult Substantial shareholders executive share plans rank pari passu with and systematically provide information At the date of this report, the Company has other shares in issue and have no special onmatters that impact our employees.
been notified, in accordance with the DTRs, rights or restrictions, save that certain Tosatisfy that need, the Group provides of the following interests in the ordinary shareawards involve retention periods employees with published financial and share capital of the Company: after vesting.
Further information is set economic information through its outin Note 29 on pages 135 to 142.
The consultative procedures and through 1 % interest in issued nonexecutive directors use a proportion groups such as the Invensys European Name share capital of their fees to purchase sharesin the Employees Forum IEEF.
Invensys Ameriprise 4.565% indirect interest Company which may not normally be encourages employees involvement in 0.16% direct interest transferred during a directors period theCompanys performance through the 0.01% nominal interest ofoffice.
Invensys Savings Related Share Option BlackRock 4.37% indirect interest Scheme.
Invensys also encourages the 2 0.73% nominal interest involvement of technical, professional andmanagerial level employees in the Lloyds Banking 6.75% indirect interest Groups performance through the Invensys Group Performance Management System, which Marathon Asset 4.94% indirect interest reinforces the links between the Groups Management business goals, the employees Prudential 9.88% direct interest contribution and his her remuneration.
0.04% indirect interest Greater detail on these topics and further information concerning employees and Ruffer 5.11% direct interest social and community issues is set out in Schroders 5.105% indirect interest the Corporate Responsibility report, which Standard Life 2.853% direct interest begins on page 32.
Investments 1.495% indirect interest 1 The percentage interests stated are as disclosed at the date on which the interests were notified in accordance with DTR 5.
2 This interest is a contract for difference and does not carry any voting rights.
76 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information Charitable and political contributions Significant agreements Auditor During the year, Group donations to The Company is required to disclose any In accordance with section 418 2 of the charities and community causes worldwide contractual or other arrangements which Companies Act 2006, each of the directors were 0.2 million 2011: 0.3 million, with itconsiders are essential to its business.
at the date of approval of this Report UK charities receiving nil 2011: nil.
Invensys critical relationships are with its confirms that, so far as they are aware, there TheBoard is of the view that it is not major customers and its suppliers of is no relevant audit information of which the appropriate for the Company to make services, components and raw materials, as Companys auditor is unaware, and that the charitable donations given that the discussed in the Business Review on pages directors have taken all the steps that they Company only resumed the payment of 17 to 44.
Whilst the loss of, or disruption to, ought to have taken as directors in order to dividends in recent years.
However, many certain of these arrangements could make themselves aware of, and to establish of the Groups subsidiaries are influential temporarily affect the operations of the that the auditor is aware of, any relevant companies and important employers in Group, none of these arrangements are audit information.
Ernst & Young LLP has their own countries or localities, and it is considered to be essential.
expressed willingness to continue in office therefore believed to be in the best as auditor and, in accordance with the The Company is also required to disclose interests of the Group for those companies recommendation of the Audit Committee, any significant agreements that take effect, community involvement to be maintained resolutions proposing its reappointment alter or terminate on a change of control of at reasonable levels.
and to authorise the directors to determine the Company.
Pursuant to Schedule 7 of its remuneration will be proposed at the At the 2011 AGM, shareholders passed the Large and Mediumsized Companies 2012 AGM.
aresolution, on a precautionary basis, and Groups Accounts and Reports toauthorise the Company to make Regulations 2008, the directors disclose Annual General Meeting politicaldonations and or incur political that in the event of a change of control in The AGM of the Company will be held expenditure as such terms are defined the Company: i the banking facilities onFriday, 13 July 2012 at 11.00am at insections 362 to 379 of the Companies described in Note 21, totalling 600 million TheQueen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Act 2006, in each case in amounts not at 31 March 2012, could cease to be Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London exceeding 25,000 in aggregate.
The available to the Group: ii a Master Service SW1P 3EE.
The Chairmans Letter and definitions used in the Companies Act Agreement dated 15 May 2007, made with Notice of AGM gives full details of the 2006 are broad in nature and this authority Genpact International, LLC for the provision meeting and the resolutions to be was sought to ensure that any activities of outsourced business services in relation proposed.
undertaken throughout the Group, which to certain finance, IT and related functions, could otherwise be construed to fall within would become terminable at the option of Post balance sheet event these provisions, could be undertaken the Company: and iii a Master Service On 10 May 2012 Invensys acquired 100% without inadvertently infringing them.
Agreement dated 3 July 2009, made with ofthe share capital of PHW Inc. a privately Shareholders will be asked to renew this Cognizant Technology Solutions U. S. held manufacturer of cab signalling resolution at the 2012 AGM.
Corporation forthe provision of certain systems and other safety electronic train research and development services to the No political donations were made during control systems for the North America Invensys Operations Management division the year under review.
mainline and mass transit industries and alsoto Invensys Rail from December foracash consideration of 11 million.
2009, would become terminable at the Research and development Thenetassets acquired were option ofthe Company.
The Group carries out research and approximately 6 million.
development in support of its activities.
The executive directors service contracts During the year, expenditure on the contain provisions which would take effect research and development of new in the event of a change of control.
In the By order of the Board of directors products and processes amounted to event of a material adverse change to their 117million 2011: 129 million.
title, responsibilities or status following achange of control of the Company, they would be entitled to terminate their employment and receive a payment equal to the termination payment set out in the Victoria Hull Remuneration Report on page 69.
The Chief Legal Officer and service contracts of a small number of Company Secretary other key employees also contain provisions entitling them to terminate Invensys plc employment and receive compensation Registered in England & Wales inthe event of a change of control.
number166023 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
