Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information Financial Policies Statement of accounting policies Interest rate risk Translation exposure The Groups Financial Statements The Group is exposed to risk arising from The majority of the Groups operating havebeen prepared in accordance with the effect of changes in floating interest capital is employed in overseas locations International Financial Reporting Standards rates on the level of interest it receives on and is denominated in foreign currencies, IFRSs in issue that are endorsed by the its cash deposits.
As a consequence, European Commission and effective at changes in exchange rates affect both net As at 31 March 2012 and 31 March 2011, 31March 2012.
The Groups accounting asset values and reported results.
This risk Invensys had no significant borrowings.
policies under IFRSs are set out in Note 2 isnot hedged directly but, to the extent tothe Group Financial Statements on that the Group has debt, any that is held Currency risk pages 87 to 95.
The Parent Company inforeign currencies would reduce the Transaction exposure Financial Statements have been prepared level of net assets exposed to currency Currency transaction exposure arises in accordance with UK Generally Accepted fluctuations.
The interest expense related whenbusiness units face revenue or Accounting Practice UK GAAP and to such debt would also reduce the level costsin acurrency other than their own.
include details of the Companys ofearnings exposed to exchange rate The incidence of this risk varies across accounting policies.
theGroup and is subject to change.
However, the majority of revenue and Credit risk Treasury policy costswill usually be in the functional The Group monitors the identity of the The Groups treasury policy is approved currency of thebusiness undertaking counterparties with whom it deposits cash bythe Board and seeks to ensure that: thetransaction.
Where this is not the case and transacts other financial instruments appropriate financial resources are and the exposure is significant, it is the soas to control exposure to any territory available for the maintenance and Groups policy for the units to hedge their orinstitution.
As far as it is both feasible development of the Group: exposure.
The Group predominantly uses and practical to do so, cash is held the financial risk of currency, interest forward currency contracts to manage centrallyby the Treasury department.
rateand counterparty credit exposure transaction exposure.
The Group is also Riskis assessed using ratings from major isunderstood, measured and managed subject to exchange risk when making bids, credit rating agencies.
appropriately: and particularly on major contracts, where Further information on the risks arising the Treasury department operates as movements against the specific exchange from financial instruments is included in acost centre and that no speculative rate assumed within abid would lead to Note 22 to the Group Financial Statements.
achange in the anticipated margin on the contract should the bid be successful.
Funding, liquidity and treasury Thisexposure to contract risk is hedged management ifsignificant.
Operating within the strict controls of theGroups treasury policy, the Treasury department manages this financial risk, ensuring that sufficient funding and liquidity are available to meet the expected needs of the Group together with a prudent level of headroom to allow for cash flow and bank guarantee variability.
In addition to the free cash flow of the Group, Invensys adopts a flexible approach to liquidity management using a mixture of long-term debt facilities and short-term cash deposits.
Funding is provided by bank facilities which mature in March 2017.
The undrawn level of these facilities together with the Groups cash balances are the key measures of the Groups liquidity.
Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
