Our Board of Directors Victoria Hull 50 Chairman Executive directors Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary Sir Nigel Rudd 65 Wayne Edmunds 56 Appointment Chairman Chief Executive Appointed a director on 29 November 2011.
Appointment Appointment Committee membership Appointed a non-executive director and Appointed a director and Chief Financial None.
Deputy Chairman on 1 January 2009 and Officer on 1 June 2009 and became Skills and previous experience became Chairman on 17 July 2009.
Joined Invensys in 2001 as General Counsel Committee membership Committee membership and also appointed Company Secretary in Chairman of Nominating Committee None.
She qualified as a solicitor with Member of Remuneration Committee Skills and previous experience Clifford Chance, working in their corporate Skills and previous experience Formerly CFO of Invensys Process Systems, finance department.
Formerly Executive Retired as Chairman from Pendragon PLC having joined the Group from Reuters America, Director, General Counsel and Company inOctober 2010.
He was formerly Chairman Inc.
He previously held senior financial roles Secretary of Telewest Communications plc.
of Alliance Boots plc, Pilkington plc, Williams inthe technology sector, including 17 years Current external appointments Holdings plc and Kidde plc: Deputy Chairman atLucent Technologies, Inc. None.
of Barclays Bank PLC: and non-executive Current external appointments director of BAE Systems plc.
Non-executive directors Current external appointments Chairman of BAA Limited: non-executive David Thomas 57 Francesco Caio 54 director of Sappi Limited: and Chairman of Chief Financial Officer Non-executive director the advisory board of Barclays Private Bank.
Appointment Appointment He is a non-executive Chairman of the Appointed Acting Chief Financial Officer on Appointed a non-executive director on Business Growth Fund which is financed 24 March 2011 and became Chief Financial 18July 2009. bythe large UK banks to provide equity for Officer and a director on 28 July 2011.
Committee membership smalland medium-sized businesses.
He Committee membership Member of Audit Committee isaDeputy Lieutenant of Derbyshire and None.
Member of Remuneration Committee Chancellor of Loughborough University.
Skills and previous experience Skills and previous experience Joined Invensys in 2002 as Group Controller, Formerly Vice Chairman of Investment Banking he has worked across many of the businesses Europe at Nomura where he resigned in April and has held CFO and CEO roles within the 2011.
Formerly Chief Executive of Merloni divisions.
He was latterly Senior Vice President Eldo S. p. A.
Chief Executive of Cable & Business Risk with responsibility for risk Wireless plc, a director of Motorola Inc, management across the Group and a member of the European Advisory additional responsibility for the Groups Board of Air Products and an adviser to pension schemes.
He was formerly a senior the Italian and British governments on partner at Ernst & Young LLP specialising in telecommunication matters.
Current external appointments He is a member of the Institute of Chartered Chief Executive Officer of Avio Group, Accountants in England and Wales.
non-executive director of Indesit Company, Current external appointments a member of the Advisory Board of Politecnico Member of the Auditing Practices Board.
di Milano and a member of the Advisory Board ofNomura.
Length of tenure of Chairman and Board sector experience % non-executive directors number of years 0 3 years 5 Industrials 36 3 6 years 2 Financials 14 6 9 years 1 Telecommunications 10 Materials 9 Technology 9 Other 22 46 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Other Information Bay Green 68 Deena Mattar 46 Dr Martin Read 62 Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointed a non-executive director on Appointed a non-executive director on Appointed a non-executive director and 1January 2005 and became the Chairman of 19May 2011.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee the Audit Committee on 6 December 2006. on 18July 2009.
Committee membership Committee membership Member of Audit Committee Committee membership Chairman of Audit Committee Chairman of Remuneration Committee Skills and previous experience Member of Nominating Committee Member of Nominating Committee Group Finance Director and member of the Skills and previous experience board of Kier Group plc from 2001 to 2010.
Skills and previous experience Retired as non-executive director and Formerly a senior manager of the Property Chief Executive of Logica plc from 1993 Chairman of the audit committee from and Construction Division of KPMG.
Formerly on the boards of British Axis-Shield plc in November 2011.
Formerly aFellow of the Institute of Chartered Airways Plc, Siemens Holdings Plc, Boots Vice Chairman of Dresdner Kleinwort, where Accountants in England and Wales.
Group PLC and Asda Group plc.
He led he specialised in advising on mergers and aUKGovernment Review on back office Current external appointments acquisitions and other activities and he was andIT efficiency across the public sector Appointed non-executive director andaudit a non-executive director of RPC Group plc.
which reported in 2009. committee Chairman designate of Lamprell He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered PLC in April 2012 and a non-executive Current external appointments Accountants in England and Wales.
director of RM plc in June 2011 where she Chairman of the Remuneration Consultants Current external appointments serves as Chairman of the audit committee.
Group and non-executive director of Aegis He is a trustee of Help the Hospices and Group plc, Lloyds of London and the UK a specialist adviser to the Wholesale and Government Cabinet Office Efficiency and Michael Parker 65 Institutional Markets Business Unit of the Reform Board.
Senior Independent Director Financial Services Authority.
Appointment Pat Zito 63 Appointed a non-executive director on Paul Lester 62 Non-executive director 16May 2006 and became the Senior Non-executive director Independent Director on 6 December 2006.
Appointment Appointment Appointed a non-executive director on Committee membership Appointed a non-executive director on 23May 2007.
Member of Nominating Committee Committee membership Committee membership Member of Remuneration Committee Member of Audit Committee Member of Remuneration Committee Member of Nominating Committee Skills and previous experience Skills and previous experience Group Chief Executive of British Nuclear Skills and previous experience Formerly Chairman of Marine Current Fuels Limited BNFL from 2003 until his Held senior executive roles within Pilkington Turbines, Chief Executive of VT Group plc, retirement in June 2009.
Formerly President plc and subsequently Nippon Sheet Glass Group Managing Director of Balfour Beatty and Chief Executive Officer of The Dow Company for 33 years.
Before retirement plc, Chief Executive of Graseby plc and Chemical Company.
heheld the role of President, Worldwide non-executive director of Chloride Group plc.
Automotive Original Equipment and Current external appointments Aftermarket operations of Pilkington and Current external appointments Non-executive director of PV Crystalox Solar Nippon Sheet Glass Company.
Formerly a Appointed Chairman of Peveral Group in plc and SNC-Lavalin Group Inc: Chairman director on the board of Pilkington plc and March 2012, Chairman ofSurvitec Group ofLiverpools economic development subsequently Nippon Sheet Glass Company.
inAugust 2011 and Chairman of Norland regeneration company, Liverpool Vision: inSeptember 2011.
Heis Chairman of atrustee of the Royal Society for the Current external appointments Greenergy and Chairman of John Laing Prevention of Accidents: and Chairman None.
ofStreet Leagues Board of Trustees, a charitywhich helps disadvantaged young people through the use of football and education programmes.
Governance framework Board Chairman, three executive directors and seven independent non-executive directors Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Chief Executive member of GLT Four independent non-executive directors Five independent non-executive directors andChairman Nominating Committee Group Leadership Team GLT Risk Committee Four independent non-executive directors Chief Financial Officer Chief Executive andChairman Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary Chief Financial Officer Group Human Resources Director Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary CEO Invensys Operations Management Group Human Resources Director Contracts Committee CEO Invensys Rail EVP Finance One executive director, Chairman or Senior CEO Invensys Controls SVP Environmental, Health, Safety and Sustainability Independent Director and at least one other VP Risk Management and Insurance independent non-executive director Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
