Business and financial review Geographic breakdown Key facts Americas Revenue split by market Change Underlying 1 2012 2011 % % Revenue m 2,500 1,807 38 14 Environment & EBITA m 233 200 16 14 Infrastructure 19% EBITA margin % 9.3 11.1 180 bps Oil & Gas 36% Order book bn 1.3 1.5 15 Clean Energy 23% Average number 2 of employees 14,828 13,286 12 Mining 22% 1 Growth measured against 2011 as restated for material acquisitions, movements in material currencies and the impact of incremental procurement Locations: There are major offices in Calgary, Toronto, 2 Full time equivalents, including agency staff.
Saskatoon, Vancouver in Canada: Atlanta, GA, Greenville, SC, Houston, TX, in the US: Santiago, Chile: Belo Horizonte, Description of business Brazil: and Lima, Peru.
In addition, environmental and Americas generated 60 per cent of group revenues in 2012. infrastructure services are provided through a large The portfolio of activities is well-balanced across AMECs number of local offices throughout North America.
Customers include: Arizona Public Service APS, BP, We have a growing conventional oil & gas position, Bruce Power, Canadian Natural Resources Limited, strengthened by recent contract wins such as MWCS ExxonMobil, Kruger, MWCC, Newmont Mining Corporation, and BP Mad Dog: by the creation of AMEC KROMAV PotashCorp, US Air Force.
See also pages 27, 28 and 29. inBrazil: and by the signing of the joint venture agreement with Samsung Recent projects include: Oil & gas: BP: conceptual design and then FEED services for topside facilities, AMEC is the market leader in the provision of second phase of Mad Dog field: CNRL:Horizon oil sands projectmanagement and engineering services project expansion, Canada: Imperial Oil: Kearl programme, totheCanadian mineable oil sands see page 14 Canada: MWCC:marine well containment system, US: andalso has in-situ expertise Petrobras: engineering services, Brazil: Quip: work on We are a leading mining consultant and a tier 1 P63, Brazil: Sunshine Oilsands Limited: West Ells EPCMplayer in-situproject.
We have good solar and bioprocess positions in Mining: Cap Mineria: Cerro Negro Norte iron ore project, theUSand are well positioned in nuclear and wind in Chile: Detour Gold: Detour Lake gold project, Canada: Canada, particularly in Ontario NewGold: infrastructure and EPCM services at New Afton mine: Newmont Mining Corporation: Geology, resource We are a leading player in the provision of and reserve audits, front-end studies and EPC services, environmental services in North America.
Leeville Turf gold project, US: PotashCorp: expansion project, including EPCM work at Rocanville, Canada.
m The introductory investor presentation on our website carries further details on our market Clean energy: APS: 52MW photovoltaic solar project, US: position, competitors and growth priorities BC Hydro: range of T&D projects, augmenting the clients in-house engineering group, Canada: OPG: owners support services, preliminary engineering design, safety review and site evaluation, client training programme for refurbishment and new build at Darlington plant, Canada: International Power Canada: Brockville solar project: Sapphire Energy: integrated algal biorefinery in New Mexico, US.
30 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012 OverviewStrategy Go Performancevernance Financials Environment & infrastructure: Honeywell: alliance Europe agreement, working on more than 80 environmental Change Underlying remediation and stewardship projects: McCain Foods: waste 1 2012 2011 % % water effluent reclaim recycle design project: Windsor Essex Revenue m 1,150 1,027 12 8 Parkway: design and environmental services.
EBITA m 91 83 10 6 2012 performance EBITA margin % 7.9 8.1 20 bps Revenue in Americas improved 38 per cent to 2.5 billion, Order book bn 1.6 1.6 2 with good growth across all markets, boosted by incremental Average number procurement.
Excluding this incremental procurement 2 of employees 10,473 9,558 10 320 million, underlying growth was 14 per cent.
1 Growth measured against 2011 as restated for material acquisitions EBITA was up 16 per cent, to 233 million 2011: and movements in material currencies 2 200million.
The EBITA margin was 9.3 per cent, Full time equivalents, including agency staff.
down180 basis points from 2011, largely as the result of Description of business the increased procurement activities on three Americas Europe generated 27 per cent of group revenue in 2012, projects.
It was also impacted by a decline in profits from largely from conventional oil & gas and nuclear.
the Kearl project, as discussed on page 27.
Excluding incremental procurement, margins were similar to last We have a long-standing oil & gas business in year at 10.7 per cent.
theNorth Sea, with a market-leading position inbrownfield activities.
Our recent collaboration Order book was down 15 per cent at 1.3 billion 2011: agreement with Aibel opens up opportunities 1.5billion, reflecting softer conditions in some markets intheNorwegian Continental shelf and a reduction in incremental procurement.
Our nuclear capability has developed over the last Americas outlook 50years and supports the full lifecycle of nuclear Looking ahead to 2013, and on an underlying basis energy, from new build to reactor support and excluding procurement, revenue growth is expected ontodecommissioning.
In 2012 we acquired the tobein the low-to-mid single digit range, with growth 600person ESRC business, so building our inconventional oil & gas, clean energy and environment capabilities and footprint &infrastructure offset by a significant reduction in oil sands.
Mining, whilst still robust, is expected to be We are positioned for further growth in the relativelystable, excluding incremental procurement.
Overall, incremental procurement in Americas is expectedto be 200 million lower than in 2012. m The introductory investor presentation on our website carries further details on our market Headline margins are expected to improve in 2013 position, competitors and growth priorities asincremental procurement reduces.
The negative impactfrom the shift in business mix away from oil Key facts sandswill be offset in part by cost efficiencies from theorganisational restructure.
Revenue split by market Environment & Infrastructure 3% Clean Energy 38% Oil & Gas 58% Mining 1% AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012 31 Business and financial review Geographic breakdown continued The order book was stable at 1.6 billion, reflecting the Europe continued decline in conventional power and transmission & distribution in the UK, offset by a strong position in oil & gas.
Key facts continued Locations: In the UK, there are major offices in Aberdeen, Europe outlook Darlington, Great Yarmouth, London, Knutsford, Newcastle.
Underlying revenue growth in 2013 is expected in the We also have smaller offices elsewhere in the UK and low-to-mid single digit range, driven by oil & gas in the inEurope.
NorthSea, while in clean energy, growth in the nuclear sector Customers include: Apache, BG, BP, ConocoPhillips, is expected to offset a reduction in conventional power.
EDF, Fairfield Energy, National Grid, NDA, Shell, Teesside Margins are expected to improve in 2013, as result of the Gas and Liquid Processing.
See also pages 27, 28 and 29. shift in business mix and efficiencies from the integration Recent projects include: Oil & gas: BG: engineering and of operations.
construction E&C term contract for facilities including Armada, North Everest and Lomond platforms: BP: EPMS Growth Regions for the main platform design Clair Ridge: ConocoPhillips: Change Underlying brownfield detailed engineering and procurement for existing 1 2012 2011 % % Judy platform and the hook-up and commissioning of the Revenue m 531 442 20 15 new Jasmine facilities: GDF SUEZ: detailed design, Cygnus EBITA m 32 46 30 32 gas field: Fairfield Energy: duty holder position, Dunlin: EBITA margin % 6.1 10.3 420 bps SABIC: asset support contracts: Shell: integrated services contract for Shell OneGas assets in Southern North Sea: Order book bn 0.8 0.6 28 Talisman: five-year frame agreement.
Average number 2 of employees 2,874 2,655 8 Mining: Balkans Minerals & Metals: engineering and 1 procurement services for Krumovgrad gold project, Bulgaria.
Growth measured against 2011 as restated for material acquisitions and movements in material currencies Clean energy: NDA: Sellafield site decommissioning as a 2 Full time equivalents, including agency staff.
part of NMP: Sellafield Limited: various projects, UK: EDF: Description of business supporting architect engineer operations on UK nuclear This is the smallest of AMECs geographies, contributing new build programme: National Grid: Electricity Alliance 13 per cent of group revenue in 2012 driven by conventional West contract, UK: JAVYS: waste management at Bonhince oil & gas and mining.
It is the geography with the greatest nuclear power plant, Slovakia.
Environment & infrastructure: Northumbrian Water: We have a strong engineering and PMC position framework agreement, UK: North London Waste Authority: intheoil & gas market in the Middle East and a framework for waste management: Government long-standing position in Azerbaijan.
The Clough Procurement Services: environmental and sustainability AMEC joint venture is based in Australia advice, support and delivery services, UK.
Our mining position was developed with the 2012 performance acquisition of GRD Minproc in 2009 Revenue in Europe improved 12 per cent to 1,150 million through a mix of organic growth and acquisition.
The oil In clean energy, we have a presence in the nuclear and gas market was the primary driver, boosted by a sector in South Africa six-month impact of the ESRC acquisition in clean energy.
The acquisition of Unidel in Australia in 2012 provides EBITA was up 10 per cent, to 91 million 2011: 83 million additional growth opportunities.
and the EBITA margin was 7.9 per cent, down 20 basis points from 2011.
The margin decline is largely the result of m The introductory investor presentation on our a reduced contribution from the Sellafield joint venture as website carries further details on our market position, competitors and growth priorities discussed on page 28, offset by a stronger oil & gas mix.
32 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012 OverviewStrategy Go Performancevernance Financials Environment & infrastructure: Sydney Water: programme, Key facts cost and risk management role with the networks and Revenue split by market facilities renewal programme, Australia: US Army Corps Environment & ofEngineers: design and construction of facilities and Infrastructure 13% warehousing, Qatar.
Clean Energy 1% 2012 performance Revenue in Growth Regions improved 20 per cent to Mining 24% Oil & Gas 62% 531million primarily driven by organic growth in the oil&gas and mining markets and boosted by the Unidelacquisition.
EBITA was down 30 per cent, to 32 million 2011: 46million and the EBITA margin was 6.1 per cent, Locations: There are major offices in Baku Azerbaijan : down420 basis points from 2011.
The margin decline is Kuala Lumpur Malaysia : Kuwait City Kuwait : Abu Dhabi largely the result of general market softening in Australia UAE : Perth, Brisbane Australia : Shanghai China : in 2012, which was only partly offset by contract wins in the Singapore: Johannesburg South Africa.
Middle East and which was accentuated by a particularly Customers include: AIOC, Adgas, Adma Opco, BP, strong year in 2011, on the back of successful claim Chevron, ConocoPhillips, ExxonMobil, Fortescue Metals, settlements arising in the GRD Minproc business and KNPC, KOC, Rio Tinto, Sappi, Socar.
See also pages 27, anumber of positive project close-outs.
Order book was 0.8 billion in 2012 2011: 0.6 billion, Recent projects include: Oil & gas: Middle East benefiting from a strong oil & gas performance in AbuDhabi Marine Operating Company: 30-month PMC theMiddle East including the award of the KNPCs services contract: Adgas: PMC services for FEED phase PMCcontract.
offlaring and emission reduction project at LNG facilities Growth Regions outlook on Das Island: KNPC: PMC contract for new oil refinery Looking ahead, overall revenue in 2013 is expected atAl Zour: KOC: PMC remediation project.
tobestable, with good performance in most regions, Australia Chevron: AMEC joint venture working on butsignificant weakness in Australia where demand operability, reliability and maintainability of the Wheatstone hassoftened.
offshore facility: ENI: Blacktip contract, providing Margins are expected to improve gradually as a result of maintenance support.
efficiencies from the integration of operations and as the Asia ConocoPhillips: operations and maintenance business matures.
services for Bayu Undan facilities.
CIS BP: Chirag oil project, Azerbaijan.
Africa ExxonMobil: Kizomba Satellites, Angola.
Mining: Swalcop Uranium: engineering and project management, Namibia: Rio Tinto: Oyu Tolgoi underground mine: Fortescue Metals Group: with JV partner, completed EPC contract for the Cloudbreak ore handling plant wet front-end project.
Clean energy: Sappi: EPCM contractor for the GoCell project at Ngodwana in South Africa, modifying one of themills production lines to enable the production of chemical cellulose.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012 33
