Our markets We provide similar services in each of our four markets oil & gas, mining, clean energy, and environment & infrastructure winning work through strong customer relationships and our proven ability to deliver successfully, even in harsh or remote environments.
The services we provide see pages 18 and 19 run suggests world income in 2030 will be double that of 2011 acrossthe lifecycle of our customers assets, from in real terms.
consulting, engineering and construction management The growth in primary energy demand comes from to project management, operations and maintenance non-OECD countries, with China, India and the Middle and decommissioning.
East accounting for 60 per cent of the increase.
OECD AMEC has considerable experience and capability in countries are expected to see a shift away from oil and the worlds main energy sectors.
We are well placed to coal, towards natural gas and renewables.
Statoils respond to the increasing demand for clean energy, the Energy Perspectives June 2012 suggests that global oil need to improve the efficiency of mature assets and the demand will peak in 2030, with natural gas still seen as requirement for increased flexibility.
The areas in which the fuel of the future.
AMEC operates are forecast to grow over the long term, Technology is facilitating the development of resources supported by global fundamentals.
AMEC is carefully and such as tight oil and shale gas, which are expected to deliberately positioned across sectors so as to benefit turn North America into a net exporter of oil by about whatever the relative weighting in the energy mix.
At the same time, developing new sources of energy is becoming more complex, with resources Competitive environment oftenin harsh or remote regions.
There is no one competitor operating in the same markets, with the same geographic footprint and with a IEA believes a global investment in energy supply similar approach to risk as AMEC.
infrastructure of $37 trillion is required between 2012 and 2035, with a disproportionately high share taken by m Further details on the competitive landscape by market OECD countries because of higher unit costs for capacity canbe found in our introductory investor presentation additions and the need to replace ageing infrastructure.
com Oiland gas collectively account for almost $19 trillion of the total investment, with most of the balance being power.
Global market trends The International Energy Agency IEA World Energy m A more detailed analysis is shown in each market Outlook 2012 predicts that world primary energy sectionbelow demand will increase from some 12,700 million tonnes of oil equivalent Mtoe in 2010 to 17,200 Mtoe in 2035, The skills challenge a 35percent increase.
The forecast New Policies This growth will inevitably put further pressure on the Scenario assumes that recent government policy availability of suitably qualified engineers, consultants and commitments are implemented in a cautious manner.
Fossil fuels continue to satisfy the bulk of the energy Evidence of a skills shortage abounds.
In November 2012, the needs, though their share of the total is predicted to fall.
Western Australia Chamber of Minerals and Energy said ExxonMobils report, 2013 The Outlook for Energy: A that a shortage of skilled workers was the sectors biggest View to 2040, identifies population growth and increasing challenge.
In the UK, the Royal Academy of Engineering urbanisation as key factors causing the increase.
It sees warns that the current pool of science, technology and 35 per cent growth from 2010 to 2040, even with significant engineering experts is already stretched thin and ageing efficiency gains and expects the worlds population to rapidly.
It estimates that the median age of chartered grow by more than 25 per cent between 2010 and 2040, engineers rises by 10 years for every 14 that pass.
BP Energy Outlook 2030 12 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials It is vital that AMEC continues to attract, develop addressed.
Surface mining currently accounts for around and retain skilled employees, particularly those with one-half of Canadian oil sands production, though in-situ experience in successfully delivering complex projects.
is expected to increase its share of the market over the Our people strategy is a core enabler of our Vision 2015 next 10 years.
In Canada, Alberta has proven oil reserves growth aspirations.
Our 2012 achievements are shown of 170.8 billion barrels and estimates capital expenditure onpages 10 and 11. of some Cdn$218 billion over the next 25 years.
Our internal development activities are discussed in more The IEA forecasts an upstream oil and gas capital detail on pages 10 and 24, in our sustainability report and spending requirement between 2011 and 2035 of about on our website.
They include: $615 billion per annum on average, similar to that seen in 2012.
AMEC Academy: improving the technical and managerialskillsof our people JP Morgans latest global exploration and production spending analysis suggests that in 2013, organic increasing the existing resource pool: graduate and upstream spending could be 8 per cent higher than 2012. traineerecruitment and development programmes In general, oil and gas resources are increasingly difficult to improving the future supply pool: educating extract.
Projects have become larger and more complex schoolchildrenabout careers in engineering and environmental pressures have increased.
As existing accessing the best skills anywhere: using our global infrastructure ages and reserves are being depleted, mobilityprogrammes.
evermore sophisticated performance and efficiency improvement solutions are required, particularly in AMECs markets brownfield operations.
Oil and gas producers want oil services companies, such as AMEC, to provide experts Oil & Gas with proven experience in delivering projects on time, Growth is driven by the long-term rise in energy onbudget, without harming people or the environment.
Resources are becoming increasingly difficult to access with a shift towards more frontier AMECs position and deepwater developments.
This plays to AMECs AMEC offers a wide range of services to a broad range expertise in complex and harsh locations.
of customers, including international oil companies IOCs, national oil companies NOCs and independent The market operators in Europe, Americas, Middle East and Africa, the The IEA forecasts primary oil demand increasing from Caspian, South East Asia and China.
We do not operate in 87.4 million barrels per day mb d in 2011 to 99.7 mb d early cycle exploration or drilling, but are involved in every by 2035.
This is driven by the transport sector in China, part of the project delivery phase.
Offshore, we support India and Middle East and occurs despite the dampening fixed platforms and floating production units, largely effect of efficiency measures, environmental policies and above the water.
We also support onshore oil and gas relatively high prices in OECD countries.
Over the period fields, booster stations, gathering centres, tank farms, to 2040, ExxonMobil expects natural gas to overtake coal gasoil separation plants, and pipelines.
as the number two global fuel.
AMEC has global experience of delivering large and A change in the production mix is also expected, with complex greenfield projects, with capabilities in deepwater crude oil falling and a greater share being taken by natural and hostile conditions including Arctic environments and gas liquids and unconventional sources.
We have developed a strong output is forecast to rise until the mid-2020s and then position in frontier regions including the Caspian and have fall back, the rise being driven by light tight oil, Canadian a good track record in proactively helping customers deal oil sands, natural gas liquids and increased deepwater with environmental pressures.
Recent examples include: production in Brazil.
BP Clair Ridge: engineering and project management The IEA suggests that unconventional oil and liquids services EPMS for the main platform design supply will grow from 3.9 mb d in 2011 to 13.2 mb d by MWCC: designing and delivering components of the 2035.
Within this, Canadian oil sands are expected to modular equipment for the marine well containment increase from 1.6 mb d to 4.3 mb d, assuming concerns system MWCS about the environmental impact of development can be AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012 13 Our markets continued Oil & Gas continued exceed local legislation, providing them with solutions AMECs position continued toenvironmental challenges.
For example: AIOC BP, Chirag Oil Project West Chirag COP-WC : Kuwait, Gulf War remediation: PMC contract to part of consortium project managing the fabrication of remediate dispose of highly contaminated material a new asset and providing construction management, arising from the first Gulf War, with the project hook-up support and brownfield integration managed byalong-standing AMEC customer, KOC.
GDF SUEZ, Cygnus gas field: following FEED work, AMECs position was strengthened in 2012 by the now working on detailed design.
creation of new opportunities for future growth: AMEC is also a leading international provider of asset signing of a collaboration agreement with Aibel, one of support services.
Recent activity includes: the largest oil and gas services companies in Norway Chevron, Wheatstone: Clough AMEC joint venture creation of a joint venture with Samsung to carry out working on the operability, reliability and maintainability detailed engineering for fixed and floating offshore ORM component of this offshore facility.
platforms, FPSOs and subsea pipelines for Samsungs We are a market leader in UK North Sea brownfield offshore oil and gas projects services and also provide duty holder services and investment in Brazil through AMEC KROMAV, allowing more integrated solutions to new entrant operators the development of fully integrated services capabilities in the region.
AMEC is increasingly providing more in the country.
sophisticated solutions: for example, adapting existing facilities to cope with both mature reservoir conditions m Further details on the customer base and recent and new tie-backs developments.
One example is: projectwinsare on pages 27 and 29 EnQuest Producer vessel: engineering design m Information on our recent projects can be found on oftopside modifications to this existing FPSO, ourwebsiteamec.
Our capital market event in togetherwith procurement activities and project October2012 also available on the website provided management services.
afullerexplanation of AMECs position in this market AMEC is the market leader in the provision of project Mining management and engineering services to the upstream surface mining Canadian oil sands sector, with a history General macro uncertainty is affecting the near-term stretching back to the worlds first oil sands plant in outlook for the mining industry, increasing volatility.
Historically our focus has been on mineable oil Long-term fundamentals remain robust, supported by sands, though we also have in-situ expertise.
This newer increasing urbanisation in emerging markets.
technology is increasingly being used and on larger projects.
Recent projects include: The market An additional 2 billion people in emerging markets are Imperial Oil: Kearl initial development and expected to become urbanised in the period to 2030, akey expansionphase underlying driver of long-term growth in this industry.
Southern Pacifics McKay steam assisted gravity Short-term views are more cautious, with lower commodity drainage SAGD facility: helped achieve an industry prices and general economic uncertainty causing some benchmark for lowest capital expenditure per softening of exploration spending and the postponement or flowingbarrel.
cancellation of more marginal projects.
Atthe same time, investors in major mining companies arelooking for We also work on shale gas and coal bed methane greater cash returns.
projects, providing services such as environmental impact assessments and water table management.
Supply issues are at the forefront as fewer easy-to-produce resources are leading to more challenging, complex and AMEC is aware of the environmental concerns raised expensive developments, in more remote andriskier byactivities in many of these areas.
The full range of our locations.
Increasingly new mining projects are underground environmental and infrastructure services can be used to ensure that customers meet and, where possible, 14 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials rather than surface mines and more logistical infrastructure New Gold, New Afton mine: provision of a 5km and environmental controls are required.
Rio Tinto also conveyor infrastructure including all transfer stations points to a scarcity of suitable, highlyskilled labour.
and EPCM services for underground workshops.
PwC suggested in June 2012 that capital programmes m Further details on the customer base and recent project planned by the top 40 mining companies amount to more winsare on pages 27 and 29 and on our website than $410 billion.
m AMECs position in the mining market was explained during As in oil & gas, the mining majors are looking for suppliers, acapital markets event in April 2012.
com such as AMEC, with proven ability in project delivery.
Sources: Rio Tinto analyst presentation December 2012: PwC 2012 Clean Energy review Mine the growing disconnect: Bank of America Merrill Clean energy provides an increasingly significant part Lynch Mining capex: The long and the short of it 2 of the global energy mix, its growth driven by increasing AMECs position demand for power and environmental concerns.
AMECs AMEC has long sought to mitigate the impact of economic proven expertise, depth of technology understanding volatility by positioning itself to support a diverse range andstrong customer relationships provide further ofcommodities and service markets.
As well as potash, growth opportunities.
iron ore, copper and gold, our customers are producing commodities such as uranium, lead, zinc, nickel and The market diamonds.
We offer mining consultancy including ore The role of nuclear power has been impacted by the resource estimation, mine planning and feasibility studies, Fukushima Daiichi disaster in 2011, by continued design, project and construction management services: economicturbulence and by the availability of cheap and believe the provision of consulting and environmental fossilfuels.
Theposition is mixed, with some countries services provides a distinct competitive advantage.
looking to dismantle and others reduce their nuclear Our customer base is largely mid-sized mining companies, position, yet in the US permission has been granted with around 40 per cent of revenues in this market in forfour new 1,000MW reactors.
Non-OECD countries, 2012coming from juniors market capitalisation below particularly China, are leading the investment in $10billion and independents andsome 7 per cent newnuclear.
comingfrom companies with a market capitalisation The UK currently has 16 nuclear reactors generating greater than US$40 billion.
10GWe, around one-sixth of the UKs requirements, The business is a recognised leader in environments where andplans to build up to 16 GWe of new nuclear power projects have significant logistical challenges associated capability.
EDFs development plans are the most with remote location and difficult access.
AMECoccupies advanced, with a final investment decision expected in the atop-tier position in international consulting and a leading first half of 2013.
At the other end of the asset life, the next position in the North and SouthAmerican engineering, major contract of the UKs decommissioning programme procurement and construction management EPCM is due to be awarded in early 2014. markets, where we have provided services for many of the Around 15 per cent of Canadas electricity comes from worlds leading mining companies.
We now have critical nuclear power, with 19 reactors mostly in Ontario.
Broad mass in Australia and a growing position in Africa.
support remains for the further expansion of nuclear AMECs historic focus has been largely on surface mining.
capacity, with the World Nuclear Association reporting In line with Vision 2015, this expertise has now also been plans for a further two reactors over the next decade.
Going forward, we are Statoil expects a 2.2 per cent growth in nuclear each year looking to increase our position with major mining firms between 2010 and 2040, while the IEA suggests nuclear and on large scale developments.
will be used to generate around 12 per cent of electricity Recent projects include: in2035, a little lower than today.
Rio Tinto, Oyu Tolgoi mine: over 100 AMEC people from Irrespective of decisions on new build, many of the worlds various locations collaborating to provide underground nuclear facilities will be reaching the end of their active life services on this coppergold project over the next 20 years.
The clean-up and management of the nuclear legacy is one of the most demanding challenges facing the industry.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012 15 Our markets continued Clean Energy continued In 2012 we expanded our position in the UK with the The market continued acquisition of the 600-person ESRC business, providing Renewables share of total primary energy demand consulting and project solutions for customers including willincrease from 13.5 to almost 20 per cent by 2040 the Ministry of Defence, EDF, Magnox and the Nuclear Statoil, driven by climate change and environmental Decommissioning Authority NDA.
policies, energy security concerns and by price and cost In renewables, our focus is on wind, solar, biomass and developments.
Growth is linked to the growth in electricity biofuels projects.
Our customers include power utilities, as a source of final energy demand.
The IEA alsoexpects financial institutions, government agencies, technology growth and points to falling technology costs, increased developers, original equipment manufacturers and fossil fuel prices and carbon pricing in some areas, together specialist consultants.
They appreciate the flexibility our with increased use of incentives.
By 2035 renewables are technology neutrality brings, our focus and our ability expected to account for one-third of total electricity output, to provide a full service engineering, procurement and of which half comes from hydro and aquarter from wind.
Biofuels use will more than triple overthe period, while solar photovoltaics will grow 26-fold to some 7.5 per cent In power, the majority of services are performed for of the renewables mix.
To support this growth, IEA forecasts major energy providers, governments, developers and an investment of $6.4 trillion between 2011 and 2035. independent power producers, primarily in Europe and BPsuggests the key factor limiting the growth of renewables the Americas.
is the affordability of subsidies and believes that continued Our major customers in T&D are system owners with rapid cost reductions are required to keep the subsidy which we have had long-standing relationships.
We have burden at an acceptable level.
an existing position in the UK and a growing presence inCanada.
The conventional power market comprises generation ofelectricity from conventional sources such as natural Recent activities include: gas, oil, hydro and coal.
BP forecasts that the energy Sellafield Limited, UK: various projects including a used for power generation will grow by 49 per cent multi-discipline site works framework agreement between 2011 and 2030, with IEA predicting that fossil fuels share of total inputs will fall from 75 per cent in EDF, UK: supporting EDFs architect engineer 2010 to 63 per cent in 2035.
At the same time, however, operations on its UK nuclear new build programme: there is a need to replace ageing infrastructure.
the operations of the existing nuclear fleet: and Growth in the transmission and distribution T&D market partnering on Lewis windfarm development is driven by the shifts in supply and demand points and NDA, UK: decommissioning of the Sellafield site as a the need to replace ageing infrastructure.
part of Nuclear Management Partners NMP AMECs position Sapphire Energy, US: construction of an integrated Our nuclear capability has been developed over 50 years, algal biorefinery in New Mexico positioning us to support the full lifecycle of nuclear Arizona Public Service, US: EPC contract for our energy: from new build and reactor support including largest photovoltaic project to date, 52MW on a 400 lifetime extension, to nuclear decommissioning and acre site waste management.
We have experience of all types of nuclear technology.
We work with our customers in BC Hydro, Canada: augmenting our customers long-term relationships based on partnering and have in-house engineering group and undertaking a significant experience in effectively managing complex rangeof projects stakeholder relationships.
National Grid, UK: five-year extension to the Electricity Our customers include major utilities, governments, Alliance West contract announced in January 2012. national regulators and other significant stakeholders.
We have a particularly strong presence in the UK m Further details on the customer base and recent project andCanada, a growing business in the US and a wins can be found on pages 28 and 29 and on our website goodpresence in Central and Eastern Europe and SouthAfrica.
16 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Environment & Infrastructure E&I AMEC provides a multi-disciplinary approach to water projects at all stages of planning, study, design The overall environmental consulting and engineering and construction, seeking to provide sustainable and market includes services provided to all four of AMECs environmentally sound solutions for our public and markets.
Our E&I market alone consists of four sectors: private sector customers.
Our primary areas of focus water, transportation infrastructure, government are water resource management, water policy, coastal services, and industrial commercial.
management, asset planning and management, and wastewater collection and treatment.
The market Estimates of the size of the global environmental Water services are also commonly provided to customers consultancy market vary from 26.5 billion Environment in AMECs other markets, including mining and oil & gas.
Analyst to over $54 billion Engineering News Record, In transportation infrastructure, AMEC has provided with design and  revenue on top programme management, planning and design, project of this.
The market has historically been both large and and construction management, asset development and diverse though there has been recent consolidation as long-term asset support to government transportation large private sector clients are increasingly looking for agencies, national and local customers and private seamless global project delivery.
developers in Canada and the US for over 50 years.
A compound annual growth rate of 3.5 per cent is A broad range of government services is provided, expected over the next five years, with services related including to the US Federal Government, which is the to climate change, energy and contaminated land largest procurer of environmental services in the world.
remediation expected to grow particularly strongly Customers also include the various branches of the Environmental Analyst.
military and state provincial agencies.
Services range Many believe that water scarcity and environmental from remediation programmes to design and delivery concerns provide additional opportunities for growth.
of infrastructure facilities, including airfield facilities, Growing water constraints are set to impose additional housing and site improvements at installations globally.
costs on the energy sector and in some cases threaten In industrial commercial, compliance and due diligence the viability of projects.
The IEA suggests that the volume services are provided, ranging from geotechnical and of water consumed to produce energy will increase by environmental to materials and water resources consulting.
This is more than twice AMECs knowledge of regulatory environments is used the rate of growth of energy demand, driven by more to apply a risk-based approach to environmental liability water-intensive power generation and expanding output assessment and management.
Recent projects include: AMECs position We work predominately in the US, Canada and the UK, Northumbrian Water, UK: framework agreement with an emerging presence in the Middle East, Africa and forthe provision of technical, commercial and Australasia.
In 2012 we acquired Unidel, a 260-person environmental services consulting, engineering and technical services company US Army Corps of Engineers, Qatar: design and based in Australia.
construction of facilities and warehousing, including Environment and infrastructure services are provided demolition and site improvements at AlUdeid AirBase to all of AMECs four markets, with the skills highly McCain Foods, Canada: wastewater effluent transferable across customers.
Indeed, 32 per cent reclaim recycle design project ofthe divisions revenues come from oil & gas, mining, andclean energy and this percentage is growing.
Windsor Essex Parkway, Canada: design and environmental services, including geotechnical m See page 29 for further details investigation, pavement design habitat studies and sustainability planning.
AMECs Environment & Infrastructure market itself can be divided into four sectors.
com for further detail on projects and strategy in this market AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012 17
