Our services In whatever market or sector, the range of services provided to our customers is similar.
We design, deliver and maintain their strategic and complex assets, offering total life of asset support from feasibility planning right through to decommissioning.
Our new organisational structure is designed to maximise growth opportunities, by ensuring the widest range of AMEC services is provided in each of our three geographies, and for each of our four markets.
AMEC offers its customers engineering and project cost-effective technical solutions to our customers.
management services across the asset lifecycle, together Ourapproach to engineering, the AMEC way see next with a highly complementary range of environmental page, means a common user experience, independent andengineering consulting services which bring of location.
We can deploy the best mix of our capabilities competitive advantage.
through a well-integrated work share and technical performance management system.
Our core services include: We have a particular expertise in undertaking large and Consulting complex projects in remote areas and in extending the Business consulting: provided to the oil, gas and mining life of assets in the mid-late stages of their lifecycle.
industries, helping support our customers in achieving Recent examples include: maximum value from their assets.
GDF SUEZ, UK: detailed design for the Cygnus gas Commercial: provided by commercial consulting and field development in the North Sea cost management companies Rider Hunt International BP, UK: engineering and project management and Aquenta Consulting.
services for the main platform design for Clair Ridge Environmental: full service capabilities covering a wide Talisman, UK: provision of brownfield engineering, range of disciplines, including environmental engineering procurement, construction and commissioning and science, geotechnical engineering, water resources, services under five-year call-off contract materials testing and engineering, engineering and surveying, and programme management.
MWCC: designing and delivering components of MWCCs expanded containment system in the Gulf Technical: delivering projects and solving problems.
For ofMexico example, in the mining market we are involved in ore resource estimation, mine planning and feasibility studies.
EDF: supporting their architect engineering operations on the UK nuclear new build programme.
Recent examples include: Northumbrian Water, UK: multi-disciplinary Construction management engineering, contract supervision services and associated environmental support as well as The services provided by AMEC are designed to contractand cost management services enhance the quality and value of construction projects by focusing on the quality of materials, the construction Sellafield Limited, UK: three-year environmental practices, and the level of care and quality control support framework agreement intheconstruction process.
We focus on project UNCC KOC, Kuwait: PMC contract for the remediation management, construction techniques, subcontractor of oilfield properties damaged in the first Gulf War.
management, health and safety, quality assurance and quality control.
Engineering Recent examples include: Our engineering services are at the heart of our project Sapphire Energy, US: recently completed first delivery to our customers.
We have a global network stageofconstruction of integrated algal biorefinery of engineering centres delivering high performance, inNewMexico 18 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials GDF SUEZ, Canada: with our JV partner, Production operations: including production Black&McDonald, engineering, procurement, optimisation services provided by Performance construction EPC contract for Brockville Improvements Ltd PI  plant Duty holder: operating and maintaining infrastructure Sappi, South Africa: EPCM services for Go Cell on behalf of our clients, such as Fairfield Energy.
project, modifications to enable the production Recent examples include: ofchemical cellulose.
Sellafield Limited, UK: multi-discipline site works framework agreement, covering maintenance tasks, Project management asset care and restoration projects This is one of our core services, helping to deliver our Chevron, Australia: asset support contract for Clough consulting, engineering excellence and construction AMEC JV on Wheatstone project, including specialist services to our customers.
We provide construction support from PI management advice and support, health, safety, sustainability, environmental and quality HSSEQ Centrica, UK: five-year contract for the provision direction and support, and commissioning and start-up.
ofengineering, construction and project support We have developed and refined state-of-the-art systems, services for East Irish Sea onshore and offshore procedures and specifications for the management gasproduction assets.
and control of engineering, procurement, construction and commissioning of process and industrial facilities Decommissioning worldwide.
The AMEC way defines a common approach We have substantial experience of nuclear to executing projects within AMEC.
It combines an decommissioning and waste management in the UK, assurance framework for project delivery with access to Canada, Eastern and Western Europe and the former a comprehensive reference framework of guidance, tools Soviet Union.
We can be involved from initial concept such as Convero our integrated project management through to hands-on decommissioning and clean-up, system and best practice examples.
Together these and also provide in-house specialist services, such as processes provide a standard approach to complete, safety case and health physics support.
These skills are successful delivery of projects to our customers.
highly transferable to mature oil and gas assets, such Recent examples include: asthose in the North Sea.
BP, Azerbaijan: AMEC consortium has a master services Recent examples include: agreement for the provision of project management, NDA, UK: AMEC plays a key role as part of engineering services, construction management and NuclearManagement Partners in managing commissioning and completions, including the Chirag thedecommissioning of the Sellafield complex Oil Project West Chirag COP-WC project valued at US$340 million BP, UK: decommissioning services provided by qedi onthe Valhall platforms KNPC, Kuwait: PMC contract worth 330 million for a new oil refinery at Al Zour, due to be completed in 2018 JAVYS, Slovakia: provision of waste treatment services to the Bohunice nuclear plant.
Over 100 AMEC employees based in Canada, Mongolia, Australia and the US are working on the Other services Phase 2 underground expansion of the Oyu Tolgoi We also offer a range of other specialist and sustainability mine site in Mongolia.
Operations and maintenance m See amec.
com and our sustainability report Once built, we support the operation of our customers assets and seek to extend their life through enhanced production, recovery and reduced operating costs.
Services include: Asset support: comprehensive specialist shutdown overhaul, maintenance, mechanical and electrical M&E construction, tankage and special engineering services AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012 19
