Our group management team The team is comprised of senior operational and functional management, eachof whom brings a depth of knowledge and experience to their role.
In addition to the executive directors shown on pages 40 and 41, AMECs group management team GMT consists of the followingindividuals: Dr Hisham John Pearson Will Serle Alison Yapp Mahmoud Group President, Group Human General Counsel and Europe Resources Director Company Secretary Group President, Growth Regions Appointed to this position Will is also responsible Alison joined AMEC on inOctober 2012, John had forsustainability and first 1December 2012, having Hisham joined AMEC in previously held the role of joined the company in most recently been October 2010 as President, Managing Director, Natural 2000as Human Resources Company Secretary and Environment & Resources Europe and Director for the oil and gas General Legal Counsel at Infrastructure and was West Africa, since 2007.
She qualified as a appointed to his current joined AMEC from Chevron Natural Resources role in solicitor in 1990 and has role in October 2012.
In 2009 he assumed around 20 years experience had previously worked for variety of engineering and the role of Human as a lawyer in industry.
URS Corporation for 19 project management roles Resources Director for years.
He has a Bachelor in Aberdeen, San Francisco, Natural Resources and ofScience degree in Civil Baku and London.
He is Power & Process: in 2010, Appointed to GMT Engineering from the Contractor Vice-Chair of Oil after all three divisions 28January2013 University of Qatar and a & Gas UK and immediate merged, he became Masters and a PhD, both Nina Schofield past Chairman of the Human Resources inCivil Engineering, from Group Health, Safety, Offshore Contractors Operations Director.
Arizona State University Security and Association.
Environment Director Mark Watson Sue Scholes Simon Naylor Commercial Director Nina firstjoined AMEC in Director of Group President, 2003.
She isa Chartered Marks background is in the Communications Americas Health and Safety oil & gas industry and he Practitioner andholds a Sue joined AMEC in 2007. has spent most of his Simon was appointed to Master of Arts Degree and She was previously Head AMEC career working in this role in October 2012, a Bachelors inLaw.
Nina ofInvestor Relations at this sector, since he joined having previously been started out in the Offshore Brambles Industries plc.
He is a Chartered President of the Natural Drilling sector before Sue is a Chartered Quantity Surveyor, holds an Resources Americas joining AMEC as the Oil and Management Accountant LLM in Construction Law business since 2007.
Since Gas HSE Manager in 2003. and sits on the Investor and Arbitration and is a joining AMEC in 1993 he In 2004, she became the Relations Societys board Fellow of the Chartered has worked across the HSE Director for the ofdirectors.
project lifecycle: from Natural Resources division consulting to engineering before becoming the Group and project management.
She His experience includes has worked inthe UK, project development, asset Azerbaijan, Canada and support, strategy, customer theUS.
m Further details on each member of the team can be relationship management found on our website and operations leadership.
42 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012
