Our business model In each of our businesses What this means Our employees are clever people highly skilled engineers, project These skills are a scarce resource.
Our future success relies on us managers, consultants and scientists with the technical expertise attracting, developing and retaining the best people.
and experience to deliver on our customers requirements.
We use common tools and processes, so we can share work between offices.
m Read more on pages 10, 12 and 24 We provide high-value services consulting, engineering, project We sell expertise and solutions.
This specialist capability drives and construction management, and supply chain management higher margins.
across the lifecycle of our customers assets.
We diversify our risk by working across the asset lifecycle, on our customers capital and operating expenditure projects.
m Read more on pages 18 and 19 We have a low-risk contracting model.
We sell our peoples time Our exposure to cost increases is limited.
and may get additional payments if pre-agreed measures are We have greater predictability of earnings from any project.
We only take fixed price lump sum work under certain, controlled conditions.
We want our customers to trust our ability to deliver.
Our reputation for delivery is very important to our success.
Our customer base is diverse.
With each customer we seek We win business because of this trust and the strength of our tocreate a long-term relationship.
We have a particularly strong reputation for our expertise in Our diversified customer base limits our dependence on any one remote and harsh locations.
m Read more on pages 26, 28 and 29 We have common systems, tools and processes.
Our project This consistent delivery facilitates workshare and the local delivery framework is flexible and scalable.
provision of services to global clients.
Using our experience, we can recommend the most appropriate solution for our customers issues.
We are asset-light, owning typically only cars and computers.
We sell the knowledge and expertise of our people.
We work in 40 countries and aspire to be increasingly global.
Geographic diversification reduces risk and creates new Ournew, geographic organisational structure allows the creation growthopportunities.
of more sustainable, localised positions.
We can serve our customers from a location that suits them, usingdistributed engineering when appropriate.
m Read more on pages 4, 5 and 3033 We work in four markets oil & gas, mining, clean energy and Many skills are transferable across markets.
environment & infrastructure with good growth fundamentals.
Our customers are looking for a wider range of solutions.
m Read more on pages 1217 We are not dependent on any one part of the energy mix.
Creating an asset-light, cash-generative business with a strong balance sheet and good growth prospects, diversified across markets and geographies.
Delivering excellence to our customers 2 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012
