Implementing Vision 2015 We are over halfway through our Vision 2015 growth strategy and expect to deliver our financial target ahead of schedule.
Our areas of focus remain unchanged, as we look to sustainable growth beyond 2015.
1 Earnings per share 1 Our financial goal for Vision 2015 was to achieve earnings per share of greater than 100pence in 2015, more than double the starting point in 2009.
We now expect to achieve this target before 2015.
We focus on a number of key areas, shown below, as we look to 80.4p 14% achieve sustainable growth.
1 Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations beforeintangible amortisation and exceptional items 2012 achievements included: Our customers We want our customers to recognise our Strengthened and diversified customer base: new customers included Centrica, engineering, project management and Talisman and TAQA in the North Sea and an important new offshore customer consultancy expertise and to trust us to intheMiddle East, Abu Dhabi Marine Operating Company ADMA OPCO deliver their projects successfully.
Such a Developed existing customers: for example, we moved from providing front-end reputation does not come overnight, but is engineering and design FEED services for GDF SUEZ to the detailed design stage for a key cornerstone of futuregrowth.
the Cygnus field, currently the UKs largest gas field development.
We were awarded a Our history demonstrates the importance contract to provide FEED services for the topside facilities for the second phase of BPs of the long-term relationships we have Mad Dog field.
This followed completion of the conceptual design development which built with many of our customers.
Only by we undertook during the select stage in 2011 understanding their business, their Continued momentum in nuclear: contracts awarded in 2012 included one in Slovakia objectives and their values can we identify for waste treatment at the Bohunice nuclear power plant, three at the Sellafield site in how best to use our expertise to help the UK and a project management support contract for the National Nuclear themdeliver.
Laboratory in the UK Contract extensions were awarded by long-term customers National Grid and SABIC.
m Further details on these and many other contract wins canbefoundonpages 27, 28 and 29 and on our website 2012 achievements included: Our people Our success lies in the success of our Recruited successfully in resource-constrained markets, such as Aberdeen, London, employees and the way in which they Houston, Saskatoon, and Santiago deliver to our customers.
Average number of employees increased 10 per cent to 28,400 people, including over We do not own significant plant and 10,000 gross new hires and 270 new graduates.
Over 600 people were referred by our equipment or .
employees and more than 140 returned to AMEC because of our alumni programmes Continue to see about one-third of our people participating in share ownership It is vital that we recruit, develop and schemes retainthe best people, ensuring they are engaged with AMEC and committed to the Strong HSSE performance continued: the All Injury Frequency Rate reduced to 2.40 companys success.
We want to provide a per200,000 exposure hours, though our Total Recordable Cases Frequency Rate was safe working environment and encourage slightly worse than 2011 at 0.38 per 200,000 exposure hours our people to take this same thinking home Over 25,000 people have benefited from AMEC Academy development programmes and into their communities AMECs and the e-cademy learning management system, launched in the summer, has already Beyond Zero approach.
had 120,000 hits Sustainability commitment remains: over 100 employees from across the company took part in a structured sustainability debate as part of our stakeholder engagement programme.
The results are helping to develop the focus for 2013 and beyond.
m See also the Key Performance Indicators on page 20 m Further details on each of these items can be found in the 2012 sustainability report at amec.
com aboutus sustainability 10 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials 2012 achievements included: Achieving growth We need to not only build on our existing Grew through acquisition: including Sercos 600-person nuclear ESRC business in market positions but also to enhance our theUK: Unidel, a 260-person energy, resources and infrastructure engineering and capabilities and expand our geographic consultancy business in Australia: and a 50 per cent stake in Kromav Engenharia S. A. coverage.
We see this expansion as KROMAV, a 200-person privately owned Brazilian offshore oil and gas and marine coming from a combination of acquisition engineering company and organic growth.
Created partnerships: a joint venture with Samsung Heavy Industries and Samsung Aswell as building our presence in our Engineering see page 14 : a collaboration agreement with Aibel to jointly deliver established geographies of the UK and projects for the oil and gas industry in the Norwegian Continental Shelf North America, we are looking to expand Expanded in the Middle East: awarded 330 million PMC contract by the Kuwait inthe Middle East, Australasia and National Petroleum Company KNPC for anew oil refinery at Al Zour, Kuwait, SouthAmerica.
Our new organisation whichwill be the largest refinery in the Middle East structure is designed to promote collaboration between markets and Promoted collaboration: a Dundee Precious Metals Inc subsidiary selected AMEC geographies, to deliver enhanced growth.
inEastern Europe for the first time, to provide engineering services for a gold mine.
Elsewhere, we combined our global mining capability with local South African delivery to support Vedanta Resources major new zinc mine 1 Underlying revenue growth, excluding incremental procurement was 12 per cent in2012, with further growth expected in 2013.
2012 achievements included: Delivering the AMEC way Even the best of employees will struggle Restructured organisation: simplifying decision-making and driving collaboration to deliver high-quality work if they are not tomaximise growth opportunities across markets provided with the right tools and support.
Increasingly providing integrated services to customers across group: 32 per cent The AMEC way is how we work together ofEnvironment & Infrastructure divisions revenues came from oil and gas, mining across the company to deliver successful andclean energy customers projects for our customers, supporting Relaunched Code of Business Conduct training for all employees.
sustainable growth for the future.
2012 achievements included: Improving financial metrics Vision 2015 also looks at financial metrics, Invested 159 million in three acquisitions recognising that AMEC needs a more To 31 December 2012, purchased 358 million of shares under 400 million share efficient capital structure.
The programme was completed on 8 February 2013 Dividend declared and proposed increased by 20 per cent to 36.5 pence 2 Tax charge reduced further, from 24.1 per cent in 2011 to 23.0 per cent in 2012 1 Operating cash flow for the period was 309 million, with cash conversion of 93 per cent.
2013 outlook The priority remains to grow the business, across all four markets and all three geographies, by continuing to deliver for customers whileinvesting in AMECs people.
1 In 2013, AMEC expects low-to-mid single digit revenue growth for the group on an underlying basis, excluding procurement.
A strong conventional oil & gas performance across the board and more modest growth in the clean energy and environment & infrastructure markets in the Americas are expected to offset reduced oil sands revenue and softening demand in the mining market, and in Australia more generally.
The full-year impact of acquisitions made in 2012 will further boost revenue growth.
Procurement activity in 2013 is expected to be 200 million lower than in 2012.
1 Group margins are expected to improve gradually at the headline level in 2013, taking into account the reduced procurement.
Cost efficiencies from the reorganisation are expected come through during the year and offset a dilutive mix effect from lower oil sands activity.
1 The group remains on track to achieve earning per share of greater than 100 pence ahead of 2015.
Overall a further year of good progress is expected.
Further details on outlook by geography can be found on pages 31, 32 and 33.
2015 and beyond Further detail on how we expect to achieve continued growth beyond 2015 can be found on our website.
1 See definition on page 3 2 For continuing business before amortisation, impairment and exceptional items and including joint venture tax.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012 11
