Our board of directors Our board members were selected to ensure a good mix of skills and experience.
The recent board evaluation concluded that the company has a strong, highly competent board that performs well.
In accordance with the recommendations of the Code, all directors are subject to re-election at each annual general meeting of the company Term of office Term of office Newcastle plc between John Connolly 62 John was appointed as Samir was appointed 1998 and 2008, holding the Chairman of the board non-executive Chairman ChiefExecutive on position of Finance Director and Chairman of the on1 June 2011 for an initial 1October 2006 andhas from 2001. nominations committee term of three years, which nofixed term of office.
Term of office will end at the 2015 annual Hisservice contract is A chartered accountant, Ian was appointed general meeting.
terminable on six and John spent his career until ChiefFinancial Officer twelve months notice by May 2011 with global Committee on8September 2008 and him andthe company professional services firm membership has nofixed term of office.
Deloitte, was Global John is Chairman of the His service contract is Chairman between 2007 nominations committee External appointments terminable on six and and 2011, and prior to that, and a member of the Samir is a member of the twelve months notice by Global Managing Director remuneration committee.
advisory board of Stena AB.
He He attends all audit He is co-chair of the respectively.
was Senior Partner and CEO committee and ethics UK-UAE CEO Forum, a External appointments of the UK Partnership from committee meetings member of the steering Ian is Senior Independent 1999 until his retirement byinvitation.
committee of the UK-Korea Director and Chairman of from the Partnership.
Forum for the Future, a the audit committee of Samir Brikho 54 director of the United John is the chairman of Premier Foods plc.
Kingdom Japan 21st Chief Executive G4S plc and also of a Century Group, has an number ofprivate Linda Adamany 60 Prior to joining AMEC, Samir advisory board role on the companies.
Non-executive Director was a member of the group School of Oriental and Beyond commercial executive committee of African Studies and is a Between 1980 and 2007 business roles, John is on ABBLtd.
Linda held a number of the Board of Governors of of the Power Systems He is Chairman of the senior executive positions London Business School, Division and Chairman of StepChange Charity.
at BP plc and from 2006 to amember of the CBI ABB Lummus Global, ABBs 2012, prior to joining AMEC, Presidents Advisory international projects and Ian McHoul 53 was a non-executive director Council and of the British services business.
Samir Chief Financial Officer of National Grid plc and a American Business holds an engineering member of their audit, International Advisory degree, a Master of Science Ian qualified as a Chartered nominations and safety, Board.
He is also chairman in Thermal Technology from Accountant with KPMG in environment and health of the appeal board for The the Royal Institute of 1985.
His early career was committees.
Linda is a Centre for Childrens Rare Technology inStockholm, spent in the brewing qualified accountant CPA Disease Research at Great Sweden, and completed the industry where he spent with a BSc in Business Ormond Street Hospital.
YMP Program atINSEAD in 10years with Fosters Administration from John France in 1991.
In 2000 he Brewing Group in a variety Carroll University, Ohio, also completed a senior of roles.
He was Finance andhas also undertaken executive programme in and Strategy Director of the post-graduate study at Stanford, US.
Inntrepreneur Pub Group Harvard, Cambridgeand Ltd from 1995 to 1998 and Tsinghua universities.
then served at Scottish & 40 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Term of office Committee Tim Faithfull 68 Simon Thompson Linda was appointed a membership 53 Senior Independent non-executive director on Neil is a member of the Director and Non-executive Director 1October 2012 for an initial audit, remuneration, Chairman of the and Chairman of the term of three years, which nominations and remuneration ethics committee will end at the 2016 annual ethicscommittees.
Simon was previously an Colin Day 57 Tim was President and executive director of Anglo Committee Non-executive Director Chief Executive of Shell American plc and membership and Chairman of the Canada Limited from 1999 Chairman of the Tarmac Linda is a member of auditcommittee to 2003, having joined the Group, and hasheld theaudit, remuneration, Royal Dutch Shell Group in positions with S G Warburg ethics andnominations Colin was appointed Chief 1967.
He is a non-executive and N M Rothschild.
Executive Officer ofFiltrona director of TransAlta is Non-executive Chairman plc on1 April 2011, prior Corporation and Canadian Neil Carson 55 of Tullow Oil plc and a towhich he was Chief Natural Resources Limited, non-executive director of Non-executive Director Financial Officer of Reckitt and a director of Shell Newmont Mining Benckiser Group plc.
Neil has held a number Corporation USA and AFellow of the Association ofsenior management Sandvik AB Sweden.
Term of office of Chartered Certified positions inboth the UK Tim was appointed a Accountants, Colin holds an Term of office and the US and since 2004 non-executive director on MBA from Cranfield School Simon was appointed a has been Chief Executive of 10February 2005 and of Management, UK.
He non-executive director on Johnson Matthey Plc, the became the Senior isalsoa non-executive 21January 2009.
His term FTSE100 speciality chemical Independent Director in director of WPP Groupplc.
ofoffice was extended company, which he joined May 2009.
Tims term of inJanuary 2012 to the in1980 after completing Term of office office was extended in dateof the 2015 annual anengineeringdegree.
Colin was appointed a February 2011 to the date general meeting.
Neilwas previously a non-executive director on of the 2014 annual member of theadvisory 14 October 2010 for an Committee generalmeeting.
board of the Cambridge initial term of three years, membership Committee Programme for which will end at the 2014 Simon is Chairman of the membership Sustainability Learning annual general meeting.
ethics committee and a Tim is Chairman of the anda founder member member of the audit, Committee remuneration committee ofthe Prince of Wales remuneration and membership and a member of the audit, Corporate Leaders Group nominations committees.
Colin is Chairman of nominations and ethics on Climate Change.
Term of office andamember ofthe Neil was appointed a remuneration, nominations non-executive director on and ethics committees.
31 August 2010 for an initial term of three years, which In accordance with the companys articles of association, Linda will will end at the 2014 annual retire from office at the forthcoming annual general meeting and offer herself for re-election general meeting.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012 41
