Directors report The Directors present their report and audited financial statements for Share capital and control the 52 weeks to 17 March 2012.
The following information is given pursuant to Section 992 of the 2006 Companies Act.
Principal activities The Companys principal activities are grocery and related retailing.
Except as described below in relation to the Companys employee share schemes, there are no restrictions on the voting rights attaching to the Business review Companys ordinary shares or the transfer of securities in the Company: The Business review sets out a comprehensive review of the no person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights development and performance of the business for the 52 weeks ended with regard to control of the Company: and the Company is not aware 17 March 2012 and future developments.
The Business review is set out of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in on pages 1 to 31 of this report.
All the information detailed in these pages restrictions in the transfer of securities or voting rights.
Further details is incorporated by reference into this report and is deemed to form part of the rights, restrictions and obligations attaching to the share capital of this report.
of the Company, including voting rights, are contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
The Articles of Association may only be changed Corporate governance statement with the agreement of shareholders.
The corporate governance statement as required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules 7.2.
1 is set out on pages 38 to 51 and is incorporated Shares acquired through the Companys employee share plans rank by reference into this report.
pari passu with shares in issue and have no special rights.
Where, under the Companys All Employee Share Ownership Plan, participants are Dividends beneficial owners of the shares but the Trustee is the registered owner, The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 11.6 pence the voting rights are normally exercised by the registered owner at the per share 2011: 10.8 pence, making a total dividend for the year of 16.1 direction of the participants.
The J Sainsbury Employee Benefit Trusts pence per share 2011: 15.1 pence, an increase of 6.6 per cent over the waive their right to vote and to dividends on the shares they hold previous year.
Subject to shareholders approving this recommendation which are unallocated.
Some of the Companys employee share plans at the Annual General Meeting AGM, the dividend will be paid on include restrictions on transfer of shares while the shares are held 13 July 2012 to shareholders on the register at the close of business within the plan.
At the AGM held in July 2011, the Company was authorised by Changes to the Board shareholders to purchase its own shares, within certain limits and On 13 July 2011 Darren Shapland stood down from his position as a as permitted by the Articles of Association.
He remains with Sainsburys as Non-Executive Chairman of no purchases of its own shares during the year and no shares were Sainsburys Bank.
Val Gooding, Non-Executive Director, also stepped acquired by forfeiture or surrender or made subject to a lien or charge.
down from the Board on 13 July 2011, to take up the position of Chairman of Premier Farnell plc.
All of the Companys employee share plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
On a change of control, options and awards In May we announced that Bob Stack had decided to stand down from granted to employees under the Companys share plans may vest his position as a Non-Executive Director with effect from the AGM on and become exercisable, subject to the satisfaction of any applicable 11 July 2012. performance conditions at that time.
Re-election of Directors The Company is not party to any significant agreements that would The UK Corporate Governance Code provides for all directors of FTSE take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a companies to stand for election or re-election by shareholders every takeover bid.
Accordingly all members of the Board will retire and seek reelection at this years AGM.
Full biographical details of all of the current Ordinary shares Directors are set out on page 33.
Details of the changes to the ordinary issued share capital during the year are shown on page 95.
At the date of this report, 1,884,064,677 4 Annual General Meeting ordinary shares of 28 pence have been issued, are fully paid up and 7 The AGM will be held on Wednesday, 11 July 2012 at The Queen Elizabeth are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE at 11.00am.
The Chairmans letter and the Notice of Meeting accompany Major interests in shares this report, together with notes explaining the business to be transacted As at 9 May 2012, the Company had been notified by the following at the meeting.
investors of their interests in 3 per cent or more of the Companys shares.
These interests were notified to the Company pursuant to At the meeting, resolutions will be proposed to declare a final dividend, Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5: to receive the Annual Report and Financial Statements and approve the Remuneration Report, to re-elect all of the Directors, other than Bob % of voting rights Stack, and to re-appoint  LLP as auditors.
In Judith Portrait a trustee of various settlements, addition, shareholders will be asked to renew both the general authority including charitable trusts 3.92 of the Directors to issue shares and to authorise the Directors to Legal and General Group plc 3.99 issue shares without applying the statutory pre-emption rights.
In this Lord Sainsbury of Turville 4.99 regard the Company will continue to adhere to the provisions in the M1 Capital Limited 3.02 Pre-emption Groups Statement of Principles.
Qatar Holdings LLC 25.99 Shareholders will be asked to authorise the Company to make market Directors interests purchases of its own shares.
Shareholders will also be asked to The beneficial interests of the Directors and their families in the shares authorise the Directors to hold general meetings at 14 clear days notice of the Company are shown in the Remuneration Report on page 65. where this flexibility is merited by the business of the meeting and is The Companys Register of Directors Interests contains full details of thought to be in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
A resolution Directors interests, shareholdings and options over ordinary shares of to renew the authority to make political donations as defined by the Company.
Part 14 of 2006 Companies Act, will also be proposed.
During the year, no Director had any material interest in any contract of significance to the Groups business.
36 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 Governance Governance Directors report continued Directors indemnities Donations The Directors are entitled to be indemnified by the Company to the Sainsburys is committed to making a positive difference to the extent permitted by law and the Companys Articles of Association in communities in which it operates.
We support many charitable respect of all losses arising out of or in connection with the execution organisations and community projects through either donating cash, of their powers, duties and responsibilities.
The Company has executed making in-kind donations or through colleague volunteering.
deeds of indemnity for the benefit of each Director in respect of liabilities which may attach to them in their capacity as Directors of During the year, Sainsburys colleagues, customers and suppliers the Company.
The Company purchased and maintained Directors and raised 25.4 million 2011: 22.9 million for charities through events Officers liability insurance throughout 2011 12, which has been renewed supported by the Company, including Sport Relief.
Neither the indemnities nor the insurance provide cover donations totalled 4.2 million 2011: 2.1 million.
in the event that the Director is proved to have acted fraudulently.
The Company made no political donations in 2012 2011: nil.
Market value of properties The Directors believe that the aggregate open market value of Group Post balance sheet events properties exceeds the net book value as set out in note 11 on page 86 There are no post balance sheet events.
Financial risk management Essential contracts The financial risk management and policies of the Group are disclosed Sainsburys has contractual and other arrangements with numerous in note 28 on pages 99 to 104 to the financial statements.
third parties in support of its business activities.
None of the arrangements is individually considered to be essential to the business Going concern of Sainsburys.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out Policy on payment of creditors in the Business review on pages 1 to 31.
The financial position of the The policy of the Company and its principal operating companies is Group, its cash flows and liquidity are highlighted in the Financial review to agree terms of payment prior to commencing trade with a supplier on pages 26 to 31.
The Group manages its financing by diversifying and to abide by those terms on the timely submission of satisfactory funding sources, maintaining core borrowings with long-term maturities invoices.
The Company is a holding company and therefore has no trade and sufficient standby liquidity.
Full details of the Groups financing creditors.
Statements on the operating companies payment of suppliers arrangements can be found in note 20 on pages 92 and 93 to the are contained in their financial statements.
In addition, notes 28 and 29 on pages 99 to 108 to the financial statements include the Groups objectives, policies Corporate responsibility and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management Sainsburys continues its strong commitment to corporate objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: responsibility, which is an everyday part of how the Company does and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Sainsburys company values underpin our goal to make all of our customers lives easier everyday by offering great quality The debt refinancing in March 2006 removed the Groups reliance on and service at fair prices.
In October, we announced our 20 by 20 unsecured credit markets for medium and long-term finance and the Sustainability Plan a new cornerstone of our business strategy designed Groups first significant re-financing exposure is not until 2014. to accelerate Sainsburys commitment to social and environmental responsibility and excellence.
This year, we have further integrated As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to the reporting of corporate responsibility into this Annual Report and manage its business risks successfully despite the current challenging Financial Statements to illustrate how our values underpin and influence economic outlook.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that our broader business strategy.
the Company has sufficient resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going The Companys Corporate Responsibility Report will be issued later in concern basis in preparing the financial statements which are shown on the year and will provide an update on our 20 by 20 Sustainability Plan.
This report will be available online www.
We have five key corporate responsibility principles: Best for food and health, Disclosure of information to auditors Sourcing with integrity, Respect for our environment, Making a Each of the Directors has confirmed that, so far as he she is aware, positive difference to our community and A great place to work.
there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware.
Each of our 20 by 20 Sustainability Plan commitments is aligned Each Director has taken all steps that he she ought to have taken under one of these principles.
as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that As part of A great place to work the Company has well-developed information.
policies for fair and equal treatment of all colleagues, employment of disadvantaged persons and colleague participation.
It is our policy Auditors that people with disabilities are given full and just consideration for all  LLP have expressed their willingness to be vacancies and over the year we have conducted a number of training reappointed as auditors of the Company.
Upon the recommendation sessions to raise awareness and understanding of our customers and of the Audit Committee, resolutions to reappoint them as auditors colleagues with disabilities and how we can better support them.
Under and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will the banner of You Can, the Company also actively works with a number be proposed at the AGM.
of organisations which seek to promote employment for disadvantaged persons and inclusion within the workplace and has made one of our 20 by 20 Sustainability Plan commitments that by 2020 we will provide 30,000 people from disadvantaged groups with work opportunities.
These include JobCentre Plus, A Fairer Chance, the Shaw Trust, Remploy and Mencap.
Further details of Sainsburys diversity policy can be found at www.
By order of the Board Tim Fallowfield The Companys quarterly trading statements, interim and annual results Company Secretary are presented to all senior management and are communicated to all 8 May 2012 colleagues.
Colleagues have always been encouraged to hold shares in the Company.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 J Sainsbury plc 37
