Business review Developing new business Developing new business A major factor in the growth of Sainsburys Bank, with pre-tax operating profit up 40 per cent, has been our strategy of rewarding shoppers with double Nectar points for choosing to bank with us.
Business review B Bu us siin ne es ss s r re ev viiew ew Pharmacy services We are exploring Following the roll-out a range of new of over 250 pharmacies in store, we have also opportunities beyond introduced five GP and five dental surgeries, our core business, as well as our first hospital outpatient looking to grow pharmacy value based on the trust customers have in Sainsburys.
Sainsburys Bank has enjoyed another successful year, with In January 2012, Newton Abbot became our fifth store to have a pre-tax operating profit up 40 per cent.
Our strategy of GP surgery, while five of our stores also host dental surgeries.
In rewarding Sainsburys shoppers with double Nectar points for addition, we were delighted to open our first hospital outpatient choosing to bank with us has been a major factor in this growth, pharmacy, at James Cook University Hospital in South Tees.
with the offer now available on six key products.
In particular we have used Nectar with great success for our new home Sainsburys Energy has over 120 experts in store each day and car insurance products, offering preferential pricing and offering customers energy deals, products like solar panels double Nectar points.
Nectar also plays a vital role in the and insulation, and advice such as home energy assessments.
Sainsburys Energy online launched this year and has been well received by customers, with over a third of sales now generated Following a successful re-launch, our sales of car insurance through this channel.
increased by almost 150 per cent year-on-year.
We also introduced an online ordering service for travel money, and As the UKs leading retail user of anaerobic digestion AD, now have 122 in-store travel money bureaux.
Travel money which converts organic waste into energy, we became a turnover grew by almost 85 per cent year-on-year.
strategic partner and investor in Tamar Energy Ltd in February 2012.
Tamar plans to develop a network of over 40 AD plants Once again, the Bank was recognised by a number of highto generate 100MW of green electricity over the next five profile consumer and industry awards including: Best Low Rate years, enough to power 200,000 homes.
By investing in this Credit Card Provider Moneynet 2012, Best Personal Loan technology we not only ensure sustainable solutions for our Provider Moneyfacts 2011 and Consumer Moneyfacts 2012, own waste streams and energy requirements, but also offer Best Direct Home Insurance Provider Your Money Direct 2011 our suppliers the same, as part of our 20 by 20 commitments.
and Best Overall Online Provider Your Money Direct 2011.
In October 2011, we acquired online entertainment company We are now expanding our pharmacy offer.
Our research Global Media Vault Limited to support our drive into the growing shows that many people are more likely to discuss common online and digital entertainment market, retailing games, music, or minor ailments with a pharmacist than with their GP.
Many films and books via our Sainsburys Entertainment website.
are already using our pharmacy services, with flu vaccinations at Sainsburys up over 40 per cent on last year and cholesterol testing up over 150 per cent.
This year we have trained our pharmacists as healthy eating advisors, to provide free tailored information to customers.
We also believe our convenient locations and parking facilities make our stores potentially excellent locations for GP surgeries, to complement our pharmacies.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 J Sainsbury plc 19
