Business review Compelling general merchandise & clothing Compelling general merchandise & clothing In October 2011 TV personality Gok Wan launched his debut collection for us Gok for TU.
Our TU brand is the UKs seventh largest clothing brand by volume.
Business review B Bu us siin ne es ss s r re ev viiew ew We improved and Our general re-branded our top merchandise and tier cookshop items as Cooks Collection, clothing businesses increasing sales by 89 per cent.
continue to grow faster than our food business and continue to gain market share.
Cooks Collection 89% sales As we develop our store estate, we have expanded our ability In our home ranges, we improved and re-branded our top tier to offer non-food.
We now have 161 stores selling our larger cookshop items as Cooks Collection, increasing sales by 89 per non-food offer, 22 more than last year.
cent on its predecessor Different by Design.
Our July 2011 home event was our biggest ever, with customers snapping up our We have a clear strategy based on offering high street style great value TU cookshop and tableware ranges.
Our range of at supermarket prices in a way which makes the most of our cast iron casserole dishes and pans continues to be a best seller, strength in great food.
We focus first on giving customers with over 127,000 units sold since its introduction in autumn the best possible food and then add our compelling range of 2010.
We also launched three cookery books, Summer Recipe general merchandise and clothing.
We are also clear about Collection, Classics Recipe Collection and Cook Britain, with which areas of non-food we focus on.
Our hero categories, sales of own brand cookery books reaching almost 300,000 which complement and add value to our core business, are copies since initial launch.
womenswear, childrenswear, cookshop, home, papershop and seasonal.
We are increasing the amount of general merchandise products we source direct from suppliers, rather than through a third In clothing, TU is the UKs seventh largest clothing brand by party, and now have sourcing offices in China, Hong Kong and volume, and sixth for childrenswear.
Last year, we announced a Bangladesh.
These closer relationships help us to secure better partnership with TV personality Gok Wan, to create a number of prices leading to better value for our customers.
Direct sourcing womenswear collections with us.
We launched his debut range, also makes it easier to ensure our suppliers adhere to our Gok for TU, in October 2011 with the second collection launched rigorous ethical and quality standards.
Buying more directly just six weeks later in anticipation of the Christmas season, and on shorter lead times improves our flexibility and enables and the third in March 2012.
It is available in over 200 stores us to react quickly to sales and trends, a factor particularly with prices from 20.
In childrenswear we saw record-breaking important in clothing.
schoolwear sales, up 38 per cent on the year, and in our peak week we sold over 100,000 pairs of trousers and over 140,000 polo shirts.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 J Sainsbury plc 15
