Business review Growing space & creating property value Growing space & creating property value Our Dawlish store is made entirely of timber from sustainable sources and, thanks to its environmental features, the store uses 50 per cent less energy from the national grid than a standard supermarket.
Business review B Bu us siin ne es ss s r re ev viiew ew Our new space We achieved our target programme has increased the of opening 1.4 million value of our property sq ft of gross new space to an estimated during the year, across 11.2 billion.
19 new supermarkets, Property value 28 extensions and 73 convenience stores.
11.2bn Our strategy for growing space has three principal strands: in summer 2012, and our joint venture with Land Securities convenience stores, extensions and new supermarkets.
Our continues to make good progress, submitting planning convenience stores help grow our market share and deliver applications for 180,000 sq ft of supermarket space and a a particularly good return.
Many of our supermarkets lend further 500,000 sq ft of commercial floor space.
Works to themselves to extensions, notably those with large car parks extend our Wandsworth store for mixed use development have acquired at a time when land was cheaper.
By extending these started, and we have exchanged occupational agreements for stores, particularly in the south-east, we can bring our clothing leases on new stores in Salisbury and Selly Oak, Birmingham.
and general merchandise ranges to more customers.
Around 25 per cent of the UK population is not within a 15 minute drive of a This year, we opened our most northerly store, in Nairn, Sainsburys.
Therefore our focus for new store openings is the Scotland on the same day as we opened our latest North, the West, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland areas environmental store, in Dawlish, Devon, 600 miles away.
In in which Sainsburys has historically been under-represented December 2011 we opened our 1,000th store, in Irvine, Scotland.
and capital costs per sq ft are typically lower.
This gives us the opportunity to expand our store estate and drive growth.
Our new space programme has increased the value of our By approaching our development in this way, focusing on property to an estimated 11.2 billion.
When stores are fully these opportunities, and with clear control of capital sign-off, developed, we review them for potential sale and lease back, to we ensure that all our investments, individually and overall, release capital to reinvest in profitable growth.
This has been a deliver good returns.
source of cash in each of the last few years, and this year we generated a profit of 83 million on the disposal of properties.
Our investments over the past three years are delivering ahead of expectations, above our investment hurdle rate.
Following Property portfolio our fundraising in 2009, we stepped up both our development activity and investment pipeline.
Next year, we plan to return to space growth of around five per cent per annum.
Well continue to open a mix of convenience stores, supermarkets 572 440 and extensions and to ensure that our core estate is kept Supermarkets Convenience stores up-to-date and competitive through our refurbishment programme.
We have a healthy future pipeline of space ready for development, including planning consents for almost Varied store portfolio 70 supermarket extensions and we will continue to manage This year we opened our portfolio with discipline.
We also work with joint venture partners to add property value Total new space and trading space.
We completed five extensions within our 19 28 73 British Land joint venture, as well as securing planning consent 1.4m Supermarkets Extensions Convenience for one further extension.
On other projects, contractors are stores sq ft due to start work on our Fulham Wharf regeneration project Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 J Sainsbury plc 21
