Business review Our values make us different Our values make us different Thousands of children from around the UK are taking part in sports and other activities thanks to the equipment and experiences provided through our Active Kids programme.
Business review B Bu us siin ne es ss s r re ev viiew ew Our 20 by 20 We have a strong Sustainability Plan strengthens and culture, and focus on further integrates ensuring our values corporate responsibility into make us different.
This our business underpins our business, Sainsburys 20 by 20 Sustainability and is interwoven into Plan our strategy.
OUR VALUES MAKE US DIFFERENT j-sainsbury.
co. uk cr You will find examples of how our values are being integrated We involved a wide range of external organisations in the into our business throughout this report.
creation of our new 20 by 20 Sustainability Plan, published in October 2011.
The response to this has been very positive, Highlights include: both within Sainsburys and outside.
Best for food and health: Customers continue to recognise our colour-coded multiple traffic light nutritional labelling Our customers recently rated Sainsburys joint first among our system as the easiest way to make informed choices in store.
peers for taking our social and environmental responsibilities We display point of sale communication about responsible seriously, above Waitrose, Morrisons, Tesco and Asda.
drinking to help customers understand the number of units in the alcoholic drinks they buy, and we have increased Talkback, our regular survey of colleague opinion over a wide awareness with sales of lighter alcohol wines up 14 per cent.
range of measures, tells us that our colleagues increasingly trust Sainsburys to do the right thing for them and for the Sourcing with integrity: We were the first and remain world we live in.
the number one major retailer to only use cage-free fresh eggs, including those used as ingredients, in our own brand products.
We are the worlds largest retailer of Fairtrade Amongst industry experts, our approach has been recognised products, and were the largest retailer of British apples and through our inclusion in the globally respected Dow Jones pears for the third consecutive season.
We have retained our listing in the FTSE4Good Index, which rated us the highest performer relative Respect for our environment: We achieved zero food waste to to our sector across all three pillars of environmental, social landfill and became the UKs largest retail user of anaerobic and governance practices.
We have also retained our Platinum digestion technology.
Our absolute electricity consumption Plus status in the Business in the Community Corporate for supermarkets over the past four years has reduced by Responsibility Index, the highest external accolade in the 9.1 per cent, despite an increase in space of 25 per cent.
UK and maintained our Investors in People Gold status.
We were the first supermarket to announce a change to labelling guidance to encourage freezing up to the products use by date, helping customers to waste less food.
A positive difference to our community: We donated 25.4 million to good causes over the past year, with 5.5 million raised for Sport Relief 2012.
In a new initiative with FareShare, over 1.2 million meals were donated by the Company and our customers, to support disadvantaged families in the UK in the run up to Christmas 2011.
A great place to work: We have trained 18,000 colleagues in our bakery college and six food colleges.
Over 13,000 colleagues now have 20 years or more service, and we also instigated a new Youth Can initiative to help young people start and build their careers in retail.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 J Sainsbury plc 25
