Business review Great food Great food Apple harvesting at the Blackmoor Estate orchard in Hampshire takes place each year from August to October, supplying us with eight varieties.
We are the largest retailer of British apples and pears, selling a third of all those bought in the UK.
Business review B Bu us siin ne es ss s r re ev viiew ew Over 288 million Fresh food remains sales of fairly traded central to our business products this year and its success.
It is a key battleground for UK supermarkets, with todays savvy shoppers having high Fairtrade expectations about 288m the quality, value and sales integrity of their food, particularly fresh produce.
Investment in our supply chain ensures we are frequently Customers are turning to our own brand items for quality and the quickest to market on key fresh lines, with some British value, and shopping across the whole range.
Our Taste the vegetables going from field to store in an industry-leading Difference and basics brands are both performing particularly 48 hours.
With Jersey Royal potatoes, for example, we wash well, and appear side-by-side in many baskets, showing that and pack them on the island to ensure they arrive in store as even within a single shopping trip customers are saving on quickly as possible.
some items to treat themselves on others.
Our basics range is now the second biggest selling supermarket value brand, with Our focus on fresh food is closely related to our 20 by 20 sales growing 6.8 per cent in the year, driven by purchases of commitment to double the amount of British food we sell store cupboard essentials and ingredients for home cooking.
This will help develop British farming and protect Taste the Difference grew by 8.7 per cent, gaining market share livelihoods, while reducing food miles and delivering fresh, in the premium tier, and was particularly popular at Christmas healthy, nutritious food to the table.
The re-launch of our core own label brand by Sainsburys, with farmers is key to our continuing leadership in this area.
Over half way through the programme with example, we are the largest retailer of British apples and pears, 3,700 lines launched, re-introduced or refreshed, we are already selling a third of all those bought in the UK.
We are working to seeing 3.1 per cent growth.
preserve traditional British varieties, as well as introducing new ones to the UK.
This year our customers will see more British Ethically traded goods are also important to our business and food in our stores than ever before, from early season lamb we are the largest Fairtrade retailer in the world.
Our customers through to chillies grown in northern England and blueberries expect us to do the right thing by our suppliers and source our from Scotland.
We sold over 12 million of Fairtrade goods during Fairtrade Fortnight in February 2012, an 11 per cent We have also continued to expand and improve our fresh food increase on last year.
We are well on the way to reaching our service counters.
We have trained 18,000 colleagues in our 20 by 20 commitment for sales of our fairly traded products bakery college and six food colleges.
Their service, skills and to hit 1 billion by 2020, with over 288 million sales this year.
expertise have resulted in sales from our counters growing We are the UKs leading retailer of Freedom Food products, faster than at any other retailer.
We were delighted in June which ensure animals are raised to rigorous and higher RSPCA 2011 when City & Guilds formally accredited the high standards welfare standards.
We offer both the widest range of Freedom of training available at these colleges, which includes bakery, Food products with over 300 lines, and sell more than any other fishmonger, butchery and delicatessen skills the largest retailer, with over 50 per cent market share.
accreditation of its kind in the UK.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 J Sainsbury plc 13
