Annual Report & Accounts 2012 The Group recognises that it has a responsibility to ensure its Corporate and business is carried out in a way that ensures high standards of environmental and human behaviour.
With the help and Social Responsibility co-operation of all employees, the Group endeavours to comply with all relevant laws in order to meet that duty and responsibility wherever it operates.
The major contributions of the Group in this respect are detailed below.
RETAIl BUSINESSES Employment The Group is a large equal opportunities employer and a large training organisation, with the Groups retail businesses providing direct employment and career development to thousands of people, both in the UK and wherever we operate.
The Group employs large numbers of school leavers and university graduates and participates regularly in work experience schemes with schools and colleges.
Training The Group recognises that training for all levels of staff is vital to performance and it also provides a mechanism for increasing morale and improving staff retention.
This ensures that knowledge of the Groups differentiated product offering is not lost, thereby enhancing customer service.
Retail staff at all levels in the Groups core UK and Ireland retail fascias are encouraged to seek development and progression ultimately up to management level, with training provided by the Groups long established and substantial training function.
Training is given in four main areas: No.
of courses in length of people on a year course each course New Management induction 19 5 days 20 Training academy 3 12 weeks 20 Junior Management Development 60 4 hours 10 Various Management Development 22 1 day 10 Chausport and Sprinter operate their own training programmes.
However, the managers and assistant managers of the JD stores in France and Spain have their own bespoke training programme organised by the UK training function which is designed to ensure they operate their stores to standards consistent with JD in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
Equal opportunities The Group is committed to promoting policies which are designed to ensure that employees and those who seek to work for the Group are treated equally regardless of sex, marital status, creed, colour, race or ethnic origin.
The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment by people who are disabled, to continue whenever possible the development of staff who become disabled and to provide equal opportunities for the career development of disabled employees.
It is also Group policy to provide opportunities for the large number of people seeking flexible or part time hours.
Communication The number and geographic dispersion of the Groups operating locations make it difficult, but essential, to communicate effectively with employees.
Communication with retail staff is primarily achieved through the management in the regional and area operational structures.
In addition, formal communications informing all employees of the financial performance of the Group are issued on a regular basis by the Groups Human Resources Department in the form of Team Briefs.
34 35 Energy Health and Safety It is the Groups aim to give customers an enjoyable retail We are committed to ensuring a safe environment for all of our experience with goods presented in an environment that is both employees and customers and actively encourage a positive well lit and has a pleasant ambient temperature.
However, the health and safety culture throughout the organisation.
The Group accepts that all the businesses within it must be Group recognises its responsibility for health and safety and responsible in their energy usage and associated carbon there is accountability from the Group Board and throughout the emissions.
This policy applies to the acquired businesses where various management levels of the business to each employee we work closely with the local management after acquisition to and this is cascaded down.
identify gaps and implement group strategies.
Occupation of a new distribution centre has lead to the The Group maintains a Carbon Management Programme strengthening of our health and safety team ensuring safe CMP which is sponsored by the Group Finance Director and is procedures are established and managed from the outset in reviewed regularly.
Our objectives are to: what is a very large and complex operation.
Work with our energy suppliers to ensure that bills reflect The team has continued to develop a comprehensive actual usage induction and training programme which is regarded as an essential part of our commitment to health and safety.
Targeted Understand the drivers and timing of usage by continued safety awareness campaigns are run regularly throughout the investment in energy smart meters.
This has been achieved year and a monthly newsletter ensures that the safety message in over 350 of the Groups sites with further rollout planned.
is communicated effectively throughout the Group.
Combined with the stores where accurate and timely usage data is already received from mandatory half hourly meters, Our Health and Safety Committee, which is chaired by the this means that in excess of 92% of the UK and Republic of Group Finance Director, meets regularly each year allowing every Ireland electricity consumption and 81% of gas consumption employee the opportunity to raise any safety concerns through is automatically measured every 30 minutes.
In addition to their nominated representative.
accurate billing for these sites, analysis of the data has also To ensure that stores are designed and built with safety in shown that usage in non-trading periods can be reduced.
This mind, our health and safety team has input into all our new and is being done through additional training and investment in refitted stores from the initial design through to opening.
We small scale building management systems where appropriate conduct our own audit programme to ensure the highest safety Enhance staff awareness through training at store level, standards during the construction phase of all our shop-fit thereby ensuring that our retail staff understand they have a projects.
This training is expanding across our We set targets to enable us to measure our performance.
acquired businesses as part of the Groups standard During the current year we have seen positive improvements in training programme the completion of internal health and safety inspections and risk Pursue a multi-disciplined approach to the CMP to ensure assessments, as a result of countrywide presentations to the all business activities are aware of their impact on retail team, to increase awareness of our responsibilities.
energy consumption Our health and safety team regularly review the management Under the current rules of the statutory Carbon Reduction processes we have in place, with the aim of maintaining our Commitment Energy Efficiency scheme CRC, the Groups high standards, whilst adapting to business and legislative submission to the UK Environment Agency is aggregated with changes.
that of Pentland Group Plc who are the Groups ultimate holding company see note 35.
The Group continues to work closely with Environmental Pentland Group Plc on ensuring an efficient process with regards The Group recognises the importance of protecting our to the emissions trading scheme which was introduced in April environment for future generations and is committed to carrying 2010, as part of the CRC.
Pentland Group Plc was placed in the out its activities with due consideration for the environmental upper half of the first Participant League Table compiled by the impact of its operations particularly with regards to: UK Environment Agency.
Ensuring efficient use of energy and other materials Minimising waste by recycling wherever possible Ensuring compliance with relevant legislation and codes of best practice Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Recycling Environmental continued Wherever possible, cardboard the major packaging constituent The Group is committed to using and subsequently reporting on appropriate KPIs with regards to energy usage.
Accordingly, is taken back to the Groups distribution centres.
The cardboard is the Group can report the following in respect of locations in the then baled and passed to recycling businesses for reprocessing.
UK and Republic of Ireland that have been present for the full During the year, the Groups like for like businesses increased year for both years.
As this is a like for like comparison, the 2011 their recycling of cardboard to 465 tonnes 2011: 423.3 tonnes.
data has been updated to reflect store openings and disposals in The Group has expanded its recycling opportunities by using the current year: a Dry Mixed Recycling DMR scheme to divert waste from % landfill.
Recycling remains split into five main elements: 2012 2011 change The DMR scheme allows us to increase the recycling of cardboard, paper, plastics and metal containers Energy Usage - Confidential paper waste is shredded on collection by Electricity MWh 52,290 54,829 -5 a recycling business.
This business provides a Certificate Energy Usage - of Environmental Accomplishment which states that the Natural Gas MWh 3,698 4,122 -4 shredded paper, which was collected in the year, was the equivalent of 566 trees 2011: 1,211 trees.
This reduction reflects Total Energy Use 56,257 58,950 -5 the fact that some paper, which was previously disposed of as confidential waste to ensure it was recycled, is now disposed of via the new DMR process Carbon Footprint Tonnes CO2 28,833 30,226 -5 Wood and metal waste is separated at our main distribution The Group has pledged to reduce its combined energy usage centres to further reduce our waste to landfill liabilities in its like for like businesses from these levels by 3% year on year Photocopier and printer toners laser and ink are collected on a basis until the end of the scheme.
This target, and the and recycled for charity by Environmental Business associated operating standards that drive this target, apply to all Products Limited the Groups businesses.
Food waste is separated where possible and reused in the The Group has again invested heavily in the period to 28 production of compost January 2012 in replacing inefficient air conditioning systems in Following the continued success of our use of the DMR its businesses.
A further 29 stores now have systems with market scheme, we have trialed its use in a small number of JD Sports leading technologies which consume less energy whilst stores in 2011.
The scheme has also proved successful at our providing an appropriate temperature for staff and visitors.
stores and we will now expand its use, where possible, across all This replacement programme is ongoing and it is anticipated our businesses in the UK & Ireland to divert as much waste as that a similar number of works will be carried out in the period possible away from landfill.
This approach is being applied at to 2 February 2013.
In addition, after trialing the use of lower our new Kingsway Distribution Facility with the aim of this watt lamps for retail lighting in the UK last year, the Group has being zero waste to landfill when it is fully operational later in now adopted these lamps as standard in our retail businesses 2012. across Europe.
These lamps reduce the electricity required for lighting by over 50%.
Plastic bags The Group is committed to investing in the necessary Approximately 35% of the bags issued by the Group like for like resources to help achieve its targets on reducing carbon businesses are high quality drawstring duffle bags, which are emissions, with the following works planned for the year to generally reused by customers many times.
However, the Group 2 February 2013: is aware of the environmental impact of plastic bags and has sought to minimise any impact through the following measures: E xpand the CMP to widen the awareness campaign, through better training, improved communication and reporting The bags are made from 33% recycled material across like for like and acquired businesses The bags contain an oxo-biodegradable additive, which means C ontinue the use of LED lighting for accent lighting.
We will that they degrade totally over a relatively short life span also trial its use as a retail lighting source to further reduce energy consumption and heat gain in the retail environment The Group uses paper-based bags rather than plastic bags in its stores in the Republic of Ireland and we are also fully I ncrease analysis and reporting of data provided by the compliant with the new carrier bag charge scheme introduced introduction of energy smart meters across all acquired this year by the Welsh Assembly.
businesses where this is possible C ontinue the use of building management systems to allow remote monitoring and control of building services, and expand its use in acquired businesses The Group is also aware of the need to purchase energy competitively from sustainable sources wherever possible.
The Group has expanded its supply contract with Airtricity in Northern Ireland and Republic of Ireland to supply JD Sports, Size?
and Champion Sports with 100% renewable electricity.
The Company has also agreed a contract with British Gas in the UK except Northern Ireland to supply electricity from renewable sources.
This means that JD Sports, Size?, Bank, Scotts and Champion Sports now get 100% 2011:70% of their electricity from sustainable sources.
We will migrate the acquired businesses to these contracts as soon as we are able.
36 37 Retail and Distribution Businesses Community Engagement The Group seeks to be involved in the community where it can Ethical Sourcing make an appropriate contribution from its resources and skills The Group seeks to provide its customers with high quality and base.
Examples of this include: value merchandise from suppliers who can demonstrate JD Sports Fashion Plc is pleased to report a three year compliance with internationally accepted core labour and ethical commitment to The Christie Hospital to help raise 500,000 standards throughout their supply chain.
for the teenage cancer unit.
The fundraising begins with Team These standards are based upon the provisions of the Ethical JD running the BUPA Great Manchester Run in May 2012 Trading Initiative ETI Base Code and specifically cover areas JD Sports Fashion Plc is sponsoring 60 children at the Udavum such as wages, working hours, health and safety and the right to Karangal orphanage in Coimbatore, India.
In the year to freedom of association.
January 2012 donations of 5,000 were made to the The Group requires all of its suppliers, both existing and new, orphanage as well as donations of t shirts, water bottles, to formally commit to implementing the provisions of the ETI footballs and caps Base Code throughout their supply chains.
Prior to any orders Donation to the Christchurch Earthquake appeal by being placed, all new suppliers are required to complete the Canterbury of New Zealand Limited NZ and Canterbury Groups risk assessment form to indicate their degree of Limited UK totalling 18,000. compliance to the ETI Base Code.
All existing suppliers are also required to conduct this assessment on an annual basis.
These Donations by Champion Sports to Temple Street Childrens forms are reviewed by the Groups Buying team and any areas of University Hospital of 14,000 to fund the purchase of concern with regard to potential non-compliance are medical equipment, fund research and develop new treatment investigated when visiting the factories concerned.
facilities Also during the period to 28 January 2012 the Group has Donations by JD Sports Fashion Plc to The Marina Dalglish engaged the services of Sercura to complete an audit and Appeal of 4,000 to improve cancer treatment facilities compliance programme of the Groups current suppliers to the in Liverpool ETI Base Code standard.
Sercura is a global quality and A charity 'Barn Fest' was held by Kukri GB Limited in compliance solutions provider which performs factory audits.
September 2011 which raised 1,800 for The Good Life In the period to 2 February 2013, 70% of the supplier base will be Orphanage, Derian House Hospice, Clatterbridge Cancer visited and audited with the results reported to the Group Centre and Alder Hey Imagine Appeal Sourcing and Supply Chain Manager.
Due to the diverse nature and scope of the supply chain, it is not always possible to visit all of the factories directly.
Where Policy on Acquired Businesses instances of non-compliance are identified from the risk The Group has acquired a number of retail and distribution assessment forms and the supplier cannot be visited, they are businesses in recent years, and acknowledges that the high required to confirm what corrective actions are being standards which the core retail businesses have historically undertaken to resolve the issue.
These actions will be verified operated to, need to be replicated in the wider global Group.
directly by the Groups Buying team as soon as practically possible on a future visit.
After making an acquisition, staff from the core retail businesses, with the relevant knowledge and experience, All suppliers are contractually obliged to comply with the work with the management teams at these acquired businesses.
Groups Conditions of Supply which includes a specific policy on The initial focus is to help the local management analyse their Employment Standards for Suppliers.
position against these standards with action plans developed as necessary.
Our experience to date is that the businesses which we have acquired generally operate to standards similar to those of existing Group companies and so little action has been necessary to bring them up to the required level.
Standards of the existing Group companies, along with any future acquisitions, will continue to be monitored, with action taken to maintain Group standards as required.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Peter Cowgill The Board Executive Chairman and Chairman of the Nomination Committee aged 59 Peter was appointed Executive Chairman in March 2004.
He was previously Finance Director of the Group until his resignation in June 2001.
Since then he has been a partner in Cowgill Holloway Chartered Accountants.
He is a Non-Executive Director of a number of private companies and Non-Executive Chairman of United Carpets Plc and MBL Group Plc.
Barry Bown Chief Executive Officer aged 50 Barry joined the Board in 2000 and has been with JD Sports Fashion Plc since 1984.
He held the positions of Head of Retail, Head of Buying and Merchandising and Chief Operating Officer prior to his appointment as Chief Executive Officer in 2000.
Brian Small Group Finance Director aged 55 Brian was appointed Finance Director in January 2004.
Immediately prior to his appointment he was Operations Finance Director at Intercare Group Plc and has also been Finance Director of a number of other companies.
He qualified as an accountant with Price Waterhouse in 1981.
Colin Archer Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and member of the Nomination Committee aged 70 Colin was appointed a Non-Executive Director in November 2001.
He has over 40 years experience in the banking and financial arenas, having previously been an Assistant Corporate Director with Barclays Bank Plc.
He is also a member of the Chartered Institute of Bankers.
Chris Bird Non-Executive Director, member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees aged 49 Chris was appointed to the Board in May 2003.
He is a marketing specialist with his own public relations and marketing agency.
He is also Chief Executive of Sports Tours International Limited.
Chris has over 20 years media experience in newspapers, commercial radio and sport.
Andrew leslie Non-Executive Director aged 65 Andrew was appointed to the Board in May 2010.
He has over 40 years of experience in the retail, footwear and apparel sectors.
He was an Executive Board Director of Pentland Brands Plc, from which he retired in 2008.
During his career, Andrew also held a number of senior positions with British Shoe Corporation, The Burton Group Plc and Timpson Shoes Limited.
38 39 The Directors present their annual report and the audited Directors financial statements of JD Sports Fashion Plc the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group for the 52 Report week period ended 28 January 2012.
Principal Activities and Business Review The principal activity of the Group is the retail and distribution of sport and athletic inspired fashion, footwear, apparel and accessories.
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, a review of the business providing a comprehensive analysis of the main trends and factors likely to affect the development, performance and position of the business, including environmental, employee and social and community issues, together with the Groups Key Performance Indicators and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business is detailed in the following sections of this Annual Report: Summary of Key Performance Indicators page 2 Chairmans Statement pages 21 to 26 Financial and Risk Review pages 27 to 30 Property and Stores Review page 31 to 33 Corporate and Social Responsibility pages 34 to 37 All the information set out in those sections is incorporated by reference into, and is deemed to form part of, this report.
The Corporate Governance Report pages 42 to 45 and the Directors Remuneration Report pages 46 to 50 are incorporated by reference into, and are deemed to form part of, this report.
Business Strategy and Objectives The Group aims to sustain its position as the UKs leading retailer of branded sportswear and fashionwear.
This will be achieved through a strong differentiated product offering combining branded and own brand product presented in modern, fashionable and attractively presented stores located in prime locations with strong footfall.
The Group also intends to further enhance its UK and international retail presence through organic growth and acquisitions, where suitable opportunities arise, as well as by investing in its current retail portfolio.
Our ultimate objective is to deliver longer term earnings growth and increasing shareholder returns.
In working towards our objectives, we aim to act in a responsible manner in our dealings with our key stakeholders including our employees, customers and suppliers.
Share Capital As at 28 January 2012 the Companys authorised share capital was 3,107,500 divided into 62,150,000 ordinary shares of 5p each.
As at 28 January 2012 the Companys issued share capital was 2,433,083 comprising 48,661,658 ordinary shares of 5p each.
Shareholder and Voting Rights All members who hold ordinary shares are entitled to attend and vote at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
On a show of hands at a general meeting, every member present in person or by proxy shall have one vote and, on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every ordinary share they hold.
Subject to relevant statutory provisions and the Companys Articles of Association, holders of ordinary shares are entitled to a dividend where declared or paid out of profits available for such purposes.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Restrictions on Transfer of Shares Directors The restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company are The names and roles of the current Directors together with brief as follows: biographical details are given on page 38.
The Directors are responsible for the management of the business of the Company The Board may, in absolute discretion, refuse to register any and, subject to law and the Companys Articles of Association transfer of shares which are not fully paid up but not so as to 'Articles', the Directors may exercise all of the powers of the prevent dealings in listed shares from taking place, or which Company and may delegate their power and discretion is in favour of more than four persons jointly or which is in to committees.
relation to more than one class of share The number of directors at any one point in time shall not be Certain restrictions may, from time to time, be imposed by less than two.
laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws The Articles give the Directors power to appoint and replace Restrictions apply pursuant to the Listing Rules of the directors.
Any director so appointed shall hold office only until Financial Services Authority whereby Directors and certain the dissolution of the first AGM of the Company following of the Groups employees require prior approval to deal in appointment unless they are re-elected during such meeting.
the Companys shares The Articles require that, at each AGM of the Company, any The Company is not aware of any arrangement between its director who was elected or last re-elected at or before the AGM shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of held in the third calendar year before the then current calendar shares and or voting rights.
year must retire by rotation and such further Directors must retire by rotation so that in total not less than one third of the Directors retire by rotation each year.
A retiring director is Authority to Purchase Own Shares eligible for re-election.
A resolution was passed at the 2011 Annual General Meeting However in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance giving Directors authority to buy back ordinary shares up to a Code the Board has determined that all Directors will stand for maximum of 10% of the total issued ordinary share capital of the re-election at the 2012 AGM.
As at the date of this report no shares have been purchased under this authority.
Amendment of the Companys Articles of Association Directors Interests The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by The interests of the Directors who held office at 28 January 2012 a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
and their connected persons in the Companys ordinary shares are shown below: Change of Control Significant Agreements Ordinary shares of 5p each In the event of a change of control of the Company, the Company 29 January 30 January and the lenders of the 75 million bank syndicated facility shall 2011 2010 enter into an agreement to determine how to continue the facility.
If no agreement is reached within 20 business days of P Cowgill 410,263 410,263 the date of change in control, the lenders may, by giving not less B Bown 5,676 5,676 than 10 business days notice to the Company, cancel the facility B Small 23,950 21,750 and declare all outstanding loans, together with accrued interest C Archer 22,621 19,121 and all other amounts accrued immediately due and payable.
462,510 456,810 Contractual Arrangements Essential to the Business of the Group There has been no change in the interests of the Directors or The Board considers that continuing supply from Nike and their connected persons between 28 January 2012 and the date Adidas, being the main suppliers of third party branded sporting of this report.
products, to the Groups core sports fashion retail operation is essential to the business of the Group.
Substantial Interests in Share Capital As at 28 January 2012 the Company has been advised of the following significant holdings of voting rights in its ordinary share capital pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority 'DTRs' : Number of ordinary shares voting % of ordinary rights held share capital Pentland Group plc 27,963,722 57.47 Sports World International Ltd 5,775,255 11.87 Aberforth Partners LLP 4,351,898 8.94 Aberforth Partners LLP have a further non-voting holding of 1,953,900 ordinary shares.
Since 28 January 2012 and the date of this report the Company has been notified that the number of ordinary shares voting rights held by Aberforth Partners LLP is 4,270,898 being 8.78% of the Company's ordinary share capital and that the non-voting holding of Aberforth Partners LLP is 1,974,900.
Save as above, the Company has not been notified of any change in interests pursuant to the DTRs between 28 January 2012 and the date of this report.
40 41 Employees Disclosure of Information to the Auditor The Group communicates with its employees through team Each person who is a Director at the date of approval of this briefs and via the Companys intranet and notice boards.
Views report confirms that: of employees are sought on matters of common concern.
Priority So far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information is given to ensuring that employees are aware of all significant of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and matters affecting the Groups performance and of significant organisational changes.
Each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant The Groups employee remuneration strategy is set out in audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor the Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 50. is aware of that information.
The Group is committed to promote equal opportunities in employment regardless of employees or potential employees Going Concern sex, marital status, creed, colour, race, ethnic origin or disability.
Recruitment, promotion and the availability of training are After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable based on the suitability of any applicant for the job and full and expectation that the Company, and the Group as a whole, has fair consideration is always given to disabled persons in such adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the circumstances.
For this reason, the financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis Should an employee become disabled during his or her employment by the Group, every effort is made to continue employment and training within their existing capacity Annual General Meeting AGM wherever practicable, or failing that, in some alternative Notice of the Companys AGM to be held at 12 noon on 20 June suitable capacity.
2012 at Edinburgh House, Hollinsbrook Way, Pilsworth, Bury, Lancashire, BL9 8RR incorporating explanatory notes of the resolutions to be proposed at the meeting is enclosed, together Donations with a form of proxy.
During the financial year ended 28 January 2012 the Group did not make any political donations 2011: nil and made charitable By order of the Board donations of 61,000 2011: 39,000.
See page 37 in the Corporate and Social Responsibility report for the breakdown of which charities these donations were predominantly made to.
Creditors Payment Policy For all trade creditors, it is the Group policy to: Jane Brisley Company Secretary A gree terms of payment at the start of business with the supplier 12 April 2012 Ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment Pay in accordance with its contractual and other legal obligations The average number of days taken to pay trade creditors by the Group at the period end was 39 2011: 33.
The Group does not follow any code or statement on payment practice.
Auditor KPMG Audit Plc have indicated their willingness to continue in office as auditors of the Company.
A resolution proposing their re-appointment will be proposed to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
