CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Introduction All directors are provided with comprehensive papers, in The Companys established governance framework is advance of all board meetings, and attend key meetings overseen by the board of directors, which is ultimately regularly in the organisation.
In addition, directors attend answerable to the Companys shareholders.
impromptu meetings with senior managers in the business.
Statement of compliance It is not advantageous, in a company like Wetherspoon, The Company is committed to high standards of for there to be high barriers or exaggerated distinctions corporate governance, as set out in the UK Corporate between the role of chairman and that of chief Governance Code 2010 the Code.
The board believes executive officer.
However, some general distinctions that the Company has been compliant throughout the are outlined below.
53 weeks ended 29 July 2012, except that, since 3 November 2011, when John Herring retired from his position, the Company has not had a senior independent director.
We have since appointed a new non-executive director and will review the requirement for a senior independent director.
A full version of the Code is available on the official Web site of the Financial Reporting Council www.
The board of directors The primary responsibility of the board is to ensure that the Companys strategy is appropriate and implemented effectively.
Those matters reserved for the board and the authorities delegated to management are contained in the matters reserved for the board schedule, as well as in the various policies covering such matters as treasury management, capital expenditure approvals, legal matters, internal audit and risk management.
The board comprises the following members: Tim Martin, chairman John Hutson, chief executive officer Kirk Davis, finance director and company secretary Su Cacioppo, personnel and legal director Elizabeth McMeikan, non-executive director Debra van Gene, non-executive director Sir Richard Beckett, non-executive director Mark Reckitt, non-executive director The board considers each of Elizabeth McMeikan, Debra van Gene, Sir Richard Beckett and Mark Reckitt to be independent.
Biographies of all non-executive and executive directors are provided on page 46 and can be viewed on the Companys Web site: www.
co. uk On appointment to the board, every director is provided with an induction programme, including aspects of the Companys day-to-day operations.
Regular discussions and meetings take place regarding the performance of the board and the performance of individual executive directors is discussed regularly by the chairman and the non-executive directors.
Site visits are arranged regularly to enable non-executive directors to see the operations of the business, at first hand.
