Operating Review: Corporate Social Responsibility continued The setting for the South Africa Charities Fund CCTC was a small Zulu village in The Companys Charities Fund Umfolozi National Park, where existsto provide significant levels Menzies Aviation participants were ofsupport to a small number given the materials for building ofcharities nominated by each works, planting a vegetable garden operating division each year, based and improving the village schools on the following selection criteria: facilities.
They were hosted by the villagers who worked closely with t Efficiency: be involved with them on the various building projects.
charities that are small enough forour donation to make an Through the fundraising initiative that impact, and not be absorbed took place alongside the 2012 CCTC, inadministrative costs the school was able to start a food programme for the children.
Without t Integrity: make donations on a this funding and the provision of food needs-based approach rather at the school, very few children than taste based approach would attend.
In addition to the funding, the teachers have been t Effectiveness: charities to have spurred to grow their own fruit and specific aims and to be able to vegetables to use for the children demonstrate how our contribution and to make the food programme will benefit their cause.
Nominations are considered for Charity Bike Ride charitable organisations suggested Between 24 August and by the divisions, although generally 2 September 2012, a team donations will not be made to certain of Menzies Distribution riders causes or activities including political completed an endto end cycle parties, books, research papers or relay in support ofNewstrAid, articles in professional journals, the industry charity of their supply religious organisations or anything chain.
The trip began at John that conflicts with our Ethics Policy.
OGroats and ended at Mile End in In 2012, over 80,000 was donated Portsmouth, birthplace of Charles by the Company.
Dickens, celebrated patron of the charity.
In addition to the main Charities Fund, employees are actively 1,500km cycled Donors ranged from generous encouraged to support chosen corporate partners, each of whom charities through the Community Charity Bike Ride bestowed a Dickens-themed name Fund, attendance at events and the Menzies Distribution staff raised 20,000 on one of the legs, to individuals Payroll Giving Scheme which allows during a charity bicycle event from John touched by the NewstrAid cause and for tax efficient donations to be OGroats to MileEnd.
the exertions of the Menzies riders.
The John M. The riders themselves ranged from Menzies Community Fund makes Managing Director, David McIntosh individual cash awards of up to 350 to Night Packer, Bernie Johnson: per employee, or 700 per team of a wide spectrum of the Menzies employees, undertaking a charitable family, united by their love of cycling or community project.
Such awards and their desire to help people from are made in consultation with the the news industry who have fallen Managing Directors of each on hard times.
During 2012, over 10,000was donated via this fund.
The ride saw many challenges forthe Menzies Team, including Political Donations 1,500km of distance and 1.2km of It is the Companys policy not hill-climbs: nonetheless, smiles and tomake political donations and champagne were the order of the nopolitical donations were made day as they crossed the finish line during the year 2011: nil.
toa warm welcome from the NewstrAid welcoming committee.
John Menzies plc Annual Report 2012 28
