Operating Review: Group Performance continued In August, contract terms were Menzies Distribution agreed with News International for afurther 7 years.
As part of this Performance renewal, additional business in Kent, Menzies Distribution delivered a Lancashire and Northern Ireland was stable performance with operating secured.
This was a key renewal as profit held at 28.8m, despite News International represents 34% challenging market conditions.
of the total UK newspaper market.
Following on from this, the business During the period the division made of the UKs second largest magazine positive progress in shaping the distributor, Marketforce, was also division for the future by completing David McIntosh secured through to 2019.
These two acquisitions, securing new Managing Director, contracts secure some 245m of regional and national press contracts Menzies Distribution annual revenue and allow the division together with new logistics contracts.
to plan positively for the future with long term contracts in place.
Menzies Distribution Core Business Operating Board The magazine market continues A further re-organisation of tobe weak as the recessionary the branch network, which was Catherine Bland environment in the UK resulted in highlighted at the half year, has Finance Director areduction in discretionary spend.
beendelivered and is now achieving Overall like for like revenue was its projected savings.
There was limited upside Improvement Plans are embedded Supply Chain Director during the year from the Queens inthe business and they continue to Diamond Jubilee and the Olympic David Cooke deliver cost savings at branch level.
Games and the sticker category A dedicated team is already focusing Commercial Director received a boost resulting from Euro on further areas of savings through to 2012.
Monthly magazines were 2015 and together with the benefits Paul Dollman relatively resilient with like for like being felt from the fully implemented Group Finance Director revenue down 5%.
The weekly SAP system visibility on cost savings magazine sector, where like for like Jane Dyson is good.
During 2012 cost savings of revenues were down 7%, continues Marketing Services Director 4.9m were delivered.
to experience fierce price cutting activity particularly within the New Revenue Streams Christina Mellon crowded celebrity magazine sector.
During the year 2 acquisitions HR Director were made.
Newspapers sales were ahead David Speirs ofexpectations after a number In November, the division made IT Director of cover price increases and its most significant investment away additional business gains from News from its core business to date by International and DC Thomson.
acquiring Orbital Marketing Services In particular, Monday to Friday sales Group Orbital.
Overall like for a portfolio of UK based logistics like sales were down 3%.
In the and marketing services businesses Sunday market some stability Group financial review p. 20 serving the travel, tourism, returned following the launch of the education, charity, publishing and Sun on Sunday and a high degree of healthcare sectors.
The business cut price activity.
com was established in 1972 and of the News of the World and the employs over 550 staff at 9 locations launch of the Sun on Sunday has across the UK.
The acquisition of been broadly neutral.
Orbital takes Menzies Distribution John Menzies plc Annual Report 2012 18 into new business sectors and adds Newspapers delivered further complementary services to on time % its existing logistics and marketing services capabilities.
Given the 2012 97.08 respective infrastructure of both 2011 97.96 businesses there are significant network, operational and system synergies to be gained as part of Magazines delivered on time % theintegration process in the medium term.
2012 99.37 During July, the division also 2011 98.11 acquired the retail consultancy division of the Fore Partnership, which it has integrated with its own Newspaper packing accuracy % category management business D-Cipher to become part of Menzies Marketing Services.
The combined 2012 99.86 businesses, which trade as Fore, 2011 99.92 looks after more than 8,000 retail outlets with a combined annual news turnover of500m 12% of the UK Magazine packing accuracy % 1.
Orbital acquisition Most significant market.
Customers include M&S, investment by Menzies Distribution Spar, Boots, Martin McColl, Nisa and to date.
Branch re-organisation The network of branches have been streamlined 2011 99.75 to become more efficient and cost effective.
John Menzies plc Annual Report 2012 19
