Operating Review: Principal Risks and Uncertainties Overview The risks and uncertainties described below are considered to be those that would have the most significant effect on John Menzies plc.
When ensuring that an effective risk management platform is in place it isrecognised that byoperating 2 distinct businesses their risk profiles differ.
Some of the major risks that are faced, such as extreme weather or acts of terrorism, remain outside our full control but they are still considered and mitigating activities areplanned for.
The Groups key risks and that of each operating division are reviewed 6 monthly by the Group Board and in more detail by the Audit Committee.
Risk Area Risk Description Impact Mitigating Factors Business Environment Risk Distribution Risk associated with changing This could lead to an acceleration A focus on cost and productivity consumer behaviour and digital of top line decline as fewer efficiency within the core media proliferation.
newspapers and magazines are business.
sold as individuals adapt the way New revenue opportunities away they consume media.
from printed media distribution arebeing pursued.
An external consultant review wascommissioned that provided a forward looking market overview.
Aviation The risk of global economic This could result in a reduction in A flexible business model exists recession and its impact on the number of aircraft movements with geographical diversity that airlines, ground and cargo which have a direct impact on the has stood up to previous events.
amount of aircraft turns and cargo Strategic alignment with more tonnes handled.
The ultimate impact of this risk Rigorous credit control and weekly would be financial.
analysis of volume across all product categories.
Customer Risk Distribution Risk associated with publisher Failure to re-negotiate existing Current contracts secured through renewals.
contracts at acceptable rates until 2014 and beyond.
would have a material effect on Strategic analysis of options at the the current operating model.
time of the next contract renewals.
Ultimately the impact of this Constant evolution of the riskwould be financial.
operating model to ensure an optimum cost base.
Implementation of current branch re-organisation plans.
Distribution Risk associated with retailer Greater power within the supply Continue to drive service consolidation and retailer chain for large multiple retailers excellence and respond to aspirations.
could result in preferential retailerKPIs.
payment terms and increased Customer survey completed and service level demands.
This would have both operational and financial implications.
Aviation Risk associated with airline Airline consolidation could result in A balanced customer portfolio industry change.
Airline volume reductions across the main exists.
consolidation or failure can lead product categories if the acquiring The division attempts to focus on toopportunities and threats.
A risk airline is handled by a competitor growing, financially strong airlines.
exists if airline customers fail or or drops off a route.
Maintain key relationships within are consolidated or significantly This would impact operations airlines.
ataffected airports and ultimately the financial performance of thedivision.
John Menzies plc Annual Report 2012 32 Risk Area Risk Description Impact Mitigating Factors Financial Risk Group Risk of inadequate financing Failure to arrange adequate The Group maintains strong facilities and inadequate banking facilities would have a relationships with a portfolio of management of foreign material impact of the Groups high street banks and is confident exchangeexposures.
that it has sufficient headroom available to fund the Group.
Failure to adequately manage theGroups foreign exchange Monthly Treasury meetings are exposures would have a held which review hedging policy, financialimpact.
supplemented by weekly cash forecasts and a daily monitoring offacility headroom.
The Board annually reviews treasury policy and takes external advice as appropriate.
People Risk Group Risk of inadequate succession The impact of this risk could Succession plans across all areas planning and people development.
result in internal candidates not of the Group exist.
The Board existing for key roles as they annually reviews succession plans A risk exists that the Group does become available or individuals for senior management and not have in place adequate with in-depth knowledge and executive directors.
succession plans for the key skills leavingthe Group due to management roles across the Each division has its own a lack ofopportunity.
Group and that key employees structured development leave the Group if development programmes aimed at identifying opportunities do not exist.
Group Health and Safety risk.
A risk of The impact of a Health and Safety Safety is the number one value failing to provide employees with failure could affect the Groups across the Group.
appropriate training and a safe reputation, operational Dedicated Health and Safety teams working environment exists across performance and ultimately exist at both operating divisions.
the Group together with a risk financial performance.
Detailed Health and Safety reports thatthe Group fails to comply are discussed at both operating withrelevant health and boards and Health and Safety is safetylegislation.
the first agenda item at all John Menzies plc board meetings.
Continual analysis of accidents allows trends to be identified and prompt action is taken.
A risk exists that a The impact of a serious security The division works closely with serious security breach or incident related incident would affect the airport authorities.
occurs within the division that is Groups reputation, operational Rigorous checking and vetting of directly attributable to the actions performance and ultimately all employees takes place.
of one of our employees or the financial performance.
Central support is provided to all failure of related processes and stations to ensure consistency ortraining.
utilising the MORSE intranet based safety and security monitoring system, which provides consistent and regular reporting.
Technology Group The risk of collapse of divisional IT A serious outage for a limited All of our data centres have platforms.
Each division operates period of time would have an adequate power and facilities for its own IT platform.
Both are operational and reputational data centres.
We ensure that our critical to the running of each impact.
systems remain up to date with division.
appropriate external firewalls where required.
Each division has its own disaster recovery plans which are periodically tested.
John Menzies plc Annual Report 2012 33
