Operating Review: Group Performance continued International Airport in Bucharest, Menzies Aviation was acquired and bolted on to the existing ground handling operation Performance allowing a one stop shop service, Menzies Aviation delivered another which is more important at strong performance in the face stationsof this size, to be oftough overall trading conditions offeredtoall airlines.
with airline consolidation and the uncertain global economic climate Ground Handling prevalent.
Despite this, operating The ground handling business profit on a constant currency basis continued to prosper during the at37.5m was up 16% 10% actual.
Craig Smyth yearsecuring notable new contracts Managing Director, across the network.
Underlying As in previous years, the division Menzies Aviation operating profit increased by 1.1m.
continued to grow its core business This represents a 5% rise in difficult through contract wins.
Excluding markets and shows the continuing Menzies Aviation Operating Board contracts lost to airline failures, there strength of the business.
was a net gain of 30 contracts that Paul Dollman deliver 19m of revenue.
In addition Group Finance Director Continuing contract win momentum some 94 contracts were renewed, is reflected in the ground handling for an average contract length of Stephen Koller volumes.
Absolute aircraft turns three years, securing 118m of EVP AMI were up 8.9% with like for like turns revenue.
The ground handling someof the positive momentum Mervyn Walker business continues to be the primary gained from new contracts as they EVP Operations driver of growth for the division and represented profitable business that offers very strong growth dynamics.
was not replicated at the stations Giles Wilson Currently this business segment affected.
Best in class safety & EVP Finance generates 61% of divisional turnover security as well as great customer and is very well placed to pursue service are core to contract further market opportunities.
successes and sets the division apartfrom other handlers.
Cargo Handling Cargo handling endured a difficult Three businesses were acquired in year with volumes affected by the year.
In the UK, Flight Support, Group financial review p. 20 thegeneral economic slowdown.
aground handling business operating Absolute volume fell 0.2% with like at 4 stations, was acquired for for like volume down 5.6%.
com this, operating profits at 10.3m brought 3 new stations to the were up 1.6m reflecting the divisions network and deepened annualisation of previous years relationships with a number of contract wins and restructuring existing customers.
Republic, the ground handling company of Prague Airport was acquired.
This acquisition brought anumber of new customers and alsoconsolidated the number of players in the market from 3 to 2.
InRomania, Kamino Cargo, a cargo handling business at Otopeni John Menzies plc Annual Report 2012 16 Reflecting the difficult economic Ground Handling hours per turn conditions faced, some decisive management actions were taken.
InJuly, it was announced that the 2012 29.9 division would focus its UK cargo 2011 30.4 business on its London Heathrow operations and exit most of its UK regional operations.
The restructuring Ground Handling was successfully completed in on-time performance % quarter 3 and has placed the UK cargo handling business on a more 2012 99.7 stable platform.
In December, 2011 99.7 it wasdecided, having exhausted allalternative courses of action, toclose the cargo handling Cargo Handling operations in Chicago, USA.
Tonnes per FTE Thisoperation was loss making andthe closure will improve EBIT 2012 670.7 in2013 by around 1.5m.
2011 661.8 The business, which now represents 23% of divisional Aircraft Damage revenues, has beensignificantly Per 1,000 turns re-structured overthe last 3 years and the management actions taken 2012 0.046 during 2012 now complete the 2011 0.047 eradication of the 4 major loss- 000.0 making operations that had been Restated previously reported.
The business now operates predominantly at locationswhere the airport is notover supplied and the cargo business complements a successful 1.
Reliability We pushed back over ground handling operation.
850,000 aircraft in 2012 and delivered 99.7% on time performance.
Safety All employees are provided The air freight wholesaling business, with a daily safety briefing.
AMI, made further progress with 3.
AMI grew profits by 32% and expanded profit at 2.5m up 0.6m on the its network into India.
The business expanded during the year opening anew office in Mumbai.
This key cargo gateway expands the AMI network and offers customers a global solution.
AMI is a strong nichebusiness and is well placed tocontinue to grow and develop inalarge available market.
John Menzies plc Annual Report 2012 17
