Reports on health and safety Employees performance are the first operating The Group recognises the value in item at all meetings of the Group adiverse employment base.
The Board and at Divisional Operating principles are recognised through Board meetings.
They include published employment policies injurystatistics and trends as which are designed to attract, retain wellaslessons learned, training and motivate quality staff.
Full performance, contacts with consideration is given to equality regulators and legislative changes.
legislation, and our policies and The Groups health and safety policy practices are regularly reviewed and statement, which is published on our updated to ensure that recruitment website, focuses on establishing a and promotion is based on merit suitable environment, providing andin line with equality principles.
proper training, communication Health & Safety andconsultation with employees.
Managers are also encouraged MORSE is a key tool in our tofoster a work-based culture, HealthandSafety strategy basedon values espoused as MORSE is a key tool in our Health and Safety Strategy and is utilised partofa campaign promoting invarious forms across the Group.
andproviding guidance on ethical Details of the health and safety business practices and professional programmes in each division can conduct concerning dealings with befound in the Groups Annual allour stakeholder groups including Corporate Social Responsibility customers, suppliers and of Report on the Groups website, courseemployees.
Policies are also in place to cover Injury and Incident Reporting thefollowing key areas: Both divisions utilise key performance measures to monitor t Attracting the right people trends and to improve our t Reward and Incentives t Training and Development performance in this area, they operate in very different sectors, t Communication and consultation andso to provide clarity on the t Recognising human rights trends within each separate t Whistleblowing, anti-corruption business, statistics for each and bribery.
Health and Safety Health & Safety In respect of Menzies Aviations Good health and safety practices areintegral both to employee welfare overseas operations, there is no comparable UK RIDDOR, as each and to the success of the Group.
country where it operates has Each Divisional Managing Director different reporting requirements.
isresponsible to the Board for health 50employees However, under the MORSE incident and safety in their division.
We reporting system, all injuries are continually review our procedures Menzies Aviation employees received reported under standard categories safety recognition awards and our training in order to develop and adopt methods of working which depending on seriousness, where Category A would be for the most reduce the likelihood of accidents serious incidents.
Both divisions operate isnot the same as UK RIDDOR, but inatime-critical environment with it includes major serious incidents any delay increasing costs and involving fatality, serious harm, causingdisruption for ourselves dangerous occurrence or aircraft andour customers.
John Menzies plc Annual Report 2012 29
