In 2012, the Group continued Menzies Aviation is committed to monitoring its energy consumption reducing unnecessary consumption levels in the UK as part of its of resources and recycling packaging requirements under the Carbon such as polythene, rope and pallets Reduction Commitment.
Its total use of consumption across the business packaging materials through its islow and so no specific targets AMIand cargo businesses in the UK havebeen set with regards to water amounted to 513 tonnes 2011: 594 consumption.
Where the division offers however have a policy in place to anaircraft cleaning service, any minimise usage and the impact of waste we remove from an aircraft our business operations to the local is, wherever possible, processed environments, including water viaairport waste recycling systems.
Supply Chain Waste and Emissions Our relationship with our customers Volume of waste recycled At Menzies Distribution, packaging and suppliers is important to us waste, namely cardboard and without them, we would simply not polythene, and office paper are exist.
Both our businesses rely on by-products of our activities.
long-term working relationships as one of the core pillars of their 74.6% We have waste compactors business strategy for Menzies installedat 17 of our largest branches Distribution this can be a lifelong in the UK, which we now use for arrangement with a newsagent, and allDry Mixed Recyclable materials.
for Menzies Aviation agreements Menzies Distribution has been covering many years at many airports.
working closely with its waste service provider since the beginning Airports and airlines operate on of 2010 to achieve the goal of 90% aninternational platform and expect recycling across the division of all all their suppliers to operate to general waste material previously acceptable standards worldwide.
Menzies Aviation shares this commitment to high standards and In 2012 a total of 2,948 tonnes works with its airline and airport of waste was uplifted with 74.6% partners to ensure that we all being recycled.
This was an maintain and deliver commitments to improvement of over 6% from high standards throughout the supply the previous year.
chain, at all our locations worldwide.
Under our contracts with newspaper Supplier Payment Policy and magazine publishers, we are The Group does not operate a responsible for the collection of standard code in respect of unsold copies from retail outlets.
Each division Newspaper publishers outsource the is responsible for agreeing the terms physical uplift and recycling from our and conditions under which business premises via third-party agents with transactions with its suppliers are whom we work closely to integrate conducted, including the terms of an efficient transition from our payment.
It is Group policy that processes to their collection.
payments to suppliers are made in accordance with the agreed terms, provided that the supplier has performed in accordance with all relevant terms and conditions.
At theyear-end, the amount owed to trade creditors by the Group was equivalent to 32.5 days 2011: 34.2 days of purchases from suppliers.
John Menzies plc Annual Report 2012 31
