07 Living our Values 7 Our business model Integrity In Inte tegr grit ity y Mark Breen, Wood Group GTS, USA We are a focused global energy services Mark acts professionally and with honesty, building trust amongst his colleagues.
He provider and deliver a range of leading stepped into the Regional Managers role at solutions on a primarily reimbursable a power plant to address operational and cultural challenges, taking this on in addition basis in markets with strong long-term to his other work and ensuring that we fundamentals.
delivered with integrity to the customer.
Business development Identify business opportunities Evaluate opportunity risks and benets Completion Negotiate contract Get paid and pay costs Secure the work Review delivery and execution, learn and improve Successful delivery of our services Reinvest in people, processes enhances our reputation and innovation and strengthens Invest in capex customer and acquisitions relationships Deliver returns to shareholders Delivery and execution Identify, attract and develop the best people Assemble the team and resources to deliver Focus on continuous improvement Deliver solutions safely, on time and within budget John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2012 08 Chairmans statement In November, Sir Ian Wood retired as Chairman and from the Board.
Sir Ian has been an extraordinary leader, guiding Wood Group from its roots in the North Sea to its position today as a major global oil & gas services business.
The Group and its shareholders owe a huge debt to him.
Allister G Langlands, Chairman As announced last year, two of our longerIntroduction Financial results serving non-executive directors, John Morgan The Group delivered strong growth in 2012 The Groups results reected growth in all three and Dr Christopher Masters, retired at the and we completed a number of changes in divisions.
Revenue from continuing operations 2012 AGM and we thank them both for their the executive leadership team.
In November, increased by 20% and EBITA from continuing considerable contribution.
Mary Shafer-Malicki Sir Ian Wood retired as Chairman and from the operations was up 35%.
EBITA margin and Thomas Botts joined the Board as nonBoard.
Sir Ian has been an extraordinary leader, increased from 6.0% to 6.8%.
Adjusted diluted executive directors in June 2012 and January guiding Wood Group from its roots in the North EPS increased by 42% to 85.2 cents.
Sea to its position today as a major global oil & gas services business.
The Group and its Dividends Wood Group is well placed to further develop shareholders owe a huge debt to him.
Reecting our confidence in the longer-term our leading positions across engineering, outlook for the Group, we are declaring a final On 1 November, I succeeded Sir Ian as production support and gas turbine services dividend of 11.3 cents which will bring the full Chairman and Bob Keiller became Group CEO.
and I look forward to the Groups continued year dividend to 17.0 cents, in line with our Bob has taken over a strong business in good success under Bobs leadership and direction.
stated intention at the half year, and up 26% on long-term growth markets and is supported by 2011. an excellent management team.
Board changes Markets In June, Les Thomas, Group Director of Health Allister G Langlands, Chairman During the period we benefited from an and Safety, and Mark Papworth, Chief Executive increase in global E&P spend, estimated by of Wood Group GTS, stepped down from the commentators to have been around 9%.
Board and depart with our best wishes for the Looking forward, conditions in our end markets future.
Robin Watson, Chief Executive of Wood are anticipated to remain favourable.
We Group PSN, and Mark Dobler, Chief Executive continue to see strong longer-term energy of Wood Group GTS, were appointed to the fundamentals, supported on the demand side Board in January 2013.
The Board will benefit by developing economies, and on the supply from their significant operational experience and side by increasingly complex eld developments leadership.
and the shale-led pick-up in oil & gas and industrial activity in the USA.
The Group is well positioned in end markets with a balance of opex and capex related activities across key geographical areas of industry growth and we have a robust balance sheet.
Our business Operational review Governance Financial statements Further reading 09 p14 Financial review p20 Living our Values p26 Governance p28 Board of directors and biographies p17 Footnotes CEOs review Our 2012 financial results represent another year of strong growth with EBITA up 35%.
Wood Group is a great company and I believe we can be even better if we harness our collective strengths more effectively and operate in a more joined-up manner.
We are set to make progress in all divisions in 2013, and I look forward to leading our further development in good long-term growth markets.
Bob Keiller, CEO 2012 2011 2012 Group performance $m $m Change Revenue from continuing operations 6,821.3 5,666.8 20.4% 1 EBITA from continuing operations 461.1 341.6 35.0% EBITA margin from continuing operations 6.8% 6.0% 0.8pts profit from continuing operations before tax and exceptional items 362.7 254.1 42.7% Basic EPS 71.4c 530.7c n m 2 Adjusted diluted EPS 85.2c 60.2c 41.5% Total dividend 17.0c 13.5c 25.9% 6 ROCE 19.3% 18.4% 0.9pts Note: Continuing operations revenue and EBITA gures include the results of PSN since acquisition on 20 April 2011, and exclude the results of Well Support in the period prior to its disposal on 26 April 2011 and those of the Wood Group GTS Aero engine overhaul business disposed of on 5 April 2012. increased by 12% reecting growth in both messages from the Executive Committee that Bob Keiller answers questions on the Maintenance and Power Solutions.
now represents all key areas of the business.
Groups performance in 2012, his role as incoming CEO and thoughts on Im looking to continue to build the business Q: What are your priorities as CEO?
based around our Core Values which unite strategy for the future: Firstly, I am looking to build on what Sir Ian the Group.
These Core Values Safety & and Allister have created: a Group which has Assurance, Relationships, Social Responsibility, achieved significant growth both organically People, Innovation, Financial Responsibility and Q: Its been a year of good growth and by acquisition over many years, and I am Integrity define who we are, what we believe pleased that Allister will be able to support in, set out how we act and how we expect to be across the Group.
What are the me from his new position as Chairman.
Wood treated, and provide a sound basis on which to highlights?
Group is a great company, one I have known make decisions.
as a customer, a competitor, a divisional CEO Our 2012 financial results represent another I will also be working with my teams to further and now as a leader.
And, based on what Ive year of strong growth with EBITA up 35%, a develop the combined Group strategy.
This will seen since joining the Group, I believe we can tting tribute to Sir Ian and Allisters leadership drive our tactical choices in terms of the range be even better.
and the focus and hard work of our people of services we provide and the markets and around the world.
I believe that the Group can be stronger if we customers that we provide them to.
harness our collective strengths more effectively Wood Group Engineering delivered very strong Q: Strategically, what progress did and operate in a more joined-up manner.
Revenue increased by 23% and are further opportunities for cross-selling and EBITA increased by 36%, principally reecting the Group make this year?
pull-through, making better use of the depth increased activity in upstream and subsea & We continued to pursue long-term and of resources we have.
In Wood Group PSN, revenue and sustainable growth, retaining a balance of the Group have cultures that foster pride EBITA growth of 23% and 34% benefited from across opex and capex driven markets in oil and entrepreneurship and my task is to protect good performance in the North Sea, strong & gas and power.
Looking at some of the that while increasing collaboration.
We have growth in North America, and the full 12 month operational highlights, we made good progress signicantly ramped up internal communication contribution from the PSN business acquired in broadening our international footprint in across the Group.
This includes regular in April 2011.
In GTS, revenue and EBITA John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2012 10 Living our V g alues Wood Group Engineering in Saudi Arabia and Q: Any change in the Groups the Far East, and developing relationships with approach to and appetite for risk?
a number of customers including IOCs and EPC contractors.
In Wood Group PSN we Taking account of our skills, our customer have been focusing on expansion in the oil-rich base and our markets, it is clear to me that shale regions both organically and through the we need to remain a lower-risk, predominantly acquisitions of Mitchells and Duval.
Social Responsibility Group GTS we maintained our focus on driving I do, however, want to tighten up our controls improved margins in Maintenance and delivering Community team, around contracts that contain xed-price returns in Power Solutions.
I am keen to ensure elements to ensure that we keep our overall risk that all parts of the business contribute to the Wood Group PSN, Trinidad prole well within our comfort levels.
Typically, Groups longer-term growth ambitions and these contracts together represent less than benefit from being part of the Group.
One of our initiatives in Trinidad is the 10% of revenues.
I commissioned a team of Successful Women Towards Self-Reliance senior operations and commercial managers Q: What about safety performance programme which focuses on the issues from across the Group to analyse, define and faced by women and their children in in 2012?
categorise different types of contracts with the community.
Through forums, weekly xed-price elements.
We have dened five We dont want anyone suffering injury or ill sessions and community outreach activities discrete categories, some being relatively low health when they work for us or if they are in remote villages, the programme offers risk where we have control over every element affected by the work we do.
It could be learning experiences which facilitate of the contract delivery, and others such as tempting to cite improvements we have made in empowerment, self-development and EPC contracts that include site works and third many areas but the stark fact is that one of our self-reliance.
parties for instance, which represent a higher team died in 2012 in a vehicle incident.
We are updating our review and control not complacent and are working hard to ensure requirements and have dened contract-size the safety of our people.
Safety & Assurance is our top priority and first In GTS we anticipate continued improvement Core Value.
In our 2011 Annual Report, we Q: Whats the outlook for the Group?
in Maintenance in 2013, principally due to talked about lessons learned from incidents operational improvement initiatives.
The Overall, we anticipate progress in all divisions and actions taken to improve risk management European power-related Maintenance market is in 2013. as a result.
Our Safety Leadership programme expected to remain soft but we believe that we was launched at the end of 2011 with the aim In 2012, Wood Group Engineering delivered a will see some improvement in the US.
In Power of raising leaders awareness of the role that second consecutive year of over 30% EBITA Solutions, we remain on course to complete they play in delivering and improving the safety growth as the division recovered from the trough the Dorad contract in 2013 together with the performance of the Group and encouraging in 2010.
Looking ahead to 2013, we anticipate smaller contracts awarded in 2012.
We are them to demonstrate their commitment to safety revenue growth and margin improvement to pursuing a number of good near term Power in real and tangible ways.
The programme has lead to EBITA growth of around 15%.
This is Solutions opportunities in the Americas and been led by the Board and has been rolled out supported by our current order book, prospects elsewhere, although these are smaller in scale.
to around 1,200 managers to date.
We are in a number of key regions, including the Gulf Having experienced delays in project awards, continuing to develop the programme further of Mexico, the Middle East, the Norwegian we anticipate a lower contribution from Power and to extend it deeper into the organisation.
North Sea and Asia Pacic, and our view on Solutions in 2013. the overall market which should benefit from We recognise that often near misses can As I said earlier, Wood Group is a great the forecast increase in E&P capex in 2013 of provide extremely valuable lessons even if no company and I believe we can be even better.
In 2013, we will be We have a strong business set to make trying even harder to recognise events that have Wood Group PSN is well placed to deliver a progress in all divisions in 2013, and I look a high loss potential and to ensure that we learn strong performance in 2013.
In 2012 we signed forward to leading our further development in from them.
Over many years we have reduced new contracts and renewals worth around good long-term growth markets.
the recordable injury rates to our people whilst $3.6bn in revenue, which position us well for the growing our workforce signicantly.
Looking ahead, the North Sea should benefit from spending on integrity management, operational assurance and production initiatives.
In North America we expect further growth from our US shale activities, and in international markets we expect to see a significant improvement from the progress we are making Bob Keiller, CEO in Oman.
