Our business Operational review Governance Financial statements 23 People Pe Katie Elder K Ka, W W Wo ood Group GTS, UK Katie Elder is Financial Contr K K Kat oller for Wood Gr G G Group GTS, whose passion for people, o awar a a aw wa eness of others and coaching skills are seen thr s s se ee ough her mentoring.
Katie is also a keen participant in the Corporate Decathlon in k k ke ee Aber A A A Ab be deen and was voted Players Player in 2011.
She pr 2 2 2 20 201 omotes good teamwork at every opportunity and is an excellent manager of o o o op pp people at all levels.
p p p pe pe eo with over 170 recruited into these schemes People Innovation in 2012.
We feed the industry with new highly skilled workers to lead the business People are the heart of our business.
Innovation gives us competitive into the future.
We are professional, high-performing advantage.
We promote collaboration and team players focused on delivering and We recognise the influence highly skilled sharing of ideas across our business.
We managers have on others so our leadership, drawing on our global expertise.
We have a structured approach to recognising management and supervisory development aim to attract, develop and retain the best innovations, rapidly testing ideas and sharing programmes support their own skills people, treating each other with honesty, learnings.
We encourage our people to development and career progression.
In addition compassion and respect.
We create a challenge established practices and achieve to Group-led programmes, there are a range of stimulating, fun and open work culture that continuous improvement.
We are committed courses provided locally to focus on personal promotes personal development and work to delivering thorough and sound solutions to development, specic job-related skills and life balance, rewards competitively and every challenge.
In 2012 we were again recognised by the Innovation has helped us to respond Corporate Research Foundation as one of successfully to the developing and changing When we state in our Core Values that people Britains Top Employers based on a broad needs of our customers.
We strive to be are the heart of our business its not just a assessment of rewards, development, working innovative in all our operations.
We promote hollow corporate strapline.
With around 43,000 conditions and culture.
We attach huge collaboration across the Group and learning employees working in over 50 countries importance to employee communication and from each other.
We encourage our people to worldwide, our competitive edge is delivered engagement and continue to strive to improve question established practices and achieve through the quality of our people.
We pride our communication channels.
ourselves on the character, energy and diversity We recognise the significant advantage Our culture is to encourage innovation in of our employees and we work hard to attract in working together across divisions and everything we do.
This includes how we and retain the best.
This means that everyone is geographies to harness our collective strengths.
operate, the application of the most appropriate treated fairly, honestly and individual differences We work in an industry that plays a vital role in technology and our commercial approach.
the world economy, creating and maintaining addition to providing our customers with t-forWe aim to attract, retain and mobilise the right essential installations from pipelines and purpose solutions, innovation also motivates people to the right place at the right time.
This platforms to power plants.
our people to reach the best of their potential.
involves a continuous and strategic focus on We therefore actively encourage new ideas to Ours is an exciting business that offers a resourcing, succession planning and making challenge and exceed existing methodologies.
diverse mix of career development opportunities sure we have the right balance of new entrants, around the world to our people.
We encourage One of the ways this is achieved is through joint graduates and apprentices entering our innovation and fresh thinking that embraces industry projects JIPs, including Wood Group business.
our cultural diversity and encourages the kind Kennys collaborations for subsea, umbilical, To operate at the highest levels we know that of effective teamwork that results in tailored riser and owline integrity management SURF we need to develop our talent and invest in our solutions to client problems across different IM and Slug Loading and Response in Pipelines people regardless of career stage, location and environments.
Our employees also regularly publish role.
Our extensive training and development in industry magazines or present papers at portfolio covers the whole organisation and technical conferences.
provides blended development opportunities designed to equip all levels of the organisation with new skills as well as rene and update existing ones.
Innovation Inn Our successful Design Academy, Martin Sweeney Ma M, apprenticeships, traineeships and industryleading graduate development programmes W W Wo ood Group GTS, South Africa are an investment in the future of the Group Martin pictur M Mar ed far left, is a Field Co-ordinator and part of the pr p p part oject team working on the Medupi Pr P P Project for Hitachi Power Africa in South Africa.
o Martin modied and impr M M Mar M oved our welding process leading to a significant r lle e ead eduction in welding failure rates fr r ra ra ate om 17.6% to 1%.
This increased efficiency and contributed to a testing schedule which was a a a an nd four months ahead of schedule.
fffo fo o our Living our Values Living our Values John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2012 Further reading 24 p26 Governance p28 29 Board of directors and biographies Living our Values continued For the most part we are technology neutral We recognise the importance of maintaining Financial Responsibility and our focus is on the application of the relationships with investors and lenders and most suitable technology.
However, we do understanding their priorities.
We seek investor We expect to receive fair reward for invest in selective R&D where we see a real feedback throughout the year, both informally our business performance.
We are cost business need.
The establishment of the Wood through our investor relations team and through aware and carefully manage our own and our Group Chair in Arctic & Harsh Environments investor roadshows and one-to-one sessions customers costs.
We manage financial risk Engineering at Memorial University in involving the CEO and the CFO.
In 2012, we systematically and communicate our financial Newfoundland is a good example of this.
held a capital markets day covering our Wood Currently the Chair is supporting a series of performance in a clear, concise manner.
Group Engineering division which provided proposals submitted to the Natural Sciences valuable insight for lenders, investors and and Engineering Research Council NSERC Our ability to generate fair reward is influenced analysts and allowed them to hear directly and the Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency by the markets we operate in, the value we from operational management to gain a better ACOA Atlantic Innovation Fund AIF which provide, our systematic management of understanding of our business.
We held two address two main technical issues including: exposure to financial, commercial and other major roadshows, attended a number of the effects of large deformation geohazards risks, the capital we employ and the quality of investment bank conferences and over the on buried pipelines and qualication of pipeline the provision of our services.
course of the year held a number of other mechanical integrity.
Overall, we held approaching 200 The fair rewards and profits that are generated investor meetings.
The Chairman and senior allow us to invest in the future of Wood Group, As well as seeking opportunities to acquire independent director also met with some of our and to reward our shareholders for their new skills and expertise in specialist and niche leading shareholders through the consultation confidence in us.
Our shareholders require an markets, we invest in a range of operational process around the CEO and Chairman appropriate return for their investment, and and engineering excellence initiatives to deliver appointments and made themselves available achieving this return leads to a strong share continuous improvement.
For example, our throughout the year for other meetings.
price performance and our ability to access specialist renewable consultancy, SgurrEnergy, capital markets in order to support our future has deployed its Galion Lidar Wind Proler In 2012 we also started to provide analyst growth.
Achieving fair reward for our services device to measure wind direction and speed.
consensus forecasts on our website, in line with also allows us to fairly compensate our people, This technology represents an advancement in investor relations best practice, and this has and to invest in their training and development.
the technical capabilities of capturing wind data been well received.
and offers benets compared to other devices.
Another important aspect of financial The AGM provides another valuable opportunity responsibility is our management of costs, for face-to-face contact with the Board, allowing where we have an obligation to carefully shareholders to raise any questions they may manage our own costs and those of our have.
The next AGM will be on 15 May 2013. customers to allow us to generate an We will continue to publish six formal updates appropriate level of profit which reects the during the course of the year final and interim quality of our services.
results, two interim management statements and two trading updates in order to provide As an employer and public company we regular updates on the Groups performance believe that we must communicate our financial and outlook, and we will discuss these updates performance and future expectations in a clear with the investor community.
This allows our people to understand their contribution to our success, and our shareholders and lending banks to understand our business and strategy over the longer term.
Financial Responsibility F BP Focus, B W Wood Group PSN, UK The BP Focus contract has worked to make T impr im ovements to the commercial model incentive mechanism.
The new system is in better aligned to BP b s business drivers and delivers impr d oved performance.
Living our Values Our business Operational review Governance Financial statements 25 Integrity I Int Kale Dr K Ka eymala, W W Wo ood Group GTS, USA Kale r K Kale emains positive, creates an atmosphere of trust and encourages others to continue to do t tru us their best.
He demonstrated his commitment to t thei quality of service by r q qu qua efusing to use a cheaper supplier wher s s su up e the quality could not be veried.
The Committee members The Business Ethics Helpline, where Integrity appoint the Groups Responsible Ofcers who, concerns can be raised condentially, is used liaising with a number of designated Country to encourage the reporting of suspected We are proud of our reputation, built Ofcers, are responsible for driving engagement violations of the Business Ethics Policy as over many years, which depends on across all the businesses and locations in their well as operating as a forum for employees us doing the right thing.
Integrity is our area of responsibility.
We investigate violations or cornerstone and character is as important as complaints and take the necessary action.
Our Business Ethics Policy sets the high ethical ability.
We build trust and act with honesty.
A register of ethics matters is maintained standards that we expect of our business We comply with our Business Ethics Policy, by the Groups Chief Compliance officer operations, our people and every company and the Board receives regular reports and management system and all local rules that we work with.
Our Policy sets out the updates on business ethics as well as on the and regulations.
We foster a culture of importance of conducting business ethically implementation of the Policy.
and legally throughout our global organisation.
We investigate all violations and complaints The Business Ethics Policy is available in nine During 2012, a number of internal investigations and take appropriate action.
languages and is widely communicated to our were undertaken into allegations of unethical people.
Appropriate disciplinary action was The Board, via the Group Excom, tasks the 3,000 business ethics personnel were required taken based on the facts and circumstances Business Ethics Committee with monitoring to undergo bespoke training and confirm and this included two terminations for behaviour the operation of the Business Ethics Policy their continued compliance.
Business ethics or actions that violated the Business Ethics and working on ways to best promote ethical personnel are identied based on a range of Policy.
We will continue to take prompt action to conduct across the Group.
Following on roles and responsibilities, including those that deal with any known violations.
from the leadership of Alan Semple CFO, liaise with customers and third parties.
We foster a culture of transparency and the chair of the Business Ethics Committee, responsibility.
We must consistently apply moral which comprises senior managers from across and principled behaviour in all our transactions, the Group, was taken up by Robbie Brown, which builds trust and honesty.
We are law abiding, wherever we are in the world, and adhere to all organisational policies.
We must all be accountable to each other, our customers, shareholders, and partners, by honouring our commitments, delivering results, and striving integrity is our cornerstone and character is as important to provide the highest quality service.
In spite as ability of this, we know that errors of judgement can happen and therefore we are never complacent and are relentlessly focused on adhering to our Core Values.
BOARD build trust and doing the act with honesty right thing BUSINESS ETHICS COMMITTEE RESPONSIBLE OFFICERS COUNTRY OFFICERS investigate all comply with our violations and complaints Business Ethics Policy, and take appropriate management system action and all local rules and regulations BUSINESS ETHICS PERSONNEL AND OUR PEOPLE foster a culture of transparency and responsibility Living our Values John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2012 26 Contents Governance Our approach to corporate governance and how we have applied this in 2012.
27 Letter from the Chairman of the Board 28 Board of directors and biographies 30 Report of the directors 31 Corporate governance Governance 38 Directors remuneration report The Board came to the unanimous decision that Allister is the outstanding candidate to succeed Sir Ian as Chairman and is the right person to lead the Board as Bob and the operational management team take the Group through the next stage of its development.
In reaching this decision, the Board has considered carefully the UK Corporate Governance Code recommendation that a chief executive should not normally go on to be chairman of the same company and we have thus consulted with representatives of our major shareholders holding in excess of 40% of the equity in the Company.
They recognised that Allister has been with the Group for over 20 years, has been a successful CEO and provides the necessary continuity at the top level for our people and customers and, in these circumstances, they unanimously supported the Board changes.
Ian D Marchant, senior independent director 19 July 2012 Our business Operational review Governance Financial statements Further reading 27 p28 29 Board of directors and biographies p30 Report of the directors p31 Corporate governance p38 Directors remuneration report Letter from the Chairman of the Board I have enjoyed taking on the Chairmans role and working closely with Bob Keiller.
Bob has taken over the leadership of a strong business, with an excellent management team and an established strategy.
Under his leadership and direction I am confident that the Group will continue its successful growth.
Dear Shareholder running of the Companys business has been added significant value: their contribution will In my first Chairmans letter, I want to take the established.
These responsibilities have been be missed.
opportunity to give you some background to agreed by the Board and are available on our David Woodward has taken over Johns role the Wood Group Board changes and how this website.
as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
will contribute to continued challenge, debate In reaching its decision, the Board remained During the year, we welcomed Mary Shaferand effective decision-making in the long-term fully cognisant of the UK Corporate Governance Malicki to the Board as a non-executive director interests of the Group.
These changes were Code recommendation that a chief executive and we are already benefiting from Marys heavily influenced by the recognition of our should not normally go on to be chairman of positive contribution.
In January 2013, we also customers and employees need for continuity the same company.
Ian Marchant, the senior appointed Thomas Botts as a non-executive in a leadership team that has been one of independent director, led a consultation process director who will lead a new Safety & Assurance the most stable in the industry, together with with representatives of our major shareholders Committee to be established in 2013.
Following the Boards careful consideration of the UK holding in excess of 40% of the equity who these changes, I am confident that the Board Corporate Governance Code and the results of unanimously supported the Board changes.
has maintained the appropriate balance of an extensive consultation with shareholders.
Ian Marchant will continue to play a vital role skills, diversity, experience and personalities in ensuring that division of CEO and Chairman required to ensure the long-term interests of the In November, Sir Ian Wood retired as Chairman and from the Board.
Sir Ian has been an responsibilities remains upheld.
I also place considerable extraordinary leader for the Group, guiding trust in the various Board committees bringing The Board plays a key role in shaping the the company from its roots in the North Sea appropriate insight to the Boards deliberations.
strategy of the Group and it is expected that to its position today as a major global oil & everyone brings a strong voice and fresh, To lead the Board and ensure its effectiveness gas services company.
The Group and its challenging views to the Board table.
The presents me with an exciting new challenge shareholders owe a huge debt to him and to appointment to the Board of Robin Watson, and I look forward to supporting the Groups the executives who have worked so closely with Chief Executive of Wood Group PSN and Mark continued success under Bobs leadership.
Dobler, Chief Executive of Wood Group GTS The Board reached the unanimous decision that on 1 January 2013, following the departure I should succeed Sir Ian as Chairman and that of Les Thomas and Mark Papworth, will help Bob Keiller should take over as Group CEO, ensure that this remains the case and the Board effective 1 November 2012.
The succession will benefit from their significant operational plan had the full support of the Nomination experience and leadership.
Two of our longerCommittee, who recognised both the need for serving non-executive directors, John Morgan Allister G Langlands, Chairman continuity and Bobs significant prior experience and Dr Christopher Masters, retired from the 5 March 2013 as CEO of PSN and his leadership of the Wood Board at the 2012 AGM.
Both sat on a number Group PSN division since acquisition.
A clear of committees and contributed signicantly separation of my own role in running the Board to important Board discussion around the and Bob Keillers executive responsibility for the Groups expansion strategy and in doing so John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2012 28 Board of directors and biographies Allister G Langlands Alan G Semple Mike Straughen Bob Keiller Mark S Dobler Robin Watson Allister G Langlands Alan G Semple Mike Straughen Chairman CFO Group Director, Wood Group Engineering Appointed: 1991 Appointed: 2000 Appointed: 2007 Chairman since November 2012, formerly CEO CFO since 2000.
Served as Finance Director Chief Executive of Wood Group Engineering since January 2007 and Deputy CEO from for the Well Support business sold in 2011 since 2007.
Previously with AMEC plc for 25 1999.
Served as Group Finance Director from from 1997 to 2000.
Prior to joining Wood Group years, latterly as Group Managing Director 1991 to 2000.
Prior to joining Wood Group was was Finance Director of GRT Bus Group PLC, responsible for UK activities across all sectors, a partner with Coopers & Lybrand Deloitte now now part of FirstGroup plc, a transportation including Global Oil & Gas.
From 1987 to 1994 was Finance as a board member of both the Scottish Energy Committee membership: Chair of Nomination Director of Seaforth Maritime Group Limited, Advisory Board and the Energy Technology Committee an energy services company.
Committee membership: None Committee membership: None Bob Keiller Robin Watson CEO Mark S Dobler Group Director, Wood Group PSN Appointed: 2011 Group Director, Wood Group GTS Appointed: 2013 Group CEO since November 2012, formerly Appointed: 2013 Chief Executive of Wood Group PSN since Chief Executive of Wood Group PSN since Chief Executive of Wood Group GTS since January 2013.
Previously Managing Director April 2011 and CEO of Production Services July 2012.
Served as President of Wood of Wood Group PSN in the UK, having joined Network prior to its acquisition by Wood Group.
Groups Power Solutions business from 2006 Wood Group in 2010.
Prior to joining Wood Previously chairman of the Offshore Contractors to 2012, having joined the GTS division in Group served in a variety of leadership and Association, the Helicopter Issues Task Group, 2002.
Prior to joining Wood Group was Vice management positions with Petrofac and Mobil.
the Entrepreneurial Exchange and Co-Chair of President, Operations for Enron and President Serves as non-executive director of Oil & Gas Oil & Gas UK.
UK, the Oil & Gas UK Contractors Council and Committee membership: Will join the Boards Committee membership: None the Scottish Business Board.
Work Group Conew Safety & Assurance Committee Chair on the Step Change in Safety Leadership Team.
Committee membership: None Sir Ian Wood Chairman Retired from the Board in November 2012.
Was CEO from 1982 to 2006 and Chairman until 2012.
Les J Thomas Left the Board on 29 June 2012.
Was Group Director of Health & Safety, previously Chief Executive of Wood Groups Production Facilities business.
Mark H Papworth Left the Board on 29 June 2012.
Was Group Director responsible for Wood Group GTS.
Our business Operational review Governance Financial statements 29 Thomas M Botts Mary L Shafer-Malicki Jeremy R Wilson Non-executive directors Ian D Marchant Michel Contie Neil H Smith David K Woodward Ian D Marchant Mary L Shafer-Malicki Jeremy R Wilson Senior independent director Appointed: 2012 Appointed: 2011 Appointed: 2006 Worked for Amoco and BP for 26 years, Vice Chairman of J. P. Morgans Energy Group.
Chief Executive of SSE plc, Chairman of the latterly a Senior Vice President and CEO for BP Joined J. P. Morgan in 1987 and was involved 2020 Climate Group in Scotland and nonAngola, with previous appointments in Vietnam, with several prominent energy sector mergers executive director of Maggies Cancer Centres.
Aberdeen, Holland and the USA, principally in and acquisitions.
Appointed Managing Director Also a member of the Council of the Energy upstream activities.
She is currently a nonof J. P. Morgan in 1999 and, after various Institute, Ofgems Environmental Advisory Group executive director of McDermott International, management positions, became the co-head and the Energy Research Partnership.
Inc. and of Ausenco Limited and is a member of of the global Natural Resources and Diversied Committee membership: Chair of the Audit industry councils at Oklahoma State University Industrials group in 2009.
Committee and member of the Nomination and the University of Wyoming.
Committee membership: Member of the Committee Committee membership: Member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees Nomination and Audit Committees and will join the Boards new Safety & Assurance Committee Thomas M Botts David K Woodward Appointed: 2013 Appointed: 2007 Formerly with Shell for 35 years, latterly as Neil H Smith Currently Senior Management Adviser of Global head of Shells manufacturing business.
Appointed: 2004 Mubadala Petroleum LLC, a wholly owned He is a non-executive director of EnPro President & Chief Executive officer of InterGen, subsidiary of Mubadala Development Company, Industries, Inc. and is a member of Council at a global power generation company.
Previously a leading business development and investment the Jones Graduate School of Business.
held numerous positions within InterGen, company based in Abu Dhabi.
Previously with Committee membership: Member of the including President & Chief Operating officer.
BP for 36 years, latterly as President of BP Nomination Committee and will Chair the Committee membership: Member of the Azerbaijan.
In 2006 he was awarded the CMG Boards new Safety & Assurance Committee Remuneration and Nomination Committees for services to the international oil industry.
Committee membership: Chair of the Remuneration Committee and member of the Michel Contie Audit and Nomination Committees Appointed: 2010 Formerly with Total for 35 years in a variety of senior positions, latterly as a member of Non-executive directors skills and experience the Total E&P Management Committee.
He has been president of UKOOA UK Offshore Director Key experience Operators Association and currently sits on the Ian Marchant Public company boards, power sector, finance, government and Management Committee of the International senior independent director regulation Oil and Gas Producers Association.
He is also a non-executive director of Expro International Thomas Botts International oil & gas including North America, Europe, South America, Group Holdings Ltd and Oryx Petroleum Middle East and Downstream Company PLC.
Michel Contie International oil & gas including South America, Europe and the Middle Committee membership: Member of the East Remuneration and Nomination Committees and will join the Boards new Safety & Assurance Mary Shafer-Malicki Public company boards, international oil & gas including Asia and Africa Committee Neil Smith International power sector David Woodward International oil & gas including North America, Middle East and the Dr Christopher Masters Former Soviet Union Retired from the Board on 10 May 2012.
Jeremy Wilson Oil & gas advisory, international finance and financial markets John C Morgan Retired from the Board on 10 May 2012.
