109 Activities of the MDRC The Committee meets at least three times per year.
The principal activities are set out in the terms of reference and the timetable for specific reviews and approval processes is set out below.
In 2011 12 the committee met on four occasions.
Table of Remuneration Committee Activities Meeting Annual agenda items Other agenda items May Review of CEC and senior managers salary increases Review of executive directors salary and bonus Review of pay within the group Approval of the Remuneration Report May or July Approval of executive directors salary and bonus Chairmans fees Approval of LTIP allocation every three years Approval of LTIP vesting Review of other senior managers salary increases and bonus payments November Management development and succession planning Review of the share incentive plan Update on remuneration issues Review of remuneration policy March Approval of bonus scheme rules Major review of structure Review of the share incentive plan of executive remuneration every three years The details of the structures devised for Johnson Matthey Executive Executive Pay in the Context of short term bonuses and long term General Earnings Across the Remuneration Policy incentives are described in the subsequent Group Key Goals of Policy and Balance section of this Remuneration Report.
In setting executive directors basic salaries, Between Fixed and Variable The Committee further considers annual bonus awards and LTIP allocations, Remuneration the balance between fixed elements of the Committee is made aware of remuneration, such as basic salaries, and The key goal of the remuneration policy comparative data relating to the pay and the performance related aspects of the remains to obtain the best value for benefits of other group employees.
remuneration package and seeks to ensure shareholders.
This requires that the pay and International data provided by the Hay that any earnings beyond basic salaries are benefits structure is competitive within the Group is also utilised in considering and fully reflected in increased shareholder value sector, whilst simultaneously providing determining local settlements.
through higher profit and earnings per share.
stretching targets that require significant It is also an element of the policy that outperformance to maximise incentive executive directors are encouraged to build Policy with Regard to payments.
up over time, and hold, a shareholding in the Remuneration Advisers Basic salaries are the primary element company equal to at least their basic salary of remuneration and the general policy is In determining the remuneration structure, with a view to ensuring that their interests to set basic salaries at the level required the Committee appoints and receives advice remain fully aligned with those of the to retain and motivate, taking into account from independent remuneration consultants shareholders.
Details of directors individual performance, the complexity on the pay and incentive arrangements shareholdings are set out on page 116. and scale of the directors duties, length prevailing in comparably sized industrial of time in post and taking due cognisance companies in each country in which Global Pay and Employment of market levels in the appropriate sector.
During the Policies Across the Group The Committee recognises that there is a year, such advice was received from the Hay competitive market for successful executives The remuneration policy of the group Group, which also provided advice on job and therefore benchmark data are regarded remains consistent in all countries and at all evaluation, and  LLP.
levels of the company with the overriding  LLP also provided However, it is not the policy of the consideration being to pay competitive expatriate tax advice and other tax advice, Committee to set salaries directly in line salaries in line with the appropriate country tax audit work, completion of overseas tax with that data, or in line with benchmarks and sector and to provide opportunities to returns, advice on set up of new overseas mathematically derived from that data.
increase earnings to higher levels through operations, some overseas payroll services With regard to variable pay, the superior performance.
Almost all Johnson and a review of some financial controls.
Committee believes that the provision of Matthey employees are able to earn A statement regarding the use of appropriate rewards for superior performance bonuses based on business performance remuneration consultants for the year ended is vital to the continued growth of the business.
and around 900 employees are able to earn 31st March 2012 is available on the Further incentives in variable pay are bonuses based on individual, team and companys website at www.
com in therefore to be structured in a way that business performance.
Around 900 the Investor Relations Corporate provides the incentives for effective short employees globally are eligible to participate Governance section.
and long term management and creates in the Johnson Matthey Long Term Incentive the opportunity for enhanced remuneration Plan LTIP.
but only for outstanding performance.
