65 Case Study The Right Kind of Fruit Machine!
Johnson Matthey sites around the world are concerned with the occupational health of employees, but the companys commitment to staff health and wellness goes beyond that.
The Pilar site in Argentina has recently launched a wellness programme to complement an existing initiative, started by employees themselves, to improve fitness and counter the ill effects of a sedentary lifestyle.
The site was assisted by the company doctor to advise on diet and a personal trainer to help with fitness.
Steps were also taken to create an environment where people had access to healthy food during the working day.
Dispensers offering cereals were introduced in the dining area for those taking breakfast on site and a fruit machine was installed to help all employees reach their five a day portions of fruit and vegetables.
Every month, the company gives each employee 20 tokens to use to obtain fruit from the machine with the result that employees get the chance to eat fresh fruit every day at work.
Uptake has been excellent and at least 90% of employees at Pilar now eat fruit on a daily basis at work.
Read the full case study at www.
As part of our commitment to Further training and technical support Product Stewardship sustainability, we fully acknowledge that all for our established internal product Performance in 2011 12 the chemicals we use and produce must stewardship programme covering chemical A systematic product responsibility reporting be managed responsibly.
Our product exposure management were introduced scheme conforming to the Global Reporting stewardship systems are aligned to a key this year as we work to reduce chemically Initiative Sustainability Reporting Guidelines target in the Strategic Approach to related occupational illness within our is used to monitor the performance of our International Chemicals Management workforce to the lowest level feasible.
operations and maintain surveillance of the SAICM.
This is to ensure sound In response to interest from our companys products and services.
In management of chemicals throughout their stakeholders and as part of our voluntary 2011 12, there were no notifications of complete life cycle, so that chemicals are product responsible care efforts, Johnson significant end user health effects involving produced and used in ways that minimise Matthey has continued to fund and our products and no major incidents or significant adverse impacts on human participate in the Pgm Health Science environmental releases during our product health and the environment.
Further details are distribution were recorded.
No product Johnson Matthey maintains a long provided on page 51. recalls occurred for safety reasons.
There standing commitment to product safety were a total of three self detected incidents and conducts systematic and rigorous Product Stewardship Priorities of non-compliance with standards or evaluations of both new and existing for 2012 13 codes of practice covering product hazard products.
Our product stewardship communication which were resolved Johnson Matthey remains committed to management systems focus on the internally by the businesses involved.
driving improvement in product sustainability characterisation of any risks associated During the year enhanced internal and effective product stewardship in the with product use, a thorough determination product stewardship systems for reviewing external supply chain and within our of related risk management measures and new and existing products were launched operations.
mechanisms to effectively communicate and are being implemented by our The key activities for 2012 13 to this information outside the company.
These new systems incorporate address product stewardship improvement We work in cooperation with industry industry best practice guidelines and set through the groups ten year EHS strategy partners and customers, regulators and schedules for product reviews at the are to: non-governmental organisations to  stage and thereafter.
strengthen confidence in our products.
Encourage the responsible They also place increased focus on Johnson Mattheys businesses have management of substances throughout supporting our supply chains, for example management systems in place which the supply chain.
through conducting end use risk assess the health and safety impacts of assessments.
Updated policies and Enhance product sustainability as part products during their various life cycle guidance covering restricted substance of our overall corporate sustainability stages.
These include coverage of: management and products that are subject programme with a particular focus on The product concept and research and to trade controls were issued to our managing restricted substances, the development stage.
This activity is businesses globally.
We also published use of optimisation strategies during undertaken centrally or by businesses additional new health protection and new product introduction and the as appropriate.
environmental information for precious application of green chemistry metal containing products for our supply approaches in product design.
Storage, distribution and supply into markets.
The in use service life phase.
The end of life or reuse phase.
