66 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Business Review Health and Safety Health and Safety continued Use systematic substance selection 4.
Johnson Matthey only uses fully Animal Testing mechanisms to identify preferred accredited contract research In common with all companies developing alternatives in terms of human health organisations and does not undertake and marketing chemical substances, and environmental safety.
any in house toxicity testing.
Johnson Matthey must comply with Continue to improve the publicly 5.
As a fundamental operating principle, international legislation to make toxicity available information on the health and our oversight procedures require that information available to assure product environmental effect profiles of any our businesses commission no safety for humans, wildlife and the chemical substances placed on the vertebrate animal studies until a environment.
We are committed to ethical market and link this to updated risk justification has been carefully principles of animal protection and our management measures.
considered and approved at group corporate policy is based on the following level.
principles: Promote the use of objective hazard ranking techniques and related The group does not manufacture any 1.
Johnson Matthey has embraced the exposure control targets for our cosmetics or consumer goods and testing is 3Rs approach in relying on properly chemical products and process therefore aligned to regulatory requirements validated alternative methods which intermediates.
These will be applied for industrial substances.
Any testing reduce, refine or replace the use of in Johnson Mattheys workplaces and required as a result of registration animal testing.
Therefore we now more widely in our product stewardship requirements imposed under the EU place emphasis firstly on applying the and risk management activities REACH regulation is minimised by working latest integrated testing strategies throughout the supply chain.
e. g. in vitro assays, computer Johnson Matthey shares current modelling of effects and in vivo test During 2012 13 we will also build on societal and political concern over animal waiving approaches.
New 3R our capability to track and manage new testing and we only commission studies techniques are continually tracked regulatory initiatives, for example those in when mandated by law and if no alternatives and implemented as they become Asia, and to better respond to our supply exist.
During the last year, Johnson endorsed by regulatory bodies.
chains and other external stakeholders on Matthey has continued to provide financial product sustainability.
If, after confirming that suitable data sponsorship for external educational to support the work of our businesses to does not already exist, in vivo studies programmes aimed at increasing awareness develop a minimum standard set of EHS are unavoidable, we always seek to of 3Rs alternative approaches.
We remain data for all bulk products marketed at lower limit new testing and avoid optimistic that advances in toxicology production volume i. e. approaching 1 tonne unnecessary studies by undertaking science will enable us to further reduce in per annum.
collaborative work with industrial vivo testing while continuing to safeguard partners.
human health and the environment.
It is ensured that any studies comply with all applicable laws, regulations, licensing and welfare codes.
Case Study National Safety Day Activities at Panki National Safety Day is an annual event in India and the Johnson Matthey site at Panki, Kanpur, celebrated the occasion with a mix of serious and light hearted activities.
In fact, the Safety Day stretches into a whole week and the Panki site opted to meet on 5th and 12th March 2012.
The serious side of the occasion was a seminar on personal level risk assessment and any hazards and safety challenges at the site.
The seminar held an open mike: would-be speakers applied via departmental heads and were given five minutes to speak.
A slogan and poster competition contributed to the light hearted side of the event and entries were accepted in both Hindi and English.
There was also recognition of achievements, with a number of staff who had done first aid training in the year receiving St Johns Ambulance certificates.
Eight EHS champions were recognised and 14 others received appreciation awards.
The National Safety activities create an enjoyable shared experience for employees, encouraging them to engage with the health and safety aims of the Sustainability 2017 Vision.
Read the full case study at www.
