.. Employees discuss progress at a team meeting in our Manufacturing active pharmaceutical ingredients at our Emission Control Technologies business.
Riverside facility in Conshohocken, USA.
Revise and adjust the content and Occupational Illness Assistance Programmes frequency of the health management review audit programme to target Programme recipients Education training Counselling Prevention risk control Treatment this more effectively according to Workers Yes Yes Yes Yes indicators of facility health programme Workers families n a n a n a n a performance.
Community members n a n a n a n a Develop further sustainable health and wellness initiatives relevant to the regional and site specific health needs of the workforce.
We have also made further progress lowest level reasonably achievable and to in the groups chemical exposure optimise the long term health, wellbeing management programme.
Through and performance of our workforce.
Safety Performance in 2011 12 evaluating progress of its implementation The key activities in 2012 13 to address Accidents and incidents are actively we have identified areas of additional further health programme improvement monitored and detailed statistics are action, resources and support needed to through the groups ten year EHS strategy compiled monthly at group level and used complete the programme over an are to: by the Chief Executives Committee and appropriate timescale.
New policy and Appoint a corporate industrial hygiene the board at their regular meetings to guidance on the prevention, identification manager to provide technical advice, review safety performance.
Any accident is and management of occupational illness support and coaching on the thoroughly investigated to determine root and on first aid and medical emergency assessment and control of workplace causes and appropriate preventative and response have also been introduced.
health hazards to all global facilities.
The During the year we have used leading groups rate of occupational accidents Commence a programme of regional health metric data from a scorecard involving lost time is shown in the table on training courses to support the completed by all facilities to support page 62 and its five year performance is introduction of ergonomic risk managers in identifying the actions needed presented in the graphs on page 64. management programme tools to each to achieve a best practice level of health Details of our methodology for calculating facility which will run into 2013 14. programme performance.
In addition, accident statistics is described on page 172. trends in health scorecard ratings have Introduce new corporate EHS policy During 2011 12, despite increasing been communicated to regional and and guidance on the prevention and production levels, we have observed an divisional management teams to engage management of platinum group metal improvement in safety performance and them in prioritising and directing health compound health effects and noise the groups greater than three day lost time improvement activities.
accident rate per 1,000 employees at The group has comprehensive 31st March 2012 is at its lowest year end Incorporate workplace health hazard programmes in place to prevent, identify level recorded.
This good result has been evaluation and control into the groups and manage all types of occupational achieved through raising awareness of the Manufacturing Excellence programme illness conditions at every facility.
These importance of health and safety which has activities, for example, when defining include chemical related, musculoskeletal, led to the introduction of improved accident best practice guidance for the design mental health and physical agent related control measures.
In addition, there has and operation of manufacturing illnesses noise and hand-arm vibration.
been particular focus at sites with higher processes.
The elements of these programmes are than average accident rates with one facility summarised in the table above based on Continue to emphasise the piloting a culture improvement system guidance provided in the Global Reporting management of leading health metric which will be used more widely across the Initiative reporting guidelines.
indicators at all facilities through the group in the coming year.
Our EHS Learning use of the health scorecard and other Events programme has continued to deliver techniques.
Sustainable Health Improvement good results, particularly at facilities Priorities for 2012 13 Support the specific regional health submitting a higher number of EHS programme improvement needs of Learning Event reports.
We will continue to focus on reducing the our facilities in developing countries.
incidence of occupational illness to the
