12 Jo hn son Matthey Ann u al Report & Accounts 2 012 Report of the Directors Business Review Overview Our Strategy Johnson Mattheys strategic intent Strategic is to deliver superior long term growth intent through technology leadership.
For us, delivering superior long term growth means growing our business ahead of the underlying growth rates of our key markets.
There are five major themes directing Johnson Mattheys strategy: Focus on leading edge catalysis We will continue to focus upon the science of catalysis which underpins the majority of Johnson Mattheys products and enables the group to develop high performance solutions for our customers.
Differentiation through technology Enhanced investment in R&D in our core markets will enable the group to provide the very best products and maintain a competitive edge.
Strong position in platinum group metals Around 70% of Johnson Mattheys businesses involve platinum group metals pgms and we will continue to apply our expertise in exploiting their chemical and physical properties to deliver high technology added value products.
Organic growth Organic growth remains our primary focus however the group will make bolt-on acquisitions where they will accelerate the delivery of our strategy.
New business development We will increase our investment in new markets and sectors to target further growth from areas that are aligned with the groups technological expertise and commercial interests.
In late 2010 the group reviewed its strategy.
This review involved a detailed examination of the groups past performance, its key strengths and the attributes that make it successful.
Global megatrends impacting the world around us that will drive growth Our for the company were considered and the key strategic Strategic opportunities arising from these were identified.
From this, the Intent: groups strategic direction for the next ten years was defined.
Delivering superior long term growth through technology leadership Read more on the strategy review process on pages 8 to 13 of our 2011 Annual Report and Our Strategy: Accounts or online at www.
Focus on leading Differentiation edge catalysis through technology Strong position in Organic growth New business platinum group metals development Supported by: Global Manufacturing Our people drivers Sustainability R&D Excellence and culture 13 There are five fundamental key enablers to Projections on how natural focuses on our internal operations our strategy.
We now examine each of resources will become more and on designing and manufacturing these in more detail to understand the depleted provide estimates on our products more efficiently using impact they have on our business and their demand for recycling which in fewer resources.
This approach helps role in enabling future growth.
turn will benefit the groups Pgm us to reduce our costs and at the Refining business.
same time reduces our impact on the planet.
Global Drivers that Support Future These global level trends also our products and services and Growth offer opportunities for the group to focuses on developing improved, There are four major global drivers leverage its expertise in catalysis and more efficient solutions for our which we believe have a major impact platinum group metals to deliver customers.
By doing this we can on Johnson Mattheys business: growth across its businesses, ahead enhance our customers performance of underlying market rates.
Environmental factors, climate and improve their sustainability change, regulation footprint which, in turn, will improve our competitiveness.
Together these Natural resource constraints 2.
A Vision for Sustainability drivers support the development of Sustainability is a key element of our Population growth, urbanisation, products and services which have strategy for future growth where the increasing wealth a beneficial impact on the planet, resource efficient, environmentally Health and nutrition, ageing be it through health, social or responsible manufacturing of high population environmental improvements.
technology products that deliver sustainability benefits can leverage The figure below illustrates how commercial advantage for the group.
these macro level trends impact the Five Key Elements The groups Sustainability 2017 industries into which Johnson Matthey Growing our business through Vision, launched in December 2007, supplies its products and technologies.
sustainability is not only about our sets out our direction and aspirations All four global drivers provide operations and products.
We are for building a more sustainable opportunities for growth in many of also committed to best practice in business.
Our long term sustainability our businesses.
For example: governance, to creating a positive strategy is underpinned by two Projected population growth working environment for employees business drivers, five key elements rates and increasing urbanisation and to being a responsible partner and six sustainability targets.
and wealth, particularly in for our customers, suppliers, emerging markets, will drive an communities and other stakeholders.
increase in the number of cars As such, we manage sustainability Two Business Drivers on our roads and therefore links across the group according to five There are two key business drivers through to growth in Johnson elements: financial: governance: social: for sustainability which engender Mattheys automotive emission health and safety: and environment.
responsible business practices and control catalyst business.
Delivering good performance in all five support future growth.
The first areas is vital to our long term success.
Global Drivers Impacting the Chemical Industry Johnson Matthey Industry Sector GLOBAL DRIVERS Industry Sector Johnson Matthey Activities Activities Pgm catalysts Emission Obscuration control Automotive Electronics enamels catalysts PharmaAgricultural Medical APIs ceuticals chemicals components Population Growth Petrochemical Health and Nutrition Bulk Pgms Construction catalysts and Urbanisation Ammonia chemicals Ageing Population processes synthesis and Fine Increasing Wealth nitric acid chemicals catalysts Emission Environmental Factors Abatement Gas coal Natural control Energy Alternative technologies to products Resource Climate Change catalysts security energy Emission technology Constraints Clean fuel Regulation control Hydrogen Purification Pgm Resource catalysts Catalysts Recycling products refining efficiency Low carbon Carbon Fuel cells capture and storage CCS 14 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Business Review Overview Our Strategy continued Six Sustainability Targets from April 2012 At least double earnings per share Halve key resources consumed per unit of output Halve carbon intensity Reduce annual incidence of occupational illness cases by at least 30% over the five years to 2013 14 Achieve zero waste to landfill Achieve a zero greater than three day accidents safety target Innovation in Action Six Sustainability Targets Research and Development Read more on our R&D activities throughout Our Sustainability 2017 Vision is Employees this annual report: supported by six challenging targets Fine Staying Ahead of the as illustrated in the figure above.
Our Chemicals Central Legislation page 29 progress towards them in 2011 12 is Precious 5% Research Metal Deeper Knowledge of summarised on page 17 and further 21% Products NOx Removal Catalysts page 30 details are provided in the Financial, 13% Social, Health and Safety and An Insight on the Inside page 32 Environment sections of this report.
Looking Inside a Fuel Cell page 33 Sustainable Catalysts to Read more on sustainability Replace Mercury page 39 at Johnson Matthey at www.
Manufacturing Excellence 61% Manufacturing is a key contributor to 3.
Research and Development Johnson Mattheys success and will We maintain a close link between Continued investment in R&D underpin our growth in the future.
It is our central R&D activities and the underpins the future growth of a major part of our business in terms of development work carried out directly Johnson Matthey.
It is this investment, the groups global spend and provides by Johnson Mattheys businesses.
together with our ability to recruit the jobs for 60% of our employees.
This interaction is key in ensuring most talented scientists, that will Improving our manufacturing the rapid transfer of technology to ensure we maintain the expertise and performance can therefore have a support the continued development of leadership in the science of catalysis, significant impact on our business.
innovative new products and services materials chemistry and pgms that The 2010 11 strategic review for our customers.
Examples of our drive the development of high identified that there were opportunities current projects are highlighted as technology products and for us to improve our operations and Innovation in Action case studies manufacturing processes.
Around 1,200 of our employees Manufacturing Excellence is a As previously described, major work in R&D representing around long term investment in our people, global drivers provide significant 12% of the total workforce and manufacturing processes, engineering opportunities for Johnson Matthey include many highly skilled scientists and technology.
Lean principles are to grow and develop its existing and engineers.
Around 80% of our becoming integrated at all sites to business areas over the years ahead R&D staff work within the groups increase manufacturing efficiency and and R&D will play an important role in businesses in dedicated R&D and improve overall performance.
technical centres around the world.
centres of excellence are being In 2011 12 Johnson Matthey In our businesses, work is mainly developed to provide opportunities increased its gross investment in focused on delivery of shorter term for manufacturing teams around the R&D by 17% to 128.6 million.
business specific projects or to world to trial and test new equipment.
address particular market Engineering teams are working to developments or customer needs.
Read more on R&D at identify and develop best practice for Alongside these activities, Johnson Matthey at our key processes.
Johnson Matthey also has central www.
The programme offers opportunities capability on strategic R&D, located for us to increase efficiency, reduce our at two Technology Centres, which costs, capture our global expertise and works on behalf of all of the groups improve our capacity with minimum businesses.
People and Culture Two additional sectors will be a wider definition of waste and Recruiting the right people, developing investigated during the year.
This work resource efficiency with an overall goal them and providing an environment is consistent with our overall objective of reducing waste across our business.
which motivates them to contribute of developing a new business with One aspect of the strategy we and stay with the company is sales of more than 200 million within considered in detail was our fundamental to the groups long term ten years.
commitment to reduce carbon performance.
A ten year human Work has commenced this year emissions from our operations.
The resources strategy, developed to explore how we can more feedback from employees had alongside the group strategy, is effectively articulate and communicate suggested that our aspirational target focused on ensuring we can recruit, the groups culture and values.
This to achieve carbon neutrality was a retain and develop the highly skilled will continue in 2012 13 and their concept that was difficult to understand people that will be needed to support alignment with employee behaviours and was causing confusion internally.
and performance management will be Furthermore, over four years into our The group recognises that our explored further.
sustainability programme, we have a people and culture are a particular During 2011 12 the group much greater understanding and strength and, although the culture of launched its global Manufacturing knowledge of carbon legislation, an organisation is not easy to define, Excellence programme to support its markets and emissions from our there is a distinctive culture in strategic intent.
Work will continue to processes.
Consequently, we now Johnson Matthey, irrespective of implement and embed the do not believe that carbon neutrality division, business, function or programme and from the start of the is an appropriate target for us.
Sustaining and 2012 13 financial year, performance As a manufacturing business and integrating our culture as we grow against a number of key metrics will a business that is growing, this target the business is a challenge we are be reported by all manufacturing sites cannot be achieved without purchasing embracing on a global scale.
on a monthly basis and used internally carbon offsets.
We have conducted a to track progress and direct actions.
lot of research into offsets and are not As discussed in last years annual convinced they offer an appropriate Progress in 2011 12 and report, in February 2011 the group way of mitigating our carbon emissions.
Future Developments reviewed its sustainability strategy to We have therefore concluded this is Having established and communicated assess progress and ensure that its not an approach we wish to take.
its ten year strategy in 2010 11, the targets were still appropriate to As a group we remain committed group has now focused on the business needs.
The review to driving down our carbon emissions process of embedding the strategy concluded that there was no need to as far as is realistically possible and and on its delivery.
During the year, all radically change direction, but that any increase will be at a rate that businesses were required to review highlighted areas where we could is below the rate of business growth.
and report on their long term strategic evolve our strategy to better support To support this commitment, plans and key developments were the future growth of the company.
from 1st April 2012 we have replaced discussed.
These were further investigated during our target to achieve carbon neutrality As a result of the strategic review, 2011 12 and as a result, two with a new target to halve our carbon the group concluded that it would amendments to our Sustainability intensity by 2017, relative to our 2007 place more emphasis on new 2017 targets have been introduced.
Our carbon intensity is business development and work is From April 2012 our target to the groups global warming potential now underway to identify new achieve ISO 14001 at all major GWP per million of sales excluding opportunities and leverage our R&D manufacturing facilities has been precious metals sales.
In 2007, our expertise to drive growth.
A team has removed as all sites included in the carbon intensity was 294 tonnes CO 2 been established, tasked with finding original target have now achieved this.
equivalent million sales and so we novel applications outside our current This requirement has now been have set a target to halve our carbon products and markets but which align included in our environment, health intensity to 147 tonnes CO equivalent 2 with our technology bases and wider and safety EHS management system.
A rigorous market based In 2012 13 we will continue to Many of our products already approach has been adopted and review the appropriateness of our reduce greenhouse gas emissions for during 2011 12, two main areas were target to achieve zero waste to landfill.
our customers and we continue to explored.
Opportunities within the We have made steady progress focus on the development of products water industry were investigated and towards this target but recognise that that mitigate climate change.
Our own a number of potential areas were waste to landfill is only a proportion of life cycle experts group is working to identified where Johnson Mattheys the waste generated by our operations.
better quantify the in service benefits technology and capabilities could be Therefore we will consider how we of our products.
The team also looked at the can broaden this target to encompass implications of the introduction of electric automotive powertrains, Delivering Value considering a range of options Read more about how we deliver value throughout this annual report: including battery materials and other Leading the Way in HDD Catalysts pages 4 and 5 technologies.
This has identified a range of possible new business Davy Process Technology pages 24 and 25 activities for the company.
As a result, Growing Our People pages 48 and 49 we have formed a team who are Investing in New Capacity pages 60 and 61 developing and executing the groups Developing the Next Generation of Sustainable Products pages 68 and 69 plans to address these markets.
It is Supporting Our Strategy in Fine Chemicals pages 76 and 77 still early days, but we hope to make Customer Focus at Colour Technologies pages 118 and 119 further progress during 2012 13.
Managing Metals for Our Businesses and Our Customers pages 168 and 169
