110 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Governance Governance Remuneration Report continued The Committee also receives coming from overseas.
Further independent In 2009, following consultation with recommendations from the Chief Executive benchmark data was sourced from the Hay major shareholders, the Committee on the remuneration of those reporting to Group.
Benchmark data are regarded as approved an adjustment to the performance him as well as advice from the Group relevant background information for the targets for one year only to reflect the Director, HR and EHS.
Committee, but it is not its policy to set market conditions prevailing at the time of This is the general remuneration policy salaries directly in line with that data, or with allocation.
For the 2009 allocation only, the of the Committee and the details of the benchmarks mathematically derived from minimum release, of 15% of the allocation, exact remuneration structure are given in the that data.
Basic salary is normally reviewed requires underlying EPS growth of 3% subsequent section of this report.
compound per annum over the three year period, with no retesting of the performance LTIP target.
For the maximum release of 100% The LTIP is designed to incentivise above of the allocation, underlying EPS must have Executive Remuneration average performance and growth over the grown by at least 10% compound per Practices and Rules 2011 12 longer term.
Shares allocated under the annum over the three year performance terms of the LTIP which also applies to the period.
As a result of this adjustment, the In 2010 11 a full review of remuneration groups 900 senior and middle managers level of award was reduced to 120% of was carried out, followed by a shareholder are released on the third anniversary of the basic annual salary for the Chief Executive consultation in early 2011.
The new allocation date with the release being and 100% for executive directors for that practices and rules were described in last subject to targets based on compound year.
Also in 2009, there was a one-off years annual report and are now used in the annual growth in the companys earnings allocation of 170% of basic salary to the calculation of variable pay and bonuses for per share EPS.
Current rules require that to then newly appointed Group Finance the executive directors.
achieve the maximum release of allocated Director to ensure close alignment of his shares, a compound annual growth in objectives with those of shareholders.
Remuneration Basis with Effect underlying EPS of 15% must be achieved Although growth in underlying EPS is from 1st April 2011: the Rules as over the three year period.
The Committee the primary financial measure, it is also a they Stand strongly believes that EPS remains the best key objective of the company to achieve Executive directors remuneration consists overall measure of the performance of the earnings growth only in the context of a of three principal elements: these being group across all strategic goals.
The good performance on return on invested basic pay, annual bonus and a long term Committee has considered setting broader capital ROIC.
Accordingly, the Committee incentive plan.
The details of these are targets for LTIP in areas such as is required to make an assessment of the set out below.
Information on pension sustainability and new product development, groups ROIC over the performance period arrangements for the executive directors but is satisfied that the full total of successful to ensure underlying EPS growth has been is also included in this section.
and long term focused company activities achieved with ROIC in line with the groups are best encapsulated in the simple and planned expectations.
The Committee may Basic Salary transparent measure of compound annual scale back vesting to the extent that ROIC The general policy regarding basic salaries growth in EPS over a longer period.
has been set out on page 109, indicating Prior to 2011, the bases for share that there are a number of determinants in allocations were 150% of basic annual Annual Bonus arriving at the basic salary award.
These salary for the Chief Executive and 120% for The annual bonus is complementary to the key determinants are described in more executive directors.
In 2011, in accordance longer term LTIP award and provides a detail below.
with the review published in the 2011 annual strong incentive for a short term delivery of The first determinant is the report, share allocations of 175% of basic budget in the relevant year.
Whilst the LTIP performance of the individual executive.
annual salary for the Chief Executive and target encourages business managers and Performance is considered against a broad 140% of annual salary for executive the executive directors to set ambitious set of parameters including financial, directors were made.
These allocations three year targets, the annual bonus allows environmental, social and governance remain within the LTIP rules, as approved by the board to ensure that those plans are issues.
shareholders at the 2007 Annual General properly reflected in stretching but The second factor taken into account is Meeting, which allow for share allocations of achievable annual budgets.
The annual the length of time that the executive director up to a maximum of 200% of basic annual bonus is then based strictly on performance has been in post.
For example, where salary each year, allowing the Committee to against budget, requiring that the groups promotion has taken place, the salary may take account of evolution of market practice budgeted underlying profit before tax initially be set at a lower level than the if required.
PBT is exceeded by 10% to release the outgoing director.
This can then give rise to The minimum release, of 15% of the maximum payment.
higher than normal salary increases while allocated shares, requires underlying EPS The maximum bonus is set as a the director gathers experience and moves growth of 6% compound per annum over percentage of basic salary under the towards the job norm.
For the maximum terms of the companys Executive The third factor is a judgment as to release of 100% of the allocation, underlying Compensation Plan.
As with the LTIP, this whether the level of basic pay remains EPS must have grown by at least 15% plan applies not only to the executive competitive and appropriate in the relevant compound per annum over the three year directors, but to around 200 of the groups comparator group.
For the purposes of performance period.
The number of most senior executives.
benchmarking, the remuneration comparator allocated shares released will vary on a used by the Committee during 2011 12 for straight line basis between these points.
executive directors was drawn from FTSE There is no retesting of the performance 100 and 250 industrial and service target and so allocations will lapse if companies excluding the oil and financial underlying EPS growth is less than 6% sectors with market capitalisation of around compound per annum over the three year 4.8 billion and with over 40% of revenue performance period.
111 Annual Bonus Rules Bonus awarded Bonus at 110% awarded Bonus of budget at threshold awarded maximum 95% of budget at target award % of awarded % of salary % of salary % of salary bonus deferred Chief Executive 15% 75% 150% 33.3% Other executive directors 15% 62.5% 125% 20% Setting the Annual Bonus Target In order for the annual bonus to provide a strong short term performance incentive, it is key that the budgeted profitability is set at an achievable but demanding target.
The board is responsible for agreeing the targeted performance and takes into account the detailed business climate for each operating division of the group.
Commercial sensitivity prevents the advance publication of targets, but further information regarding historical performance is available in the following table.
Retrospective Data on Annual Budget Targets Chief Executive Budgeted Actual Executives directors Vara Actual underlying PBT underlying PBT % of bonus bonus consensus underlying Year million million budget % of salary % of salary million PBT growth 2011 12 406.0 426.0 104.9% 111.75% 93.13% 382 23% The Vara consensus referred to is the published data regarding industry analysts performance expectations for Johnson Matthey, as expressed at the start of the budget year in question.
For example, the consensus for 2011 12 is that published in March 2011.
An annual bonus payment of 75% of basic Service Contracts company will match any contribution made salary prevailing at 31st March is paid to The executive directors are employed on up to 3% of pensionable pay each year.
the Chief Executive and 62.5% of basic contracts subject to one years notice at any Under the provisions of the Finance Act salary is paid to executive directors if the time.
On early termination of their contracts 2004 benefits from a registered pension group meets the annual budget.
This bonus the directors would normally be entitled scheme that exceed the Annual Allowance may rise on a straight line basis to a to 12 months salary and benefits.
The or Lifetime Allowance will be subject to a tax maximum 150% of basic salary for the Chief contracts of service of the executive directors charge.
The Annual Allowance and Lifetime Executive and 125% for executive directors and the terms and conditions of appointment Allowance were reduced to 50,000 and if 110% of budgeted underlying PBT is of the non-executive directors are available 1.5 million respectively with effect from achieved.
Underlying PBT must reach 95% for inspection at the companys registered 6th April 2011.
On reaching these thresholds of budget for a minimum bonus of 15% of office during normal business hours and at members, including executive directors, salary to be payable.
the forthcoming annual general meeting.
are given the option to limit their benefits For the Chief Executive, 33.3% of the in JMEPS and receive a cash supplement bonus payable is awarded as shares and in lieu of the pension benefit forgone, or to Pensions General Description of deferred for a period of three years.
For continue accruing benefits in the scheme Arrangements other executive directors, 20% of the bonus and pay the tax charge.
Any tax liability The company provides executive directors payable is awarded as shares and deferred due is the responsibility of the individual not with membership of its UK HM Revenue & for three years.
The Committee is entitled to the company.
Customs registered occupational pension claw back the deferred element in cases of Neil Carson and Bill Sandford withdrew scheme the Johnson Matthey Employees misstatement or misconduct or other from pensionable service on 31st March Pension Scheme JMEPS.
The benefits relevant reason as determined by the 2006 and Robert MacLeod withdrew on provided to executive directors through Committee.
No pensionable service JMEPS are the same as for all other UK The Committee retains discretion in in JMEPS has been accrued by these employees, namely a defined benefit awarding annual bonuses and seeks to directors since then and all have received a retirement pension, dependents and life ensure that the incentive structure for senior cash supplement of 25% of basic salary in assurance benefits plus a top-up defined management does not raise environmental, lieu of the pension benefit forgone.
There have been no social and governance risks by inadvertently increase in accrued pension for Messrs significant changes to the JMEPS rules motivating irresponsible behaviour.
The Carson and Sandford in the table on page during 2011 12.
Committee is fully prepared to utilise this 115 is attributable solely to the effect of the The pension earned in respect of discretion where management has failed to increase in their basic salary in 2011 12 on service up to 31st March 2010 is based on properly address such risks.
their pension earned before 1st April 2006. a members final salary at the point of During the year Larry Pentz accrued retirement, or earlier date of withdrawal from Other Benefits pension in JMEPS up to the Annual employment.
Pension earned in respect of The other benefits available to the executive Allowance and elected to cease pension service from 1st April 2010 is based on the directors are private medical insurance, a accrual for the remainder of the year in members career average revalued earnings.
company car and membership of the return for a cash supplement of 21% of Members are not required to pay groups employee share incentive plans basic salary.
contributions to receive these defined which are open to all employees in the The supplemental payments received benefits.
However members may pay countries in which the group operates by all executive directors are reflected in the voluntary contributions to a supplemental such plans.
table on page 114. defined contribution account and the
