10 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors Business Review Overview Our Business Johnson Matthey is a leader in Well sustainable technologies.
We focus positioned on clean air, clean energy and low for future carbon technologies and are experts in the application and recycling of growth precious metals.
We invest in R&D to develop products that enhance the quality of life for millions of people around the world.
Johnson Matthey is a global speciality chemicals company.
We have operations in over 30 countries and employ around 10,000 people worldwide.
The group is organised into three global divisions: Environmental Technologies Read more on page 26.
Precious Metal Products Read more on page 34.
Fine Chemicals Read more on page 40.
11 Building a Sustainable Business Social Environment A Vision for Sustainability Employee development and wellbeing, recruitment Responsible operations Our goal at Johnson Matthey is to grow Supporting communities, safeguarding reputation Beneficial products our business but to grow it sustainably.
Sustainability is a key element of our strategy for continued growth and we believe that the resource efficient, environmentally DELIVERING responsible manufacturing of products that VALUE offer sustainability benefits for our customers can leverage commercial advantage for the Health and Safety group and deliver superior value.
Governance Protecting employees, customers and communities All across the group, employees are Well run business Beneficial products Transparent reporting engaged in sustainability programmes focused on designing and manufacturing Financial our products more efficiently using fewer Must be profitable to be sustainable Sustainability initiatives can be cost efficient too resources and on developing improved, more efficient products for our customers.
A Truly Global Company Focused on Key Markets A Leader in Sustainable Technologies Johnson Matthey sells its products Johnson Matthey is focused on its key Johnson Matthey is focused on developing globally which provides stability in times of markets where we can add value through products that deliver sustainability benefits regional market uncertainty.
Year on year applying our expertise in catalysis and to our customers and to society.
Today, we are increasing our sales to developing platinum group metal chemistry.
This some 86% of the groups sales represent markets and expanding our operations to approach enables us to maintain products and services which provide support this global growth.
differentiation through technology and sustainability benefits through their positive achieve leading industry positions with impact on the environment, resource high margin products.
Sales by Region Sales by Key Market Sales by Area of Beneficial Impact Other Rest of World Other 10% 12% 9% Precious Social lifestyle Environment metal services Light duty Europe 5% Rest of Asia 55% 6% vehicles 35% 11% 39% Resource Petrochemical efficiency 15% China 21% 8% Pharmaceutical 13% Health North America Heavy duty diesel vehicles 10% 34% 17% 19% 48% 86% Sales in Asia in 2011 12.
Growth in heavy duty diesel catalyst sales in Sales from products providing sustainability benefits Read more on pages 26 to 42.
Investing in R&D Sustainability 2017 Manufacturing Excellence At Johnson Matthey, we invest heavily in Sustainability 2017 is Johnson Mattheys Manufacturing is the way we bring our research and development R&D.
We vision for building a sustainable business science to life and our Manufacturing recognise that this investment is vital if we and includes challenging targets to support Excellence programme is focused on are to realise new market opportunities future growth.
We aim to double our ensuring we run our manufacturing over the years ahead.
Our ability to underlying earnings per share while cutting operations with the highest efficiency.
innovate and differentiate through carbon intensity by half, achieving zero Through Manufacturing Excellence technology underpins our future success.
waste to landfill and halving the key we aim to boost efficiency, reduce resources that we consume per unit of manufacturing costs, develop our people output by 2017, the 200th anniversary and support delivery of our Sustainability of the companys foundation.
Savings from sustainability initiatives to date.
Employees working in manufacturing operations.
Read more on pages 13 to 15 and page 17.
