Other Statutory Information During the year no Director had any interest in any shares or debentures of the Companys subsidiaries, or any material interests Ot her Statutory in any contract with the Company or a subsidiary being a contract of signicance in relation to the Companys business.
Information Directors indemnity and insurance Kazakhmys maintains liability insurance for its Directors and Officers.
The Company has also granted indemnities to each of the Directors, Principal activities the Chief Financial Officer and the Company Secretary to the extent Kazakhmys PLC is the holding company of the Kazakhmys Group.
These indemnities are uncapped in amount, in The principal activities of the Group are the production of copper relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may incur to third and other metals as by-products, including gold, zinc and silver, and parties in the course of acting as a Director or Officer or Company power generation.
Secretary as the case may be of the Company or any of its A list of main subsidiary undertakings and the joint venture, and their associated companies.
Neither the indemnity nor insurance cover principal activity, is given in note 39 on page 154. provides cover in the event that a Director or Officer or Company Secretary as the case may be is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Business Review The Company is required to set out a fair review of the business of The indemnity is categorised as a qualifying third-party indemnity the Group and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006 and will continue facing the Group known as the Business Review.
The Business in force for the benefit of Directors or Officers or Company Review is required to set out a balanced and comprehensive analysis Secretary as the case may be on an ongoing basis.
of the development and performance of the Groups business during the financial year ended 31 December 2012 and of the position of Dividend the Group at the end of that financial year.
The information that fulls The Board recommends the payment of a final dividend of the requirements of the Business Review is contained on pages 2 to 8.0 US cents per ordinary share 2011: 20.0 US cents.
If approved, 49 and 78 to 88 of the Annual Report, and is deemed incorporated the dividend will be paid on 21 May 2013 to shareholders on the by reference into the Directors Report.
UK register of members at the close of business in the UK on 26 April 2013, and to shareholders on the Hong Kong register of Directors members at the opening of business in Hong Kong on 26 April 2013.
The Directors of the Company who served during the year were An interim dividend of 3.0 US cents per share 2011: 8.0 US cents as shown on pages 20 and 21, together with Michael Lynch-Bell was paid on 3 October 2012. who was appointed by the Board on 27 February 2013.
Details of Directors interests in shares can be found in the Directors Annual General Meeting Remuneration Report on page 73.
The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held at 12.15pm All Directors are required by the Companys Articles of Association on Friday 17 May 2013 at The Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincolns Inn Fields, to be elected by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting London WC2A 3ED, United Kingdom.
Details of the meeting venue after their appointment, if appointed by the Board.
Michael Lynchand the resolutions to be proposed, together with explanatory notes, Bell, having been appointed by the Board on 27 February 2013, are set out in a separate Notice of Meeting which accompanies this will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and will Annual Report and Accounts.
In accordance with the UK Corporate A summary of the business carried out at the Annual General Governance Code, all other Directors will retire and submit Meeting will be published on the Companys website themselves for re-election at the Companys forthcoming Annual www.
Details of Directors contracts or letters of appointment are included in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Share capital At the conclusion of this years Annual General Meeting, Vladimir At 31 December 2012, the Companys issued share capital was Kim will step down as Chairman and be succeeded by Simon Heale.
535,420,180 ordinary shares of 20 pence, each credited as fully paid.
Vladimir Kim will remain on the Board as a non-executive Director.
As at the date of this Directors Report, the Company holds Both Directors will seek re-election at the forthcoming Annual 11,701,830 ordinary shares in treasury and the issued share capital General Meeting.
of the Company which carries voting rights of one vote per share comprises 523,718,350 ordinary shares excluding treasury shares.
The performance of each Director was reviewed and it was found Further details of the Companys issued share capital are shown in that each of them continues to make an effective and valuable note 26 commencing on page 128. contribution to the deliberations of the Board and demonstrate commitment to the role.
The performance of the Chairman was The Companys shares are listed on the London, Hong Kong and reviewed by the Senior Independent Director.
74 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information: Other Statutory Information Financial Statements Purchase of own shares Relationship agreement The Company was authorised by shareholders at the 2011 annual To regulate the ongoing relationship between the Company general meeting to purchase its own shares on the market within and Vladimir Kim, a relationship agreement was entered into certain limits.
After taking into account the profitability of the business in September 2005.
The principal purpose of the relationship and underlying growth in earnings of the Group, together with its agreement is to ensure that the Group is capable of carrying cash ows and growth requirements, the Company announced on its business for the benefit of the shareholders of the on 25 August 2011 its intention to commence a share buy-back Company as a whole.
programme to purchase up to $250 million of its own shares.
Political and charitable donations On 26 September 2011, a General Meeting of the Company was The Group did not give any money for political purposes in the held whereby the independent shareholders approved a waiver United Kingdom nor did it make any donations to EU political granted by the UK Panel on Takeovers and Mergers the Panel organisations or incur any EU political expenditure during the year.
waiving the obligation that would otherwise arise under Rule 9 The Group made charitable donations of $2.6 million during the of the UK City Code on Mergers and Acquisitions the Takeover year 2011: $7.0 million.
Further details of payments for charitable Code as a result of the share buy-back.
The waiver expired at and community purposes made during the year are given on the conclusion of the 2012 annual general meeting.
The Companys share buy-back programme commenced on 27 September 2011 and ended on 10 May 2012.
During the year Suppliers ended 31 December 2012, 6,142,120 ordinary shares of 20 pence It is the Companys policy that payments to suppliers are made each of the Company were purchased and held as treasury shares.
in accordance with the terms and conditions agreed between During the entire share buy-back programme, a total of 11,701,830 the Company and its suppliers, provided that all relevant trading shares were purchased at a cost of $166 million and held as treasury terms and conditions have been complied with.
shares representing 2.2% of the issued share capital prior to the The average creditor payment period for the year ended commencement of the share buy-back programme.
The Company was authorised at the 2012 annual general meeting to purchase its own shares on the market within certain limits.
Market value of land and buildings In the period since the 2012 annual general meeting, the Company Land acquired prior to 1 January 2002 is carried in the balance sheet did not purchase any shares under this authority.
Whilst the Board at deemed cost resulting from a revaluation, which was undertaken will seek shareholders approval to renew the authority to make as at 1 January 2002 as part of the Groups transition to reporting market purchases of the Companys shares at the forthcoming under IFRS.
Land and buildings acquired since 1 January 2002 are Annual General Meeting, no waiver of Rule 9 of the Takeover Code recorded at cost.
It is not practical to estimate the market value of will be sought from the Panel and subsequently no independent land, buildings and mineral reserves and resources at each balance shareholders approval in respect thereof will be sought at the sheet date as this will depend on product prices over the long term forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
It is currently anticipated that which will vary with market conditions.
if the Board decides to buy back the Companys shares either the Concert Party, comprising Messrs Kim, Novachuk and Ogay, will Policy on derivatives and financial instruments participate pro-rata to its interests in the voting rights of the Company The Groups objectives and policies on financial risk management, or a waiver from Rule 9 of the Takeover Code will be sought from and information on the Groups exposures to foreign exchange, the Panel subject to independent shareholders approval.
counterparty credit, commodity price, liquidity and interest rate risks can be found in note 33 commencing on page 134.
Major shareholdings As at 25 March 2013, the Company had been notied under Legal proceedings Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is a defendant in Services Authority of the following interests in its total voting any proceedings which the Directors believe will have a material rights of 3% or more: effect on either the Companys financial position or profitability.
Commitments and contingencies are disclosed in note 34 Number of ordinary Percentage of total shares of 20 pence voting rights held as at commencing on page 141.
Name of holder each held 25 March 2013 1 Cuprum Holding Limited 135,944,325 26.0% The State Property & Privatisation Committee of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan 80,286,050 15.3% Joint Stock Company National Welfare Fund SamrukKazyna 58,876,793 11.2% 2 Harper Finance Limited 29,706,901 5.7% 1 Vladimir Kim holds a 100% interest in Cuprum Holding Limited.
2 Oleg Novachuk holds a 100% interest in Harper Finance Limited.
com 75 Other Statutory Information continued significant agreements change of control Articles of Association The following significant agreements contain certain termination The following description summarises certain provisions of the and other rights for the counterparties upon a change of control Companys Articles of Association and applicable English law of the Company.
concerning companies the Companies Act 2006.
This summary is qualied in its entirety by reference to the Companys Articles Each of a $2 billion facility agreement dated 30 December 2009, of Association and the Companies Act 2006.
The Companys a $100 million facility agreement dated 30 December 2009, a Articles of Association may only be amended by a special $200 million facility agreement dated 12 January 2010, and two resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
$200 million facility agreements dated 11 June 2012, in each case entered into between Kazakhmys Finance PLC as borrower and Rights attaching to shares Joint Stock Company Sovereign Wealth Fund Samruk-Kazyna as The rights attaching to the ordinary shares of the Company lender, contain terms which give the lender the right to cancel all are dened in the Companys Articles of Association.
or any of the commitments provided to Kazakhmys Finance PLC, declare all or part of the loans, together with accrued interest, and Voting rights all other amounts accrued or outstanding immediately due and Members may attend any general meeting of the Company.
On a payable and or declare that all or part of the loans be payable on show of hands every member or his representative who is present demand if the Company ceases to hold 100 per cent less one in person or by proxy has one vote on each resolution and on a poll share of the issued share capital of Kazakhmys Finance PLC.
every member or his representative who is present in person or The terms of each of a $1.34 billion facility agreement and by proxy shall have one vote on each resolution for each share of RMB1.0 billion facility agreement each dated 16 December 2011 which he she is the holder.
between Kazakhmys Aktogay Finance Limited as borrower and China As a result of changes introduced by the Companies Act 2006 to Development Bank Corporation as lender, contain terms which give allow multiple proxies appointed by a single member to vote on a the lender the right to cancel any of the commitments provided to show of hands, all substantive resolutions at general meetings will Kazakhmys Aktogay Finance Limited and declare all outstanding loans normally be put to a poll vote.
Employees who participate in the together with accrued interest, and all other amounts accrued and Companys Share Incentive Plans SIP and hold shares in the SIP outstanding immediately due and payable on 30 business days notice trusts provide directions to the trustee to vote on their behalf if the Company ceases to hold directly or indirectly more than by way of a form of direction.
50 per cent of the issued share capital of Kazakhmys Aktogay Finance Limited and or certain other named subsidiaries.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
The terms of a $1 billion pre-export finance debt facility dated 20 December 2012 between Kazakhmys Finance PLC and a syndicate Dividend rights of banks, provide that if any person excluding Vladimir Kim and Shareholders may by ordinary resolution declare dividends but the Oleg Novachuk or group of people acting in concert secures control amount of the dividend may not exceed the amount recommended of the Company: i a lender under the facility shall not be obliged by the Board.
to fund a loan: and ii if a body of lenders representing more than two-thirds of the amount of the facility so require, the parties shall Transfer of shares enter into negotiations for a period of not more than 30 days with There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares other than certain a view to agreeing alternative terms for continuing the facility.
If no restrictions as set out in Companys Articles of Association.
alternative basis has been agreed during such period then the lenders Transfers of uncerticated shares must be carried out using CREST may cancel the commitments of the lenders to lend the facility and and the Board can refuse a transfer of an uncerticated share in declare all outstanding amounts due and payable.
accordance with the regulations governing the operation of CREST.
Going concern The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have satisfied that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares.
themselves that no material uncertainties that cast significant doubt about the ability of the Group to continue as a going concern have Powers of the Directors been identied, and they have a reasonable expectation that the The Directors are responsible for the management of the business Group has adequate financial resources to continue in operational of the Company and may exercise all powers of the Company existence for the foreseeable future.
Therefore, they continue to subject to applicable legislation and regulation and the Companys adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Articles of Association.
76 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report Detailed Information: Other Statutory Information Financial Statements Audit information The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and parent Directors Report confirm that so far as they each are aware, there companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any is no relevant audit information being information needed by the time the financial position of the Group and of the parent company and auditors in connection with preparing their audit report, of which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the the Companys auditors are unaware, and each Director has taken Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such all steps that he ought to have reasonably taken as a Director to steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities, and that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
have adopted a control framework for application across the Group.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible Auditors for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report Following the Audit Committee conducting a tender of the provision and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law of audit services during 2012, KPMG Audit Plc was appointed as auditors and those regulations.
Having reviewed the independence and effectiveness of the auditors, the Audit Committee has recommended and the Board The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of has approved resolutions to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual the corporate and financial information included on the Companys General Meeting to appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors and to website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and authorise the Directors to set their remuneration.
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the annual report and the financial statements Responsibility statement The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Each Director confirms to the best of his knowledge that: the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance t the Group and parent company accounts, prepared in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in taken as a whole: and accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS t the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development as adopted by the European Union EU and applicable law and have and performance of the business and the position of the Company elected to prepare the parent company financial statements on the and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a same basis.
whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view The Directors Report comprising pages 2 to 88, and including of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their the sections of the Annual Report and Accounts referred to in these profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and pages, has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: Robert Welch t select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Company Secretary t make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: 25 March 2013 t state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, subject to any material departures disclosed Registered Office and explained in the Group and parent company financial 6th Floor, Cardinal Place statements: and 100 Victoria Street t prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless London it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent SW1E 5JL company will continue in business.
Registered in England and Wales No.
