Our Strategy Deliver growth projects Strategy We will aim to replace existing reserves and deliver growth in output by investing in projects that add value to our portfolio.
This will include extensions to and progress our existing mines and mid-sized mine developments, along with new concentrators.
Our strategy is reviewed by the Board each Relevant KPIs year to ensure that it remains relevant to the t Project status Groups requirements.
The risk management Relevant risks framework and key performance indicators t Health and safety are intended to assist and complement the strategy and are also kept under regular t New projects review.
Our overall aim is to develop t Labour, mining equipment and supplies Kazakhmys into the leading natural t Liquidity resources company in Central Asia, To view our major projects case studies visit: for the benefit of all stakeholders.
com en operations growth projects Our vision To develop ourselves as the leading natural resources company in Central Asia, combining international best practice with Optimise existing assets the exceptional mineral opportunities Rising costs create significant problems for our business.
We are developing management tools to improve the performance of our existing assets and create Our objective opportunities to raise efficiency in our operations.
To deliver value for shareholders and maintain a This includes procurement of equipment, improved strong social commitment to our employees, the maintenance and better planning.
environment and the communities around us.
Relevant KPIs Relevant KPIs t Ore output t Free Cash Flow t Cash costs of copper after by-product credits t Earnings per share based on t Copper cathode equivalent production from Underlying profit own material t Group EBITDA excluding special items t Maintenance spend per tonne of copper cathode Relevant risks t Health and safety t Labour, mining equipment and supplies t Assets controlled by third party and joint ventures t Reserves and resources Take advantage of natural resource opportunities We will actively seek out and acquire attractive, undeveloped natural resource assets principally in the Central Asian region.
Relevant risks t Acquisition and divestments 12 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Our strategic priorities Strategic Report: Our Strategy Detailed Information Financial Statements Supporting our strategy Corporate Responsibility Behind our strategy is a balanced recognition of all key stakeholders.
Our business should benefit our shareholders and enhance the social Progress 2013 Priorities and economic development of the t Bozshakol moved into full development t Delivery and installation of major communities where we operate.
and remains on time and on budget milling equipment at Bozshakol.
Recruit Kazakhmys employs over 60,000 for first production in 2015 and train operational workforce workers and runs the largest private t The feasibility study for Aktogay was t On-site development of Aktogay company social programme in approved in 2012 and the project with ordering and delivery of Kazakhstan, reecting the close and has now moved into development construction equipment and historic links with the communities in early 2013 commencement of earthworks serving our operations.
t Bozymchak project entered final t Complete and commission Bozymchak For more information see pages stages of development t Progress mid-size project studies to 18 Summary Corporate Responsibility t Continued study work on nine deliver greatest shareholder value 48 Corporate Responsibility potential future projects Risk Management The Group has a structured approach to managing risk.
Those significant risks that could materially affect the Groups financial condition, performance, strategy and prospects are set out within this report along with a discussion of our approach to risk.
Progress 2013 Priorities For more information see pages t Some improvements seen in recovery t Continue work on recovery rates at 16 Summary Risk Management rates at concentrators concentrators, particularly at Balkhash and Nikolayevsky 42 Principal Risks t Recommissioning of Konyrat mine t Complete ramp up of Konyrat mine t Reorganisation of some mines and working areas in Zhezkazgan to t Complete work on mine planning Key Performance Indicators reduce costs following digitisation of mine data The Board has established a range t Completed digitisation of mine data of eight Key Performance Indicators which have been chosen for their relevance to our Group strategy and key risks.
A further six key performance indicators have been chosen for corporate responsibility.
For more information see pages Progress 14 Key Performance Indicators t Completed 285,000 metres 18 Summary Corporate Responsibility of drilling in 2012 2013 Priorities t Continue to assess opportunities for development with focus on copper assets in Central Asia www.
