Board of Directors Experienced leadership Vladimir Kim Oleg Novachuk Eduard Ogay Simon Heale Philip Aiken Chairman Chief Executive Executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director and Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Appointed to the Board: 2005 Appointed to the Board: 2005 Appointed to the Board: 2011 Director Appointed to the Board: 2007 Vladimir Kim will step down Nationality: Kazakhstani Nationality: Kazakhstani as Chairman at the conclusion Appointed to the Board: 2006 As announced on 28 February Skills and experience: Skills and experience: of the forthcoming Annual 2013, Simon Heale will replace Oleg Novachuk joined the Eduard Ogay was appointed Nationality: Australian General Meeting, but will Vladimir Kim as Chairman Group in 2001 and was as an executive Director in Skills and experience: remain on the Board as a at the conclusion of the appointed Chief Executive May 2011, having joined the Philip Aiken has extensive non-executive Director.
forthcoming Annual in 2007, having been Finance Group in 2001 as director of global experience in the General Meeting.
He marketing and international engineering and energy was formerly vice president relations, becoming director Nationality: British sectors.
He was formerly Skills and experience: of financial projects for of corporate development group president of BHP Vladimir Kim joined the Skills and experience: Kazakhmys Corporation in 2005.
He was appointed Billitons energy business, an Group in 1995, when he was Simon Heale has significant LLC and the financial adviser Chief Executive Officer of executive director of BTR plc, appointed managing director global marketing and business to the president of Kazakhmys Kazakhmys Corporation held a number of senior and chief executive officer of operations and management Corporation LLC, and LLC, the Groups principal positions in BOC Group plc Zhezkazgantsvetmet JSC and experience having been chief chairman of the board of subsidiary, in 2006, a position and was a senior advisor to was elected chairman of the operating officer of Jardine directors of Kazprombank JSC.
Macquarie Capital Europe board of directors of that Fleming Limited, deputy Age 42.
He was managing director of Cathay appointed Chairman of the Pacic Airways and chief Other appointments: Company in 2005 prior to its executive of The London Chairman of AVEVA Group listing on the London Stock Metal Exchange.
He has also plc, senior independent Exchange.
With extensive been a non-executive director director of Essar Energy plc knowledge of the mining and chairman of Panmure and a non-executive director industry, a thorough working Gordon & Co plc.
knowledge of the CIS and an Other appointments: Committee memberships: exemplary understanding of Non-executive director of The Chairman of the Group the political and regulatory Morgan Crucible Company plc, Health, Safety and environment in Kazakhstan, Coats plc, Marex Spectron Environment Committee Vladimir Kim brings extensive Group Limited and PZ and a member of the Kazakh mining experience and Cussons plc.
He is also a Nomination and effective Board management trustee and treasurer of Remuneration Committees.
Committee membership: Committee memberships: Chairman of the Chairman of the Audit Nomination Committee.
Committee and a member of the Group Health, Safety and Environment, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
20 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report: Board of Directors Detailed Information Financial Statements For more information see pages 50 Governance Framework 58 Board committees Directors experience background Directors nationality Length of tenure of non-executive Directors Metals and mining Kazakhstani 0-2 years 4 2 80% Power British 2-4 years 2 Oil and gas Australian 4-6 years Finance 6-8 years 70% 1 20% 3 4 60% 1 Lord Renwick of Daulet Yergozhin Clinton Dines Charles Watson Michael Lynch-Bell Clifton, KCMG Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board: 2008 Appointed to the Board: 2009 Appointed to the Board: 2011 Appointed to the Board: 27 February 2013 Appointed to the Board: 2005 Nationality: Kazakhstani Nationality: Australian Nationality: British Nationality: British Nationality: British Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Daulet Yergozhin has been Clinton Dines has been Charles Watson has an Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Head of the Socio-Economic involved in business in China extensive background in both Michael Lynch-Bell has Lord Renwick has had a Monitoring Division of the since 1980, including senior operational management and extensive experience in the diplomatic career spanning Administration of the positions with the Jardine major project delivery, having mining, oil and gas industries over 30 years, including serving President of the Republic of Matheson Group, Santa Fe spent 29 years at Shell.
During having spent his whole 38 year as British Ambassador to the Kazakhstan since November Transport Group and Asia his time at Shell he held a career with Ernst & Young United States and to South 2012, having been vice finance Securities Venture Capital.
In number of senior executive developing and later leading Africa.
He was a non-executive minister of the Republic of 1988, he joined BHP as their positions throughout the its global mining and energy director of BHP Billiton plc, Kazakhstan, chairman of the senior executive in China and, world, culminating in his practices.
During his time with SABMiller plc, British Airways tax committee of the Ministry following the merger of BHP appointment as executive vice Ernst & Young, he played a key plc, Liberty International plc, of Finance and having held a and Billiton in 2001, became president covering Russia and role in establishing Ernst & Fluor Corporation and number of other governmental president, BHP Billiton China, the CIS, including oversight of Youngs practice in Kazakhstan Harmony Gold Mining positions since 2006.
Prior a position from which he Shells activities in Kazakhstan, and advised a number of major Company Limited.
Lord to his governmental retired in 2009 prior to chairman of Shell Russia and CIS companies on transactions.
Renwicks diplomatic, financial appointments, he gained joining Kazakhmys.
He brings chairman of the board of He retired as senior partner and mining experience make considerable exposure to exceptional knowledge of directors for the Sakhalin of their transaction advisory him a valuable contributor the oil and gas sectors China combined with global Energy Investment Company.
practice for mining and metals to the Board.
Age 75. becoming deputy director resource industry and Age 58. and as an elected member of Other appointments: of the North-Caspian project management experience.
Ernst & Youngs global advisory Other appointments: Deputy chairman of Fleming department of JSC NC Age 55. council in June 2012.
He Non-executive director of Family & Partners Limited KazMunaiGas before moving continues to act as a senior Other appointments: Taipan Resources Inc. and and a non-executive director to a deputy director general advisor to Ernst & Youngs Executive chairman Asia JSOC Bashneft.
of Compagnie Financire role in JSC Offshore Oil transaction advisory practice.
of Caledonia Private Richemont SA and Bumi plc.
Company KazMunayTeniz, a Committee memberships: Age 59.
Investments Pty Limited, a He is also vice chairman, subsidiary of JSC KazMunaiGas.
Member of the Audit, and non-executive director of Other appointments: Investment Banking of He also previously worked for Group Health, Safety and Zanaga Iron Ore Company Board member and treasurer J. P. Morgan Europe KazTransOil JSC and has been Environment Committees.
Limited and a member of of Action Aid International.
and vice chairman of a non-executive director of the advisory board of J. P. Morgan Cazenove.
Member of the Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Audit Committee.
Chairman of the Remuneration Member of the Audit, and Committee and a member of Group Health, Safety and the Nomination Committee.
