Our Business Model Kazakhmys listed in London in October Kazakhmys is the only vertically integrated 2005 and our shares can be traded in major copper producer in the world.
Being Focused London, Hong Kong and Kazakhstan.
In integrated ensures security of supply for addition to our mining activities, we have a several key inputs and allows us to exercise 50% share of Ekibastuz GRES-1, the largest control over every stage of the production on copper power station in Kazakhstan, which we process.
Finished metal is a market priced run alongside three other power stations.
commodity, easily transported and gives We also have a 26% holding in ENRC, exibility to our sales strategy.
All of the ore Kazakhmys is the largest copper another London listed mining company.
we mine is converted to nished metal and producer in Kazakhstan and one Our holding in ENRC had a market value of 99% of the nished copper we produce of the leading global copper $1,546 million as at 31 December 2012 and comes from our own ore.
In addition to contributed $548 million to Group EBITDA.
copper, our ore contains other valuable producers.
At 31 December 2012, metals, such as zinc, silver and gold, which we had a market capitalisation of are extracted and sold as by-products.
Coal Power Mining We own and operate two coal Our three captive power stations principally At the heart of our business are 16 mines, mines which supply our three supply heat and power to our Mining Division.
from which we produce our copper and captive power stations with In 2012 the captive power stations generated by-products.
The current mines are coal.
In 2012 just 3% of our coal 5,562 GWh, of which 62% was used internally predominantly underground, and use a variety output was sold to external and the balance was sold to external of mining methods.
We run a variety of customers and the rest used customers.
We also own 50% of Ekibastuz programmes to improve the efficiency of our internally.
The coal for the GRES-1, the largest power station in mines and to offset the trend of rising costs Ekibastuz GRES-1 power Kazakhstan, which produced 14,368 GWh which is suffered throughout the industry.
These station is purchased separately in 2012.
All of the power from Ekibastuz programmes are accompanied by spending and from a nearby mine.
Ekibastuz GRES-1 training on health and safety, to reduce the risk is undergoing a $1 billion restoration to our workforce in a hazardous working programme which will return the plant environment.
In 2012, our mines produced to its nameplate capacity of 4,000 MW.
38 million tonnes of ore with an average Owning our own power stations helps us copper grade of 0.95%.
The delivery of our to manage the cost of a key input and major growth projects from 2015 will transform ensure security of energy supply.
our business, as production will increasingly come from new, low-cost, open pit mines.
Volume of coal mined Net power generated Ore volumes extracted 7.3 MT 19,930 GWh 38 MT 2 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Strategic Report: Our Business Model Detailed Information Financial Statements For more information see pages 12 Our Strategy 28 Operating Review Supplying global demand Global copper consumption by market sector in 2012 Copper is the principal metal used to 31% 9% conduct electricity and, along with electrical Construction grids and circuits, copper is intensively used Electrical and electronic products in a wide range of applications from cars to Industrial machinery domestic appliances.
Demand continues to 13% Transport increase with economic growth and global Consumer products supply of copper is constrained by declining grades at existing mines and the limited availability of new mines.
34% 13% Source: Wood Mackenzie Concentrators Logistics Rening Fabrication After crushing and grinding, Behind the copper mining The two smelters heat the At our Zhezkazgan plant we the ore from our mines is and processing is a substantial concentrate to make copper are able to convert copper taken to one of our 10 logistics business, able to anodes, which are then cathode into rod.
The plant concentrators, which are handle and transport large rened to make nished has a capacity of 50 kt per sited around our operations.
quantities of material through copper cathodes, sheets of annum and material is The ne powder goes the production process.
copper weighing up to 60 kg produced to order for through several separation This includes over 1,000 km each.
Rening capacity is customers, principally in techniques becoming copper of railway and nearly 2,000 higher than current China and Kazakhstan.
The facilities link into production.
The spare which at Kazakhmys contains the national railway network, capacity will in future be an average copper content of allowing easy transportation utilised by the output from 21%.
The concentrate is then to a variety of markets.
sent to one of two smelting Substantial funds are and rening plants.
continually invested to reduce the environmental impact of the smelting and rening plants.
Production of own Own railway network Rening capacity Production of copper rod concentrate 1.5 MT 1,000 km 410 kt 24 kt www.
