30 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 Our Board We have six Directors on our Board, which is led by Bill Halbert, our Executive Chairman 2 5 3 4 6 1 1.
Graham Holden Executive Chairman Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Term of office Term of office Term of office Bill Halbert was appointed Executive Chairman ofthe Paul Simpson was appointed Chief Financial Officer in Graham Holden joined the Board in November 2007.
KCOM Group in July 2009 having joined the Board as a May 2004, having joined the Group in 2000.
Board Committees Non-Executive Director in September 2006.
Responsibilities Remuneration Chairman, Audit and Nomination.
Responsibilities In addition to his Group-wide finance responsibilities, Previous experience As Chairman, Bill is responsible for leading the Board.
Paul has responsibility for the management of the Graham is a Chartered Accountant and graduate of the Healso has overall executive responsibility for the Groups Kcom and Smart421 brands and our Harvard Advanced Management Programme.
He is the day-to-day management of the Group.
Chairman of the Yorkshire and Humber Regional Advisory Previous experience Previous experience Board of Business in the Community and was appointed He has worked in the information technology industry Paul is a graduate in Economics and qualified as a as the 2010 Princes Ambassador to the region.
for over 40 years and has a wealth of experience and Chartered Accountant with Price Waterhouse.
He founded and for 13 years was CEO External appointments He is Chief Executive of Marshalls PLC, having been with of Syntegra, BTs global consultancy and systems None the Company for 23 years, serving as Group Financial integration subsidiary.
He also serves on the External appointments Paul is aged 43.
Boards of the Construction Products Association and the Bills other directorships include Excelsys Ltd, Jade Mineral Products Association.
Communications Ltd and TacitConnexions Ltd. Graham is aged 52.
Directors report: Directors report: Overview Financials Business review Governance 31 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 Read a full description at www.
com about-us our-board Board and management structure KCOM Group PLC Board Ensures delivery of shareholder value and sets overall strategic direction and governance Executive Non-Executive Bill Halbert Chairman Graham Holden Paul Simpson Tony Illsley Kevin Walsh Martin Towers Kathy Smith Company Secretary Operating Board Oversees performance of Groupand brands Refers matters to PLC Board asrequired Group Investment Committee Approves funding of Groups Brand and Group Services Transformation Board business cases greater than 25,000 management teams Governs the overall delivery and up to maximum of 100,000.
Responsibility for the definition and co-ordination of significant growthEscalates any cases that may need delivery of brand Group Services enabling programme Operating Board approval or have strategies and operational plans impact on the growth-enabling programme 4.
Kevin Walsh Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Executive Director Term of office Term of office Term of office Tony Illsley joined the Board in June 2009.
Martin Towers joined the Board in June 2009.
Kevin Walsh joined the KCOM Group in 2000 and the Groups Board in May 2004.
Board Committees Board Committees Responsibilities Nomination Chairman, Audit and Remuneration.
Audit Chairman, Nomination and Remuneration.
Kevin has responsibility for the management of the Previous experience Previous experience Groups KC and Eclipse brands.
Tony has held a variety of senior business positions including Martin is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Previous experience Chief Executive Officer of Telewest Communications PLC Accountants in England and Wales and has held a and President of Pepsi Cola Asia Pacific.
number of senior finance roles including Group Finance Prior to joining the KCOM Group, Kevin was Managing Director at Kelda Group PLC, Allied Textile Group PLC Director of a new media start-up and held a number External appointments and the Spring Ram Corporation PLC.
ofsenior director roles within the Electrolux Group.
He is currently Chairman of Plastic Logic Ltd and External appointments External appointments Datalase Ltd and is a Non-Executive Director of Sepura PLC, Camelot Global Services Limited and Camelot UK He is currently Non-Executive Director of RPC Group PLC, Kevin is a member of Business in the Communitys Lotteries Limited.
Lupus Capital PLC and Norcros plc.
Yorkshire and Humber Advisory Board.
