08 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 Market overview Continued demand driven byincreased requirement forconnectivity Real world thinking for new world challenges Technology has the potential to transform every aspect of personal and business life fromthe way we support our customers to the way we use IT and the way we work.
To succeed, organisations will require theability to adapt and innovate.
We offer our customers an insight into what the future might look like.
More importantly, some of our customers are already evolving and harnessing innovation to deliver real results.
Below is some of our thinking about how future-looking organisations can harness the power of technology...
The future of customer service...
The future of business processes...
The future of connected life...
Processes are moving from rigid, built to last, hard In an always-on world, connectivity is the digital fuel Todays customers are increasingly connected wired business processes to a more flexible range of that makes everything possible.
Key to success is and their service experience needs to be the same.
processes delivered via the Cloud.
They have to be smarter connectivity that provides the right links in Organisations that succeed will need to deliver an optimised for today and ready to evolve tomorrow.
the right way, empowering people and enhancing exceptional on-line and off-line customer To succeed, organisations need to put these multi-channel communications.
experience, providing truly personalised processes in the hands of their people and make interactions across every channel.
them securely available from any internet connection, on any device.
The future of partnerships...
The future of IT services...
The future of work... Partnerships have to be built on a shared goal.
They In the era of the Cloud, where IT services and even Tomorrows leading organisations will be those that are integral to enabling business models and raw computing power are available on demand, capitalise on the collaborative potential of todays meeting the customer expectations of tomorrow.
leaders understand the need to evolve to an IT technology to empower their people, supporting Such partnerships need to be rooted in a shared eco-system that facilitates innovation, drives new ways of working and refining their structures to focus on outcomes.
Trusted relationships will help an productivity and delights customers.
organisation deliver continuous improvement and capitalise on innovation.
IT services work partnerships customer service connected life business processes Directors report: Directors report: Overview Financials Business review Governance 09 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 Business review Innovative.
Our values provide a solid platform both for our culture and our business performance.
Building on our 100-year heritage, they lead our constant drive forexcellence.
Over the following pages we share just a few examples of the ways in which our people bring those values to lifeeveryday.
In this section 10 KC segment Brand review: KC 12 Kcom segment Brand review: Kcom Brand review: Smart421 Brand review: Eclipse 16 Performance review 20 Risk management 24 Corporate responsibility Stay up to date on our business performance by bookmarking www.
