38 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 Other disclosures Principal activities The principal activities of the Group and its subsidiary companies are described on pages 4 to 7 and in the Business review on pages 9 to 19.
Disclosure of all relevant information toauditors The Directors who approved this report are satisfied that, as far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined in the Companies Act 2006 of which theCompanys auditors are unaware.
Each of the Directors has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Directors The names and biographical details of our Directors as at 31 March 2012 are on pages 30.
Further information regarding the Directors who served during the year can be found on pages 32 to 35 and on pages 48 to 51 in the Remuneration report.
Creditor payment policies The Group seeks to agree payment terms with eachsupplier when we start doing business with them.
We always aim to pay our suppliers within areasonable period of the invoice being received and in accordance with the Prompt Payment Code, which can be found at www.
At 31 March 2012, the Company had no trade creditors 2011: Nil.
Group creditor days represented 87 days 2011: 72 days.
Charitable and political donations The Group made a number of charitable donations throughout the year to support community organisations and initiatives, totalling 11,640 2011:9,015.
No political donations were made.
Further information relating to our community activities can be found on pages 24 and 25.
Employees We consider our people to be our greatest asset and consequently have designed employment strategies that are both linked to business needs and are designed to develop our people to fulfil their full potential.
Our employment policies are designed toprovide equal opportunities irrespective of age, disability, ethnicity, gender, gender reassignment, marital status and civil partnership, nationality, pregnancy and maternity, race, religion and belief and sexual orientation.
All employees, whether part-time or full-time, temporary or permanent, are treated fairly and equally.
We select employees for employment, promotion, training or other matters affecting their employment on the basis of aptitude and ability.
We take every opportunity to involve and consult with our employees and we believe that employee involvement is an essential contributor to the development ofour business.
Our Executive Directors regularly visit our different office locations to meet with our employees, provide updates onthe performance of the Groupand to receive suggestions and feedback, through both roadshow presentations and informal meetings.
During the year we have launched a quarterly videoupdate which can be found on our intranet, The Hub, which helps to raise awareness of activities and performance across the Group.
This is also supported by a monthly managers briefing document and a weekly round-up bulletin which is distributed to all employees by email.
In March 2011 we undertook a group-wide employee survey to obtain feedback from our employees on a range of topics.
The results of this were fed back to employees during the year and workshops have been held to investigate the findings further and to enable employees to feed into the decisions being taken toaddress the key concerns raised.
We encourage our employees to become shareholders by offering a Share Incentive Plan aswe believe this encourages greater employee engagement.
Moreinformation about this can befound on page 51.
Directors report: Directors report: Overview Financials Business review Governance 39 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 Share capital The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into ordinary shares of 10 pence.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares In a general meeting of the Company voting isasfollows: on a show of hands, every member present inperson shall have one vote: on a show of hands, every proxy present who has been duly appointed by one or more members shall have one vote: and on a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he or she is the holder.
A member is not entitled to vote in respect of any share in the capital of the Company held by him or her, if there are sums payable to the Company in respect ofsuch share which remain unpaid.
Full details of the deadline for exercising voting rights in respect of the resolutions to be considered at the AGM to be held on Thursday 19 July 2012 are set out inthe Notice of Meeting.
All dividends are paid proportionately to the amounts paid up on the shares and are paid to those members whose names are on the share register at the date at which the dividend is declared, or at such other date asdetermined by the Directors or by an ordinary resolution of the Company.
If the Company is wound-up, the liquidator, with the sanction of a special resolution of the Company or any other sanction required by law, may divide the whole or any part of the assets of the Company amongst the shareholders and may determine howthe division of the assets will be carried out.
Transfer of shares All transfers of uncertificated shares must be madein accordance with, and be subject to, the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 and inaccordance withany arrangements made by theBoard.
All transfers of certificated shares must be in writing in a form which has been approved by the Directors: this is known as the Instrument of Transfer.
TheInstrument of Transfer must be signed by, or on behalf of, the transferor and the transferor will remain as the holder of the share until the name ofthe transferee is entered into the share register.
The Directors may refuse to register the transfer ofany share which is not fully paid or which is infavour of more than four persons jointly.
TheDirectors may also refuse to recognise an Instrument of Transfer if it is not lodged at the Companys registered office or at any other placewhich the Directors have determined.
If the Directors refuse to register a transfer they will send to the transferee a notice of the refusal and the Instrument of Transfer within two months of the date on which the transfer was lodged with theCompany.
Shares held by Employee Share Trusts EST The trustees of the Kingston Communications 2000 EST vote any shares held in the EST as they wish, having due regard to the interests of the employees aspotential beneficiaries.
The trustees of the KCOM Group PLC EST consult with participants regarding the voting of any transferred-in or purchased shares but may vote any matching shares held in the EST as they wish, having due regard to the interests of the participants.
Allotment of shares At the AGM in 2011, the Company was authorised by the members to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 17,220,130.
Authority wasalso given at the same time for the partial disapplication of pre-emption rights, up to a maximum aggregate value of 2,583,019.
As at thedate of this report no shares had been allotted under this authority.
40 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 Other disclosures continued Repurchase of shares At the AGM in 2011, the Company was authorised by members to purchase its own shares, up to a maximum of 51,660,391.
During the year, the Company didnot purchase any of its own shares.
The Company funds Employee Share Trusts to meet its obligations under the Companys share schemes.
During the year the Trusts purchased 600,000 2011: 181,370 shares onthe London Stock Exchange at a cost of 425,773 2011: 88,871 with a nominal value of 60,000 2011:18,137.
These shares represent 0.12 per cent of the called up share capital and are held in trust until they vest: therefore the purchase of these shares does not reduce the share capital in issue.
The total number of shares held in trust to meet obligations under the Companys share schemes is: Number As at 1 April 2011 7,060,230 As at 31 March 2012 7,810,902 Further details around the purchase of shares in the year are set out in note 26 to the financial statements.
Significant agreements change of control The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a change of control of the Company: under our 200 million multi-currency revolving facility agreement dated 19 November 2010, the Company must notify Lloyds TSB Bank PLC, the Agent of the agreement, within seven days of becoming aware of a change of control of theCompany.
Any bank or financial institution named within the facility agreement may then notify the Agent within seven days that they wish to cancel their commitments.
The Agent must then give at least 21 days notice to the Company of this and all outstanding amounts due to that bank or financial institution will become immediately due and payable.
For these purposes, a change of control occurs if any person or group of persons acting in concert gains control of the Company: and the Companys share schemes, details of which are contained in the Remuneration report on pages 46 to 51, contain provisions which take effect in the event of a change ofcontrol, as a result of which options and awards may vest and become exercisable.
The provisions do not entitle participants to a greater interest in the shares of the Company than that created by the initial grant or award under the relevant scheme.
The Company does not have any agreements withany Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover.
Annual General Meeting Our AGM will be held at the KC Stadium, Kingston upon Hull on Thursday 19 July 2012 at 11am.
TheNotice of Meeting accompanies this Annual Report and is also available on our Group website atwww.
Five resolutions will be proposed as special business.
Explanatory notes onthese resolutions are set out in the Notice ofMeeting.
The Directors consider that all the resolutions proposed are in the best interests of the Company and it is their recommendation that shareholders support these proposals as they intend to do so inrespect of their own holdings.
This report has been reviewed and approved by theBoard of KCOM Group PLC.
Signed on behalf of the Board Kathy Smith Company Secretary 31 May 2012
