10 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 KC segment Brand review: KC Our KC brand provides a range of What were doing: communications services to businesses and consumers throughout Hull and In early 2012, the Group began a deployment of fibre East Yorkshire.
toconsumers andbusinesses across areas of Hull and KCs residential customers benefit from Britains East Yorkshire, launching a new lightening-fast fibre best-value call package, with local calls free of charge all day, every day.
Residential customers can optic broadband service.
An important strategic choose also from seven Karoo broadband packages programme, the roll-out of these fibre based services with a range of download allowances to suit the underpins ourfuture growth ambitions for our KC needs of every type of household, including the UKs first off-peak broadband service aimed at brand.
ByDecember 2012, the initial phase of the lightusers.
roll-out willreach 15,000 homes and businesses, giving For Hull and East Yorkshire businesses, our Hull andEast Yorkshire the fastest broadband in the UK.
KCbrandcontinues to deliver communications servicesincluding phone, broadband and ethernet Until now, our KC broadband services were delivered connectivity, internet security and web hosting, tocustomers and businesses via traditional copper allwith business-standard service level agreements that guarantee fast response and fix times.
Our investment in fibre optic cables, which are launch of a hosted Voice over IP service during connected directly toa customers premises delivers theyear offers local businesses of all sizes download speedsof 100Mbps, thereby transforming aflexible, future-proof telephone system.
During the year, our KC brand has achieved market-leading growth among fixed line operators, driven primarily by the uptake of our bundled services andbroadband.
We continue to invest in and improve the performance of our broadband network.
In March 2012 we achieved universal coverage of minimum 2Mbps broadband speeds across our KC network, three years ahead of the Governments 2015 deadline for this milestone for the UK as a whole.
Average Karoo broadband speeds improved over theyear from 6.4Mbps to 9.4Mbps.
Progress in thedelivery of an improved broadband customer experience has led also to an ISPA award this year for customer service across our consumer internet products.
The launch of our KC Lightstream services marks a new era of broadband service provision, delivering download speeds of 100Mbps.
During 2012, wewillmake them available to 15,000 homes andbusinesses.
co. uk the continued deployment of our fibre based KC Lightstream services: sales of innovative KC at Home services to improve further the customer experience: and the development of our offering to businesses to include a range of hosted IT services.
Directors report: Directors report: Overview Financials Business review Governance 11 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 Investment: fibre What they said InterTech takes a To say that we noticed an giant leap forward immediate improvement with KC Lightstream is an understatement.
Now weve got fibre, we Hull-based InterTech specialises in architectural are much better placed andcommercial design for professional businesses.
to take advantage of During the past two decades, design technology future technologies hasevolved to give InterTech the capability to create 3D images that allow clients to visualise the look, and upgrades as and functionality and efficiency of a new building when they come along.
beforeany cost commitments are made.
However, InterTechs internet connection at its head office in KC Lightstream has Hull couldnt cope with the growing demands of the undoubtedly made us business and was constraining severely its ability tooperate.
much faster and more efficient.
What we did We installed KC Lightstream Business broadband Dan atInterTechs head office, transforming immediately InterTech its operations.
Since installation, InterTechs project managers can each send and receive around 100 emails per day, many with extremely large attachments such as 3D images, CAD drawings, videos and graphic design files.
Files that used to take hours to download can now be opened in minutes.
Users get a 10Mbps upload speed which has completely transformed InterTechs ability to send large files to clients.
Danny, Veronica and Mark KC 12 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 Kcom segment Brand review: Kcom A range of organisations are achieving What were doing: their business objectives through our Kcom brand.
Our tailored communication To ensure that our Kcom brand remains at the solutions are helping organisations to forefront of customer experience, the Group has become more flexible and more invested over 3 million in the transformation of its productive and ultimately to improve Network Operations Centre NOC which is at the their performance.
Through Kcoms core of its managed services offering and a key relationship with BT, our customers have pillar of its customer experience differentiation.
access to the largest, most advanced network in the UK as well as an extensive This powerful new capability will report on the status portfolio of products.
of customers services as well as the underlying Our Kcom brand delivers critical communications solutions for multi-site enterprise and public sector infrastructure.
It means that the Group can leapfrog organisations across the UK, through a range the competition in terms of the support it provides ofmanaged hosted IT professional services to its managed services customers and the propositions andawell-established partner channel.
and services the Group can sell into this market.
More and more organisations are recognising TheNOC project is a key component ofthe Groups thecapabilities of our Kcom brand, which is demonstrated by new and extended contracts with long-termvision.
WorldPay, Morrisons, Phones4U and Carphone Warehouse.
Kcom has secured also a three-year managed service IP telephony contract with Asda, which will see Kcom deploying and looking after 40,000 handsets in 500 stores across the country.
A multi-million pound deal with Cisco for our Kcoms Hosted Collaboration Services means that we are one of the first organisations in the UK to be able tooffer customers Cisco unified communications solutions and to offer Cisco Contact Centre solutions via theCloud.
Our market share of the Public Services Network PSN market has increased substantially with our Kcom brand being selected to provide the PSNs for East Midlands, Staffordshire and Dorset as well as being an approved provider under the Governments PSN Connectivity framework agreement.
Our Kcom brand was shortlisted also for the Institute of Customer Services Best Customer Satisfaction Strategy award.
com secure new customer relationships with UKmulti-site enterprises: continue to increase our Public Services Network market share: and maintain our focus on delivering aninspiring customerexperience.
Directors report: Directors report: Overview Financials Business review Governance 13 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 Investment: NOC transformation Investing inthe systems that support an exceptional customer experience In 2011, the Kcom brand partnered with solutions Our customers IT teams now enjoy a superior integrator Devoteam and software provider CA customer experience with greater control and Technologies to support the Group in delivering its visibility through real time interactive topographical NOC transformation project.
Site preparation began views and dashboards delivered through our Kcom at Chalfont and Leeds where the new technology is online service portal.
Fault identification is hosted and over 70 people were trained on the automated, so our NOC engineers are able newsystems.
toconcentrate on analysing and resolving faults, restoring service and ensuring customers are kept The 3 million Next Generation Operational Support fully informed of progress.
Systems NGOSS programme upgrades the tools used to manage customers services.
It enhances our We have started deploying recently the new tools, ability to prioritise and escalate incidents in line with with complete migration of customers anticipated customers requirements and enables us to introduce by November 2012. new services quicker.
For the Group, itdelivers enhanced automation capabilities which allow us to scale processes efficiently within our Kcom brand.
Each tool employed within the NGOSS environment was selected carefully from the market place to meet our high standards and deliver best in class services.
Should a critical component of an organisations communications infrastructure fail, affected services are identified immediately, allowing incidents to be managed and resolved quickly and proactively.
It means that our Kcom customers are better informed and have thepeace of mind that any problems are being dealt with.
Mark, Neville and Mark Kcom 14 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 Kcom segment Brand review: Smart421 Smart421 has been awarded also a framework Our Smart421 brand continues to build Smart421s future focus agreement for the provision of G-Cloud Services trusted relationships with customers, the programme that is transforming the way the suppliers, analysts and partners that public sector buys and operates information and place a value on its high-end consultancy work in closer collaboration with our other computing technology.
The agreement means our brands, to bring the benefits from each ones services and management of business Smart421 brand is recognised as an approved unique skills to win new business together: provider for any organisation looking to work critical systems.
withthe Governments G-Cloud programme and continue to position our Smart421 brand in Over the year, in addition to its core business of represents a growth opportunity for the Group high value and high growth markets: and integration and managed services, our Smart421 inthepublic sector.
brand has built a substantial lead in Cloud Computing continue to work with leading industry with Amazon Web Services.
Among its recent analysts such as Gartner to promote our engagements, Smart421 has been architecting and ITservices for complex business critical delivering innovative cloud based solutions for major andbespoke projects.
UK enterprises including a power utility, a mobile telco and a UK retail bank.
Each is atangible reminder of how customers place a high value onSmart421s thought leadership as well as .
com Directors report: Directors report: Overview Financials Business review Governance 15 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 Kcom segment Brand review: Eclipse This enables direct customers to use broadband Our award winning Eclipse brand is Eclipses future focus formission crucial applications and has significant leading the broadband and connectivity revenue potential for the reseller market a key market with its range of business growth area for the Eclipse brand.
solutions for SMEs and high-speed bring to market a range of cloud services that services for residential consumers.
The launch of a dedicated Partner Portal in embrace voice, data and business 2011isdriving growth in the reseller market and applications: An exceptional customer experience sets apart our encouraging upsells to existing resellers.
During the exploit its competitive advantage as a Eclipse brand from its competitors.
Eclipse was year, our Eclipse brand has generated also growth supplier to the national SME market: and consistently ranked as the fastest UK Internet through major customer wins with the likes of Service Provider ISP operating over the BT network Streamline, a WorldPay brand.
work closely with our Kcom brand to drive in 2011 12.
In 2012, our Eclipse brand won the and deliver synergies from both a customer ISPA award for Best Managed Hosting Provider and Eclipse SME and rural customers can now access and platform perspective.
recommended supplier status bonded DSL solutions for upload and download for the third consecutive time.
speeds that are significantly faster with added resilience.
We have launched also next generation The brand is establishing unique service solutions as fibre broadband to the residential and business customer demand for cloud and subscription-based markets.
An improved mix of business to residential technology increases.
Our Sentinel monitoring tool customers is generating significant upsells and was launched in late 2011 to monitor broadband sustainable growth.
performance and deliver proactive customer alerts.
