06 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 Our strategy In recent years we have established our strategic vision to passionately pursue better ways to connect people and todeliver inspiring customer experiences During the last financial year, we have continued to focus on achieving market leadership positions in our chosen markets andhave made progress towards achieving this goal.
Weare creating a successful world-class communications services business that is supported byoutstanding people focused oncleargoalsand ambitions.
Our vision is underpinned by four strategicpillars that form the structure ofourapproach and focus our investment.
Those pillars support us inour pursuit ofoperational excellence, asweseek to overtake other providers inour selectedmarkets and deliver increasing shareholder value.
Our investment in new processes andsystems is moving us closer to delivering those exceptional customer experiences for which we want to be recognised.
People Customers Our business is built upon Across our brands we understand theexcellence of our people, and anticipate the needs of the core asset of our Group.
ourcustomers and align our products, services and solutions To enable us to progress our pioneering vision ofcreating excellence together, we are investing to meet those needs to create increating an environment that enables people aunique brand experience.
todevelop and fulfil their potential.
During the pastyear, that investment has focused on cultivating Our focus on exceptional service delivery has the leadership, talent, values and culture that will resulted in increasing customer advocacy, delivery put excellent business performance andworld-class ofthe fastest broadband in the UK for consumers, customer experience at the centre of new contracts with large corporate customers and everythingwe do.
further business from existing customers.
Over the last year we have focused on how small Progress In each of our markets, we have focused on individual change can effect large scale improvement.
developing additional service offerings, including Our teams have taken part in our It Starts with Me significantly faster broadband speeds, as well as programme designed to help them see how their unified communication solutions via the Cloud that role plays a significant partin the achievement of enable organisations to avoid the need for our long-term ambitions.
This programme will expensive on-site infrastructure.
continue to run over the coming year.
Priorities to reward and recognise employees who to deliver growth in managed services to demonstrate excellence in their performance: : to invest in a communications programme that explains to continue the phased roll-out of 100Mbps clearly our Group values, ambitions and culture: and fibrebased broadband services in Hull and EastYorkshire: and to continue to develop a leadership team capable ofdriving strategic objectives in accordance with to continue our ongoing focus on inspiring ourgrowthvision.
customer experiences across all brands.
Directors report: Directors report: Overview Financials Business review Governance 07 KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 12 Our commitment to delivering inspirational customer experiences reflects our desire to put our customers at the heart of everything we do.
Its what we stand for, its who weare.
Tim Kcom Partners Processes and systems We harness the skills Our pursuit of customer andcapabilities ofour serviceexcellence is partners to support the underpinned by our focusof ourbrands.
We have strong relationships inplace with To achieve our long-term aims, we are organisations including BT, Phoenix IT Group, focused onensuring we have market-leading Microsoft, IBM, Cisco, Avaya and Amazon processes andsystems capability for the WebServices.
With access to their skills, experience future to enable usto grow our business.
and technology, we are able to fulfil our long-term vision.
As a result of these relationships, leading organisations are recognising the capabilities of the Group and its exceptional service delivery.
Our market-leading partnerships support our Our 3 million investment in industry leading abilityto achieve a level of innovation and deliver network operations tools will help us to build solutions and experiences that cannot be gained onourreputation for service excellence.
elsewhere, as customers experience improved ways See page 13 for more detail.
toconnect, collaborate and interact, using the power oftechnology.
to deliver best in class levels of customer to invest in partnerships that support service:and : to continue to exploit those strategic to extend and improve our customer relationships:and .
to deploy Cisco hosted collaboration services alongside our leading unified communication service offering.
