Kier Property Our Property division comprises three main businesses: commercial, industrial, retail and mixed-use property development: structured property nancing: and homes, including both private and affordable housing.
Revenue m Operating profit m 4% 44% 2011 2012 2011 2012 Property development Land bank pipeline 1.0bn 4,180plots 2011: 0.8bn 2011: 4,849 plots Before exceptional items.
Fire stations PFI project Gloucestershire The blue3 consortium, led by Kier Project Investment KPI, was selected as preferred partner for the Gloucestershire Fire and Rescue Service Community Safety Project in April 2010.
The project involves the construction and ongoing maintenance of four new community re stations and a Life Skills Centre in Gloucestershire.
The final facility was handed over in July 2012.
The solutions, which achieve BREEAM Excellent and include on site renewables generating up to 25% of the energy demand, include an interactive educational centre known as SkillZONE.
The centre will help Gloucestershire residents to live, work and play more safely by allowing a range of visitors including schools, parents, carers, and community and business groups to experience first-hand a range of risks and their consequences within a safe environment.
250 241 15.3 22.0 Our business Our business 35 Operating review Kier Property Property business review Revenue for the year to 30 June 2012 of 241m 2011: 250m Within the property development was 4% lower than last year.
However operating pro t was signi cantly ahead at 22.0m 2011: 15.3m as we continue to business, there have been a number of develop our 750m development pipeline, selectively dispose of successes during the year.
our mature PFI investments and progress our housing activities.
Within the property development business, there have been a number of successes during the year.
The disposal of 3 Savile Row was completed in the second half of the year at a value in excess of 33m and in our industrial portfolio, unit sales continued at Uxbridge and the final unit at Romford was sold.
Construction has commenced at Sydenham, a former National Grid operational site, on over 100,000sq ft of pre-let retail space, where completion is expected in the summer of 2013.
At Western International Park in Hounslow, a two-acre plot adjacent to our main proposed development scheme was disposed of after enhancing the development value through the planning process, and ten acres of residential land at the former Ordnance Survey headquarters site in Southampton was also sold.
During the year new sites were acquired in Sunbury, where we are constructing 34,000sq ft of industrial units of which over 30% are already prelet, and in Bracknell where we are undertaking demolition works prior to building 39,000sq ft of pre-sold industrial units.
We were pleased during the year to be chosen by Siemens as its preferred development partner for a major mixed-use scheme in Manchester.
The scheme, which has a development value of between 120m and 150m over the next five years, will be anchored by a new c. 100,000sq ft headquarters of ce for Siemens together with an associated Renewable Energy Ef ciency Centre.
Work will include refurbishment of the current Sir William Siemens House.
More recently, in August 2012, we were appointed preferred partner to the Health Campus Partnership formed by Watford Fire stations PFI projects Gloucestershire Kier is involved in the construction and ongoing maintenance of four new community re stations and a Life Skills Centre in Gloucestershire.
We have also recently been awarded preferred bidder status on both the London Fire Service and Staffordshire Fire Service schemes, which between them will provide 20 new re stations at a combined value of more than 100m.
Our business 36 Operating review Kier Property Borough Council, West Hertfordshire Health Trust and Watford Football Club on the 240m Watford Health Campus project.
This will be a mixed-use development, including new hospital facilities Our portfolio of PFI projects now totals for Watford and south-west Hertfordshire: up to 650 homes, 35% ten schemes, eight operational and two of which will be affordable: a pre-let of ce: and a large multi-storey at preferred bidder stage.
The Health Campus Partnership has been established to regenerate land in Watford and the surrounding area, creating new of ce, retail and industrial space and the potential for 1,600 new local jobs.
Solum Regeneration, our joint venture with Network Rail, now has three schemes on site.
At Epsom 95% of the scheme by value has been pre-let and is due for completion later this year.
At Walthamstow, the 107-bed hotel and 35 affordable apartments together with 1,300sq ft of retail accommodation have all either been pre-let or pre-sold.
In Christchurch, we are building seven affordable apartments for a local housing association and 17 houses for private sale.
The portfolio continues to expand with 11 schemes under contract at 30 June 2012 and several further opportunities expected to be added in the next few months.
We continue to be encouraged by the strong pipeline of opportunities and anticipate the level of capital investment to increase towards 100m by June 2013, on which we are targeting a 15% return on capital.
During the year, in our structured property nancing business, we disposed of two equity investments in West Berkshire and Hinchingbrooke Hospitals at a valuation discount rate of approximately 7%, the latter being acquired by the Kier Group Pension Scheme at its market value of 3m.
Our portfolio of PFI projects now totals ten schemes, eight operational and two at preferred bidder stage and Siemens headquarters Didsbury, Manchester Kier is the preferred development partner for Siemens existing campus in Didsbury, Manchester.
The vision for the site is to create a new 100,000sq ft headquarters building as part of a wider of ce park.
Set within a high quality landscaped environment, the development will provide a range of complementary uses supporting both new and existing business and residential communities.
Our business Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 37 our committed equity investment stands at 23m 2011: 21m including 5m for preferred bidder projects, of which 18m has been invested to date.
The directors valuation at a discount rate Our affordable housing and mixedof 7.5% is 34m.
tenure business has performed well this year, delivering nearly 300 homes, of Our affordable housing and mixed-tenure business has performed well this year, delivering nearly 300 homes, of which more than which more than 80% were affordable.
Our position as a Homes and Communities Agency HCA Investment Partner and a member of the HCAs Developer Partner Panel coupled with our Affordable Housing Programme grant allocation has enabled the business to secure in excess of 285m of new orders.
All of these are a combination of affordable housing integrated with private housing for sale on HCA and public sector land with land payments being made on a deferred basis.
These successes have generated a forward pipeline of work in excess of 250m, which equates to 1,900 affordable and private sale plots and provides a strong platform for the next five years.
Our first mixed-tenure regeneration scheme with Birmingham Municipal Housing Trust is rmly established and selling strongly and we have also secured the next phase of the development comprising 420 new homes with a development value of circa 52m.
We have successfully secured the Manor and Kingsway Regeneration scheme comprising 700 new homes and 21,000sq m of of ce accommodation in Derby together with the regeneration of Ransome Road in Northampton, which involves the construction of 420 new homes.
Our private housing business exceeded expectations, completing 647 units 2011: 562 units, with 555 private developments and 92 social homes, and has a good pipeline for the following financial year.
Sales rates are approximately 0.6 units per trading site per week across our target geographical area.
Our cash investment in the private housing business has decreased to Connect21 Peterborough A new development of contemporary homes ranging from 1 & 2 bedroom apartments to 2 3 4 bedroom 2 & 3-storey houses.
Formerly a water treatment plant, the site underwent complex ground remediation and engineering works which are now entering into their final stages with the reclamation of peat marshland.
Our business 38 Operating review Kier Property 240m 2011: 264m, with committed land sale receipts of 16m due over the next 18 months.
Our land bank at 30 June 2012 is carried at a value of 132m 2011:159m and is The Property division is increasingly bringing represented by 4,180 plots 2011:4,849 plots all with together skills and expertise from across planning consent.
the Group to deliver greater value from our Our strategy to reduce the cash investment in our land bank so schemes and to our customers.
that it supports a 500 to 600-unit business continues, with the aim of having a land bank equivalent to approximately four to five years supply.
It remains our intent to sell selectively further land over time: however, we do not anticipate realising pro t from these transactions, the focus being instead on cash generation.
Private housing on owned land is being built primarily on land acquired prior to the market correction in 2008 and we therefore anticipate modest margins through this business over the next few years.
Cash released will be made available, where appropriate, to invest in other parts of the Group.
Property markets and outlook The Property division is increasingly bringing together skills and expertise from across the Group to deliver greater value from our schemes and to our customers.
The current macroeconomic environment reduces con dence and therefore investor activity, which combined with ongoing liquidity constraints makes for a more dif cult outlook.
However, this will present our Property division with opportunities to utilise the strong Group balance sheet to unlock viable schemes that have been unable to progress due to a lack of funding.
In property development, we will maintain our focus on opportunities in well-located and marketable areas with signi cant potential for occupier-led, pre-let or forward sale solutions, while targeting a 15% return on capital.
Similarly, we continue to pursue innovative funding routes to support the growth in the development pipeline and make the best use of our cash reserves.
In our housing business, we will continue with our strategy to maintain a private 500 to 600-unit housing business, while releasing cash from the land bank over time, and will pursue growth in our affordable and mixed tenure housing business through our well-established relationships with local authorities and housing associations.
Overall, the Property division has established a solid platform with a 750m development pipeline, a 250m affordable housing pipeline and a stable private housing business, and can be expected to deliver a sustainable level of pro ts over the next few years.
Savile Row London This 15,000sq ft commercial property in Savile Row, formerly headquarters to the Beatles Apple Records, was bought by Kier in 2007 for 17m.
It was then remodelled and refurbished for high end retail use and was sold in 2011 for 33m.
