56 Directors report In addition, and in common with many other Introduction Employees The directors present their annual report and companies, the Company has insurance in The companies in the Group are equal audited financial statements as at, and for favour of its directors and officers in respect opportunities employers.
The Group gives the year ended, 30 June 2012. of certain losses or liabilities to which they consideration to applications for employment may be exposed due to their office.
made by disabled persons having regard to This directors report should be read in their particular aptitudes and abilities and conjunction with the chairmans statement, encourages and assists, whenever The UK Corporate Governance Code the chief executives review, the corporate A statement on the Groups corporate practicable, the recruitment, training, career governance statement and the directors governance is set out on pages 59 to 63. development and promotion of disabled remuneration report, each of which is people and the retention of, and appropriate incorporated by reference in and shall training for, those who become disabled Going concern be deemed to form part of this directors during the course of their employment and The Group has considerable financial report to the extent required by applicable who can be employed in a safe working resources, together with long-term contracts law or regulation.
The Groups approach to with a number of customers and suppliers employee involvement, equal opportunities, across its business activities.
As a health and safety and the environment is set Principal activities consequence, the directors believe that out in the corporate responsibility report on The Groups principal activities during the the Group is well-placed to manage its pages 39 to 44. course of the year were construction, business risks effectively.
The Group provides relevant information on After making appropriate enquiries, the matters of concern to employees through A review of the Groups business and directors of the Company have a reasonable newsletters, video addresses, the Groups progress during the year is included within expectation that the Company and the Group intranet, social media and formal and the chairmans statement on pages 6 and 7, have adequate resources to continue in informal meetings with various groups of the chief executives review on pages 8 operational existence for the foreseeable employees and management.
These to 15 and the operating review on pages future.
Accordingly, the directors continue to arrangements also aim at achieving a 24 to 38. adopt the going concern basis in preparing common awareness on the part of employees the Groups financial statements.
of matters affecting the performance of the Results and dividends Group.
The Group also consults with The Group's profit for the year after Further information relating to the financial employees so as to ascertain their views in taxation and exceptional items was position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity relation to decisions which are likely to affect 55.3m 2011: 62.3m.
An interim position and borrowing facilities is given in their interests.
dividend of 21.5p per share 2011: 20p, the financial review on pages 45 to 50. amounting to 8.2m 2011: 7.5m, The Group operates the Kier Group plc 2006 was paid on 11 May 2012.
The directors Charitable and political donations Sharesave Scheme the Sharesave Scheme, propose a final dividend of 44.5p per During the year, the Groups donations to which was approved by shareholders on share 2011: 44.0p per share, amounting charity in the United Kingdom were 122,000 25 November 2006, for eligible employees to 17.4m 2011: 16.6m, payable on 2011: 64,000, principally to local charities and makes available a dealing service to 28 November 2012 to shareholders on serving the communities in which it operates.
enable employees to buy and sell its shares the register of members at the close of The Group has considerable involvement in with a minimum of formality.
The Group also business on 21 September 2012. such communities, as described in the operates an all employee share ownership corporate responsibility report on pages 39 to plan the AESOP for all employees, which 44.
No political donations were made during Directors includes a share-matching element.
Biographical details of the directors of the Company are shown on pages 54 and 55.
Policy and practice on payment Details of directors interests, including Financial instruments interests in the Companys shares, are Details of the financial risk management of creditors The Group agrees payments with its suppliers disclosed in the directors remuneration objectives and policies of the Group, together and subcontractors on an individual contract report on pages 64 to 71. with its exposure to material financial risks, basis rather than following a code or are set out in notes 1 and 27 to the standard on payment practice.
The Groups consolidated financial statements.
Qualifying third party indemnities policy is to abide by these agreed terms The articles of association of the Company whenever the relevant Group company is the Articles entitle the directors of the Research and development satisfied that the suppliers or subcontractors Company, to the extent permitted by the The Group undertakes research and have provided the goods or services in Companies Act 2006 and other applicable development activity in creating innovative accordance with the contract terms and legislation together, the Companies Acts, construction techniques and design integral conditions.
The aggregate amount owed to be indemnified out of the assets of the to the delivery of its projects.
The direct to trade creditors by the Company at Company in the event that they suffer any expenditure incurred is not separately 30 June 2012 was nil 2011: nil.
expenses in connection with certain identifiable, as the investment is usually proceedings relating to the execution of contained within the relevant project.
their duties as directors of the Company.
57 Subsidiary trading companies within the interests in that share required to be Securities carrying special rights Group, acting in accordance with the above No person holds securities in the Company provided under the Companies Acts.
policy, exhibit creditor days averaging carrying special rights with regard to control 26 days 2011: 30 in respect of suppliers of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements of invoiced goods and services and 19 days between holders of securities that may result 2011: 16 in respect of certified amounts in restrictions on voting rights.
Rights under employees share schemes due to subcontractors.
These figures exclude As at 30 June 2012, The Royal Bank of amounts not currently due for payment but Canada RBC, as trustee of the Kier Group Appointment and replacement which are included within trade creditors.
1999 Employee Benefit Trust the Trust, of directors held 612,489 shares approximately 1.6% of The directors shall be not less than three and Share capital the issued share capital of the Company on not more than 12 in number.
The Company As at 30 June 2012, the issued share capital trust for the benefit of the directors and may by ordinary resolution vary the minimum of the Company comprised a single class certain senior managers of the Group.
The and or maximum number of directors.
of ordinary shares of 1 pence each.
As at Trust was established for the purposes of the 30 June 2012, 38,823,184 shares in the Kier Group 1999 Long-Term Incentive Plan Directors may be appointed by the Company capital of the Company were in issue.
During the 1999 LTIP and the Kier Group 2010 by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A the year, 626,037 shares were issued in Long-Term Incentive Plan the 2010 LTIP, director appointed by the Board holds office relation to the scrip dividend alternative and which were approved by shareholders on only until the next annual general meeting of 37,122 shares were issued in connection 27 November 1999 and 12 November the Company after his her appointment and with the Sharesave Scheme.
RBC waives the dividends is then eligible to stand for election.
were issued during the year.
Details of the payable in respect of 598,837 shares but Companys share capital are set out in note received the dividend in respect of 13,652 Pursuant to the Articles, at every annual 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
shares being the shares to which certain general meeting of the Company, one-third directors and senior managers are of the directors who are subject to the Subject to the provisions of the Articles and beneficially entitled as a result of the 2011 requirement to retire by rotation which shall the Companies Acts, shares may be issued annual bonus being satisfied in part by an not include any director who was appointed with such rights or restrictions as the allocation of shares.
RBC, in turn, by the Board and is standing for election Company may by ordinary resolution transferred the dividend to the relevant senior shall retire from office and may offer determine or, if the Company has not so managers.
themselves for re-election by the members.
determined, as the directors may decide.
The directors to retire by rotation shall be As at the same date, Computershare those who have been longest in office since Restrictions on transfer of securities Investor Services PLC held 972,293 shares their last election.
The Company may by in the Company approximately 2.5% of the issued share ordinary resolution of which special notice There are no restrictions on the transfer of capital of the Company as at 30 June 2012 has been given remove any director before securities in the Company, except: on trust for the benefit of staff and former the expiry of the directors period of office.
staff who are members of the AESOP.
The office of a director shall be vacated if: that certain restrictions may from time to i the director becomes bankrupt or the time be imposed by law or regulation for subject of an interim receiving order or Voting example, insider trading laws : and Subject to any terms upon which the relevant makes any arrangement or composition with shares may have been issued or are subject his creditors generally or applies to the court pursuant to the Listing Rules of the and to the Articles, every member present in for an interim order in connection with a Financial Services Authority the Listing person or by proxy at a general meeting and voluntary arrangement under the Insolvency Rules, whereby certain employees require entitled to vote has, upon a show of hands, Act 1986: ii the director is certified as approval to deal in the Companys shares.
one vote and, upon a poll, one vote for every having become physically or mentally share held.
In the case of joint holders of a incapable of acting as a director and may The Company is not aware of any agreements share, the vote of the senior who tenders a remain so for more than three months: between holders of securities that may result vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be iii the director ceases to be a director by in restrictions on the transfer of securities in accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the virtue of the Companies Acts or becomes the Company.
other joint holders and, for this purpose, prohibited by law from being a director: seniority shall be determined by the order iv the director receives written notice from in which the names stand in the register not less than three-quarters of the other Substantial voting rights in respect of the joint holding.
directors removing the director from office: As at 12 September 2012, the Company or v in the case of a director who holds had been notified of the following interests executive office, the director ceases to hold in the ordinary share capital of the Company, Restrictions on voting rights such office and the majority of the other pursuant to Rule 5.1 of the Disclosure and No member shall, unless the Board directors resolve that the relevant directors Transparency Rules: otherwise determines, be entitled to vote at office be vacated.
any general meeting in respect of any share held by it unless all calls or other sums then Standard Life Investments Limited 8.9% However, at the forthcoming annual general payable by it in respect of that share have Schroders plc 7.2% meeting of the Company, notwithstanding the been paid or if that member has been served Norges Bank 3.8% provisions of the Articles, all the directors will with a disenfranchisement notice as defined Legal and General Group Plc 3.1% offer themselves for re-election in accordance in the Articles after failure to provide the with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Company with information concerning 58 Directors report continued Amanda Mellor, having been appointed the Companys 120m revolving credit facility Annual general meeting as a director since the 2011 annual general agreement dated 31 May 2012 entered into The annual general meeting of the Company meeting, will be subject to election at this with HSBC Bank plc, Lloyds TSB Bank plc, will be held at The Honourable Artillery years meeting.
The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Company, Armoury House, City Road, Santander UK plc the Credit Facility London EC1Y 2BQ at 12 noon on Agreement and certain of the Groups 15 November 2012.
Amendment of Articles The Articles may be amended by a special employee share schemes.
resolution of the Companys shareholders.
This report was approved by the Board on The Credit Facility Agreement includes a 12 September 2012 and signed on its provision such that, in the event of a change behalf by: Powers of the directors of control of the Company, the lenders may Subject to the Articles, the Companies Acts cancel all or any part of the relevant facility and any directions given by the Company Hugh Raven and or declare that all amounts outstanding by special resolution, the business of the Company Secretary under the facility are immediately due and Company will be managed by the Board, payable by the Company.
which may exercise all the powers of Tempsford Hall the Company.
Sandy Outstanding options granted under the Bedfordshire Sharesave Scheme may be exercised within Powers in relation to the Company SG19 2BD a period of six months from a change of issuing its shares control of the Company following a takeover The directors were granted authority at the bid taking place or will lapse upon the expiry annual general meeting on 16 November of such a period.
2011 to allot shares in the Company up to an aggregate nominal amount of 127,226, Awards granted under the 1999 LTIP or the together with shares with an aggregate 2010 LTIP may vest on a change of control of nominal amount of 254,452 in connection the Company following a takeover bid and the with a rights issue.
This authority will expire maximum number of shares in the Company on the date of this years annual general to be awarded upon such vesting may meeting and a resolution to renew the become immediately due.
authority will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
A special resolution There are no agreements between the will also be proposed to renew the directors Company and its directors providing for power to make non-pre-emptive issues of compensation for loss of office that occurs shares for cash.
as a result of a takeover bid.
Powers in relation to the Company Auditor buying back its shares In accordance with section 489 of the The Company may only buy back shares if the Companies Act 2006, a resolution for the Articles do not prohibit it from doing so and it reappointment of the Groups auditor, KPMG has received the requisite authority from Audit Plc, will be proposed at the forthcoming shareholders in general meeting.
the Articles do not contain any such prohibition, the Company did not request any Each director who holds office at the date of such authority at its last annual general approval of this directors report confirms meeting and does not propose to do so at that, so far as each such director is aware, the forthcoming annual general meeting.
there is no relevant audit information of which the auditor is unaware: and the Change of control directors have taken all the steps that they The Company has entered into certain ought to have taken as directors to make agreements that may take effect, alter or themselves aware of any relevant audit terminate upon a change of control of the information and to establish that the auditor Company following a takeover bid.
The is aware of that information.
significant agreements in this respect are
