Our business Kier Construction The Construction division encompasses our UK regional contracting, civil engineering and overseas businesses, which are highly skilled in the construction of the full range of building projects, together with power, waste, nuclear and infrastructure facilities, rail and mining projects.
Revenue m Operating profit m 4% 10% 2011 2012 2011 2012 Order book Operating margin 2.2bn 2.5% 2011: 2.2bn 2011: 2.7% Kier Construction contract awards Public sector Private sector 50% 2012 50% 2011: 56% 2011: 44% SeaCity Museum Southampton The project to create the SeaCity Museum involved converting Southamptons Grade II listed former Magistrates Courts at the Civic Centre into 2,000sq m of exhibition and learning space, as well as public areas including a gift shop and caf.
The museum not only tells the captivating story of the Titanic but also showcases Southamptons maritime past.
1,445 1,383 39.3 35.2 Our business 26 Operating review Kier Construction Construction business review Revenue in Construction was 4% lower than last year, at 1,383m 2011:1,445m, re ecting the challenging UK building market, We continue to have good visibility of mitigated in part by an increase in the Groups overseas and UK high quality opportunities with 63% of our infrastructure volumes.
contract awards during the year arising We maintained our focus on securing higher quality work, and from our numerous frameworks and similar although our operating pro t decreased to 35.2m 2011: arrangements.
39.3m, the 2.5% operating margin 2011: 2.7% represented a good performance.
The operating margin was supported by a solid cash performance delivering a year-end cash balance of 361m 2011: 423m, after cash out ows for investment and major project completions of approximately 45m during the year.
We do not however expect the current challenging UK market to improve in the short term and this will inevitably put further pressure on UK construction margins and cash performance over the next 12 to 18 months.
We continue to have good visibility of high quality opportunities with 63% of our contract awards during the year arising from our numerous frameworks and similar arrangements.
These awards, as part of the total 1.4bn awarded, have maintained the secured and probable order book at 2.2bn 2011: 2.2bn.
We are active on numerous frameworks across the UK through which clients continue to procure a signi cant element of their work with a focus on quality, whole lifecycle costs and the financial strength of their chosen partner.
Approximately 50% of our awards were for public sector projects 2011: 56%, and we predict that the balance of public sector to private sector work will stabilise at these levels.
Of the public sector awards, we continue to be successful in the education sector, which accounted for 31% of awards 2011: 33%.
Despite the decline in education spending, opportunities under the replacement Contractors Framework for Academies Featherstone Prison Wolverhampton The completed house blocks at Featherstone Prison, near Wolverhampton.
This new Category B prison facility involved building three 480-place house blocks and additional associated facilities and was completed this year.
Our business Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 27 have resulted in ten schemes being nancially closed or achieving preferred bidder status during the year with a combined value of circa 200m.
We look forward to participating in the Free School In the private sector, the commercial, power opportunities, the University Technical College programme and the and waste sectors are providing us with the forthcoming Priority Schools Programme, although continued delays most signi cant opportunities.
to these have affected the whole industry.
The six-year ProCure 21 framework, which commenced in October 2010, continues to generate opportunities and our healthcare sector represented 10% of our awards 2011: 6%, with a value approaching 150m in the year.
In October 2011, we were awarded a place as a delivery partner for the three Designed for Life Building for Wales2 DfL2 regional frameworks for healthcare projects of up to 10m each and we are also shortlisted for the DfL2 national framework for projects over 10m.
In June 2012, we completed our agship 200m Category B prison facility for the Ministry of Justice at HMP Oakwood at Featherstone, Wolverhampton.
The scheme has validated the new and innovative model developed by our client demonstrating that a high value, complex and large-scale facility can be successfully procured and delivered through a design and build route.
The project was completed ahead of schedule, under budget and to an excellent quality standard.
Also in the custodial sector, we secured a place on the Ministry of Justice Northern Regional Framework and its National Framework for projects over 10m, both starting in April 2013 for six years and each valued at between 50m and 100m.
In the private sector, the commercial, power and waste sectors are providing us with the most signi cant opportunities.
During the year, we secured circa 200m of commercial building projects, representing approximately 14% of our contract awards during the year.
We commenced work on the 42m Arthouse at Kings Cross for Argent, secured the Camden Civic Centre project on the Kings Cross development, and the Sainsbury Wellcome Centre contract at University College London, Howland Street, in London, with a combined value of approximately 130m.
Hengrove Park Leisure Centre Bristol In February hundreds of people attended the of cial opening of Hengrove Leisure Centre, Bristol.
The project boasts a 50m Olympicstandard pool and a teaching pool MTRC contract 824 Ngau Tam Mei with moveable oor.
The centre to Tai Kong Po tunnels also has a four-court sports hall, Express Rail Link, Hong Kong 150-station gym, dedicated spin The contract is part of the 16kmstudio, two group exercise studios, long new underground rail link a health suite, spa, sauna and between Hong Kong and Guangzhou steam room, indoor climbing wall in China.
Our business 28 Operating review Kier Construction Our strategic relationship with Argent Group at the Kings Cross We continue to undertake infrastructure and civil engineering Central Development continues to be a success, providing projects for AWE at Aldermaston and Burgh eld and are also approximately 100m of work in the year, with further sizeable developing the design and target costs for a major plant at Urenco, opportunities anticipated over the next 12 months.
Capenhurst, with potential work valued in excess of 50m.
Our Kier Living business, which is highly successful in bidding Overseas, in our key geographies, we are seeing increased and delivering high rise contract housing, care homes and similar activity, enabling our international business to continue to grow.
residential establishments, has also performed well, having In Hong Kong, our two projects for the Mass Transit Railway MTR secured over 150m of projects during the year.
Corporation, totalling more than 300m in joint venture, are progressing well and we have been short-listed for a third major Our Infrastructure business continues to progress in the transport, scheme on the forthcoming Shatin to Central Link for the same power and waste markets in the UK and overseas.
We have a good pipeline of opportunities and continue the C300 410 Western Tunnels project valued at circa 500m to target, on a selective basis, a number of other MTR and the first Tunnel Boring Machine TBM, commenced operation government infrastructure projects.
In the Middle East, we have in May 2012 and is now heading towards its destination at secured further core work for the Dubai Municipality, another longFarringdon.
The second TBM commenced boring in August 2012. term customer, and are seeing an increase in tender activity in the The overall completion for this project is due in mid-2015.
Our region, particularly in our focus markets of Saudi Arabia, Abu Dhabi second major contract at Farringdon Station circa 210m for and Iraq.
In the Caribbean, our business has enjoyed another good civils, tunnelling and t-out works has now commenced with year and has delivered excellent results.
In addition to a number design works under way and substantial completion is scheduled of signi cant wins in Jamaica, including a 17m hydroelectric for mid-2016.
scheme, we have also secured our second project in Haiti for one of our key customers, Digicel.
We are con dent that our success The energy sector remains a key focus and we expect signi cant in the region will continue as the business secures further work in activity in this area as the UKs ageing power stations are replaced Jamaica and extends its activities into Trinidad & Tobago.
or upgraded over the next ten years, although the ongoing delays to the Electricity Market Reforms by the Government continue to Construction markets and outlook defer this signi cant programme of work.
In December 2011, in Notwithstanding our strong market position, and healthy order the power sector, we were awarded the 100m contract, in joint books, we face continued dif cult trading conditions in the UK.
venture, by EDF Energy to carry out site preparation works at the There is a signi cant shift in spending patterns from public sector Hinkley Point C nuclear power station project in Somerset.
The social infrastructure projects to private sector and areas of 50m contract to build an energy-from-waste plant in Plymouth regulated spend, and we remain focused on the careful selection for MVV and South Devon Waste Partnership, awarded in 2011, of quality work through frameworks and similar arrangements, is now under way having received all the necessary approvals.
while targeting the power, waste and transport markets and We are also preferred bidder for a new 45m waste treatment commercial building projects from our long-term customers.
facility at Wake eld where we expect financial close in the second half of 2012.
Gloucester Coroners complex Barnwood, Gloucester The completed 2.6m dual-function building provides a practical solution to the countys autopsy requirements UK mining operations and a central courtroom facility Greenburn, Ayrshire for the coroners hearings.
The At our UK mining operations in Greenburn, we despatched our project was completed early, with five millionth tonne of coal in July.
We have also completed the zero defects and within budget.
construction of a 21m arch bridge across the River Nith which Collaborative team working saw gives access to a further 1.5 million tonnes of reserves in Cheltenham-based Kier Construction the Braehead site.
The bridge was designed and constructed scoop the Value Award at the in house and had to be capable of bearing the weight of the South West Built Environment massive 300t excavators utilised at Greenburn.
Our business Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 29 Our approach to pursue overseas work and UK infrastructure opportunities has delivered a total current tender pipeline in UK infrastructure of approximately 1.8bn spread across the With our broad and exible capability, we power, regulated, water and waste sectors.
We also see growing are able to adapt to changing markets opportunity across our overseas operations.
In Hong Kong, and access a healthy pipeline of quality building upon our ongoing projects for the MTR, we are targeting the signi cant forecast investment spend of more than 15bn per opportunities.
annum in infrastructure, including rail, education and regeneration projects.
In the UAE and particularly Saudi Arabia we are focused on power, education, health and infrastructure work, which is expected to create 400bn of projects by 2020.
In the Caribbean, where this year we celebrated 50 years of experience in Jamaica, we have opened an of ce in Trinidad to continue our growth in the region, targeting more than 100m of identi ed opportunities.
With our broad and exible capability, we are able to adapt to changing markets and access a healthy pipeline of quality opportunities.
During the year, we have developed several new products and services to further enhance our ability to secure work in our identi ed growth areas.
Examples are Kier Living, referred to above, Kier Defence, which is looking to gain access to the national and regional frameworks that are currently being developed by the Ministry of Defence and i&r, a new Kier brand for interiors contracting.
The diversity of our skill set enables us to target the expansion of UK infrastructure and overseas work as the UK building market continues to decline and become more competitive.
Our focus on quality opportunities will help us maintain a stable, pro table and cash-generative business in the coming years.
Richard Rose Morton Academy Carlisle This new 24m academy accommodating 1,150 pupils in addition to a 250-place sixth form was constructed as part of the Partnerships for Schools Cumbria Academies Programme.
The existing school remained operational throughout the construction process.
