Our business Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 51 Business risks How the Group manages risk and assurance The key to the continued success of the The Board is responsible for the Groups system of risk Groups business strategy is its ability to management and internal controls and the Group risk identify and manage effectively the risks to management framework, which sets out the mechanism and reporting structure to ensure that key risks are continually its businesses and operations.
The Groups monitored and any action plans to mitigate the risks are reviewed.
approach is to identify the key risks and In addition, a Group assurance map has been introduced in 2012 to coordinate the various assurance providers within the Group.
then assess the effectiveness of controls to mitigate the impact and likelihood of these The Board has delegated to the Risk Management & Audit risks occurring.
Committee the responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, including the systems established to identify, assess, manage and monitor risk and provide assurance.
In addition to the ongoing monitoring of risk and controls, a report detailing the key risks, together with an assessment of the controls in place to mitigate these risks and any action plans, is prepared annually and reviewed by the Risk Management and Our risk management process Audit Committee.
The last report was prepared in March 2012 and reviewed at the June 2012 committee meeting.
The Board has concluded that the Group maintained sound risk management The Groups risk management framework requires all and internal control systems throughout the year ended divisions and operating businesses within them to identify 30 June 2012. and assess the key risks facing them which could impact on their ability to deliver their objectives.
The Group, the Other processes of assurance are managed through the Groups divisions and the operating businesses maintain risk standing orders, the Executive Management Team, a range of registers which are used to document the key risks facing Group policies and several central function committees including the business, together with an assessment of the likelihood the Group Corporate Responsibility Steering Committee and the and impact of each risk occurring as well as an assessment Group Health, Safety and Environment Steering Committee, both of the effectiveness of the key controls in place to mitigate being chaired by the chief executive and reporting regularly to the risk.
Action plans are developed and put in place to the Board.
These risk registers are regularly reviewed to identify new risks as they arise and to Principal risks monitor the action plans.
The nature of the industries and the business environment in which the Group operates are inherently risky.
Although it is recognised that it is not possible to eliminate all such risks and uncertainties, the Group has well-established risk management 1 and internal control systems to manage them, which have Identify also helped the Group to respond to the changing business risks identi ed at environment and the challenges presented during the year.
business unit, division and Group level risks recorded in risk registers 2 5 Diagnose and qualify Report and monitoring risks analysed as to by Board likelihood and impact risk registers and action plans subject to regular controls and assessment review of effectiveness recorded key issues elevated through reporting structure 3 Develop action for mitigation 4 risks analysed as to likelihood and impact Reassess post mitigation controls and assessment of effectiveness recorded Our business 52 Business risks Financial and legal risks Risk description Mitigation Legal and regulatory The Group monitors and responds to legal and regulatory developments in the areas in which it operates.
It is the Groups policy to require that all The Group is subject to a number of complex, demanding and evolving legal of its subsidiaries, employees, suppliers and subcontractors comply with and regulatory requirements.
A breach of laws or regulations could lead to applicable laws and regulations.
Training is provided on relevant areas of law legal proceedings, investigations or disputes resulting in a disruption of and regulation, including e-learning courses, to keep all parties fully aware of business, ranging from additional costs incurred on a project to civil and or their responsibilities.
Contracts entered into by the Group are subjected to a criminal penalties as well as reputational damage.
review process to ensure that contractual risks are identi ed and, wherever possible, mitigated appropriately.
Investment The Group adopts a selective approach to making investments for example, PFI projects and seeks to mitigate the associated risk.
For example, it The Group recognises that there are risks associated with the investments makes investments in sectors in which it has established construction which it may choose to make.
This is particularly the case when the Group and facilities management expertise.
When investing in a new sector, the invests in new market sectors.
Group will conduct due diligence on the risks relating to the sector, using both internal and external resources and advice, and these risks and their mitigation will be considered as part of the Groups adjudication process.
Pensions Steps have been taken over time to reduce the volatility and extent of the Groups funding exposure, including closing the fide ned bene t scheme to In relation to its fide ned bene t scheme, the Group is exposed to funding new joiners in 2002, the introduction of an annual upper limit on salary risks arising from improvements in longevity, unfavourable economic increases which count for fide ned bene ts purposes in 2009 and investment conditions and investment performance.
Where the actual outcomes are in a portfolio of in ation and interest swaps to mitigate the financial impact different to the actuarys assumptions, additional funding may be required to of adverse moves in prevailing rates.
meet the cost of promised pension bene ts.
The trustees of the Kier Group Pension Scheme and the Group Board regularly review the effectiveness of these measures and consider further liability management opportunities.
Availability of finance and bonding facilities Cash forecasts and balances are prepared regularly so as to provide up-todate and accurate information on the Groups cash position.
Bank facilities The Groups long-term business is dependent upon cash resources, facilities are in place which have been recently renegotiated and extended.
The Group and the ability to provide performance and other bonds as necessary.
has strong, long-term relationships with its bondsmen and has an in-house team which monitors headroom and advises on bond terms and conditions.
Macro-economic climate The Group has created a structure to manage and mitigate risk with the following key components: The order books for the Groups Construction and Services divisions are dependent upon the level of expenditure in the public sector and the a wide geographic regional network of of ces across the UK providing availability of credit for private sector expenditure.
Financial markets strong integration into local communities, its client base and supply chain: continue to be dominated by developments in the Eurozone area.
In the UK, a strong level of framework agreements and partnerships with credit growth remains subdued with lending conditions facing individuals government, local authorities and the private sector: and and companies continuing to tighten.
In addition, the impact of the recent a strong sector diversity allowing it to react to evolving opportunities in the extension to the asset purchase programme remains uncertain, as do the marketplace.
effects of the introduction of the Funding for Lending Scheme and the UK Guarantees scheme for infrastructure funding.
Instability in global exchange The Group also carries out monthly and quarterly reviews of its workload rates could signi cantly escalate material and fuel prices, thereby putting and forecasts its overhead levels as a percentage of future work in order pressure on some project cost forecasts.
to maintain a steady ratio of overhead costs to revenue.
Fuel and other materials that are in high demand, such as steel, are hedged or forwardpurchased when deemed necessary.
People and reputational risks Risk description Mitigation People The Group monitors staff turnover closely and pay and conditions are reviewed regularly against the prevailing market and benchmarked to ensure The Group is dependent on members of its senior management team and on that we remain competitive.
a exible, highly skilled and well-motivated workforce and believes its future success will depend, in part, on its ability to attract, develop and retain its Succession planning and staff development are key at all levels in the Group.
If the Group does not succeed in attracting, developing and retaining The Group has recently implemented a revised performance review process skilled people it may not be able to grow the business as anticipated.
which is designed to assist in the career development of its staff and also to identify potential successors to roles within the Group including at senior management level.
Our business Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 53 Health, safety and environmental Detailed policies and procedures exist to minimise such risks and are subject to review and monitoring by the operating businesses and Group.
The Groups activities require the continuous monitoring and management of All operating businesses have a director who is responsible for coordinating health, safety and environmental risks.
Failure to manage these risks could health and safety activities.
cause injury to its employees and subcontractors and could expose the Group to signi cant potential liability and reputational damage.
Reputation In order to protect and enhance its reputation, the Group has a robust series of business ethics, sustainability and compliance policies that help deliver The Groups ability to tender for new business and its relationship with the Groups corporate responsibility programme, which addresses issues its range of customers, supply chain partners, its employees and other such as health and safety, environmental impact, climate change, employees, stakeholders depends in large part on the good reputation that it has customers and supply chain and community engagement.
established and how it is perceived by others.
Operational risks Risk description Mitigation Contract and build The Groups appetite for very long-term, large, competitively tendered construction contracts is limited, driven by the desire to maintain quality of The Group carries out several hundred contracts annually and the risks to workload and manage risk.
Tenders for contracts are subject to approval by which the Group is exposed are dependent upon the nature of the work, the the Board, the chief executive and the finance director or divisional directors, duration of the contract and the legal form of the contract.
depending upon the value and nature of the contract.
Contracts in progress are controlled and managed through the Groups operating structure and procedures, including rigorous and regular review of the forecast revenue and costs to complete.
Services The Services division operates a contract review and tender adjudication process to ensure that risks are identi ed and, wherever possible, mitigated.
The Services division enters into a large number of contracts each year, the The tender process is as described above under Contract and build.
risks associated with which depend, in particular, on the nature of the work Similarly, contracts in progress are controlled and managed as described being undertaken and the duration of the contract.
Typically, the length of a above under Contract and build.
contract will be greater than those entered into by the Construction division and, in addition to risks relating to contract performance, may contain risks in relation to the transfer of employees and other associated issues.
Information technology Group IT centrally manages the majority of systems across the Group.
Other IT systems are managed locally by experienced IT personnel.
Signi cant The ef cient operation of the Group is increasingly dependent upon the investments in IT systems are subject to Board review and approval.
In proper operation, performance and development of its IT systems.
Failure addition, the Group has an Information Security Committee which focuses on to manage or integrate IT systems or failure to successfully implement data security.
changes in IT systems could result in a loss of control over critical business information and or systems.
This, in turn, could impact the Groups ability to ful l its contractual obligations.
Land and property development acquisition Site evaluation is a key process and site appraisals are carried out in detail, including using external advice where appropriate.
Land and development The cost and quality of property and land is fundamental to the pro tability of acquisitions are subject to approval by the Board, the chief executive and the the Groups property development and housing business.
finance director or divisional directors depending upon the value of the land.
Developments in progress are controlled and managed through the Groups operating structure and procedures including rigorous and regular review of the forecast nancials and sales activity.
The Board allocates capital on a portfolio basis ensuring diversi cation and the ef cient use of resources within the Group.
In the case of the Property division, development risk is controlled by ensuring construction generally commences once the division has either presold or pre-let key elements of the development.
Counterparty The Group assesses the financial strength of counterparties before entering into contract and structures payments so as to mitigate its financial exposure The Group depends, for its success, on the stability of its customers, joint to them for the duration of our relationship.
Where the Group is particularly venture partners, suppliers, subcontractors, funders, bondsmen and insurers.
dependent upon the continued financial strength of the providers of key Failure in these counterparties could result in non-collection of amounts financial services to the Group, it takes steps to spread this exposure across owed or disruption and delays to contract progress.
a range of counter-parties so as to diversify risk.
Business continuity The Group has in place a number of business continuity plans at site and business unit level which are regularly reviewed and monitored to ensure The Group faces a number of risks which are, in large part, beyond its their continued effectiveness.
The purpose of these plans is to ensure that, control.
Its business and operations may be interrupted by natural disasters wherever possible, the relevant project or business can continue to operate or any other disasters which may have the potential to affect adversely the effectively after the occurrence of a disaster or an adverse event.
