Ian Lawson 55 Non-executive chairman Finance Director Executive Director Appointed non-executive chairman of the Group in Joined Kier in August 2010 as Group finance After joining the industry in 1978, he gained 22 November 2007 having joined as non-executive director designate and took over the role of Group years of experience in both the UK and overseas director in July 2006.
He served as chief executive finance director in November 2010.
He joined Kier across the building and infrastructure markets of National Express Group plc from January 1997 from Balfour Beatty plc where he held the position before rejoining the Group in November 2000 as to September 2006.
He is a chartered accountant of deputy group finance director.
He is a member managing director of the Groups private finance and has extensive experience of both listed and of the Institute of Chartered Accountants, having investment business.
In October 2005 he was private companies.
He is currently chairman of trained and quali ed at KPMG in London.
From appointed to the Board.
He has responsibility for Lookers plc and The Unite Group plc and a non- 2001 until 2008, he held a number of senior the Services and Property divisions.
executive director of Stagecoach Group plc.
He finance roles at Lend Lease.
is chairman of the Nomination Committee and a 6.
Richard Bailey 61 member of the Remuneration Committee.
Steve Bowcott 57 Non-executive Executive Director Appointed to the Board in October 2010.
Paul Shefeld 51 Appointed to the Board in July 2010 as director chartered accountant and a partner in Rothschild, Chief Executive responsible for the Construction division.
He has the leading global financial advisory business.
He Appointed chief executive in April 2010.
He over 35 years experience in both building and is currently executive chairman of Rothschilds joined the Group as a graduate civil engineer in civil engineering with Kier, Mowlem and AMEC in mid-cap business, having worked for the bank 1983 and has extensive experience of building both the UK and overseas.
He re-joined Kier in for 29 years.
He has been involved in a range of and infrastructure projects both in the UK and January 2007 as a director of the Construction private and public company work with a focus on overseas.
He joined the Construction division division responsible for the northern activities.
In mergers, acquisitions, private equity and capital Board in 2004 and the Board in October 2005 addition to his role as head of Construction he is raising.
He is chairman of the Risk Management where he assumed responsibility for the Groups a member of the CBI Committee in the north.
and Audit Committee and member of the construction activities.
He holds the position of Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
director with overall responsibility for safety, health and environmental matters.
Governance Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 55 4 4 6 9 5 3 7.
Nick Winser 52 Non-executive Non-executive Appointed to the Board in July 2007.
He joined the Appointed to the Board in March 2009.
He joined board of BAE Systems plc in July 2002 as chief the board of National Grid in April 2003 and is operating of cer with responsibility for all European responsible for the companys business in the joint ventures and UK defence electronics assets.
He was previously chief operating of cer of He is non-executive chairman of e2v technologies US transmission for National Grid Transco plc.
plc, a non-executive director of Volex plc and SIG He joined National Grid Company plc in 1993, plc, a Fellow of the Royal Aeronautical Society and becoming director of engineering in 2001.
He a past president of the Society of British Aerospace is co-chair of the Energy Research Partnership Companies.
He is the senior independent nonand chairman of the IETs Power Academy.
He is executive director, chairman of the Remuneration a member of the Risk Management and Audit, Committee and a member of the Risk Management Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
and Audit and Nomination Committees.
Amanda Mellor 48 Company Secretary Non-executive Joined the Group in April 2010 from Eversheds Appointed to the Board in December 2011.
She is currently the group secretary and head He brings signi cant experience of corporate of corporate governance of Marks and Spencer transactions and regulatory issues, having Group plc, having previously been head of investor worked for top city rms during his career with relations at Marks and Spencer and director of considerable exposure to the construction sector.
corporate relations at Arcadia Group plc.
She He is responsible for corporate governance within spent her early career in investment banking the Group and, as general counsel, oversees the Risk Management and Audit Committee at James Capel and Robert Fleming.
She was Groups legal affairs.
Nomination Committee accredited as a legal mediator in 2002.
She is a member of the Risk Management and Audit, Remuneration Committee Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
