Kier Services The Services division comprises three main businesses: Maintenance, which provides both reactive and planned maintenance largely to local authorities and housing associations: FM, providing services to public and private sector clients: and Environmental, offering services for domestic and commercial waste collection and the management and operation of a major recycling facility, street scene and grounds maintenance.
Revenue m Operating profit m 8% 7% 2011 2012 2011 2012 Order book Operating margin Secure and probable 4.5% 2.1bn 2011: 4.5% 2011: 2.0bn Kier Services revenue Maintenance Facilities Management and Environmental 63% 2012 280m 37% 2011: 73% 351m 165m 2011: 27% 133m Before exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets relating to contract rights.
Danny Riggall, mobile senior engineer Rutherford Appleton Laboratories M&E installation at Rutherford Appleton Laboratories.
The laboratory carries out space research and technology development.
484 445 21.7 20.1 Our business Our business 31 Operating review Kier Services Services business review Revenue was 8% lower than last year, at 445m 2011:484m, principally because of the reduction in public sector budgets There remains a good forward visibility which affected the planned works in our Maintenance business.
of work, following an improvement in This was mitigated in part by modest revenue improvements in the Services order book to 2.1bn the FM and Environmental businesses.
The overall operating margin has been maintained at 4.5% 2011:4.5%, before deducting the amortisation of intangible assets relating to contract rights of 3.4m 2011: 3.4m.
This highlights our ongoing focus to secure and deliver high quality work, which produced an operating pro t of 20.1m 2011:21.7m.
Cash balances remained resilient at 19m 2011:28m after incurring approximately 5m of redundancy and restructuring costs to realign the cost base in light of the lower volumes of work in Maintenance and following investment of approximately 10m primarily in our Environmental business.
There remains a good forward visibility of work, following an improvement in the Services order book to 2.1bn 2011: 2.0bn.
Total awards for the year were approximately 650m, offset by a 180m negative adjustment to re ect lower future volumes on one of our long-term Maintenance contracts in response to a clients reduced budget.
The 2.1bn does not include potential contract extensions, which could add approximately 800m if all were exercised by our customers.
In our Maintenance business revenues decreased by 20% to 280m 2011:351m as a result of the budget constraints faced by local authorities, predominantly in the discretionary area of planned and small capital works.
During the year, Maintenance secured contracts with South Essex Homes to repair and maintain 12,000 homes and has secured an early extension to our joint venture arrangement with Harlow District Council valued at 82m to 31 January 2017.
We currently maintain approximately Refuse collection vehicle Shena Coke, chef Leon Baptiste, re alarm engineer East Northamptonshire Moorfoot Building, Shef eld Rutherford Appleton Laboratory During the past two years there has been She na works at the Moorfoot Building in the Commissioning programming a recently installed considerable investment in the most modern restaurants front of house, She is part of the aspirator re alarm system in one of our clients refuse collection vehicles to service our catering team assisting the chef in the kitchen or buildings.
contracts in Corby, East Northamptonshire at events taking place at the town hall.
Our business 32 Operating review Kier Services a quarter of a million homes throughout the UK, representing Our Pure Recycling materials recovery facility in Ettington, approximately 5% of social homes in the UK and making us one of Warwickshire, continues to operate well and has processed the largest providers of housing maintenance services.
nearly 100,000 tonnes of material during the year.
As previously mentioned, in August 2012 we announced our investment in Over the past few years, we have been broadening our focus, from Biogen UK Limited, which designs, builds and operates largeour traditional area of strength with local authorities, to housing scale AD plants to process food waste and produce renewable associations.
There is a solid pipeline of opportunities in this energy.
These services will enhance Kiers Environmental area, and we secured the largest housing maintenance contract business, particularly after the initial two-year investment phase, to come to the market this year with Circle.
The contract has an and will provide intelligent solutions for the treatment of many anticipated value of 350m over ten years five years contracted different types of waste.
and a potential five-year extension and re ects how certain clients are reducing their number of suppliers to meet tighter Our FM business has seen modest growth over the year with budget targets.
revenues of approximately 120m and has improved its penetration into the private sector FM market.
Our FM team Our Environmental business continues to grow, with revenues currently looks after approximately 6,000 commercial properties in excess of 40m, and now looks after 1.1m UK residents, across the UK.
emptying 33m household bins every year.
During the year, the business secured approximately 100m of new work, including an New contracts secured during the year totalled in excess of early extension to our contract with Corby District Council, valued 150m, and include contracts to provide total FM nationally for at 20m, and is preparing to mobilise on our new contract with blue-chip customers such as the RAC and Siemens Enterprise the Borough of Kings Lynn and West Norfolk, valued at 28m.
Communications alongside more local contracts such as that for Westminster College.
All of which increase our share of the private sector market.
The Biogen process In July Kier formed a 50:50 joint venture with Bedfordia, in order to target the growing anaerobic digestion market.
This business is being led by the Property division during its development phase but adds to the Services divisions current Environmental business capabilities see page 12 for details of this investment.
Foodwaste Depackaging Anaerobic Digestate and preBiofertiliser digestion storage treatment Gas holder Biogen Bedfordshire We completed the 24.4m investment over five years in Biogen UK Limited, establishing a 50:50 joint venture with the owner of Bedfordia Converted for Group plc.
The business currently owns and Combined use as district operates two large commercial anaerobic heat and industrial Electricity digestion plants in the UK, with plans to build a power commercial number of further plants in strategic locations.
heating Our business Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 33 In the public sector, we have been successful through several provides stability over the intervening period.
The cost pressures private finance deals in which Kier has been selected to provide on local authorities are also leading to an increased level of an integrated PFI solution for blue light services.
Contracts for opportunities for our Environmental business where we anticipate London Fire Brigade and Staffordshire Fire and Rescue, with a further revenue growth although across all sectors the focus combined FM value of 34m, provide 25-year visibility for the FM on cost reduction will inevitably lead to some pressure on business.
In addition, contract wins with Hampshire and Surrey operating margins.
County Councils and London Borough of Bexley with a combined value of 59m demonstrate strength and customer con dence in In the private sector, customers continue to examine their our traditional public sector marketplace.
cost base, which will provide us with opportunities as non-core activities are outsourced.
Our diverse offering, covering both hard and soft FM, has performed well during the year and continues to Services markets and outlook seek to grow in scale, which remains a focus for us.
While the current economic conditions continue to constrain our clients budgets, we ultimately expect to see an increased The Services divisions performance remains robust, with an level of outsourcing opportunities as both the public and improved 2.1bn order book giving good forward visibility of registered provider sectors, in particular, continue to seek to workload, coupled with potential extensions of 800m and a alleviate cost pressures and examine their current service steady pipeline of further opportunities.
We remain optimistic delivery requirements.
about the medium-term prospects in our core markets and will continue to progress those areas where we see the most We currently anticipate that this increase in activity will translate potential for growth.
into revenue growth, particularly for our Maintenance business in the year to 30 June 2014, although predicting the timing of contract awards is challenging.
We do not anticipate any of our signi cant contracts being re-tendered before 2014, which We remain optimistic about the mediumterm prospects in our core markets.
Pure Recycling Ettington Our Pure Recycling materials recovery facility continues to operate well and has processed nearly 100,000 tonnes of material during the year.
Jacek Hopko is pictured above.
