Our business 10 Chief Executives review The management of working capital remains very important to the Group in an increasingly challenging payment environment.
It is therefore pleasing that in parallel with this trading result, the The management of working capital Group achieved a healthy average month-end net cash balance of remains very important to the 95m 2011: 129m after investment of approximately 50m Group in an increasingly challenging during the year across the Group.
Group strategy Whilst our strategy continues to focus on growth areas in each of our divisions, leveraging the many opportunities that arise through our well-balanced, integrated model, we regularly review our activities and markets to adjust and refocus where necessary to remain agile in quickly changing trading environments.
This clearly requires us to have a robust and diverse set of capabilities to ensure we are able to place quality resources in these new areas including human resources, financial, technical, IT and management systems.
There have been four underlying strategies that we have adopted over the last few years, each of which has contributed to our operating performance this year.
These are: staying focused on quality solutions and value creation: pushing our boundaries, by focusing on growing markets: optimising our capabilities through leveraging our integrated, well-balanced business model: and maximising our assets, by investing in our people.
Staying focused The ongoing uncertainties in the Eurozone are inevitably having a signi cant impact on our operating markets.
However, we have maintained a focus, across the Group, on pursuing good quality opportunities where experienced customers seek intelligent Sainsbury Laboratory Cambridge University 11,000sq m plant science research centre set in the University of Cambridges Botanic Garden.
The laboratory has won many awards including: Construction Manager of the Year New Build over 60m Concrete Society Awards Concrete Performance Award Civic Trust Awards Eastern Region World Architecture Festival Best Learning Building Award BD Architect of the Year Education Award Lighting Design Awards Daylight category Considerate Constructors Award Bronze Local Authority Building Control Awards Best Education Building RIBA Awards Regional Building of the Year Our business Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 11 solutions rather than the lowest price.
Although we are unable to avoid the increasingly competitive markets entirely, this approach has partly insulated us and I am pleased that we have been able Each of our business units has been to maintain our secured pipeline of work at the same level as looking to extend its service offering last year across our Construction and Services divisions and that to adjacent markets, leveraging the the order book in our mixed-tenure housing business has grown signi cantly.
This focus on quality has required us to improve existing skills we have, to work in new our operational ef ciencies and reallocate resources around the sectors or geographies.
Group where there is most opportunity: as a result of this we have seen an increasing shift towards London and the south-east, our infrastructure business and international markets.
Pushing boundaries Each of our business units has been looking to extend its service offering to adjacent markets, leveraging the existing skills we have, to work in new sectors or geographies.
In our Services division, despite seeing a decline in revenues in our existing public sector long-term housing maintenance contracts, where we have a very strong presence, we have been successful in securing a place on the largest private sector housing maintenance contract let this year with Circle.
We have also been able to expand our operational activity in the private sector facilities management FM market with some signi cant contract wins such as the RAC and L&G, and we have secured new long-term contracts for our Environmental business.
Our Construction division has seen a signi cant change in the balance of its work with a greater proportion of more specialist major civil engineering and infrastructure opportunities while still maintaining its strong presence in the more traditional general building markets.
We are increasing our activities outside the UK, building upon our reputation and experience in the Caribbean, Hong Kong and the Middle East.
All these growing markets have challenging entry levels and Kier is one of only a few companies with the resources human, technical and financial to gain access to these opportunities.
Creating Britains Future Dame Tessa Jowell MP above and Britains leading construction contractors launched the Creating Britains Future campaign in July.
The aim of the campaign is to showcase the capability of Britains contractors and highlight the importance of the industry to economic growth and employment.
Chief executive Paul Shef eld is chairing the initiative which is being coordinated by the UKCG UK Contractors Group.
Our business 12 Chief Executives review Meanwhile, our Property division has been innovative in its approach to its investment activities, developing a series of bespoke partnerships to maximise the assets of clients across a Our Property division has been innovative range of sectors, from railway stations to corporate headquarters in its approach to its investment activities, and from re stations to major regeneration schemes.
Finally, developing a series of bespoke partnerships the refocusing of our house-building activities towards the affordable homes sector, and expanded relationships with housing to maximise the assets of clients.
associations, has proved successful and we now have a secured pipeline of work, totalling 250m, of mixed-tenure projects comprising some 1,900 new homes.
Examples of how this strategy is delivered are described in further detail in the business review of each division.
To cite just one example, our focus on increasing our activity in Scotland during the year has led to us being awarded a position on the new infrastructure hub framework in the south-west, worth up to 500m over the next ten years.
This comes in addition to the acquisition of certain of the construction operations of Aberdeenbased Stewart Milne, which extends our presence beyond the central belt.
In July and August 2012, following a strategic review of our Plant business, we sold some of our non-specialist plant assets for a combined maximum aggregate consideration of 15.7m.
We have retained our technical operated plant activities, including our specialist crane operations, which will remain within the Group for operational reasons.
The sale will enable us to invest that capital in a value creating part of the Group in the coming year.
Also in August 2012, we completed the 24.4m investment, over five years, in Biogen UK Limited, establishing a 50 50 joint venture with the owner of the Bedfordia Group plc.
Biogen designs, builds and operates large-scale anaerobic digestion AD plants to process food waste and produce renewable energy.
It currently owns and operates two large commercial AD plants in the UK both of which are included in the joint venture and we plan to build a number of further plants in strategic locations Apprentice of the Year The Kier Foundation Kier apprentice Christopher Cheek was named Pictured at the signing ceremony to mark a UKCG Apprentice of the Year.
Recruited by Kier two-year partnership between The Kier through the Future Jobs Fund for the unemployed Foundation and Barnardos, are Kier chief in 2010, he began work on a social housing executive Paul Shef eld and Barnardos chief project in Birmingham, where his positive executive Anne-Marie Carrie.
attitude and quickness to learn highly impressed his colleagues.
Christopher has achieved his advanced apprenticeship in carpentry, and has now begun the Kier Foundation Degree in Construction Management.
Kier was recognised More information online by the UK Contractors Group as UKCG Employer www.
co. uk foundation of the Year for its dedication to the personal development of its 478 apprentices.
Our business Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 to serve the requirements of local authorities, food retailers, food manufacturers and commercial waste providers to the food and retail industries.
The joint venture will enhance our We have a very well balanced and diverse Environmental business by providing intelligent solutions for the business model, which differentiates us treatment of food waste and complements our Pure Recycling from our competitors by offering a fully business which we acquired in 2010.
There is signi cant demand for new AD plants across the UK, with seven million tonnes of comprehensive service to our customers.
food waste being produced per annum and current AD capacity of only 2.5 million tonnes, resulting in a need for a further 100 plants.
Following an initial two-year investment phase, we expect the return on capital to exceed 15% and for the business to be operating nine plants by 2017.
Optimising capabilities We have a very well balanced and diverse business model, which differentiates us from our competitors by offering a fully comprehensive service to our customers.
This enables us to provide either one-off solutions or a wider value-added platform combining two or more of our services, right through to the total one-stop approach that enables us to plan, design, finance, build, manage and maintain customers assets over the long term.
These capabilities have enabled us to become the preferred development partner for Siemens, developing their major mixeduse scheme in Manchester, secured in April, and more recently we have been chosen as the preferred development partner for the Health Campus Partnership formed by Watford Borough Council, West Hertfordshire Health Trust and Watford Football Club for the 240m Watford Health Campus project.
We are also working as a partner with Network Rail in the growing Solum Regeneration station redevelopment business in which we are able to plan, design, finance, build and sell-on some of their railway station assets.
Maximising assets Our success has been built upon the skills, efforts and loyalty of our people, from our street services operatives across the country to the most highly quali ed engineers working on infrastructure Havelock Academy Grimsby Built in the shape of a star, the multi-million pound Havelock Academy in Grimsby has been completed by Kier Construction Major Projects.
As well as being part of the schools logo, the buildings unusual shape is a re ection of the aspirational learning environment that staff, pupils and the local community have all been involved in creating.
A banquet hall will be used for pupils and staff to formally dine together and the new lecture theatre with full stage will be open for community use.
Four balcony areas have a view of the grounds outside which have also been carefully considered and include expansive playing elds, which have been landscaped, soft and hard play areas and a purpose-built space to play ves, also known as handball.
Outside features also include a maze, an orchard, an amphitheatre, and various spaces for students to gather and interact.
Our business 14 Chief Executives review projects beneath the streets of London and Hong Kong.
We are committed to a comprehensive development programme for a wide range of our staff to ensure that they continue to develop as Our focus continues to be seeking to managers and leaders within our business as it responds to the eliminate workplace injuries, to protect constantly changing economic environment.
I am delighted that our environment and to increase our our ground-breaking Team Leader Apprenticeship was nominated the Apprentice Programme of the Year by the UK Contractors peoples awareness of occupational Group and we continue to focus on our unique Foundation Degree health and well-being.
programme with Shef eld Hallam University to help us develop new graduates with the skills we need in todays market.
We have also launched our Leadership Charter with senior management attending a bespoke course at RMA Sandhurst to commit to the values we place on true leadership.
All of this ensures that our people, at all levels, are encouraged to maximise their potential and contribute to our future success as a business.
Health and safety Our focus continues to be seeking to eliminate workplace injuries, to protect our environment and to increase our peoples awareness of occupational health and well-being.
Whilst we have delivered a reduction in our Accident Incidence Rate AIR during the year, we continue to strive towards our goal of Zero Harm.
Our Positive Safety Leadership PSL programme is strong and continues to have an impact throughout the Group.
There is clear evidence that as PSL interventions increase, our accident rates decrease.
Our Occupational Health Programme seeks to address a range of health issues.
During the year over 600 Kier and subcontract personnel took part in a number of health-related discussions on our sites and over 2,000 employees received display screen equipment training and assessments.
Watford Colosseum Watford The Watford Colosseum is a 5m extension and t-out of a Grade II listed music venue including the refurbishment of the 1,800-seat auditorium.
Mayor of Watford, Dorothy Thornhill, commented I am so pleased with how it looks and feels!
This is another fantastic project, completed on time and on budget, that is about investing in the future of the town.
Our business Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 15 Looking to the future, we have robust strategic plans in place I would like to express my thanks, and those of the Kier Group to deliver best-in-class safety, health and environment SHE Board, to all of our employees for their continued professionalism, performance and support to our employees and clients.
Our current AIR stands at 301 per 100,000 2011: 389 which is Prospects signi cantly lower than the current Health and Safety Executive The current trading environment will continue to be challenging.
Whilst it is recognised that we rank Ongoing public sector spending cuts are affecting levels of well within the top quartile of SHE performers and continue to construction and services activity, and private sector con dence, improve our performance year on year, we have also challenged although stronger in the south-east, remains fragile.
ourselves to do even better.
The visible leadership of our people, management teams, supply chain, clients and partners is Our well-balanced business model, which offers a range of critical if we are to retain our position as industry leaders in services, including investment, planning and design, construction, SHE performance.
maintenance, soft and hard facilities management, waste, energy and environmental services and regeneration, provides stability.
Another independent assessment of the quality of our approach It also allows us to respond rapidly to changing markets and to running our projects, which includes a signi cant safety position ourselves favourably when new opportunities arise.
element, is the Considerate Constructors Scheme CCS.
Under this scheme, we received 36 National Site Awards during the year, We will continue to seek out areas of growth across the UK and re ecting a consistently high performance across the country.
our chosen overseas markets and, by utilising our strong balance sheet, we are con dent that our robust performance will continue People and that we will further bene t when the economy begins Every day 10,000 people come to work for Kier in the UK and to improve.
overseas, working towards creating and maintaining a sustainable built environment in its many forms and delivering essential and ef cient local services.
It is through their effort and commitment Paul Shef eld that we remain a strong business and can report such a solid set Chief Executive of results despite the current economic environment.
Recent business and economic challenges have meant that we have needed to ask more of our people, and I am incredibly proud of the results that they have achieved this year.
We continue to deliver safely, to programme, to budget and to great quality, and Essa Academy Bolton Kier Construction completed work on the new 14.5m Essa Academy in Bolton.
The 8,303sq m academy, procured through the Academies Framework, provides a unique 900-place learning environment for 11 to 16-year-olds and is now fully occupied.
Central to the sophisticated academy is the fully glazed International Business and Enterprise Centre IBEC an interactive facility and of cial Apple Learning Centre that oats above the reception and the main entrance so that the activities and events inside can be seen on the approach to the building.
Q & A with Paul Shefeld 16 Staying focused Resilient in changing times take shape.
Without a clear focus on the pro table What is being accomplished?
areas of our markets we would have seen our Against the backdrop of the Eurozone uncertainties, revenues and pro tability decline in line with the severe government spending cuts and increasingly overall marketplace.
This has clearly not been competitive market pressures, Kier has maintained the case and we continue to see our order books a robust financial business performance.
This, at healthy levels giving us good visibility of together with our order book being sustained at future income.
the same level for the last two years, represents a great accomplishment by the Company and all its How will it work?
In a dif cult trading environment, it is very We will keep focused on the markets and sectors easy to become distracted by one-off opportunities which we perceive to have the greatest growth and a desire to maintain revenue at all costs.
This will inevitably mean investing and we have held a rm focus on the pursuit of projects redeploying our resources to enable us to deliver new whether in Construction, Services or Property or changing opportunities.
The recent investment in that reward those who are able to use their skills Biogen and the sale of much of our Plant business and technical knowledge to re-engineer processes re ects this strategy.
We recognise, however, that our and schemes to create value for our customers.
workforce also has to remain agile in their skills and As a result of the diverse geography that we cover capabilities as we adjust our focus.
Strong, strategic across the UK and overseas, together with the wide leadership is even more important in todays market range of capability that we have developed over the and we are continuing to invest signi cantly in the years, we are able to respond to particular market development of our people with this in mind.
sectors that show the most opportunity in this regard.
By continuing to demonstrate our value for money Whats next?
solutions to our many repeat customers we have been We are positioning our business in so many ways able to maintain a high proportion of our revenue to ensure we are in a strong position when the streams from our long term frameworks.
Not only does this include training and developing our leaders, investing Why is it necessary?
in new business and resources but also ensuring Public sector work represented a high proportion that all of our business processes are robust enough of our revenues a few years ago and the predicted to carry us into the next phase of our growth.
cut backs in government spending could have Information technology is a vital part of our ability severely dented both our order books and our to communicate and deliver our work so this has revenues.
However, our ability to move into other become a prominent focus for our investment in markets in the private sector and overseas, has the short and medium term.
We are also looking helped maintain a consistency in our performance.
at raising our brand in the marketplace and raising In Construction, we have seen an 18% reduction in awareness of our integrated business offerings.
the overall activity levels across the industry higher We also recognise that being very proactive in our in the public sector and slightly lower in the private corporate responsibilities will not only help us win sector and a signi cant price fide ation in parallel work but will also make us a better employer, a with that.
In Services, there has been a very rapid better in uence on the environment and a better cut back in capital works programmes although the partner in the communities in which we work.
medium term outlook remains one of growth once the anticipated outsourcing process starts to Our business Kings Cross London Refurbishment of the Grade I listed barrel-vaulted train shed roof at Kings Cross Station including design and installation of a photovoltaic laminated glass roof covering.
This has entailed the installation of 15,000sq m of glazing of which 2,500sq m is photovoltaic glass that will generate 10% of the stations electricity requirements.
Q & A with Paul Shefeld 18 Pushing boundaries Focus on growth markets What is being accomplished?
Similarly, market forces have made us rethink and focus our housing activities on The pro le of our revenue and order book has rapidly switched from declining public sector work into the a more stable and predictable sector with a strong social need.
Our Services offering, while maintaining its bedrock of local authority How will it work?
repair and maintenance activities, has been able to secure work with private sector Registered Social We need to be incredibly vigilant in looking for new business opportunities but equally we have to be Landlords RSLs and has considerably expanded its Environmental business which includes waste risk-aware.
It would be easy to dive into new markets without fully understanding all aspects of that collection, recycling and waste to energy activities.
Our Construction division has focused on expanding market, the margins attainable, the realistic long term prospects, the competition or the technical our civil engineering and overseas businesses pushing the boundaries that we have been working and resource requirements to ensure success.
We are con dent that our concentration on each growth within over recent years whilst reducing our exposure to some of the more commoditised and market, either through acquisition or organic growth, can be fully resourced, managed and has af nity competitive building projects, particularly those where the sole tender selection criterion is lowest with our overall integrated business model.
It is essential that our focus on growth markets does not price.
We have been able to increase our activities outside the UK, building upon our reputation and mean we take our eyes off the ball when it comes to maintaining and nurturing all of our existing experience in the Caribbean, Hong Kong and the Middle East.
All of these growing markets have businesses.
This means that our customer focus, our attention to detail, our management of the supply challenging entry levels and Kier is one of only a few having the resources human, technical and financial chain and our continued emphasis on intelligent and innovative delivery to maximise value to all of our to gain access to these opportunities.
Meanwhile, our Property division has been innovative in its customers is maintained.
approach to its investment activities, developing a series of bespoke partnerships to maximise the Whats next?
The last six months of our financial year saw us assets of clients across a range of sectors, from railway stations to corporate headquarters and from make two small company acquisitions and one disposal.
Acquiring Stewart Milne Construction will re stations to major regeneration schemes.
Finally, the focus of our house-building activities into the help strengthen our position in Scotland and will open up a signi cant market for us pushing our affordable homes sector, and growing relationships with housing associations, is proving a more secure geographical boundaries.
Biogen, our new 50% JV company with Bedfordia Group will enhance what we and predictable business.
already do in our Environmental business and moves us into a new business activity in power generation Why is it necessary?
Since the turn of the century many of our traditional from the waste stream we already collect pushing our technical boundaries.
Our Infrastructure and markets in each of our business streams have enjoyed consistent growth following high levels of Overseas business has grown considerably over the last three years and is poised to take advantage government spending and a con dent private sector keen to invest in social infrastructure schemes.
of the huge markets in which we operate in Hong Kong, the Middle East and Caribbean, where margins The cut backs in central spending on education, hospitals, custodial and other mainstream capital should be considerably better than the UK.
projects, combined with local authority spending cuts, have encouraged us to push the boundaries and We have a strong balance sheet and will continue to seek to invest where returns can be predictable, seek new or growing markets.
Within a contracting market there will inevitably be increasing competition secure and enriching.
Releasing cash through the disposal of our non-core Plant hire business to be and corresponding pressures on margins so it has been essential for us to secure and maintain as redeployed in better quality investments further underpins that intent.
much of our work as possible though frameworks Our business Mei Foo Station Hong Kong The contract is part of the 16km-long new underground rail link between Hong Kong and Guangzhou in China.
Q & A with Paul Shefeld 20 Optimising capabilities Leveraging our integrated model What is being accomplished?
Risks, as identi ed in our annual report every year see pages 51 to 53, re ects this need to address We have a very well balanced business model in which the three core divisions support each other generic issues that will bring common standards to all of our activities.
Our Construction and Services businesses generate cash which is used by our How will it work?
Property teams to deliver signi cantly enhanced pro ts.
The projects put together by our Property We manage and promote our integrated business model at every level.
The Board is supported by two business provide construction and services work for our other divisions.
For some customers, senior management teams which are representative of the main business streams and meet on a this provides a compelling solution.
Few of our competitors can offer such a comprehensive cradle regular basis.
This includes the OMT Operational Management Team which focuses on operational to grave service for the wider built environment and society at large.
This enables us to provide issues that will drive value to our business through better understanding and a closer process of either one-off solutions or a wider value-added platform combining two or more of our services, working together.
It also has a focus on increasing value, reducing costs, improving communication and right through to the total one-stop approach that enables us to plan, design, finance, build, manage how we develop key accounts and new markets.
The second is the Executive Management Team EMT and maintain customers assets over the long term.
It is this capability that has secured us preferred see page 9 which incorporates OMT members as well as the directors of the core central services development partner for Siemens in developing its major mixed-use scheme in Manchester and for the IT, HR, legal, corporate communications, health & safety all ensuring consistency, coordination 240m Watford Health Campus.
It is how we are working as a partner with Network Rail in the growing and collaboration.
At the highest level of each division we ensure cross-divisional dialogue on an Solum Regeneration station redevelopment business and it is an attribute we can bring to PFI schemes operational basis.
Across all of our various internal corporate communications tools, ranging from our where the whole project lifecycle can be delivered by our business and has helped us to reach preferred annual Directors Forum, through our employee journal, newswires, CEO videos and intranet, we bidder on two new PFI schemes this year with a combined value of more than 100m.
encourage cross-divisional dialogue, the sharing of best practice, knowledge management and examples Why is it necessary?
of projects brought to the table through integrated approaches.
It has now become a mindset in Kier All business is cyclical.
The diversity of our three divisions and all of their individual business that we are one company and we have an integrated range of business streams that we can call upon to streams means that we have the ability to align and balance resources to best match changing help deliver the best for customers.
When there is a downturn in one sector we have the capability Whats next?
The quest for total integration between people within to switch resources to a more buoyant sector and in this way aim to keep a balanced revenue our business is an on-going process.
As we deliver more and more integrated projects we nd further stream across the Company.
Most importantly, the integrated model gives our customers the broadest enhancements and synergies that can be used on future schemes.
At the same time our people range of services and capabilities to meet their requirements.
It means we can bring in skills, become more pro cient and con dent in exploring and delivering those improvements and our business expertise and experience from one part of the business to help another part to give the greatest is strengthened as a consequence.
An example of this is the opportunity we have created for ourselves range of knowledge and intelligence to nd the best solutions.
Integrated helps us share customer through investment in the anaerobic digestion market.
As we embark on our new venture with experiences where innovative solutions found for our clients by one business stream can be brought Biogen we will be able to bring to bear our financial engineering capability, our construction skills and to help another client facing similar challenges.
Although we do have a varied range of businesses our operational expertise to accelerate the growth of the business.
We continue to seek further we bring an integrated approach to many issues from health and safety to financial controls, from integrated opportunities where we can offer excellence to our customers.
corporate responsibility to business ethics all to the highest standards.
The pro le of our Business Our business Travelodge Hemel Hempstead A new 108-bedroom Travelodge along with a Toby Carvery restaurant on the ground oor located at the gateway to Hemel Hempsteads business district.
The project successfully delivered a total of 131 modules, 108 of which were en-suite hotel bedrooms.
The others consisted of plant rooms, cleaning areas, corridor cassettes and stair cores.
All of the bedroom modules are designed speci cally to meet the stringent design requirements of the Travelodge brand.
At Kiers request the installation was completed using mast climbers as opposed to scaffolding, which improved delivery timescales and reduced costs.
Elements Europe also sourced and managed a modular pre-cast concrete lift shaft for the scheme.
All pods were installed on top of a steel grillage transfer system, which then provided suitable ground oor reception and back of house areas.
This was Kiers first ever fully modular development, and was completed to a high acoustic rating due to its location on the main link road to the M1 Motorway.
Q & A with Paul Shefeld 22 Maximising assets Investing in our people What is being accomplished?
integrated business model, the Group will remain Kiers ongoing success has been built upon the strong and will be capable of substantial growth in remarkable skills, efforts and loyalty of our people.
But we cannot do any of these things When we say our people we genuinely include the unless we have people who are suf ciently skilled, whole range of Kier people from our street services quali ed and motivated to make them happen.
Only operatives across the country to our most highly by ensuring that we engage with and develop our quali ed engineers working on highly technical people can we remain agile in adapting to new market projects under the streets of London and Hong opportunities.
Only by good, intelligent leadership Kong.
We also value the spread of disciplines can we forge fresh approaches and bring innovative that make a company like ours tick the quantity solutions for our customers.
Only by having the best surveyors, accountants, project managers and safety engineers and other professionals can we deliver supervisors.
As with all successful companies, the a truly professional and reliable business that quality of leadership at every level is what really customers can rely upon.
Finally, looking after our delivers great customer service and extraordinary people is a rm cornerstone of our Group corporate performance.
We have always been committed to responsibility commitment.
excellence in management and over the last four years have developed an employee engagement How will it work?
strategy that this year has seen us undertake a We continually innovate with best practice in all of major staff survey.
Over 65% of our staff responded our training and development programmes, review and despite the market and conditions we have progress and outcomes and adjust them or add to had some very encouraging feedback.
However we them as required to cater for our diverse workforce.
have a number of areas where we can still improve We embrace new methods of delivering our training and ensuring our leaders embrace the learning initiatives through a mix of classroom learning, and communication challenges this will bring is a coaching, e-learning and experiential learning.
We key target for us over the next year.
Our innovative are fully committed to giving all our employees at all Team Leader Apprenticeship has now been of cially levels access to excellent training opportunities to launched by Vince Cable MP and we have been become productive members of the Kier team.
recognised as the Apprentice Employer of the Year by the UKCG.
Our bespoke Foundation Degree is Whats next?
now entering its fifth year and we now have 132 We will continue to review and improve all our graduates or undergraduates via this programme.
employee training and development based upon Amongst the leadership team we have launched the feedback, workshops and action plans which a leadership charter in partnership with RMA are being formulated following our recent employee Sandhurst through which we aim to ensure all our engagement survey.
We have also established a senior management are seen to be motivational at working group to develop a more robust equality all times.
This wide range of development activity will and diversity policy and a wider reaching strategy in help ensure that we maximise the potential of our our aim to foster a culture of tolerance and openpeople at every level, thus ensuring they are able to mindedness that embraces diversity in all of its contribute to the future success of our business.
forms across all of our businesses.
The fundamental purpose of this approach is to ensure we have Why is it necessary?
tomorrows leaders in the business today and that By focusing on growing markets, by staying focused they are nurtured and up-skilled to take on the and resilient in changing times and by leveraging our challenges of our current economic landscape.
Our business Keisha Keane, IT service desk analyst Sandy, Bedfordshire Keishas role is to capture and record IT incidents as a first point of contact for Kier employees on the service desk, provide first and second line support to end-users and to manage calls allocated to the service desk, or escalate as required to the Group business services manager or service desk manager.
Since Keisha has been employed by Kier she has attended the Mitel telephone training and has been involved with the roll out of MS Of ce 2010 and MS Lync and is currently working towards her ITIL certi cations.
