06 Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 B USINESS REVIEW CR EATING THE LEADER However, the lack of sizeable, global manufacturer brands in our ATTRACTIVE MARKETS sector has meant there has been relatively limited product innovation in recent years to make home improvement easier and more accessible Our aim is to deliver faster growth and for the consumer.
As a result demand has not been stimulated to its full potential.
This is particularly true in the more developed markets, such higher returns by working together to as the UK and France where householders generally have a list of work needed to be done but their repair, maintenance or improvement jobs become the worlds expert at making are thought to be too complicated or too costly.
We believe there is a big home improvement easier for customers.
opportunity for a real retail leader to emerge to address this opportunity and unlock the latent demand in these markets.
The next phase of our development CREATING THE LEADER builds on the success of Delivering Value We start this new and exciting phase with a clear sense of purpose and new ambition, having now repositioned Kingsher as a stronger business which has repositioned Kingsher as a in the attractive home improvement market.
strong business in the attractive home Our unique contribution as a business to our customers is that we can harness our international scale, sourcing capability, our heritage as a improvement market.
leader in sustainability and our home improvement experience to bring new, more sustainable and more affordable products to market.
By also providing our customers with project advice and new shopping channels We currently operate in eight countries, spanning over 500 million to complement our stores we will make it easier for them to adapt their households.
Over 100 billion is spent per year on repairing, maintaining homes to their evolving needs.
Our shorthand for describing this new and improving these homes.
Spending in developed markets has tended purpose is Better Homes, Better Lives see gure 1. to reect underlying consumption patterns whilst in the developing markets rising wealth is fuelling accelerated growth as home owners By working towards this purpose we will unlock more benefit for all our catch up with developed country standards.
As well as growth potential, stakeholders, creating a more valuable business for our shareholders, the home improvement market is also attractive to retailers because of abetter partner for our suppliers and a more secure and bright future the relatively small number of well-known manufacturer brands.
This for our colleagues, as well as a more sustainable business for our means a specialist home improvement retailer provides a vital role for localcommunities.
the consumer by offering a wide product choice and expert advice.
They In March 2011 we set out the key elements of the Creating the Leader can offer a high proportion of own brand product, achieve economies phase that will form the cornerstones of our strategy for the coming of buying scale and have a more defensible position against online or years.
In September 2011 we announced more details on the generalist operators when compared with other retail segments.
opportunity and the progress we have made with common ranging.
1: CREATING THE LEADER A CLEAR SENSE OF PURPOSE 2: CREATING THE LEADER EIGHT STEPS 1.
Making it easier for customers to improve theirhome EASIER 2.
Giving our customers more ways to shop 3.
Building innovative common brands COMMON 4.
Driving efficiency and effectiveness everywhere 5.
Growing our presence in existing markets EXPAND 6.
Expanding in new and developing markets 7.
Developing leaders and connecting people ONE TEAM 8.
Sustainability: becoming Net Positive BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 07 In March 2012 we provided more detail, including the specic eight FINANCIAL BENEFITS steps that make up the new medium-term plan, along with their Becoming the best at making home improvement easier for our customers associated key success measures and short-term milestones which whilst at the same time driving more commonality throughout our are detailed on pages 8 to 9. business will drive significant financial benets.
These eight steps see gure 2 are grouped under our four strategic Five years from now we expect to have largely completed the work pillars of Easier, Common, Expand and One Team: streams announced in March.
Predicting the potential retail profit benets from this programme today, when we dont know the economic EASIER We believe we can stimulate the overall market, grow our conditions or competitive landscape we will face in five years time is like-for-like LFL sales and our market share by becoming the worlds very difficult.
However, whatever the conditions, we believe our efforts expert at making home improvement easier for our customers.
will drive higher LFL sales, higher gross margin and more cost COMMON By having a 50% core common range across all our efficiencies than would have been delivered without this programme.
businesses we will use our scale to accelerate innovation, stimulating We anticipate that around two additional percentage points of LFL overall market demand and growing our LFL sales and our market share.
sales growth, one additional percentage point of gross margin after Our scale will also make home improvement more affordable for our reinvesting some sourcing gains into lower prices and a one percentage customers whilst boosting our margins.
point reduction in the cost to sales ratio will arise from this programme.
EXPAND By becoming the best at making home improvement easier In total, we estimate that this would create an additional 300 million and developing a core common range we will be able to accelerate and of annualised retail profit in the fifth year, net of price reinvestment improve our expansion, thereby growing total sales and market share.
and based on the size of the business and market conditions today see gure 4.
ONE TEAM Create a unique networked organisation, stronger than the sum of its parts, whilst harnessing our diversity and closeness to Further details of the aims, measures and milestones of the Creating the local customer.
the Leader programme can be found on the following pages.
Successful delivery of the next phase will require us to complete the journey from our origins as a retail conglomerate to a single, unied retailer see gure 3.
Much progress has been made in recent years and the organisation is now ready to complete the final steps in our journey, thereby unlocking the full potential of our unique international talent andscale.
Watch how employees around the Group are working together to develop common product ranges www.
com AR11-12 commonranges 3: ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE 4: ANNUALISED BENEFITS TARGETED FOR YEAR FIVE Past Today Future Conglomerate Federation Integrated 2% LFL outperformance 1% 300M higher Gross Margin additional Retail profit percentage assuming 50% in year five reinvested in affordability 100% local ex 80% local ex 20% local ex Direct sourcing Direct sourcing 1% expertise expertise Brand managers better cost efficiency Innovators Adding profit at the gross margin rate 08 Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 B USINESS REVIEW CR EATING THE LEADER AIMS, MEASURES AND MILESTONES 1.
MAKING IT EASIER FOR OUR CUSTOMERS TO IMPROVE THEIR HOME EA SIER BECOME THE WORLDS EXPERT Key work streams: 2012 13 milestones AT MAKING HOME IMPROVEMENT t Keeping prices low and competitive t Complete UK roll out of DIY training classes EASIER FOR CUSTOMERS, t Easier products to use t Launch B&Q YouTube Channel with how to video THEREBY GROWING OUR t Easier stores to shop instructions for the most popular DIY projects LIKE-FOR-LIKE SALES AND t DIY education and advice t Test new formats in UK, France, Turkey, Russia & China OUR MARKET SHARE t Online research, design and forums t Prepare for the UKs Green Deal t fide-mystify eco for the home Measure: LFL sales growth 2.
GIVING OUR CUSTOMERS MORE WAYS TO SHOP Key work streams: 2012 13 milestones t Group multi-channel platform t Launch Screwx Mobile click, pay & collect offer t Smartphone and tablets t Develop a Group multi-channel platform and implement t Click, pay & collect in store first in TradePoint t Upgrade B&Qs online offer t Trial click & collect in Castorama France Measure: Unique web users 3.
BUILDING INNOVATIVE COMMON BRANDS CO MMON USE OUR SCALE TO ACCELERATE Key work streams: 2012 13 milestones INNOVATION AND MAKE t Direct sourcing t 18% of sales to be direct sourced HOME IMPROVEMENT MORE t Common ranges t 7% of sales to be common AFFORDABLE FOR OUR t New product innovation t Double direct sourcing in our developing markets Poland, CUSTOMERS WHILST t Coordinated range changes Russia, Turkey and China BOOSTING OUR PROFITABILITY t Extend Trade common own brands in Screwx and Brico Dpt Measure: 50% of all product sales to be common vs c2% now, 35% direct sourced vs 15% now 4.
DRIVING EFFICIENCY AND EFFECTIVENESS EVERYWHERE Key work streams: 2012 13 milestones t Supply chain efficiency t Develop a Group-wide stock forecasting and replenishment t Streamlining in-store processes IT solution, implement first in B&Q UK t Harmonisation of IT t GNFR savings from European-wide supply negotiations, t Goods not for resale GNFR including marketing catalogue printing and store xture and ttings costs Measure: Retail profit margin BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 09 5.
GROWING OUR PRESENCE IN EXISTING MARKETS EX PAND ACCELERATE AND IMPROVE Key work streams: 2012 13 milestones PROFITABLE EXPANSION t Opening new stores t Open 67 stores UK 50, France 2, Poland 6, Russia 2, t Developing store formats Turkey 4, Spain 3 t Revamp and extend 5 Castorama France stores Measure: Kingsher Economic profit KEP, see denition on page 14 6.
EXPANDING IN NEW AND DEVELOPING MARKETS Key work streams: 2012 13 milestones t Research new territory entry t Test a Do It For Me store format in China t Test a Do It For Me DFM store format to complement our existing DIY and Trade formats Measure: Kingsher Economic profit KEP, see denition on page 14 7.
DEVELOPING LEADERS AND CONNECTING PEOPLE ON E TEAM HARNESS OUR TALENT, BECOME A Key work streams: 2012 13 milestones FORCE FOR GOOD t Kingsher Academy t Launch the Kingsher Academy t Cross-Group networks Measure: Engagement scores 8.
SUSTAINABILITY: BECOMING NET POSITIVE 2012 13 milestones Key work streams: t Launch Net Positive sustainability plan and associated t Timber scorecard t Energy t Communities t Innovation Measure: Net Positive scorecard
