BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 21 GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Daniel Bernard Ian Cheshire Kevin OByrne Responsibility: Chairman Responsibility: Group Chief Executive Responsibility: Group Finance Director Kevin will become Current directorships: Joined the Board as Deputy Chairman Current directorships: Appointed to the Board in June 2000 Kingsher Divisional CEO, B&Q following the management in May 2006 before being appointed Chairman on 3 June and as Group Chief Executive in January 2008.
He is also a changes announced on the 16th February 2012.
He is President of Provestis, his own investment Non-Executive Director of Whitbread plc, lead Non-Executive Current directorships: Appointed to the Board as Group company and since January 2010, has been Chairman of Member on the Department for Work and Pensions Board, Finance Director in October 2008.
He is also a Non-Executive MAF Retail Group, Dubai.
He has also been Senior Advisor Member of the Corporate Leaders Group on Climate Change, Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Land of Towerbrook Capital Partners since October 2010.
He is a and a Member of the Employers Forum on Disability Securities Group plc.
Non-Executive Director of Alcatel Lucent and Capgemini.
He also chairs the Ecosystem Markets Expertise: He previously worked for Dixons Retail plc He is also President of the HEC Business School Foundation Task Force.
from 2002 to 2008 where he was Group Finance Director.
in Paris and a member of the Advisory Board of HEC.
Expertise: He was previously Chief Executive, B&Q UK from Previously he was European Finance Director at Expertise: He was Chairman and Chief Executive of June 2005.
He was appointed Chief Executive International Quaker Oats Limited.
Carrefour, the Paris-based retail group and worlds second and Development in September 2002, Chief Executive of largest retailer, from 1992 to 2005.
Prior to Carrefour, he e-Kingsher in May 2000 and was Group Director of Strategy was Chief Operating officer of METRO, Germanys leading & Development.
Before joining Kingsher he worked for a international retailer.
He was previously a Non-Executive number of retail businesses including Sears plc where he Director of Compagnie fide St Gobain until June 2006. was Group Commercial Director.
Andrew Boneld Pascal Cagni Clare Chapman Responsibility: Non-Executive Director Responsibility: Non-Executive Director Responsibility: Non-Executive Director Current directorships: Appointed to the Board in February Current directorships: Appointed to the Board in November Current directorships: She is currently Group People Director 2010.
He is Finance Director of National Grid plc.
He is currently Vice President and General Manager of BT and is on the Advisory Board of the Judge Institute, Expertise: He was previously Chief Financial officer of of Apple Europe, Middle-East, India and Africa, and has the Business School of the University of Cambridge.
Cadbury plc and prior to that he was Chief Financial officer been with Apple for ten years in a variety of roles.
Expertise: She was previously the Director General of of Bristol-Myers Squibb from 2002 to 2007, Finance Director Expertise: His previous experience includes roles at NEC, Workforce for the NHS and Social Care and was also a of BG Group plc from 2001 to 2002 and Chief Financial Compaq and Booz Allen Hamilton.
He has also held the Non-Executive Director of TUI Travel plc and Chairman of officer of SmithKline Beecham Plc from 1999 to 2000 position of Non-Executive Director on the board of Egg its Remuneration Committee.
Her previous experience also during an 11-year period with the pharmaceuticals group.
Banking plc, the online banking arm of Prudential plc includes Group HR director of Tesco plc from 1999-2006 from2002 to 2006 and on the board of Atari, the computer and HR vice president of Pepsi Colas West and Central games company.
Anders Dahlvig Janis Kong Mark Seligman Responsibility: Non-Executive Director Responsibility: Non-Executive Director Responsibility: Senior Independent Director Current directorships: Appointed to the Board in December Current directorships: Appointed to the Board in December Current directorships: Appointed to the Board in January 2009.
He is a Director of Oriame Cosmetics AB, H&M 2006.
She is a Non-Executive Director of Portmeirion Group 2012.
He is a Non-Executive Director of BG Group plc, where Hennes & Mauritz AB and Axel Johnson AB: and is Chairman PLC, Network Rail and VisitBritain, and Chairman of the he is also Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He serves as an of The New Wave Group and a member of the Advisory Board of Trustees of Forum for the Future.
She is also a alternate member of the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers, Board of Lund University Business School.
Non-Executive of Copenhagen Airports A S. is Chairman of the Industrial Development Advisory Board, Expertise: He was previously Chief Executive and President Expertise: She was previously a Non-Executive Director a Member of the Regional Growth Fund advisory panel of The IKEA Group from 1999 to 2009, having spent 26 of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and, until her and Non-Executive Deputy Chairman of G4S, where he years with the company.
Prior to becoming Chief Executive, retirement in March 2006, was a Director of BAA plc and is also Chairman of the Audit Committee.
he was Vice President of IKEA Europe from 1997 to 1999 Chairman of Heathrow Airport Ltd for five years as well as Expertise: He was a senior advisor at Credit Suisse.
and Managing Director of IKEA UK from 1993 to 1997. being Chairman of Heathrow Express.
Prior to that she was He began his career at Price Waterhouse and spent over Managing Director of Gatwick Airport and has held a number 30 years in the City, including senior roles at SG Warburg, of operational roles within BAA during her 33-year career BZW and Credit Suisse First Boston.
At Credit Suisse he with the company.
was Deputy Chairman Europe from 1999 to 2005 and later Chairman UK Investment Banking from 2003 to 2005.
Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee See pages 27 to 34 for further details.
