BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 23 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS INDEMNITY ARRANGEMENTS The directors present their report and The Company has provided qualifying third-party deeds of indemnity for the benefit of each director and former director who held ofce during the audited financial statements for the 2011 12 financial year.
The Company has also purchased and maintained financial year ended 28 January 2012.
Directors and Ofcers liability insurance throughout 2011 12.
Neither the indemnities nor the insurance provide cover in the event that the director PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES concerned is proved to have acted fraudulently.
The principal activity of Kingsher plc and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, joint venture and associates is the delivery of the full range of products DIRECTORS INTERESTS and services of an international home improvement retail business.
Details of directors remuneration, service contracts and interests in the Companys shares and share options are set out in the Directors BUSINESS MODEL Remuneration Report on pages 35 to 46.
No director had a material Our business model is to generate value by selling home improvement interest at any time during the year in any derivative or financial products and services to customers through our stores, catalogues and instrument relating to the Companys shares.
We focus on sourcing high quality, innovative and exclusive products at good prices using our network of sourcing ofces PRINCIPAL RISK IDENTIFICATION AND MANAGEMENT around the world.
In doing so, we maximise our scale as Europes largest The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group have been reviewed home improvement retailer and the diversity of our geographical scope.
by the Board and are shown in the Risks section on pages 18 to 20.
The We aim to generate retail profit by keeping costs low, both within our Risks section also provides information on the performance of the Board stores and our supply chain, maximising sales per square foot and in actively managing those risks, to allow assessment of how the directors generating high returns on our cost of capital.
have performed their statutory duty to promote the success of theCompany.
BUSINESS REVIEW The Business Review, which is set out on pages 1 to 20 provides a EMPLOYEES comprehensive review of the development, performance and future The commitment of the Groups employees is vital to ensure that high prospects of the Groups operations for the year ended 28 January 2012. standards of customer care and service are maintained throughout the The information set out in the Business Review includes the Groups Key business.
The Group is fully committed to treating its employees and Performance Indicators, a statement on Corporate Responsibility, a customers with dignity and respect, and to valuing diversity.
It is Group Financial Review including financial and capital risk, and a description policy to: of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
These sections ensure there is no discrimination in employment on the grounds are incorporated by reference and deemed to form part of this report.
of race, gender, age, disability, marital status, sexual orientation or religiousbelief: DIVIDENDS implement measures in stores to ensure a level of customer service The directors recommend a final dividend of 6.37p 2010 11: 5.145p for disabled people equivalent to that offered to non-disabled people: per ordinary share amounting to 148m 2010 11: 121m to be paid and on 18June 2012 to members appearing on the Register at the close maintain a mechanism which customers and employees can use of business on 4 May 2012.
Together with the interim dividend of 2.47p to give feedback on the Groups performance and ensure that all 2010 11: 1.925p per ordinary share, amounting to 57m 2010 11: customer comments are analysed, responded to and acted upon.
45m, paid on 11 November 2011, the total dividend for the financial year ended 28 January 2012 will be 8.84p 2010 11: 7.07p per ordinary Across the Group, women accounted for 40% of total employees and 29% share, amounting to 205m 2010 11: 166m.
B&Q UK continued its long-established policy of promoting age diversity, with around a quarter of its employees aged over50.
The Kingsher Employee benefit Trust has waived all dividends payable by the Company in respect of the ordinary shares held by it.
The total The Groups statement on employee development is set out in the People dividends waived in the year to 28 January 2012 were in aggregate section of the Companys website www.
employee involvement through participation in share incentive schemes are contained in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 35 to 46.
DIRECTORS There are a number of communication channels in place to help Full biographical details of the current directors are set out on page 21.
John Nelson retired from the Board on 8 September 2011.
Mark Seligman employees to develop their knowledge of, and enhance their involvement with, the Group.
These channels include engagement surveys, brieng joined the Board as Senior Independent Director on 1 January 2012 and groups, internal magazines and newsletters that report on business will seek appointment by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on performance and objectives, community involvement and other applicable 14 June 2012.
In accordance with the principles of the UK Corporate issues.
Directors and senior management regularly visit stores and discuss Governance Code, all directors will retire and will be submitted for matters of current interest and concern with employees.
appointment or re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting in2012.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Details of the Groups corporate responsibility policy and operations are set out on page 10.
24 Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 GOVERNANCE D IRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED CHARITABLE DONATIONS The Company does not have agreements with any director or officer that Kingsher and its subsidiaries made contributions to charity community would provide compensation for loss of ofce or employment resulting projects worth an estimated 1.77m 2010 11: 1.59m during the from a takeover, except that provisions of the Companys share incentive financial year ended 28 January 2012 equivalent to 0.2% of pre-tax schemes may cause options and awards granted under such schemes profits.
This included cash donations 1.21m and gifts-in-kind 0.32m to vest on a takeover.
Support was also given through the donation of time by employees 0.24m.
ESSENTIAL CONTRACTS There is no information that the Company would be required to disclose POLITICAL DONATIONS about persons with whom it has contractual or other arrangements which The Board annually seeks and obtains shareholders approval to enable are essential to the business of the Company.
the Group to make donations or incur expenditure in relation to EU political parties, other political organisations or independent election SHARE CAPITAL candidates under section 366 of the Companies Act 2006.
Details of the Companys issued share capital are set out in note 28 of the consolidated financial statements.
All of the Companys issued ordinary The Group made no political donations during the year 2010 11: Nil.
As shares are fully paid up and rank equally in all respects.
with previous annual approvals, the Group has no intention of changing its current policy and practice of not making political donations.
The Board The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, seeks the approval on a precautionary basis to avoid any unintentional in addition to those conferred on their holders by law, are set out in the breach of the relevant provisions.
Shareholder approval will be sought at Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from this years Annual General Meeting to renew this authority, further details the Companys website.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to are provided in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
receive the Companys Annual Report and Accounts, to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise SUPPLIER PAYMENT POLICY voting rights.
The Company does not impose standard payment terms on its suppliers There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares or on the but agrees specic terms with each of them, and then pays in accordance exercise of voting rights attached to them, except i where the Company with those terms.
On average, the Companys suppliers are paid in 45days.
has exercised its right to suspend their voting rights or to prohibit their transfer following the omission of their holder or any person interested in SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS CHANGE OF CONTROL them to provide the Company with information requested by it in There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate accordance with Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006 or ii where their upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, such holder is precluded from exercising voting rights by the Financial Services as bank loan agreements, Medium Term Note MTN documentation, Authority Listing Rules or the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
private placement debt and employee share plans.
None of these are deemed to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the The Company has a Sponsored Level 1 American Deposit Receipt ADR business of the Group as a whole except for: programme in the United States.
the 200 million credit facility dated 8 July 2011 between, the AUTHORITY TO ALLOT SHARES Company, HSBC Bank plc as the facility agent and the banks At the Annual General Meeting AGM in 2011, shareholders approved a named therein as lenders, which contains a provision such that in the resolution to give the directors authority to allot shares up to an aggregate event of a change of control, any lender may, if they so require, notify nominal value of 123,826,267.
In addition, shareholders approved a the agent that they wish to cancel their commitment whereupon the resolution to give the directors authority to allot up to a nominal amount commitment of that lender will be cancelled and all their outstanding of 247,652,535 in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue in loans, together with accrued interest, will become immediately due accordance with ABI guidance.
If this additional allotment authority were and payable: used, the ABI guidance will be followed.
The directors have no present the US$297 million US Private Placement notes, issued pursuant to intention to issue ordinary shares, other than pursuant to employee share a note purchase agreement dated 24 May 2006 by the Company to incentive schemes.
These resolutions remain valid until the conclusion of various institutions, which contains a provision such that in the event this years AGM when resolutions will be proposed to renew these of a change of control, the Company is required to make an offer to authorities.
the holders of the US Private Placement notes to prepay the principal amount of the notes together with interest accrued: and AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE OWN SHARES the 200 million MTNs, issued on 23 November 2005 under the At the AGM in 2011, shareholders approved a resolution for the Groups 2,500 million MTN programme by the Company to various Companyto make purchases of its own shares to a maximum number institutions, which contains an option such that in the event of a of236,395,602 ordinary shares, being approximately 10% of the issued change of control and, as a result of the change of control, the share capital.
This resolution remains valid until the conclusion of this Companys credit rating is downgraded below investment grade years AGM on 14 June 2012.
As at 21 March 2012, the directors have BBB or equivalent any holder of the MTNs may require the not used this authority.
In order to retain maximum exibility, a resolution Company to prepay the principal amount of that note together will be proposed at this years AGM to renew this authority.
It is the with interest accrued.
Companys current intention that shares acquired under this authority would becancelled.
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 25 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies are set out within note 24 to the financial statements on pages 74 to 76.
Note 24 also details the Groups exposure to foreign exchange, interest, credit and liquidity risks.
These notes are included by reference and form part of thisreport.
MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS As at 15 February 2012, the Company was aware of the following interests in itsshares: Number of ordinary % of total shares held voting rights Templeton Investment Counsel, LLC 197,406,849 8.33% Thornberg Investment Management Inc 186,101,763 7.86% Legal & General Investment Management Limited 89,467,698 3.78% ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The 2012 Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on 14 June 2012 at the Hilton London Paddington Hotel, Paddington at 11.00am.
A full description of the business to be conducted at the meeting is set out in the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board Kathryn Hudson Company Secretary 21 March 2012
