Governance Governance 37 Directors report A review of the Groups activities and future developments, Auditor and disclosure of information which fulfils the requirements of the business review, to the auditor including the financial performance during the year, Each of the directors in office as of the date of approval of key performance indicators and a description of the this report confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, there principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group is given is no relevant audit information being information needed on page 11 and pages 16 to 27 and forms part of this report.
by the auditor in connection with preparing its report of The description of the Groups corporate governance which the auditor is unaware and that he or she has taken arrangements on pages 30 to 36 also forms part of all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director this report.
A description of the Groups financial risk in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant management objectives and policies and its exposure to audit information and to establish that the auditor is aware price, credit liquidity and cash flow risk is contained in note of that information.
23 to the consolidated financial statements and forms part Share capital of this report.
Events after the balance sheet date are At 19 February 2013, the Company had been notified described in note 33 to the consolidated financial statements of the following holdings of voting rights attaching to the and forms part of this report.
Other matters material to the Companys shares in accordance with the Disclosure appreciation of the Groups position are contained in the and Transparency Rules: BlackRock, Inc 5.08%: Chairmans statement and the Chief Executives review.
Deutsche Bank AG 3.74%: FIL Limited 5.04%: Results Schroders plc 14.01%: and The Capital Group The results for the year are shown in the consolidated Companies, Inc 4.04%.
The Trustee of the Ladbrokes Share Ownership Trust, Dividends which is used in connection with certain of the Companys The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend employee share ownership plans, waives dividends on of 4.6 pence on each of the ordinary shares entitled shares in the Trust not allocated to plan members.
thereto, making a total of 8.9 pence for the year.
Subject to Further details in respect of the share capital are shown shareholders approval at the Annual General Meeting to be in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements which held on 1 May 2013, the final dividend is expected to be paid forms part of this report.
on 9 May 2013 to shareholders registered on 22 March 2013.
Corporate responsibility Annual General Meeting The 2012 Corporate Responsibility CR report is available This years Annual General Meeting will be held at Deutsche at www.
com and highlights, with which the Bank AG, Winchester House, 1 Great Winchester Street, following should be considered in conjunction, are given London, EC2N 2DB on 1 May 2013 at 11.00am.
Directors The processes described in the section Internal control and The directors during the year were those listed on risk management systems on pages 34 and 35 applied to pages 28 and 29 together with C P Wicks who resigned on CR, as did the practices described on page 30 for ensuring 19 April 2012 and R J Ames who resigned on 1 August 2012. the Board is supplied with appropriate and timely information Biographical details of the directors at 21 February 2013 are and training and for assisting the directors to update their on pages 28 and 29.
On 21 February 2013 the Company knowledge.
In addition to business presentations regularly announced that C J Rodrigues would not be standing for made to the Board at which CR was considered as re-appointment at this years Annual General Meeting.
appropriate, the Board conducts an annual CR review Details of directors service contracts, their share interests and Board members regularly receive CR updates.
and other details of their remuneration by the Company CR performance is included in business unit accountability are contained in the Directors remuneration report.
The Remuneration Pursuant to section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 and Committee in determining executive remuneration takes the Companys articles of association, the Board has into account CR matters as described in the Directors authorised situations of potential conflict arising out remuneration report.
of J F Jarvis being a non-executive director of Sandown The risks and opportunities relating to CR in 2012 and going Park until 31 December 2012 and also a member forward primarily revolve around the reputation of the Group of The Jockey Club and S Bailey being a director and the quality of its brands.
of Trinity Mirror plc until 15 June 2012. www.
com ar2012 Governance 38 Directors report continued Of particular importance was the promotion of responsible Directors indemnities and insurance gambling and the protection of children and the vulnerable.
The Company continues to maintain directors and officers CR also impacted i the performance of the Groups liability insurance.
In accordance with the Companys employees on whom the Group relies for the provision of articles of association, the Company has entered into a high quality services to customers and ii the health and deed of indemnity to the extent permitted by law with safety of these employees and the customers they serve.
Performance indicators continued to be developed in Charitable donations accordance with Group-wide CR.
No breaches of CR policies During 2012, in addition to donations made to overseas and procedures material to the Group were identified by the charities, Group companies donated 945,305 to UK Board in 2012. charitable organisations for charitable purposes.
The identification and management of CR issues, the CR Supplier payment policy reporting framework and any associated data has been The Company does not follow any code or standard reviewed by the Companys CR adviser, Carnstone on payment practice.
However, the Company agrees Partners LLP.
payment terms for its business transactions when goods and services are ordered.
It ensures that suppliers are aware Employee policies of the terms of payment and the relevant terms are included The Board values two-way communication between in contracts where appropriate.
Subject to satisfactory senior management and employees on all aspects of the performance by the supplier, arrangements are adhered Companys strategy, Company performance, management to when making payments.
At the year end, the Company effectiveness and approach to wellbeing.
There is a rolling three year internal communications Going concern strategy and delivery plan which includes interventions In assessing the going concern basis, the directors such as regular management roadshows, virtual strategy considered the Groups business activities, the financial briefings, visits to operating units, responses to the annual position of the Group as described in pages 10 to 27 and the colleague opinion survey and updates on performance Groups financial risk management objectives and policies as against the Companys Vision & Values.
included in note 23 to the consolidated financial statements.
The internal communications channels include a mobile The directors consider that the Group has adequate resources device platform, face to face events, a corporate intranet, to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable phone broadcasting, SMS alerts, a Company magazine, future and that it is therefore appropriate to adopt the going leadership and line manager briefing packs.
concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
The UK Retail Colleague Forum, which was launched in By order of the Board 2012 as an evolution of our Staff Council, provides a further mechanism for employee dialogue and engagement.
In addition, those employees who are eligible are also encouraged to become involved in the Groups performance through participation in share schemes.
J Adelman Throughout the Group, the principles of equal opportunities Company Secretary are recognised in the formulation and development of 21 February 2013 employment policies.
It is the Companys policy to give full and fair consideration to applications from people with disabilities, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
If an employee becomes disabled, the Companys objective is the continued provision of suitable employment, either in the same or an alternative position, with appropriate adjustments being made if necessary.
Employees with disabilities share equally in the opportunities for training, career development and promotion.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
