Business review Business review 19 Review of gaming machine stakes and prizes T elephone Regulation In January 2013 the Department for Culture, Media and Sport released its recommendations on the Triennial Review of Stakes and Prizes.
While the recommendation on B2 machines reflects the industrys submission for the status quo the Government has called for more evidence with regard to B2 machines and their impact on problem gambling, as well as what impact changes in stakes and prizes would have on both problem gambling Ladbrokes continues The maintenance of a and operators.
The evidence-based approach reflects the seriousness with to offer customers a sustainable fiscal and which Government is approaching the complete range of regulatory framework issue and includes consideration of other harm-mitigation measures that ways to place a bet.
is one of our strategic may be applied.
B2 machines have Traditional telephone priorities.
There are a been the subject of a highly organised and well funded negative PR and betting remains number of ongoing lobbying campaign which is also popular with a regulatory matters in seeking liberalisation in other sectors of the gambling industry.
Ladbrokes significant number which we are engaged will take full use of the consultation to of customers.
set the record straight on machines and the social responsibility measures we continually develop across all Year ended Year ended Machine Games Duty our products.
31 December 31 December Year on year The introduction of Machine Games 2012 2011 change m m % Duty in February 2013 represents Amounts a significant tax increase on the staked 266.6 276.5 3.6 industry.
We continue to engage with Net revenue 9.5 9.5 HM Treasury on the latest data in order Gross to illustrate that the Governments profits tax 1.3 1.4 7.1 Operating stated objective of fiscal neutrality has costs 9.7 12.1 19.8 not been met with regard to the sector Operating as a whole and instead represents 1 loss 1.5 4.0 62.5 a circa 14 million tax increase to 1 Before exceptional items.
Net revenue for 2012 was flat, whilst The Regulation of Remote continued efficiencies, particularly Gambling Operators within staff costs, helped to minimise The Culture, Media and Sport an operating loss which showed a year Select Committee is undertaking on year improvement of 2.5 million.
pre-legislative scrutiny of the draft bill High Rollers to regulate offshore operators and High Rollers generated an operating Ladbrokes has submitted written profit of 30.0 million in the year evidence highlighting our concern 2011: 3.2 million loss.
about the level of enforcement that will underpin the regulation and about the level of the place of consumption tax that will be introduced following the regulations.
We continue to await detailed timings of legislation and enforcement mechanisms in Ireland where a similar place of consumption tax has been proposed.
