Governance Directors report for the year ended 31 December 2012 Laird PLC is a holding company.
The principal activities of its each share held.
Details of the voting procedure are set out in the subsidiary undertakings subsidiaries during the year were the Notice of Meeting for the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
design, manufacture and supply of products and solutions that At 31 December 2012 the issued share capital of the Company was protect electronic devices from electromagnetic interference and 267,410,920 ordinary shares of 28.125 pence each.
Details of the heat, and that enable connectivity through wireless applications and share capital and options outstanding as at 31 December 2012 are antennae systems.
The Chairmans statement, Chief Executives shown in note 29 on page 105. strategic review, Operational and Financial highlights, Operating review and Finance Directors report should be read in conjunction At the 2012 Annual General Meeting, shareholders agreed to the with this report and where such documents are referred to herein, renewal of the directors power to allot shares, or grant rights for or to they are incorporated by reference into this Directors report.
An convert any security into shares, in the Company: the disapplication analysis of revenue, profit, assets and liabilities by segment is shown of pre-emption rights and authorise the Company to make purchases in note 3 on pages 80 to 82. of up to 10% of its ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange.
As at 28 February 2013 no shares have been purchased pursuant to this authority.
Shareholders will be requested to renew these Business review authorities at the 2013 Annual General Meeting and details are set A review of the development and performance of Laird during the out in the Notice of Meeting.
year, its position at the year end, and the outlook and strategy of the Group is given in the Chairmans statement on page 3, the Chief Directors Executives strategic review on pages 11 to 14, the Operational and Financial highlights on page 2, the Finance Directors report on pages Re-election of directors 37 to 40, the Operating review on pages 27 to 31, and note 14 to The directors as shown on page 45 were all directors throughout the the financial statements.
Information on environmental matters is year to 31 December 2012, with the exception of David Lockwood contained in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 32 who was appointed Chief Executive with effect from 13 August 2012 to 36.
These pages, the Key Performance Indicators KPIs and the and Paula Bell who joined the Board on 2 March 2012.
Andrew Robb Principal risks and uncertainties contained therein, are incorporated and Bill Spivey retired as directors on 4 May 2012.
All of the directors into this report by reference.
Denitions of the KPIs and the of the Company will offer themselves for re-election at the 2013 performance against them are given on pages 24 and 25.
The Companys Articles of Association which require shareholder approval for any amendments, set out Results and dividend the powers of the directors and the regulations for their appointment Underlying profit before tax was 60.7m 2011, 51.7m and is and removal.
Lairds profit for the year after None of the non-executive directors offering themselves for taxation was 46.5m 2011, 119.0m loss.
The recommended final re-election has a service contract with the Company or any of its dividend is 6.6 pence per ordinary share to be paid on 7 June 2013 subsidiaries.
Biographical details and reasons for reappointment to ordinary shareholders registered as members of the Company at for the non-executive directors are given in the Notice of Annual the close of business on 10 May 2013, making a total dividend for the GeneralMeeting.
year of 10.0 pence per ordinary share.
Directors interests Risks and uncertainties In the year to 31 December 2012 no director had a material interest Information on the Laird Risk Management Framework is given on in any third party contract of signicance with the Company or any pages 53 and 54. of its subsidiaries.
Directors shareholdings at 31 December 2012 are shown below.
These interests were unchanged at 28 February 2013. significant contracts Details of share options are shown in the Directors remuneration Laird has arrangements with a number of major customers and report on pages 55 to 66. suppliers whereby regional or global terms of supply are agreed.
Ordinary shares at However, these arrangements do not amount to contractual obligations to purchase and supply as these are covered by individual 31.12.12 1.1.
N J Keen 523,245 393,245 D C Lockwood 10,300 10,300 Share capital J C Silver 395,000 375,000 The Company has only one class of share and the rights attached P Bell 3,000 to each share are identical.
Details of the rights and obligations Sir C Hum 7,000 4,500 attaching to the shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Professor M J Kelly 2,250 2,250 Association which are available on the Companys website.
The A J Reading 40,000 40,000 Company may refuse to register any transfer of any share which is not a fully paid share.
At a general meeting of the Company, every or date of appointment, if later member has one vote on a show of hands and on a poll one vote for 46 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information of the Group have agreements which provide compensation of up to Directors conicts of interest a maximum of one years base salary for loss of employment which With effect from 1 October 2008, the Companies Act 2006 occurs as a result of a takeover offer or scheme, in addition to their allows directors of public companies, subject to the provisions of contractual notice period.
This additional compensation is xed at the Companys Articles of Association, to authorise conicts and one years base salary during the first six months following the date potential conicts of interest, where appropriate.
The authorisation of change of control and reduces pro-rata to zero over the next 12 shall be effective only if the matter is agreed to without the vote of months.
No director benets from these arrangements.
the director who is subject to such conict having been counted.
The authority for directors to act in situations of conict and the rules On a change of control, the Companys bilateral revolving credit governing their duties in such situations are set out in the Companys facilities may be cancelled by the lenders by giving not less than 30 Articles of Association.
A register of conicts or potential conicts of days notice to the Company.
Under the terms of the USDollar Private interest has been prepared and it is available at every Board Meeting.
Placement, within 60 days of a change of control, the Company must notify all Noteholders and offer to repay all outstanding amounts.
Directors indemnities The Noteholders then have a period of 30days to either accept the As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, the Company has offer of repayment or continue with theNotes.
indemnified the directors in respect of proceedings brought by third parties and such indemnification was in place throughout the year.
Corporate Social Responsibility In recognition that Lairds businesses and its activities impact a Between 2005 and 2008, five of Lairds final salary pension schemes wide community of stakeholders including investors, customers, were merged.
The trustees of the schemes, including Nigel Keen employees, suppliers and local communities, the Board reviews the who is Chairman of the trustees of the surviving scheme, received signicance of social, environmental and ethical matters which may an indemnity from the Company against any claim or other liability affect Laird.
A Corporate Social Responsibility report providing further arising out of or in connection with the pension schemes and their detail can be found on pages 32 to 36. agreement to the merger.
Health and safety at work Employment policy Laird is committed to providing a safe working environment for its Laird conducts business in multiple locations and is committed to employees and continuous improvement is sought by the setting of complying with the relevant legal requirements in each of those objectives and targets based on relevant national and international regions.
Business unit management are responsible for implementing health and safety standards and monitoring performance against and communicating the Laird Equal Employment and Human Rights these.
In addition Laird maintains a proactive communications Policy Statement within their own business unit.
Various methods are strategy amongst all employees to promote and develop good used throughout Laird as appropriate in each location for tracking health and safety practices.
Further information is shown in the morale, motivation, retention rates and training, which are reported Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 32 to 36. regularly to local management teams.
Laird is committed to providing equal opportunities in terms of Research and development recruitment, training and career development for all employees, Investing in research and development programmes delivers including those with disabilities.
product innovation and manufacturing improvements within Laird.
Expenditure in 2012 on research and development amounted to A copy of Lairds Equal Employment and Human Rights Policy 37.4m 2011, 40.2m, of which 8.5m has been capitalised 2011, Statement is available on the Companys website.
Laird continues to develop its technology capabilities, with research and development expenditure during the year running at Employee participation 6.9% of sales 2011, 6.9%.
The Board recognises that the success of the business relies on the skill and dedication of its workforce and therefore encourages Basis of preparation of the accounts two-way communication with its employees.
Operating subsidiaries encourage consultation at local level and performance and As set out in the statement of directors responsibilities on page development reviews reinforce the link between business goals, 67, the accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis.
an employees contribution and his her remuneration.
Laird A statement on going concern relating to a business requires communicates regularly with its employees, including through the judgement at a point in time about future events which, by their provision of information on key events within Laird, charity and nature, are inherently uncertain.
The directors have considered the community involvement and employee achievements.
ability of Laird to maintain committed loan finance, meet existing debt covenants and the impact of foreign currency exposures, as discussed in the Finance Directors report on pages 37 to 40.
Change of control arrangements Thedirectors have a reasonable expectation that the Company Three employees of the Company have long-standing agreements and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational which provide for compensation, in addition to the contractual notice existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue period, of up to a maximum of two years base salary for loss of toadopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
employment which occurs as a result of a takeover offer or scheme.
This additional compensation reduces pro rata to zero over the two years following the date of change of control.
Four other employees 47 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Laird PLC Governance Directors report for the year ended 31 December 2012 Financial assets and liabilities Percentage Number of voting Nature An analysis of debt is given in note 22 to the financial statements.
of shares rights of holding An analysis of financial instruments at carrying value and fair value Artemis Investment 30,125,912 11.07 Direct is given in note 28 to the financial statements.
Financial instruments Management and related disclosures together with a discussion of financial risk Mondrian Investment Partners 25,110,058 5.21 Indirect management objectives and exposures to credit and liquidity risk are Franklin Templeton Investments 22,748,636 5.02 Indirect in accordance with IFRS 7.
Supplier payment policy Charitable donations In the year to 31 December 2012, the Company gave 6,634 to UK Laird requires its subsidiaries to negotiate clear and satisfactory charities 2011, 2,288. arrangements for the payment of suppliers, as part of the overall terms and conditions of the supply, and to make payment accordingly.
At the year end Laird had two UK operating subsidiaries Disclosure of information to the auditor and they had 52 days of purchases outstanding.
As at the date of this report, as far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is Auditors unaware.
Each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have It is recommended that Ernst & Young LLP be reappointed as auditor.
taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Shareholders At 31 December 2012 there were 3,634 shareholders.
By Order of the Board Substantial equity interests A M Downie The Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs issued by the Secretary Financial Services Authority require notications relating to control 28 February 2013 over exercising voting rights attached to shares.
Categories of notiable interests include direct interests holdings of shares with Registered ofce voting rights attached, indirect interests those with access to 100 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5NQ voting rights and financial instruments which give the holder the Registered in England No.
55513 formal entitlement to acquire shares with voting rights attached.
Notication must be made of each category, and also the aggregate of combined holdings, which exceed or fall below the notiable threshold.
The requirements of the DTRs specify that save in certain limited circumstances, notications of holdings of 3% or over have to be made when a full percentage point increase or decrease occurs.
The Company has only one class of shares, and does not hold treasury shares, so the total number of voting rights under the DTRs is equivalent to the number of shares inissue.
As at 27 February 2013 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document the following information has been received, in accordance with the DTRs, from holders of notiable interests in the Companys issued share capital.
48 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012
