Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information How we do business Throughout the year, we have worked to enhance our business and rene our Business Model, including internal changes which have enabled much closer working practices across the whole organisation Business Model Company roles & responsibility Market development Mergers & acquisitions New segments to Laird New Laird business New geographies to Laird New geographic expansion Adjacent segments Business unit strategic Cross business unit Division enables BU-Company and Cross-BU interaction Core business Technology development Customer and product Organic business development focused growth New business unit products Business unit roles Existing PRODUCT New & responsibility 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Laird PLC MARKET Existing New Business review How we do business Lairds base business is built around several growing core market areas Growth through new technology including smartphones, automotive, medical, IT and infrastructure.
asillustrated on the horizontal axis oftheBusiness Model on page 17 Additionally, we have identied numerous opportunities to grow and Developing and acquiring new capabilities remains a vital part of develop our business.
Laird is making investments in new products and Lairds strategy.
We develop and use new materials, we incorporate technologies, maintaining and emphasising our innovative edge with new processes including not only manufacturing processes, but also our customers.
The proliferation and globalisation of electronics and business development capabilities such as the fast turnaround of communications into new applications and geographies create new advanced prototypes, and automated design tools that facilitate market opportunities for Lairds products.
more efficient and high quality engineering.
The continual addition of new areas of expertise enables Laird to provide an expanded Maintaining our strong position in product portfolio.
Some examples of our new product areas highgrowth segments include the expansion of materials for EMI protection into electrical interconnects, and electronics sealing and venting.
Software Laird has earned the trust and partnership of some of the worlds development to extract valuable information from our wireless leading companies.
As the proliferation of technology expands systems for areas like medical asset tracking or rail safety and throughout the world, we will continue to engage in collaborative predictive maintenance represents a substantial area of expertise design and high levels of speed and service, ensuring that our expansion in Laird.
We are making significant investments in businesses grow along with our customers.
More and more people TM thin lm thermoelectrics, new technology including Nextreme throughout the world have access to these new technologies creating TM data management systems, advanced assembly LairdLink ever-expanding opportunities for our customers and therefore automation, new tunable RF materials, and polymeric chip level ourproducts.
India IT operations During 2012 we concentrated on building aCorporate IT team in Bangalore to service our wider organisation.
The availability of a skilled, local IT talent pool in Bangalore has allowed us to expand our IT department in India from three to 18employees, providing a cost effective service to the Groups global operations.
18 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information Growth in new markets Company and business unit roles as illustrated on the vertical axis of the Business Model on page 17 Lairds business units are focused on supporting existing customers As the proliferation of electronics and wireless connectivity extends and products while pursuing roadmaps of new product development and expansion of current capabilities into new markets.
These into almost every aspect of life, additional applications and business units are the entrepreneurial engines of growth, staying geographies are opening up for Laird.
Traditional markets including very close to the customers in developing, selling, and making our computing, telecoms and internet infrastructure, and consumer products.
The role of the Company as a whole is to afford these electronics are shifting all the time to new applications requiring fast moving and adaptable businesses the systems and benets of new devices.
As people become more and more familiar with these a large organisation.
Company functions like finance, information devices, technology uses open up in the more traditional elements technology, human resources and risk management are designed of life and industry allowing for innovation in areas not traditionally to provide expertise, shared services and policy, and oversight to the associated with information technology.
Medical devices, lighting business units.
systems, vehicles, electrical distribution, and even industrial machinery are all advancing by incorporating intelligent systems and connectivity.
Along with the proliferation of uses of electronics, global access to the technology we enable drives a significant portion of the growth.
Consumers are not only emerging in the traditional high-population areas such as China, India, and Brazil, but consumers and infrastructure builds are also expanding in areas like Africa, South East Asia and the Middle East.
"Innovation example Product innovation F '0"" 3, !&#"" ""'1."
"#!2#"" to increase from six tonnes per year to 15 tonnes per year X Existing PRODUCT New 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Laird PLC Existing MARKET New Business review How we do business Market driven innovation Examples of our market driven innovation, which reect our focus on being customer engaged and market led."
WACS CattronConnect Thermal thin-lm energy Automated EMI assembly Articial Intelligence software harvesting process Optimizer 220-, -, #!2.
"'27 $-0 -30 !312- #01@ Collaboration example Cross-marketing across business units F 312- #01 & 4# ##, ', 20-""3!#"" 2- 2&# range of Lairds product offering F 0-11Q 0 #2', % -51 ', !0# 1#"" 0#4#, 3# and entry into new markets X Existing PRODUCT New 20 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Existing MARKET New Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information Case study '%& 3 '27 # 21 &#0 G Laird is working with an international leader in high performance sound systems in the home and for automotive entertainment."
Lairds thermal management and EMI shielding eliminated buzzing and humming which is an example of our collaborative working across business units.
21 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Laird PLC
