2 3 Operating review Performance Materials Revenue 324.7 million 6% 2011, 305.0 million Underlying operating profit 48.9 million 14% 2011, 43.0 million Operating margin 15.1% 2011, 14.1% Revenue by product segment 2012 2011 1 Year ended 31 December m m 1.
Signal Integrity 9% Underlying operating profit 48.9 43.0 14% Operating margin 15.1% 14.1 % The division designs and supplies a full range of electromagnetic interference EMI shielding materials, thermal management solutions and signal integrity products SIP, providing critical protection for a wide range of electronic devices, allowing them Revenue by market segment to function and connect effectively.
These products isolate and protect sensitive electronic components and systems from the 1 1.
IT Telecom 35% electronic emissions from other components, and lter and remove 2.
Handset 25% electromagnetic noise and improve a devices performance through 3.
Consumer 8% the efficient management of heat.
Medical 5% Divisional revenues increased by 6% in 2012 to 324.7 million 2011, 6.
By product line, the majority of the divisional revenues 69% in 2012 were from EMI shielding materials, with 22% from thermal management solutions and 9% from signal integrity products.
By market segment, 25% of the divisions revenues were from sales of EMI shielding materials to the Handset smartphone market, 18% were from shielding and thermal solutions used in the IT market, 17% from the telecoms market, with the balance from the automotive, consumer, industrial, medical and military markets.
Underlying operating profit in the division increased 14% in the year to 48.9 million 2011, 43.0 million, and operating margin increased to 15.1% in 2012 from 14.1% in 2011.
Improvements in profit resulted mainly from higher margin products and an ongoing, successful Continuous Improvement Programme which creates value for both Laird and its customers.
EMI Revenue in the Companys EMI shielding business was up 11% year on year, driven by the substantial increase in sales of electromagnetic shielding components for smartphone and tablet products.
To meet strong demand levels in this market, further capacity was added in China during the year, from which the initial benefit was seen in the second half of 2012.
The EMI business is expected to continue to benefit from this increased capacity throughout 2013.
"28 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 6 3 5 2 4 Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information Expanding capabilities: Performance Materials Materials Processes Expertise Move up customer F 1&'# ""', % mindshare F."
"-3, "" 1# ' F 32- 2#"" 11# 7 Standard Parts Request for Quote Applications Technology Operations Sales The telecoms market remained subdued due to lower infrastructure Performance Materials innovation spend and EMI shielding revenues were 19% lower than in 2011 for examples: this segment."
Furthermore, demand was much lower for plasma display panel shielding as consumers continue to favour liquid Tpcm 780 thin thermal interface material with crystaldisplays.
world-leading thermal transfer capability that helps New contract wins in 2012 have included providing EMI solutions keepmicroprocessors cool for eReaders which provide both new customers and a new product market for Laird and providing EMI shielding and thermal Superior Ferrite Plate used in wireless power charging management in entertainment products used in the automotive applications market.
Stainless steel nger stock used in switches, routers and In March, Laird announced the acquisition of Microwave Materials servers lower cost than copper-based material Group NV, a global leader in the development and manufacture of microwave absorbing materials, low-loss dielectrics and electrically Nextreme thin lm, semiconductor-based cooling device conductive shielding materials.
This added to Lairds existing EMI which allows for ultra small devices, highest cooling density shielding and absorber product range for higher frequency, more and fastest response for applications like digital cameras, powerful electronic devices and allows Laird to offer customers a more comprehensive range of shielding solutions.
Laird will leverage lasers and DNA analysis its strong Asian footprint to expand Microwave Materials Group NV Robotic assembly which allows part tolerance, speed and revenues beyond its home markets in the US and Europe.
for designs not possible with manual assembly.
This is used for production of small parts for smartphones and tablets Thermal Revenue in the Thermal business was down by 8% year on year.
TheThermal businesss key market segments include telecoms, IT and medical.
As within the EMI business, the telecoms market remained subdued due to lower infrastructure spend which led to reduced demand for thermoelectric coolers.
The thermal interface materials Laird provides however, saw the benefit from the upgrading of PCBs used in telecoms equipment as well as increased thermal content in new base stations installed to support 4G.
SIP The SIP product line serves customers in the IT and printer market where revenue from this business has increased by 2% year on year.
As electronic devices continue to evolve, with greater requirements for higher power and speed, the solutions Laird provides to protect and enhance each devices performance remain critical for customers and their markets.
29 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Laird PLC
