Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information Board of Directors The Board is comprised of the Chairman, two executive directors, and four other non-executive directors all of whom have the skills andexperience appropriate for Lairdsbusiness.
Nigel Keen Sir Christopher Hum, KCMG Chairman.
MA, FCA, FIET Non-Executive Director.
MA Appointed a non-executive director in 1993 and Chairman in 2000.
Appointed in 2006, Sir Christopher is a member of the Remuneration, Following the resignation of the Chief Executive due to ill health in Audit and Nominations Committees.
He was appointed to the November 2011, Nigel Keen was Executive Chairman until 13 August Audit Committee during the year.
Sir Christopher retired as Master of 2012 when David Lockwood was appointed as Chief Executive.
Nigel Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge in September 2012 and is now is Chairman of the Nominations Committee and a member of the a Life Fellow of the College.
Sir Christopher was British Ambassador Remuneration Committee.
He is Chairman of Oxford Instruments plc, to the Peoples Republic of China, having previously served as HM Bioquell PLC and Deltex Medical Group plc.
Ambassador, Warsaw, as Assistant Under Secretary of State for North Asia and the Pacic, and earlier as Head of the Hong Kong Department of the Foreign and Commonwealth Ofce.
David Lockwood, OBE Chief Executive.
BA, ACA, RSA Professor Michael Kelly David Lockwood joined Laird on 2 July 2012 and was appointed Non-Executive Director.
BSc, MSc, PhD, ScD, FRS FREng Chief Executive with effect from 13 August 2012.
David was formerly Vice President Global Defence & Security at BT Global Services and Appointed in 2006, Professor Kelly is a member of the Remuneration he has experience of international operations, gained from his roles and Audit Committees.
He was appointed to the Audit Committee at GPT Marconi, BAE Systems, Intense Limited a phototonics during the year.
Professor Kelly is Prince Philip Professor of Technology high-tech start-up, and Thales Corporation.
David chaired the at the University of Cambridge and a Professorial Fellow at Trinity Scottish Governments Technology Advisory Group and in 2005, was Hall.
He was formerly Chief scientific Advisor to the Department for awarded Scottish Entrepreneur of the Year for Technology.
In the Communities and Local Government and was previously Executive 2011 Queens Birthday Honours, David was awarded the Order of the Director of the Cambridge-MIT Institute and Professor of Physics and British Empire for services to industry in Scotland.
Electronics at the University of Surrey.
Jonathan Silver Anthony Reading, MBE Finance Director.
FCA Jonathan Silver joined Laird in 1986 and was appointed to the Board Appointed in 2004, Tony Reading is the Senior Independent Director.
Jonathan was previously Group Treasurer He is also Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member and Corporate Development Manager.
He is non-executive director of the Audit and Nominations Committees.
Tony was previously an of INVESCO Income Growth Trust plc.
Executive Director of Tomkins plc and Chairman and Chief Executive of Tomkins Corp. USA.
He is also non-executive director of Taylor Wimpey plc and e2v Technologies plc.
FCMA, CGMA Appointed on 2 March 2012, Paula Bell is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
It has been recently announced that Paula has been appointed as Group Finance Director for John Menzies plc, following six years as Group Finance Director at Ricardo plc.
Prior to this Paula was Finance and Property Director of Gatwick Airport for BAA plc, Director of Finance for Anglian Water Group plc, and held senior finance and business development positions over a 10 year period at Rolls-Royce plc.
Paula is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
45 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Laird PLC
