Business review 0 #2 -4#04'#5 Independent view We approached Prismark, the Market drivers electronics industry consulting rm, to provide us with an independent World Trends view on market trends in the sectors Remote working we serve and macroeconomic factors Green economy affecting growth in these areas.
Ageing societies Global Thinking Economic shift New customers Pace of change Smart World Convergence Complexity Reliability Innovative Technology Infrastructure New materials Performance Macro factors Computing The electronics industry has now nished its second consecutive Like the mobile phone market, the computing sector has been soft year with many applications, supply chain segments, and transformed by the emergence of high-function portable systems TM geographies experiencing stagnation, if not modest declines.
Despite the tablet and Ultrabook.
Although only introduced in 2010, tablets the overall environment, selected applications smartphones, tablet grew to almost 25% of the overall computing market in 2012 and PCs and automotive electronics delivered strong growth and this are forecast to equal the shipments of conventional notebook PCs TM performance is forecast to continue.
As a consequence of the gradual by 2016.
The Ultrabook standard established by Intel in partial maturation of the electronics industry, growth will be increasingly tied response to the rise of the tablet, while only two years old, is the to either high-function portable electronics smartphones, tablets, fastest growing segment of the notebook market.
By 2016, these two ultrabooks, and associated infrastructure equipment or green new classes of ultra-portable PCs will have grown to represent 50% energy LEDs, PV, energy efficient transportation, and smart grid.
of the overall PC market, with conventional desktop and notebook The balance of the electronics industry will struggle to match the markets close to at.
More than perhaps at any time in its history, success in the electronics industry is dependent on a focus on the Computing and communications right segments and customers.
infrastructure Computing and communications infrastructure has been a beneciary Smartphones of the growth of smartphones, tablets and other connected devices.
Although its denition has evolved, the smartphone has been a part Infrastructure investment has been supported by both increased of the communications segment for more than 15 years.
This segment volumes of servers and storage i. e. building the cloud and by the was first brought to prominence by the success of the BlackBerry in drive to increase bandwidth, most particularly enhanced wireless the late-1990s, transformed by the emergence of the iPhone in 2007, connectivity and required backhaul e. g. LTE build-out.
Both elements followed quickly by Android and, most recently, Windows Mobile of this transition are evidence of a long-term trend toward distributed platforms.
The success of the smartphone has transformed the mobile storage and computing serving a growing number of interconnected phone market, driving unit growth and increasing average selling prices.
Although the growth of infrastructure spending Smartphones now dominate the overall mobile phone market from is blunted by reduced system costs, this will remain one of the both a revenue and profit perspective.
moderately more attractive segments of the electronics industry.
22 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information 3 4 2 3 2 Global mobile data trafc CAAGR 2012-2016 Exabytes per month, from 2011-2016 Smartphone and tablet share gains 12 Data 1 1 File Sharing 2012 2016 Video VoIP 10 Gaming M2M F lk@s 6 72#1.
"&-, #1 mmm@k nrl@k 13.7% m #21 qk@m tt@k 13.2% n 20 -- 1 lk@k ot@k 49.0% 2 o #04#0G 2-0 %#G - @, $0 @ moo@k msk@k 3.5% p 32- -2'4# #!20-, '!1 lrk@k mns@k 8.8% q #12 -$ 2&# #!20-, '!1, ""31207 tkk@k lAknm@k 3.5% -30!#B - ' # mklm Total 1,607.0 2,069.0 6.5% 0 11 12 13 14 15 16 Consumer electronics Industrial Consumer electronics has been one of the lagging segments of Industrial electronics has long been a catch-all, including systems not the electronics industry over the past five years and there is little counted elsewhere and possessing few large dening applications."
to suggest that this pattern will change.
The relative stagnation Over the past two years the industrial segment has declined owing of the consumer segment has two roots.
The first is the weakness largely to strong price erosion in the photovoltaics segment.
Over of traditional markets such as the TV.
The boost provided by large thenext several years the industrial segment is forecast to grow format HDTVs during the early years of the 21st century has now ata7% 8% average annual rate.
This growth is the result of ended owing to continued price erosion, relative market saturation, therecovery of the photovoltaics segment, as well as other green and the lack of features capable of motivating replacement demand.
energy focused developments e. g. LED lighting, advanced motor The other factor reducing consumer electronics growth is the steady controllers, smart-grid build-out, many of which are counted in the erosion of traditional applications by the smartphone and tablet.
These multifunctional devices along with ubiquitous broadband have blunted demand for historically important consumer systems e. g. Medical digital cameras, MP3 players, DVD players and game systems.
These The medical electronics market is diverse, including both capital trends are likely to continue and the consumer segment will struggle equipment purchased by physicians and medical groups e. g. MRI to exceed the growth of global GDP.
as well as devices targeted to consumers e. g. blood glucose measurement.
The macro drivers for the medical electronics segment Transportation remain strong: ageing populations in the developed world, increasing Transportation has been a relative bright spot within the electronics incomes in developing nations, as well as the increasing role of industry, producing stronger growth during the past several years electronics in medical diagnostics, monitoring and therapy.
Capping than in the preceding 15.
This relative strength has several roots.
the growth of medical electronics is an increasing focus on cost The first and most important is the increase in vehicle production, containment, most notably within the important US market.
As a driven by pent-up demand in the developed world as well as growing result of these competing factors the medical sector is forecast to demand in China, India, and the rest of Asia.
Transportation deliver 4% 5% average annual growth over the next several years.
electronics has also benefited from an increase in electronics Data and text provided by Prismark, January 2013 content per vehicle, the result of regulatory action e. g. tyre pressure monitoring as well as increased focus on fuel efficiency e. g. hybrid electric.
Automotive electronics will be one of the stronger segments of the electronics industry over the next four years, delivering annual growth of between 7% and 9% annually.
23 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Laird PLC 6 6 5 5 4
