Board of Directors Lonmin Plc [ 58] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 1.
Simon Scott, 54 Roger was appointed Chairman of the Chief Executive Officer Acting Chief Executive Officer and Board in March 2009, having served as Ian joined the Group in 1986 and, after Chief Financial Officer an independent Non-Executive Director working in its UK and Zambian Simon joined Lonmin and the Board in since 1997, and also chairs the operations, was appointed Finance September 2010, became CFO in Nomination Committee.
Born and raised Director of Lonmin Platinum in South November 2010 and was appointed as in South Africa, Roger is a graduate in Africa in 1995, holding this role until he Acting CEO on 24 August 2012 in view of economics and law and has career-long joined the Board in 2001.
He was Mr Farmers illness.
He is a graduate with experience of the international mining appointed as CEO in September 2008, accounting and commerce degrees from industry.
Rogers previous experience following seven years as Chief Strategic the University of the Witwatersrand, and includes roles as joint managing director Officer.
Ian, a Chartered Accountant, has also attended the management of Minorco and as a non-executive has a Bachelor of Accounting Science development program at the University director of Harry Winston Diamond honours degree from the University of of Cape Town.
A South African registered Corporation and Engelhard Corporation.
South Africa and is a British national.
chartered accountant, he has held a Roger is both a South African and a Ian is currently undergoing a course of number of financial management roles in British national.
treatment and has been absent since South Africa with local and global employers August 2012. including over eight years with Anglo American.
Most recently he was CFO of the JSE-listed Aveng Limited, a globally active engineering and construction group with significant involvement in the mining sector.
Simon is both a British and a South African national.
Jim Sutcliffe, 56 Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Cyril was nominated by Shanduka, Karen was appointed to the Board in Jim was appointed to the Board in 2007 Lonmins principal BEE partner of which he 2005 and is a member of the Audit & and is chairman of the Remuneration is a controlling shareholder, and appointed Risk, Nomination, Remuneration and Committee and a member of the Audit to the Board in 2010.
He chairs the Safety & Sustainability Committees.
& Risk, Nomination and Transformation Transformation Committee.
A law A graduate in law, with an MBA from Committees.
He was appointed Senior graduate, he was the first General Michigan State University, she spent Independent Director at the 2012 AGM.
Secretary of the National Union of more than 30 years working globally with An actuary by profession, Jim has Mineworkers and assisted in building it into Shell, becoming their first female country extensive UK and South African business the most powerful union in South Africa.
After two years as CEO experience, including senior executive 1991, he was elected Secretary General of of Shells global Gas & Power business, roles with Prudential UK and Old Mutual, the ANC and led the team negotiating the she spent five years developing and being Group CEO of the latter from end of apartheid, subsequently chairing the leading Shells renewable energy 2001-2008.
He is a director of the Assembly which drafted the countrys first business.
She is a non-executive director Financial Reporting Council Limited democratic constitution.
He then moved of British American Tobacco where she and chairs the Codes and Standards into the private sector, founding Shanduka has chaired the Corporate Social Committee and is also a director of Group which he continues to chair.
He is Responsibility Committee since 2008, Liberty Group and Liberty Holdings, also chairman of MTN and Mondi and a director of Pyry and a member of and chairman of Sun Life Financial.
He serves on the board of a number of other the supervisory board of E. ON.
Karen also chaired the UK Board for Actuarial companies and advisory bodies, including is a Dutch national.
Standards until 2 July of this year.
Jim as deputy chairman of South Africas is a British citizen.
Cyril is a South African national.
01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc Board of Directors [ 59] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 7.
Len Konar, 58 Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director David was appointed to the Board in 2007 Appointed to the Board in 2010, Len and is a member of the Nomination, has chaired the Audit & Risk Committee Safety & Sustainability and Transformation since July 2010 and is a member of the Committees.
He was most recently Nomination and Transformation Development Director of Kazakhmys Committees.
Len holds degrees in from 2006 to 2011.
Davids experience accounting and commerce from South prior to this includes roles as CEO of African and U. S. universities.
After RMC Group Plc, Chief Development qualifying as a chartered accountant, Office of BHP Billiton, and as the director he pursued an academic career at the of Biliton Plc responsible for its global University of Durban-Westville, before aluminium and base metals businesses.
He now has David is a graduate in a mining engineering a broad-ranging business career, chairing and has extensive experience of mine the boards of Leading South African management in South Africa.
He is a companies including Exxaro Resources British national.
and Steinhoff International and serving on the boards of others including Sappi and Alexander Forbes.
A member of the King Committee on Corporate Governance, he is also a member of the Corporate Governance Forum and the Institute of Directors.
Len is a South African national.
Mahomed Seedat, 56 Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Jonathan was appointed to the Board in Appointed to the Board on 1 January 2009, chairs the Safety & Sustainability 2011 Mahomed is a member of the Committee, and is a member of the Safety & Sustainability and Transformation Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
After graduating in knowledge and experience of South jurisprudence and qualifying as a African mining, gained from a senior level barrister, Jonathan spent 26 years with executive career with Anglo Coal, BHP Rio Tinto, including nine years service on Billiton and latterly as Chief Operating its board.
His roles at Rio Tinto included Officer of Lonmin from October 2008 to Mining Director and Chief Executive of December 2010.
A graduate in electrical the Copper and later the Diamonds & engineering, Mahomed was awarded a Gold Product Groups.
He was fellowship from Harvard Business School subsequently CEO of Sappi and the in 1990.
He is also a non-executive executive chairman of Nikanor and is director of Mechel Mining OAO and of currently CEO of Extract Resources Aveng Africa Limited and chairs the Limited.
boards of Lonmins South African operating subsidiaries.
Mahomed is a South African national.
