Strategic Overview Lonmin Plc [ 18] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 A strategy that creates shared value and optionality for stakeholders The world is likely to require stable and increasing quantities of PGMs from quality suppliers for decades to come.
PGMs are used in applications which depend on the physical and chemical properties of these metals.
Despite extensive academic and commercial research over a number of years, no commercially viable substitute has yet been demonstrated for their primary usage in automotive and industrial catalysis.
We believe that their well-established performance across numerous technical applications poses a significant technological barrier to substitution.
We also expect long-term demand for PGMs for catalytic converters in internal combustion engines the biggest component of global demand to grow, due to increasingly stringent emissions legislation, the extension of this regime beyond automobiles for example, to heavy-duty diesel and non-road uses of internal combustion engines and the expected growth in automotive production, particularly in Asia.
The increasing development of fuel cells, which often include a platinum component, will, we believe result in them becoming a commercially viable energy source, further supporting continued demand for platinum over the long-term.
In the short-term, we believe that PGM prices will remain volatile whilst economic uncertainty prevails, but over the longer term industry dynamics remain favourable.
Our overall view is that the longer term demand fundamentals of platinum and other PGMs remain positive.
At Lonmin we have the experience and know how to safely and sustainably meet a significant portion of this demand from our large scale prime PGM assets situated in the heart of South Africa.
Our business model is to create value for shareholders through the discovery, extraction, refining and marketing of PGMs.
In light of the Events at Marikana and the ongoing challenging trading environment, the Board has completed a thorough review of our strategy and capital structure and has continued to examine ways of conserving capital and reducing costs.
The Companys Board approved strategy is to keep production at reasonably consistent levels through harnessing the benefits of recent and ongoing capital investment and, as a result, maintain prudent finances while keeping open the option for potentially significant future growth as and when PGM market conditions make this advisable.
We have invested significant capital expenditures in sinking the new shafts and in developing the ore reserves to support the ramp up of mining activities when market conditions improve.
Our Mining Division is implementing a programme to improve operational efficiency and cost effectiveness and our Process Division has the capacity available to process the expected levels of ore production from the new and existing shafts, having invested in both efficiency and reliability improvements, including constructing and commissioning the new Number Two furnace at the smelter complex.
We enjoy strong relationships with key industrial customers, who have purchased PGMs from us for several decades.
Our long established customer relationships give us insight into trends and developments in the end markets for applications and products using PGMs, as well as the behaviour of end customers and consumers in those markets.
We also participate directly in the support and development of the platinum and palladium jewellery market through market initiatives sponsored by the PGM mining industry.
01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc Strategic Overview [ 19] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Our six primary strategic elements Building a safe and sustainable business Whilst our operational safety record is amongst the industrys best, our intention is to remain the safest primary PGM producer.
Our journey to zero harm continues and is supported by our efforts to improve relationships with organised labour and government as well as bolstering employee morale, all of which 1 should lead to more productive and efficient operations.
Alongside our legal and regulatory obligations, we believe that it is necessary to earn our social licence to operate from the people and communities who host our operations through creating economic value by contributing to addressing their needs and challenges.
We have engaged with and invested heavily in our local communities over many years and one of the key obligations we have assumed under our social and labour plan is improving our employees living conditions.
To that end, we have focused on constructing houses and converting the former single-sex hostel accommodation into bachelor and family housing units.
We continue to support our workforce in improving their general health and we recognise our environmental obligations.
We are a proud member of the International Council on Metals and Mining ICMM, and are committed to implementing its principles through the Sustainable Development Framework.
We believe that we operate our mining assets in accordance with internationally accepted sustainability standards including safety, health, environmental and social standards and aim to be open and transparent in our reporting to all stakeholders on our sustainability performance.
Protect the short-term value of the Marikana assets Our near term focus is on delivering a sustainable level of production from our Marikana assets, at appropriate levels for current demand for Platinum and other PGMs which is expected to be relatively subdued.
We have invested in our mining 2 infrastructure: having spent approximately US$1.3 billion of capital expenditure in the four financial years ended 30 September 2012.
The expenditure of recent years has resulted in our improved ore reserve position, which, at 30 September 2012, translated into immediately available ore reserves equating to approximately 18 months of mining.
We expect to maintain this level of ore reserve availability over the next two years.
Amongst other things, the capital spend has also funded the building of the Number Two smelter and finalisation of the shaft and associated infrastructure at K4.
Continuing focus on productivity and cost management The Company maintains a rigorous focus on cost control, in relation to both gross costs and costs per unit of production.
3 Most of our costs are labour related.
Whilst the gross cost of the Companys total labour complement generally increases in line with South African labour cost inflation, there is potential for one-off increases to be incurred, as was the case with the September 2012 Wage Addendum.
Gross costs of consumables are tightly controlled, through centralised procurement and supported by strong management information systems and internal controls.
The profitability of a mine is closely related to productivity and efficiency as well as the level of production.
The costs per unit of production are currently higher than has been the case in the recent past as a number of our smaller shafts are in the late stages of their operational life and operate less efficiently as a result, whilst our newer shafts, Hossy and Saffy, are still in the ramp up phase and K4 is currently on care and maintenance.
Over the longer term, our strategy is to continue to invest in these newer shafts, including K4, so that, in combination with its other improvement initiatives and the likely closure of the older shafts as they are mined out, cost efficiencies are improved and cash generation is enhanced.
In addition, these newer shafts provide capacity for growth in production which, in turn, should help to lower unit costs.
com Strategic Overview Lonmin Plc [ 20] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Preserve the longer term value potential of the Marikana assets Our long life high quality mineral resources and our intentions to complete our investments at K4, Saffy and Hossy, ore reserve development and the expansion of our overall production capacity over time will enable us 4 to increase production in a prudent manner to meet expected future growth in demand for PGMs as market conditions improve.
K4, which when at full capacity will be one of our largest shafts and which is currently on care and maintenance, is expected to restart mining operations in the latter part of the 2014 financial year although the impact on production will initially be gradual until capital expenditure levels increase.
The focus on underground ore reserve development is crucial.
Through increasing the total face length available for mining at each of the shafts, we are able to improve our operational flexibility to respond to variations in ground conditions.
Similarly, having greater choice over how we schedule the extraction of ore from each shaft will also provide greater resilience in our business, better enabling us to achieve higher levels of production.
In the long-term, we aim to have fully developed ore reserves ready for mining at all Marikana shafts, in order to provide us with the option to respond to market demand by extracting higher grade ore where appropriate.
Generating balance sheet capacity We aim to preserve a conservative balance sheet focused on maintaining access to sufficient funds to ensure that the Company can both facilitate all ongoing operations and finance prudent capital expenditure programmes.
5 Prior to the Events at Marikana, we commenced a review of Lonmins growth strategy, future production profile and capital investment programme as a result of continued weak short-term demand outlook for PGMs and the weak pricing environment and as a result reduced our future capital expenditure plans in order to protect the balance sheet.
The Events at Marikana, however, reduced the sales of metal below levels previously expected and resulted in significant fixed costs not being recovered as production had stopped for approximately seven weeks.
All this adversely impacted profitability and placed the Companys cash flows and liquidity outlook under considerable pressure.
We have launched a Rights Issue, the proceeds of which are intended to substantially strengthen the Companys financial position.
Maintaining the option of attractive longer term growth opportunities In addition to the growth we expect to achieve at Marikana, we have further expansion potential in the adjacent Pandora joint venture area.
This area is currently mined from one of the Companys older incline shafts within the Easterns part of the Marikana mine and will enable the Company to extend the operational 6 lives of these valuable assets.
As with Marikana, the growth options are mostly brownfield and will enable the Company to exploit existing infrastructure, skills and relationships and consequently, are lower risk than some of the projects being pursued by other mining companies in the Bushveld Complex.
Other assets in our portfolio that have development potential include the Limpopo mine and Akanani.
Outside South Africa, we have two separate exploration joint ventures with Vale and Wallbridge in the Sudbury Basin in Ontario, Canada.
01 Lonmin Explained 02 Directors Report Business Review 03 Directors Report Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc Strategic Overview [ 21] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Our six integrated foundations See ibc Culture and Values for more information Create a culture based on our values of: Zero Harm: Integrity, Honesty & Trust: Transparency: Respect for Each Other: High Performance: and Employee Self-Worth See p 22 Market Intelligence for more information Understand the global economy and the PGM market supply and demand fundamentals to ensure informed decision making See p 35 Productivity for more information Underpinned by sound technical competence which is critical to achieving safety See p 27 Transformation for more information Ongoing commitment to achieving the Mining Charter targets See p 49 Sustainability for more information An integrated approach to safety, health, the environment, community development and employee relations as well as attracting, developing and retaining scarce skills are critical to sustaining our operations.
We believe that the sustainability of our business is dependent on stakeholder relationships, and that sound, structured stakeholder relationships serve to strengthen the resilience of our Company and our ability to adapt to the increasing demands placed on us amid the uncertainty of the current business environment.
See p 26 Communications for more information Effective communication with stakeholders and enhancing relationships www.
