Executive Committee Lonmin Plc [ 60] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 1.
Ian Farmer, 50 Chief Executive Officer 5.
Mark Munroe, 43 Executive Vice President Mining Biography included overleaf on page 58.
Mark joined Lonmin in March 2008 in the mining business, becoming VP Capital Projects & Engineering before being 2.
Simon Scott, 54 Acting Chief Executive Officer and appointed as EVP Mining in June 2009.
He joined Lonmin Chief Financial Officer from DRDGold, where he spent six years holding a number Biography included overleaf on page 58. of senior management positions including General Manager of DRDGold and CEO of DRDCapital.
Albert Jamieson, 54 Chief Commercial Officer worked for AngloGold for twelve years.
He is a mining Albert joined Lonmin in 1989 after eight years at Impala, where engineer and also has a degree in economics.
Mark is a he was responsible for their concentrator operations.
He has South African national.
held a number of senior management and executive positions in the mine production and commercial areas of the business 6.
Thandeka Ncube, 43 Business Transformation Manager, including responsibility for investments in Africa, South Shanduka Resources America, North America, Australia and Japan.
The commercial Thandeka was nominated by Shanduka.
She works with portfolio currently comprises business development, strategy, Shandukas investee companies advising on transformation marketing and sales, exploration, legal and life of business and broad-based empowerment.
Albert has a BSc in Minerals Engineering from the sciences degree from the City University of New York and University of Birmingham and an MBA from the University of an MBA from Henley Business School.
She began her career Cape Town.
working with various government institutions, developing strategy and policy for small and medium enterprises, and 4.
Barnard Mokwena, 48 Executive Vice President Human then joined the retail banking side of Standard Bank.
Capital & External Affairs Thandeka is a South African national.
Barnard joined Lonmin in October 2005 as a Group Manager and was subsequently promoted to his current position.
Natascha Viljoen, 43 Executive Vice President previously worked in senior management positions in a range Processing and Sustainability of sectors for a number of companies including Sentech, the Natascha joined Lonmin in 2008 from BHP Billiton, where South African Rail Commuter Corporation and the National she was General Manager for the Klipspruit mine.
Her initial Lottery Operator UTHINGO.
He holds a BA Phil from Urban responsibility was for managing Lonmins concentrators, and Pontifical University, an MA Licentiate from Gregorian in May 2011 she was promoted to her current role, covering University and an EDP from Pretoria.
Barnard is a South all concentrating, smelting and refining operations.
holds an engineering degree and is currently studying for an executive MBA at the University of Cape Town.
Nataschas career stretches over various commodities and disciplines in the mining industry with nine years in senior management roles.
Before BHP Billiton she held positions with Anglo American and AngloGold.
Natascha is a South African national.
