Events at Marikana Lonmin Plc [ 02] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Events at Marikana in August and September 2012 Opening words There is no way to begin our Annual Report this year without addressing the terrible events which took place at Marikana in August and September.
from Roger The scenes which unfolded shocked and horrified all who witnessed them.
They placed this Company in the global spotlight and, crucially, they left the Phillimore and nation of South Africa seeking answers to some of the most difficult questions it has faced in a generation.
We are proud of our record of being the safest primary platinum mining company in the world, but all of us who have been involved in this industry for years know the pain of losing colleagues underground.
Nothing, though, could have prepared the Lonmin family for the loss of so many colleagues during the events which took place.
Like the whole nation around us, it will take a long time for us to come to terms with the tragedy that unfolded and for normality to return.
We have begun that journey, but it will be long and difficult.
In compiling our Annual Report this year we faced a challenge in that the Events at Marikana are so relevant to so much of our business that they could be mentioned in most sections of the report.
An Annual Report, however, is, by definition, a complex and technical publication, containing a huge amount of information to help inform its shareholders.
For that reason we felt that we should address Marikana immediately.
Much has been written by others about those weeks, some of it moving, some insightful but, sadly, much that is wholly inaccurate.
In reporting this year, we felt it was important to deal with that.
Of course, the issues around Marikana are the subject of an ongoing judicial inquiry in South Africa.
It is for Judge Farlam and his team, whom we support fully and completely, to establish causes and examine effects, and we do not intend to do that here.
It would be entirely wrong to do so.
However some facts, sadly, are not in dispute in that before 16 August eight employees, including two security guards, as well as two policemen were killed whilst on 16 August 34 people were killed and many more injured.
Speaking a few days later at a Memorial Service for those who died, we both tried to find the right words to express our deep sorrow, shock and regret at what had happened.
We tried, also, to speak of hope, and healing.
Even now, many weeks later, there are no words adequate to reflect the events of that day: but, our heartfelt sympathy for the families and friends who have lost loved ones remains undiminished.
Lonmin with its Black Economic Empowerment BEE partner, Shanduka Group Proprietary Limited, established the Sixteen-Eight Memorial Fund in the wake of the shootings, committing to fund the education of the children of those who died to adulthood, and providing care to the injured.
The fund is to be independently run, and open for public donations or donations from other organisations or companies a number of which have already, both publicly and anonymously, contributed generously.
Details can be found on page 164 in this report.
In the wake of the shootings sporadic violence continued, combined with a focused campaign of threats and intimidation to prevent the vast majority of our workforce of 28,000 and another 10,000 contractors from reporting for work.
We worked hard with the South African Police Services to try to address this, not least because the vast majority of our workforce wanted to return to work, but the very geography of Marikana made this difficult.
Lonmin Plc Events at Marikana [ 03] Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Nothing could have prepared the Lonmin family for the loss of so many colleagues during the events which took place.
It is important to remember also that we found Deep-rooted issues of poverty and inequality have ourselves at the centre of nothing less than a national been highlighted by what has taken place, but those crisis for South Africa.
Certainly we faced huge go beyond mining and to every corner of South Africa.
pressure to find a way to resolve the situation in order It is certainly true that mining companies have faced that we could start mining again and protect the criticism for their efforts to support the transformation safety and jobs of tens of thousands who had not agenda in the country and, on Lonmins behalf, we been involved, but also to give the nation an opportunity accept that we must do more, particularly around the to begin to address the difficult issues it faced.
nationally difficult issue of housing.
However we are rightly proud of the huge amount we have achieved in Both Board and Management were convinced that a education, health, infrastructure and other areas, both resolution which could deliver a sustainable peace for our employees and the wider community work was essential.
which has not had the recognition the dedicated teams who deliver it deserve.
We worked tirelessly with government, religious and traditional leaders, unions and other workers Nonetheless, no company, however large, can alone representatives, under the guidance of the Commission address the socio-economic issues facing the for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration CCMA, Republic.
Only by working in partnership with central to bring about a Peace Accord.
We thank all these and local government to build a sustainable and parties for their involvement and for the significant role profitable mining sector can we make the investments each and every one of them played.
That document, needed to create and sustain the jobs and careers which committed all parties to peaceful negotiation, which will help solve some of these problems.
One union chose not to sign, but in the interests of peace we and the other We are committed to being a good corporate citizen signatory parties reached out to them to join the wage of South Africa, to meeting the challenges set us negotiations which followed.
around BEE and Transformation and, more than this, to being a force for good in a country in which mining The discussions which followed the signing of the is a vital part of economic wellbeing.
Peace Accord resulted in an agreement, again facilitated by the CCMA and signed by all the trade In doing all this, however, we must never lose sight of unions party to our existing wage agreement, to add the most important thing, which must be to help an addendum to our existing wage agreement which ensure that such terrible events never happen again.
gave pay rises of between 11% and 22% to most South Africa is a country which has been through workers not including management.
Many have failed more than most, and come through all challenges to to report that this included rises of 9% to 10% already become a better place.
It is a beautiful nation, blessed due.
Subsequently we saw an immediate return to with many resources and home to a vibrant and work, and the resumption of operations.
We refer to determined people.
It deserves to reap the benefits of this tragic series of events as Events at Marikana in all of this.
What happened at Marikana was a tragedy the rest of the Annual Report.
for the families and friends of those who died, and for We believe we did the right thing both for this those who still bear the physical and mental injuries of Company and for South Africa in helping bring the those events: but it was also a warning to all of South dispute and associated violence to an end.
Together, we must heed that warning.
easy to blame Lonmin, as some have done, for the spread of unrest in the weeks after our agreement.
Roger Phillimore Simon Scott We reject this accusation.
Unrest in the mining sector Chairman Acting Chief Executive Officer predated the Marikana dispute, and was growing elsewhere during it.
