GOVERNANCE INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE Sir John Parker Corporate governance is a dynamic process that requires continuous review and improvement.
IN THIS SECTION BOARD EVALUATION CHAIRMANS The following 90 One of the ways in which we seek to section sets INTRODUCTION Chairmans adapt and improve our governance out how we introduction In 2012 we saw both the 20th arrangements is via the annual Board have complied anniversary of the introduction of evaluation.
In 2012, the evaluation and, on our 92 the UK Corporate Governance Code was conducted by an external website, we The Board the Code and, in September, its latest facilitator and led to recommendations provide a handy 94 incarnation as the Financial Reporting for, inter alia, enhancing the quality checklist that Executive Council FRC published revisions of our strategic discussions and relates our management aimed at enhancing corporate re-programming our scheduled corporate Board agenda somewhat to include reporting and audit.
These events governance 96 discussions of a range of areas serve to underline the fact that arrangements The role of highlighted by directors.
corporate governance is a dynamic to each of the Board process that requires continuous the relevant I regard an external board evaluation 98 review and improvement.
For me principles in as a very useful process although, Board in action they also highlight the wisdom the Code.
in well-established companies, of Sir Adrian Cadbury and his 100 one should not expect the annual For more information visit committee in devising a principleswww.
com Board evaluation to result in revolutionary based approach that has enabled and committees changes nor be surprised if the encouraged the periodic updating of results often focus on the same areas.
104 the Code to ensure it remains relevant.
What it does provide is an independent, Audit external perspective on the At Anglo American, I am pleased to Committee effectiveness of our Board and a con rm once again that we complied report valuable opportunity for directors to with the Code for the period.
The 108 take the time to re ect speci cally following section sets out how we Remuneration on how we are doing and where we have complied and, on our website, report might improve.
we provide a handy checklist that relates our corporate governance 128 arrangements to each of the relevant Directors principles in the Code.
Nonetheless, report we recognise that corporate 134 governance arrangements are never Statement complete, and must continually adapt of directors and evolve.
The following section responsibilities explains how we endeavour to achieve that and I hope this is of interest to shareholders.
In this introduction I will brie y draw attention to just two areas that I hope illustrate our commitment to continuous improvement.
90 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Board and Committee meetings frequency and attendance Independent Board Audit S&SD Remuneration Nomination six three four four five meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings Sir John Parker N a All Three All Cynthia Carroll No All All Ren Mdori No All David Challen Yes All All All All Sir CK Chow Yes All All All Sir Philip Hampton Yes Five All All Phuthuma Nhleko Yes All All Ray ORourke Yes All All All 1 Mamphela Ramphele Yes 1 4 1 3 1 3 2 Anne Stevens Yes All All Jack Thompson Yes All All All Peter Woicke Yes All All All All 1 Meetings attended prior to retirement.
DIVERSITY The following sections of this report As the contain much information detailing We continue to develop the mix of justi able our compliance with the Code.
What skills and experience on the Board.
clamour for I hope is also clear is our commitment During the year, it included three diversity to the spirit of the Code and our belief female directors achieving a 27% on company that good corporate governance is representation of women on the boards good business that it is about making Board excluding the chairman intensi es, the best decisions we can, for the right and comprised individuals with there is a reasons, in the long term interests of engineering, banking, mining, risk that this the Company.
telecoms, construction and automotive comes to be sector backgrounds, hailing from seen as a mere the US, UK, South Africa, France, compliance Sir John Parker Germany, Ireland and Hong Kong.
Chairman As the justi able clamour for diversity on company boards intensi es, there is a risk that this comes to be seen as a mere compliance issue.
Making sure we utilise all of the talent available to us, and fostering a mix of skills and backgrounds to provide challenge and different perspectives around the board table, is all about making better decisions in the interests of the Company.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 91
