OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW OTHER MINING AND INDUSTRIAL OTHER MINING AND INDUSTRIAL Ruben Fernandes CEO Phosphates and Niobium Duncan Wanblad Group Director Other Mining and Industrial Tarmac, Amap and Scaw Metals 01 UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT 2011: $315 m Key financial and nonfinancial performance indicators $ 337 m 1 $ million unless otherwise stated 2012 2011 Underlying operating pro t 337 315 SHARE OF GROUP UNDERLYING Phosphates 91 134 OPERATING PROFIT Niobium 81 52 2011: 3% Amap 54 120 Tarmac 73 38 5 % Scaw Metals 49 37 Zinc 20 UNDERLYING EBITDA 2011: $540 m Corporate 11 10 Underlying EBITDA 485 540 $485 m Net operating assets 786 3,843 Capital expenditure 260 225 Share of Group underlying operating pro t 5% 3% Share of Group net operating assets 2% 9% 2 Nonfinancial indicators 2012 2011 Number of fatal injuries Phosphates and Niobium Amap, Tarmac and Scaw Metals 1 1 Lost-time injury frequency rate Phosphates and Niobium 0.39 0.15 Amap, Tarmac and Scaw Metals 0.25 0.21 3 Total energy consumed in 1,000 GJ 2,710 2,222 3 Total greenhouse gas emissions in 1,000 tonnes CO e 93 65 2 3 3 Total water used for primary activities in 1,000 m 8,313 8,569 1 In 2012, Amap was reclassi ed from Iron Ore and Manganese to Non-core within the Other Mining and Industrial segment to align with internal management reporting.
Financial comparatives have been reclassi ed to align with current presentation.
2 In a given year, nonfinancial data is reported within the business unit that had management control of the operation, therefore nonfinancial data 01 A granulator at Phosphates for Amap is reported within OMI and Iron Ore Brazil for 2012 and 2011 respectively.
Cubato plant, where fertiliser 3 Nonfinancial performance data given for Phosphates and Niobium only.
is made into granulated form.
86 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Operating and financial review BUSINESS OVERVIEW INDUSTRY OVERVIEW Our phosphates ORGANISING Phosphates Phosphates mine, containing Our Phosphates business is the Phosphate fertiliser demand is some of Brazils VALUE FROM second largest integrated phosphate driven by strong fundamental trends, highest grades fertiliser producer in Brazil.
Its including expanding food needs from WASTE AT of ore has operations are vertically integrated, a growing global population, changing approximately PHOSPHATES covering mining of phosphate ore, dietary habits in major emerging 15% of current bene ciation of the ore to produce economies such as China and India, Brazilian phosphorus pentoxide P O and increased demand for biofuels.
2 5 phosphate concentrate, and processing into mineral Brazil, a major agricultural nation, is intermediate and final products.
the fourth largest phosphate market Our phosphates mine at Ouvidor, in globally and needs to import almost Gois state, currently produces, on 50% of its required phosphate average, around 5.9Mt of ore per fertilisers.
Our phosphates mine, annum dry basis.
It is a prime situated in Brazils under-supplied phosphate deposit, containing some Central-West region, gives us a of Brazils highest grades of ore competitive cash-cost advantage.
Phosphates is applying the approximately 13% P O.
The 2 5 reduce, re-use, recycle Niobium company has approximately 15% of philosophy on an industrial scale.
As an alloying agent, niobium brings current Brazilian phosphate mineral unique properties to high strength A leading Brazilian producer of resources and has a remaining mine life steel alloys HSSA, such as increased phosphate fertilisers, each year of 40 years at current production rates.
Phosphates generates 7,800 formability, corrosion resistance, tonnes of phosphate waste, Run-of-mine phosphate ore is treated weldability and strength under tough with 20% being re-used at the at a bene ciation facility on the same working environments, including granulation stage of production.
site, and approximately 1.36 million extreme high or low temperatures.
The rest was traditionally sold tonnes per annum Mtpa of final as a low-value by-product or Around 90% of total global niobium phosphate concentrate is produced disposed of in waste lagoons.
consumption is used as an alloying at an average grade of around 35% element, in the form of ferroniobium Following laboratory and, later, P O. Phosphates operates two 2 5 FeNb in high strength steels, which industrial-scale tests, a chemical processing complexes: are used in the manufacture of Phosphates technical team one in Catalo in Gois, the other at demonstrated that phosphate automobiles, ships and high pressure Cubato in the state of So Paulo.
The waste could also be re-used pipelines, as well as in the petroleum company produces a wide variety of in the intermediate acidulation and construction industries.
The products for the Brazilian agriculture stage.
The technique was put product is exported to major steel sector, including low analysis into full-scale production in plants in Europe, the US and Asia.
2 5 high analysis 40%-55% P O content 2 5 Phosphate waste recovered phosphate fertilisers, dicalcium STRATEGY and re-used has now increased phosphate DCP for the animal feed to 40% with a target of 60%.
Phosphates and Niobiums core industry, as well as phosphoric and This has led to lower production strategy is to expand the existing costs, with no loss of quality, sulphuric acids for the food and animal operations and mineral reserves in and the environmental bene t feed industries.
both commodities through a rigorous of signi cantly reduced Niobium focus on operational excellence, and waste disposal.
Our Niobium business is located in the the execution of selected low cost and Image cities of Catalo and Ouvidor, in Gois high returning projects.
state, Brazil, and is one of the worlds At Phosphates, signi cant brown eld three principal niobium producers.
expansion opportunities are currently In operation since 1973, our Boa Vista being evaluated in order to meet the mine produces and exports expected growing demand needs of approximately 4,000 tonnes of the Brazilian agricultural market, which niobium per year.
Now, approaching is strategically placed to address the the end of the weathered ore, the global shifts in dietary habits and Niobium business is investing in where the outlook for the production adapting the existing plant to process of fertiliser products is very positive.
At Niobium, our investment in the Boa Vista Fresh Rock project is expected to consolidate the business as the second largest producer of niobium worldwide, feeding mainly into, and increasing our market share in, the HSSA market.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 87 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW OTHER MINING AND INDUSTRIAL 01 Phosphates stockpile in Cubato.
02 Processing plant and water-treatment area at Cubato.
FINANCIAL AND Brazilian OPERATIONAL OVERVIEW fertiliser Safety and environment consumption In 2012, no fatalities were recorded in has been Phosphates and Niobium, however the growing faster LTIFR increased to 0.39 2011: 0.15. than the All 14 injuries were of low potential global average severity and most involved injury to 01 and this hands and feet.
The lessons learned performance from the incident investigations are is expected to being used to improve risk continue in assessment, promote safe behaviour future years.
and prevent unsafe operating conditions.
Water consumption was marginally reduced as more water was re-used, particularly at the phosphate operations.
While energy consumption decreased year on year, CO emissions increased 2 due to an alignment of conversion factors with Group standards.
Markets 02 Phosphates Fertiliser demand in Brazil rose around prices, coupled with increased labour Outlook 4% in 2012, re ecting the strong costs and general in ationary Phosphates fundamentals of the Brazilian pressures.
DCP sales were also Strong grain prices continue to agricultural sector.
Brazilian fertiliser adversely affected by dif culties in the support fertiliser demand, and fertiliser consumption has been growing faster cattle industry, which had a negative prices are expected to remain high than the global average and this impact on the operating results.
The market expects performance is expected to continue in farmers to expand the area given over future years, supported by favourable Phosphates production increased by to agriculture, as the current ratio weather conditions, plentiful access 5% to a record of 1.1 Mt, due to a between fertiliser and grain prices to water and the widespread use of number of asset optimisation initiatives remains positive.
advanced farming techniques by which improved overall performance Brazilian farmers.
Continued high at Catalo and Cubato.
In addition, the high level of corn prices of soybean and corn have also prices will be a motivating factor for Niobium incentivised farmers to increase grain an aggressive mini crop a smaller Niobium generated an underlying production through more intensive secondary crop, mainly corn, grown operating pro t of $81 million, a 56% fertiliser application.
in the first half of the year in the first increase over 2011.
Sales volumes of quarter of 2013.
This favourable market scenario niobium rose by 15%, mainly due to resulted in Phosphates reporting a an increase in production arising from Niobium record fertiliser sales performance a better performance at the tailings Demand is expected to remain of 1.2 Mt for the year.
plant and improvements in the subdued in Europe and in Paci c concentration process at the Boa Vista Rim East Asian countries, such as Niobium mine.
Unit production costs declined Japan, South Korea and, to a lesser Global steel mill activity was subdued in 2012, with producers reluctant to owing to lower aluminium and power degree, China.
resume idle operations, replenish prices and more ef cient use of Production is expected to decline stocks, and to commit to further consumables, combined with the in 2013, owing to lower grades and investment in their businesses.
Despite impact of higher production.
recoveries as lower quality ore is the challenging environment, however, Projects extracted from Boa Vista mine as it increased production of HSSA in both Niobium approaches the end of the weathered emerging and developed countries, The Boa Vista Fresh Rock project ore and encounters lower grades ensured that niobium demand continued to make progress, with and higher contaminants.
Tailings remained strong for the year.
additional capital expenditure production is also expected to Operating performance approved in June 2012.
The existing decrease as a result of lower Phosphates plant will be adapted to process new niobium grades contained in the Despite record fertiliser sales, rock instead of oxide ore, leading to phosphate tailings.
underlying operating pro t decreased an increase in production capacity by 32% to $91 million, driven mainly by to approximately 6,500 tonnes of unfavourable international fertiliser niobium per year 2012: 4,400 tonnes.
88 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Operating and financial review AMAP TARMAC A number of initiatives continue to be In early 2013, developed to ensure improved longer Amap generated an underlying Tarmac reported an underlying Anglo American term performance, but the short term operating pro t of $54 million, operating pro t of $73 million, and Lafarge remains dif cult owing to the prevailing a decrease of $66million on the compared with a loss of $38 million announced weak market conditions.
Tarmacs underlying EBITDA the completion was $148 million, 44% higher than of their 50:50 Production increased signi cantly, in 2011.
in line with planned ramp up and also due to higher mass recovery in Quarry materials Scaw Metals experienced a 32% the bene ciation plant as a result of The business pro tability was at increase in underlying operating pro t the plants improved stability.
The higher levels than last year, mainly as to $49million for the 11 months to operation is now at design production a result of the operation being treated end November 2012 compared with capacity.
Higher sales were also as held for sale from the end of July the full year 2011, mainly as a result achieved following fewer delays 2012, and the subsequent cessation of the company being treated as associated with transportable moisture of recorded depreciation.
There has held for sale from 24 April 2012, limits.
Transhipment at Trinidad and been a decline in asphalt volumes, with and the subsequent cessation of Tobago from smaller capacity few major road schemes commencing recorded depreciation.
Handymax to the larger capacity in 2012 as a result of the UK Cast Products showed a marked Capesize vessels for onward shipment governments austerity measures.
improvement, owing to rm demand to the Middle and Far East was Private-sector growth remained across all segments and a reduction successfully implemented in the muted throughout the year, thus in costs following the closure of a second half of 2012. keeping pressure on ready-mix loss making foundry in the prior year.
concrete prices and volumes, but was Grinding Media reported a decrease The favourable impact of improved offset in part by the resilient central in underlying operating pro t as a production and higher sales, however, London market.
A continued focus result of lower demand from the was more than offset by a sharp on maximising the use of substitute mining sector owing to industrial decrease in prices during 2012, though fuel and recycled asphalt materials action in the second half of 2012. tight cost control and improved is helping to mitigate the impact of This business is expected to recover operating ef ciencies, partly rising hydrocarbon costs and to as mining operations revert to full compensated their effect.
The performance of operating pro t also bene ted from Wire Rod Products suffered as a the reversal of penalty provisions, On 7 January 2013, Anglo American consequence of a decline in mining which were in place at the end of 2011, and Lafarge announced the activity, but nevertheless reported as a result of contract renegotiations.
completion of their 50:50 joint venture stable earnings.
Demand for which will combine their cement, Regrettably, one fatality occurred construction products remained aggregates, ready-mix concrete, at Amap iron ore system in Brazil weak, but in spite of this the Rolled asphalt and asphalt surfacing, during 2012.
The LTIFR has Products business, through cost maintenance services, and waste improved over the past six years, containment measures and services businesses in the UK.
The and encouragingly, the severity of operational improvements, was joint venture will be known as Lafarge injuries also continues to decline.
able to minimise its losses.
Completion of the Lafarge On 4 January 2013, Anglo American Tarmac joint venture followed final Total production of steel products announced an agreement to sell its clearance from the UK Competition was 611,600 tonnes for the 11 months 70% interest in Amap to Zamin Commission, predicated on the to end November 2012, a decrease Ferrous Ltd.
The transaction is subject completed sale of a portfolio of Tarmac of 9.7% over the full year 2011. to regulatory approval and is expected and Lafarge construction materials On 24 April 2012, Anglo American to complete in 2013.
We have always operations in the UK, which also announced the sale of its interest maintained that we did not envisage occurred on 7 January 2013. in Scaw South Africa to an investment holding our interest in Amap over the Building products consortium led by the Industrial long term and, in July 2012, reported Performance was affected by that we had transferred responsibility Development Corporation of the continued general economic for Amap to our Other Mining and South Africa and the Groups downturn, compounded by disruption Industrial business unit and stated that partners in Scaw South Africa, to building activity following we were exploring the possibility of being Izingwe Holdings Pty unseasonal wet weather during divesting our interest.
Limited, Shanduka Resources Pty the summer months.
Limited and the Southern Palace Anglo American has transformed the The weak building products market Group of Companies Pty Limited.
operational performance of Amap resulted in a highly competitive On 23 November, the sale of since acquisition in 2008, increasing pricing environment affecting sales Scaw South Africa and related annual production from 1.2 Mt in 2008 volumes, although cost reduction companies completed for a total to 6.1Mt in 2012. projects and improvements in consideration of ZAR3.4 billion operating ef ciencies are helping $440million on a cashand to mitigate some of the impact.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 89
