GOVERNANCE THE BOARD THE BOARD CHAIRMAN FINANCE DIRECTOR of Brambles Industries, GKN PLC and non-executive chairman of Standard Sir John Parker Ren Mdori Chartered Bank Hong Kong Limited.
GBE, FREng, DSc Eng, ScD Hon, Doctorate in Economics Prior to joining GKN PLC he worked DSc Hon, DUniv Hon, FRINA 55, was appointed to the Board for The BOC Group plc for 20 years, on 1June 2005, becoming finance 70, joined the Board as a nonjoining its board in 1993. director on 1 September 2005. executive director on 9 July 2009 and Ren is a member of GMC and ExCo became chairman on 1August 2009.
Sir Philip Hampton and chairman of the Investment Sir John is also chairman of the MA, ACA, MBA Committee.
He is a non-executive Nomination Committee and is a 59, joined the Board on 9 November director of Anglo American Platinum.
member of the Safety and Sustainable 2009.
He is chairman of the Ren recently joined the board of Development S&SD Committee.
Remuneration Committee and a Petrofac Limited as a non-executive member of the Audit Committee.
He is a non-executive director of director.
He is a former finance SirPhilip is chairman of The Royal Carnival Corporation and EADS as director of The BOC Group plc and Bank of Scotland and brings to well as deputy chairman of DP World.
was a non-executive director of AngloAmerican signi cant financial, Sir John is also President of the Royal SSE plc formerly Scottish and strategic and boardroom experience Academy of Engineering and a Visiting Southern Energy plc until June 2012. across a number of industries.
Fellow of the University of Oxford.
His previous appointments include Sir John was previously chairman of SENIOR INDEPENDENT chairman of J Sainsbury plc: finance National Grid plc, senior non-executive DIRECTOR director of Lloyds TSB Group plc, BT director and chair of the Court of the David Challen Group plc, BG Group plc, British Gas Bank of England, joint chair of Mondi MA, MBA plc and British Steel plc, executive and chair of BVT and P&O plc.
69, joined the Board on 9 September director of Lazards, and non-executive 2002 and was appointed as the senior director of RMC Group plc and independent non-executive director CHIEF EXECUTIVE Belgacom SA.
He is chairman of the Cynthia Carroll Audit Committee and a member of Phuthuma Nhleko MSc, MBA, DSc Hon the Nomination and Remuneration BSc Eng, MBA 56, was appointed CEO on 1 March Committees.
David is currently 52, joined the Board on 9 March 2007, having joined the Board on chairman of the EMEA governance 2011 and is a member of the Audit 15January 2007.
Cynthia chairs the committee at Citigroup and senior Committee.
Phuthuma is also a Group Management Committee non-executive director of Smiths non-executive director of BP plc GMC and the Executive Committee Group plc.
He is currently a deputy and chairman of Pembani Group ExCo and sits on the S&SD chairman of the UKs Takeover Panel.
She is a non-executive Previously he was chairman of J. Henry director of BP plc and chairs Anglo He previously served as a director on Schroder & Co. Limited, where he American Platinum and fide Beers.
a number of boards in South Africa, spent most of his professional career.
Cynthia is the former president and including Nedbank Group, Alexander CEO of Alcans Primary Metals Group Forbes, Bidvest and Old Mutual SA.
and a former director of AngloGold NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Ashanti Ltd and Sara Lee Corporation.
Ray ORourke Sir CK Chow KBE, HonFREng, CEng, FICE, FIEI DEng Hon, CEng, FREng, HonFHKIE, In October 2012 Cynthia announced 66, joined the Board on 11 December FIChemE her decision to step down as CEO with 2009.
He is a member of the Audit 62, was appointed to the Board on effect from 3 April 2013.
She will also and S&SD Committees.
15April 2008 and is a member of step down from the Board at the AGM the Nomination and Remuneration Ray founded the ORourke Group on 19 April 2013.
He is currently chairman in 1977, having begun his career at of Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Kier and J Murphy & Sons.
In 2001, Limited and a non-executive director the ORourke Group acquired John of AIA Group Limited.
Laing to form Laing ORourke, now Europes largest privately owned Sir CK was appointed as a member construction company, of which of the Executive Council of the Ray is chairman and CEO.
HongKong Special Administrative Region in July 2012.
He is chairman Ray has a proven track record in of the Hong Kong General Chamber delivering complex and large-scale of Commerce, and was recently projects around the world, mobilising appointed chairman of the Advisory large numbers of people with great Committee on Corruption by the success and applying leading project Hong Kong SAR Government.
As a member Between 2003 and 2011 he was CEO of the S&SD Committee, he has a of the MTR Corporation in Hong Kong.
Former positions include those of CEO 92 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Sir Philip Hampton Sir John Parker Cynthia Carroll Ren Mdori David Challen Sir CK Chow Phuthuma Nhleko Anne Stevens Jack Thompson Peter Woicke Mark Cutifani Byron Grote Ray ORourke Incoming CEO Nominated independent non-executive director Anne Stevens Jack brings experience gained at Mark has over 35 years PhD, BSc all levels of the mining industry and experience of the mining industry 64, joined the Board on 15 May has received wide recognition as a across a wide range of geographies 2012 and is a member of the Audit mining executive.
She has served on the board of Lockheed Martin Corporation Peter Woicke as a non-executive director since MBA NOMINATED INDEPENDENT 2002 and is also the chairman and 70, joined the Board on 1 January NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR CEO of a privately held IT services 2006, is chairman of the S&SD Byron Grote business, SA IT.
Committee and is a member of PhD Quantitative Analysis the Nomination and Remuneration 64, is a non-executive director of Annes 16-year career with Ford Committees.
Unilever NV and Unilever plc and Motor Company culminated in her amember of the Cornell University appointment as chief operating of cer He is currently a member of the board Johnson Graduate School of COO for the Americas, a position of trustees of the Ashesi University Management Advisory Council.
Foundation and a member of the boards of Saudi Aramco, the Institute He joined The Standard Oil Company Prior to joining Ford in 1990, Anne for Human Rights and Business and of Ohio in 1979 and in 1985 became spent ten years in a number of the Chesapeake Bay Foundation.
director of planning for its mining engineering, product development subsidiary, Kennecott.
and sales and marketing roles at From 1999 to 2005, Peter was Exxon Chemical Co and three executive vice president of the In 1988 Byron was appointed as years as chairman and CEO of International Finance Corporation commercial vice president for BPs Carpenter Technology.
Prior to joining the IFC, Peter Alaskan North Slope production held numerous positions for nearly activities.
In 1989 he became Anne brings a wealth of experience 30 years with J. P. Morgan and he commercial general manager of BP from a number of global industries.
was also a managing director of the exploration, based in London, and Her engineering training and wideWorld Bank.
then group treasurer and CEO of BP ranging commercial acumen and finance in 1992.
In 1994 he took up the experience gained across North, Peter has indicated that he wishes position of regional chief executive in Central and South America has to retire from the Board this year Latin America.
In 1995 Byron became strengthened the experience of and accordingly will not be standing deputy CEO of BP Exploration.
for re-election at the AGM in April.
Following the merger of BP and Jack Thompson Amoco in 1999, Byron was appointed INCOMING CEO BSc, PhD executive vice president, exploration 63, joined the Board on 16 November Mark Cutifani and production.
He was appointed to 2009 and is a member of the BE Mining Engineering the BP board in 2000 and he served Remuneration and S&SD Committees.
54, has been appointed as a director for two years as CEO of BP Chemicals He will become chairman of the S&SD and CEO with effect from 3 April 2013. and then as BPs chief financial of cer Committee upon the retirement of Mark is currently CEO of AngloGold CFO from 2002 until 31 December Peter Woicke in April 2013.
He is Ashanti Limited, a position he has held 2011.
He will retire from the board of currently a non-executive director since 2007.
Before joining AngloGold BP in April 2013. of Molycorp Minerals LLC and Ashanti, Mark was COO at Vale Inco Tidewater Inc. where he was responsible for Vales Byron has been nominated for global nickel business.
Prior to this he election as adirector at the AGM on Jack was previously chairman and held senior executive positions with 19April 2013.
CEO of Homestake Mining Co. vice the Normandy Group, Sons of Gwalia, chairman of Barrick Gold Corp. and Western Mining Corporation, has served on the boards of Centerra Kalgoorlie Consolidated Gold Mines Gold Inc. Century Aluminum Co. and CRA Rio Tinto.
Phelps Dodge Corp. Rinker Group Ltd. and Stillwater Mining.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 93
