GOVERNANCE ROLE OF THE BOARD Role of the chairman Independence of directors THE ROLE OF The Board is chaired by Sir John The Board has a strong independent THE BOARD Parker.
The chairman is responsible element and currently comprises, in for leading the Board and for its addition to the chairman, two executive The Board of directors has a duty effectiveness.
directors and eight NEDs, all of whom to promote the long term success are independent according to the of the Company for its shareholders.
Role of the chief executive fide nition contained in the Code.
Full Its role includes the establishment, The CEO is responsible for the biographical details for each director review and monitoring of strategic execution of strategy and the are given on pages 9293.
The letters objectives, approval of major day-to-day management of the Group, of appointment of the NEDs as well acquisitions, disposals and capital supported by the GMC and the ExCo, as the executive directors service expenditure and overseeing the both of which are currently chaired contracts are available for inspection Groups systems of internal control, by Cynthia Carroll.
The functions and at the registered of ce of the governance and risk management.
membership of GMC and ExCo are Company.
A schedule of matters reserved for the None of the NEDs has served Boards decision details key aspects of The Company has adopted the concurrently with an executive director the Companys affairs that the Board Institute of Chartered Secretaries for more than nine years.
As David does not delegate including, among and Administrators Statement of Challen has been on the Board for over other things, approval of business Division of Responsibilities between six years his re-appointment is subject plans, budgets and material the Chairman and the CEO.
For the full list, please Role of the senior Board believes that through his see the Companys website.
independent director challenging and questioning of David Challen is the senior management he continues to display Every year the Board holds a two-day independent non-executive director all of the qualities of independence strategy meeting at which the SID.
He is available to shareholders, pursuant to the criteria set out in non-executive directors NEDs acts as a sounding board and con dant the Code.
contribute their expertise and for the chairman and is available as an independent perspective in developing Board evaluation intermediary for the other directors the strategy of the Company.
An evaluation of the Board by an if necessary.
external facilitator, with no prior relationship with Anglo American, was completed in February 2012.
This involved a series of oneto-one interviews with board members to gather views, and attendance at a Board meeting by the facilitator.
Overall, directors felt that the Board was functioning well.
The composition and balance of the Board is good, and continues to develop.
The frequency of meetings is appropriate, and they are well organised and well chaired, with an inclusive style encouraging open, healthy debate.
It was agreed that finance and risk management, in particular, were well covered and that the chairman was very effective at communicating with external stakeholders for example, investors and media.
96 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Governance There is always room for improvement Director training Dealing with con icts of interest of course, and the evaluation identi ed Anglo Americans directors have If directors become aware that they a number of areas where we could do a wide range of expertise as have a direct or indirect interest in an even better.
As ever, directors would well as signi cant experience in existing or proposed transaction with like to have more time for strategic strategic, financial, commercial Anglo American, they notify the discussions, and for those discussions and mining activities.
Board at the next Board meeting or to be informed by more detail on by a written declaration.
Directors Upon appointment, directors are strategic alternatives to the relevant have a continuing duty to update provided with recent Board materials investment project under review.
As any changes in these interests.
During and a reference manual containing part of the evaluation, directors raised 2012 Mr Nhleko recused himself from information on legal obligations and a number of strategic questions to be a discussion on an item of business other matters of which they should addressed.
It has been agreed that where there was a potential con ict be aware.
Guidance is provided on these will be scheduled into the of interest.
In accordance with the Market Conduct under the Financial Boards agenda for discussion over Companys Articles and relevant Services Authority FSA, the the coming 12 to 18 months in legislation, a quorum of the Board, Companys Articles, the Code and addition to the annual two-day strategy which does not include the director the Model Code.
Directors also suggested with the potential con ict of interest, includes items such as Board and a number of areas that might be can authorise potential con icts of committee terms of reference, programmed into the Boards agenda interest and such authorisations can relevant company information to allow a deeper discussion, including: be limited in scope and are reviewed and guidance on where to obtain business unit BU presentations: on an annual basis.
During the year independent advice.
The manual competitor benchmarking: succession under review, the con icts register was signi cantly updated during planning: retrospective review of major was updated and the con ict 2012 and will continue to be updated project decisions to establish key management procedures were periodically when appropriate.
learnings: and external political and adhered to and operated effectively.
As part of the directors formal induction process, meetings are In order to facilitate openness and arranged with senior executives in constructive debate between our order to develop a full understanding executive directors and NEDs, dinners of the Anglo American Group.
Training are arranged for the day before each and brie ngs are also available to Board meeting.
At these, directors directors on appointment and are encouraged to raise issues in an throughout their tenure, as necessary, informal setting.
These dinners provide taking into account existing an opportunity, inter alia, todiscuss the quali cations and experience.
performance of management and Directors also have access to to air subjects outside the con fines management, and to the advice of the ofthe boardroom in an informal and company secretary.
At every Board meeting, time is set aside for a NEDs Furthermore, all directors are entitled only discussion.
The Board receives to seek independent professional regular governance updates from the advice concerning the affairs of company secretary highlighting Anglo American at the Companys developments in company law, expense, although no such advice corporate governance and best was sought during 2012.
Board papers are circulated presentations are made to the Board one week before meetings both by BU management on the activities electronically, via iPads, and in paper of operations.
Members of the GMC attend all The company secretary facilitates Board meetings.
board training and during the year directors attended courses on, interalia, corporate governance, strategy, compliance, current audit and remuneration committee issues and general director duties and responsibilities.
The directors are given the opportunity to discuss their development needs with the chairman during individual feedback meetings.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 97
