GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT DIVIDENDS The directors have pleasure in An interim dividend of 32 US cents submitting the statutory financial per ordinary share was paid on 13September 2012.
The directors statements of the Group for the are recommending that a final dividend of 53 US cents per ordinary share be year ended 31 December 2012. paid on 25 April 2013 to ordinary shareholders on the register on 22March 2013, subject to shareholder The Board considers that the Annual GOING CONCERN approval at the AGM to be held on Report, taken as a whole, is fair, The financial position of the Group, 19 April 2013.
This would bring the balanced and understandable and that its cash ows, liquidity position and total dividend in respect of 2012 to it provides all information necessary borrowing facilities are set out in the 85 US cents per ordinary share.
for shareholders to assess the Group Financial Performance Review In accordance with International Companys strategy and performance.
In addition, detail Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, is given on the Groups policy on the final dividend will be accounted for PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES managing credit and liquidity risk in in the financial statements for the year the Principal Risks and Uncertainties ended 31 December 2013.
Anglo American is one of the worlds section on pages 4853, with largest mining companies, is details of our policy on capital risk headquartered in the UK and listed management being set out in note 25 on the London and Johannesburg to the financial statements.
Anglo Americans Groups net debt at 31 December 2012 portfolio of mining businesses spans was $8.6 billion 2011: $1.4billion, bulk commodities iron ore and representing a gearing level of 16.4% manganese, metallurgical coal and 2011: 3.1%.
Details of borrowings and thermal coal: base metals copper facilities are set out in notes 24 and 25 and nickel: and precious metals and and net debt is set out in note 31. minerals in which it is a global leader in both platinum and diamonds.
The directors have considered the Anglo American is committed to Groups cash ow forecasts for the the highest standards of safety and period to the end of March 2014. responsibility across all its businesses The Board is satis ed that the Groups and geographies and to making forecasts and projections, taking a sustainable difference in the account of reasonably possible development of the communities changes in trading performance, show around its operations.
The Companys that the Group will be able to operate mining operations, extensive pipeline within the level of its current facilities of growth projects and exploration for the foreseeable future.
For this activities span southern Africa, South reason the Group continues to adopt America, Australia, North America, the going concern basis in preparing Asia and Europe.
More detailed information about the Groups businesses, activities and financial performance is incorporated in this report by reference and can be found in the chairmans and CEOs statements on pages 23 and 1011 respectively and the operating and financial review on pages 1289.
The Corporate Governance statement is onpages 90127 and is incorporated in this Directors report by reference.
128 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Governance SHARE CAPITAL DIRECTORS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT The Companys issued share capital as Directors biographical details are The Sustainable Development Report at 31 December 2012, together with given on pages 9293.
Details of 2012 will be available in April 2013. details of share allotments and issue of directors interests in shares and share This report focuses on the safety, treasury shares during the year, is set options of the Company can be found sustainable development, health and out in note 29 on pages 177180. in the remuneration report on pages environmental performance of the 108127.
Groups managed operations, its The Company was authorised by performance with regard to the shareholders at the AGM held on Anne Stevens joined the Board on Companys Good Citizenship Business 19April 2012 to purchase its own 15May 2012.
Mamphela Ramphele Principles, and the operational shares in the market up to a maximum resigned from the Board with effect dimensions of its social programmes.
of 14.99% of the issued share capital.
Cynthia Carroll No shares were purchased under this has resigned as CEO of the Company authority during 2012.
This authority with effect from 3 April 2013 and PAYMENT OF SUPPLIERS will expire at the 2013 AGM and, in as a director with effect from the Anglo American plc is a holding accordance with usual practice, a closing of the AGM to be held on company and, as such, has no material resolution to renew it for another year 19April 2013.
Mark Cutifani has been trade creditors.
Businesses across the will be proposed.
appointed CEO and a director with effect Group are responsible for agreeing from 3 April 2013. the terms under which transactions MATERIAL SHAREHOLDINGS On 12 February 2013, the Board with their suppliers are conducted, proposed the appointment of Dr Byron re ecting local and industry norms and As at 31 December 2012, the Grote as a non-executive director at Group purchasing arrangements that Company was aware of the following the forthcoming AGM on 19 April 2013. may have been made with a supplier.
interests in 3% or more of the It is intended that Dr Grote will join the The Group values its suppliers and Companys ordinary share capital: Audit Committee of the Board on recognises the bene ts to be derived Percentage appointment and he will, after a period from maintaining good relationships Number of voting Company of shares rights of induction, assume the role of with them.
Anglo American Chairman of that committee from acknowledges the importance of Blackrock, Inc. 63,971,090 4.60 David Challen, who has held this paying invoices, especially those of Epoch Two 42,166,686 3.03 position since 2003. small businesses, promptly.
Investment Holdings In addition, Peter Woicke informed the 1 Limited Board of his intention to retire as a VALUE OF LAND Public 81,235,375 5.84 non-executive director, also with effect Land is mainly carried in the financial Investment from the AGM.
Mr Woicke will be statements at cost.
It is not practicable Corporation succeeded as Chairman of the Safety PIC to estimate the market value of land and Sustainable Development and mineral rights, since these depend Tarl Investment 47,275,613 3.39 Committee by Jack Thompson.
on product prices over the next 20 Holdings 1 In accordance with the Code, years or more, which will vary with Limited Anglo American will continue to market conditions.
propose the re-election of all directors 1 Epoch Two Investment Holdings Ltd Epoch 2 on an annual basis.
and Tarl Investment Holdings Limited Tarl are two POST-BALANCE SHEET EVENTS of the independent companies that have purchased shares as part of Anglo Americans share buy back Post-balance sheet events are set out programme.
Epoch 2 and Tarl have waived their in note 39 to the financial statements right to vote all the shares they hold or will hold in on page 187.
AUDIT INFORMATION As at the date hereof the Company has been noti ed of the following change The directors con rm that, so far as to the above holdings of voting rights they are aware, there is no relevant in the ordinary share capital of the audit information of which the auditors Company: Blackrock, Inc. 64,138,546 are unaware and that all directors have 4.61%.
taken all reasonable steps to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 129 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT EMPLOYMENT AND Further, the Group is committed to CHARITABLE DONATIONS OTHER POLICIES treating employees at all levels with During the year, Anglo American, its respect and consideration, to investing The Groups key operating businesses subsidiaries and the Anglo American in their development and to ensuring are empowered to manage within Group Foundation made donations that their careers are not constrained the context of the different legislative for charitable purposes or wider social by discrimination or arbitrary barriers.
and social demands of the diverse investments amounting to $154 million countries in which those businesses The Good Citizenship Business 3% of operating pro t from operate, subject to the standards Principles are supplemented by four subsidiaries and joint ventures before embodied in Anglo Americans Anglo American Way documents, special items and remeasurements.
covering the safety, environmental, Charitable donations of $1.8 million Within all the Groups businesses, occupational health and social were made in the UK, of which the the safe and effective performance aspects of responsible operation and main categories were: education of employees and the maintenance sustainable development.
These set and training 5.7% and health and of positive employee relations are of out speci c standards for each of these welfare 22.6%.
These gures were fundamental importance.
Managers subject areas, in line with international compiled with reference to the London are charged with ensuring that the best practice.
Benchmarking Group model for following key principles are upheld: fide ning and measuring social Copies of the Good Citizenship investment spending.
A fuller Adherence to national legal Business Principles and the analysis of the Groups social standards on employment and AngloAmerican Way documents investment activities can be found workplace rights at all times are available from the Company in the Sustainable Development and may be accessed on the In addition, adherence to the Report 2012.
International Labour Organizations The Business Integrity Policy and core labour rights, including: POLITICAL DONATIONS Performance Standards set out how prohibition of child labour: prohibition Group employees, business partners of inhumane treatment of employees No political donations were made and major suppliers must act to ensure and any form of forced labour, during 2012.
Anglo American has that our zero tolerance of corruption is physical punishment or other abuse: an established policy of not making upheld.
All senior employees, and recognition of the right of our donations to, or incurring expenses employees in high-risk functions such employees to freedom of association for the bene t of, any political party as procurement, are trained to embed and the promotion of workplace in any part of the world, including any knowledge of the policy as well as the equality: and the elimination of all political party or political organisation UK Bribery Act and how to behave in forms of unfair discrimination as fide ned in the Political Parties, corruption-risk situations.
This training Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
Continual promotion of safe and is ongoing and mandatory for all healthy working practices senior levels and others where it is deemed appropriate.
Provision of opportunities for employees to enhance their work The Group has a well-used enterprise related skills and capabilities information portal, theSource, which seeks to ensure that employees are Adoption of fair and appropriate regularly updated on developments procedures for determining terms within the Group, and feedback is and conditions of employment.
In addition, the Company It is our policy that people with regularly publishes Optima available disabilities should have full and fair on the Companys website and consideration for all vacancies.
Our World, which contain items of Employment of disabled people is news, current affairs and information considered on merit and with regard relevant to Group employees.
only to the ability of any applicant to carry out the role.
We endeavour to retain the employment of, and arrange suitable retraining for, any employees in the workforce who become disabled during their employment.
Where possible we will adjust a persons working environment to enable them to stay in our employment.
130 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Governance ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Where shares are held by trustees FOR SHAREHOLDERS nominees in respect of the Groups The AGM will be held on 19 April 2013, employee share plans and the voting when shareholders will have the Set out below is a summary of certain rights attached to such shares are not opportunity to put questions to the provisions of the Companys current directly exercisable by the employees, Board, including the chairmen of the Articles and applicable English law it is the Companys practice that such various committees.
A separate concerning companies the rights are not exercised by the relevant booklet enclosed with this report Companies Act 2006 the Companies trustee nominee.
contains the notice convening the Act required as a result of the meeting together with a description implementation of the Takeovers Under the Companies Act, members of the business to be conducted.
This is a are entitled to appoint a proxy, who summary only and the relevant need not be a member of the Facilities have been put in place to provisions of the Articles or the Company, to exercise all or any of their enable shareholders on the UK Companies Act should be consulted rights to attend and to speak and vote register to receive communications if further information is required.
on their behalf at a general meeting electronically rather than by mail and, or class meeting.
A member may for those unable to attend the meeting, Dividends and distributions appoint more than one proxy in relation to cast their votes by electronic means, Subject to the provisions of the to a general meeting or class meeting including those shareholders whose Companies Act, the Company may by provided that each proxy is appointed shares are held in the CREST system.
ordinary resolution from time to time to exercise the rights attached to a declare dividends not exceeding the In accordance with best practice, different share or shares held by amount recommended by the Board.
voting on each resolution to be that member.
A member that is a The Board may pay interim dividends proposed at the AGM will be corporation may appoint one or more whenever the financial position of the individuals to act on its behalf at a conducted on a poll rather than by a Company, in the opinion of the Board, general meeting or class meeting as show of hands.
The results of the poll justi es such payment.
The debate will be announced to the press and on around s323 of the Companies Act the Companys website.
The Board may withhold payment of all has been resolved so that where a or any part of any dividends or other shareholder appoints more than one monies payable in respect of the ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS corporate representative in respect Companys shares from a person with of its shareholding, but in respect of Since the implementation of the a 0.25% interest or more as fide ned in different shares, those corporate electronic communications provisions the Articles if such a person has been representatives can act independently in the Companies Act 2006, the served with a notice after failing to of each other, and validly vote in Company has substantially reduced provide the Company with information different ways.
the cost of annual report production concerning interests in those shares and distribution.
Shareholders may required to be provided under the Restrictions on voting elect to receive noti cation by email of Companies Act.
No member shall, unless the directors the availability of the annual report on otherwise determine, be entitled in Rights and obligations attaching the Companys website instead of respect of any share held by him her to shares receiving paper copies.
tovote either personally or by proxy The rights and obligations attaching to ata shareholders meeting, or to the ordinary and preference shares are exercise any other right conferred set out in the Articles.
The Articles may bymembership in relation to only be changed by a special resolution shareholders meetings, if any call or passed by the shareholders.
other sum presently payable by him Voting her to the Company in respect of that Subject to the Articles generally and share remains unpaid.
In addition, no to any special rights or restrictions as member shall be entitled to vote if he to voting attached by or in accordance she has been served with a notice after with the Articles to any class of shares, failing to provide the Company with on a show of hands every member information concerning interests in who is present in person at a general those shares required to be provided meeting shall have one vote and, on under the Companies Act.
a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he she is the holder.
It is, and has been for some years, the Companys practice to hold a poll on every resolution at shareholder meetings.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 131 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT Issue of shares Deadlines for exercising The directors may decline to recognise Subject to the provisions of the voting rights any instrument of transfer relating to Companies Act relating to authority Votes are exercisable at a general shares in certi cated form unless it: and pre-emption rights and of any meeting of the Company in respect of a is in respect of only one class of resolution of the Company in a UK which the business being voted upon share: and general meeting, all unissued shares is being heard.
Votes may be exercised of the Company shall be at the disposal in person, by proxy, or in relation to b is lodged at the transfer of ce duly of the directors and they may allot corporate members, by corporate stamped if required accompanied with or without conferring a right of representative.
The Articles provide a by the relevant share certi cate s renunciation, grant options over, or deadline for submission of proxy forms and such other evidence as the otherwise dispose of them to such of not less than 48 hours before the directors may reasonably require persons at such times, and on such time appointed for the holding of the to show the right of the transferor terms, as they think proper.
to make the transfer and, if the instrument of transfer is executed Shares in uncerti cated form Variation of rights by some other person on his her Directors may determine that any class Subject to statute, the Articles specify behalf, the authority of that person of shares may be held in uncerti cated that rights attached to any class of so to do.
form and title to such shares may be shares may be varied with the written transferred by means of a relevant consent of the holders of not less than The directors may, in the case of system, or that shares of any class three quarters in nominal value of the shares in certi cated form, in their should cease to be so held and issued shares of that class, or with the absolute discretion and without transferred.
Subject to the provisions sanction of an extraordinary resolution assigning any reason therefor, refuse of the Companies Act, the CREST passed at a separate general meeting to register any transfer of shares not regulations and every other statute, of the holders of those shares.
At every being fully paid shares provided that, statutory instrument, regulation or such separate general meeting the where any such shares are admitted to order for the time being in force quorum shall be two persons holding, the Of cial List of the London Stock concerning companies and affecting or representing by proxy, at least one Exchange, such discretion may not be the Company together, the Statutes, third in nominal value of the issued exercised in such a way as to prevent the directors may determine that any shares of the class calculated dealings in the shares of that class class of shares held on the branch excluding any shares held as treasury from taking place on an open and register of members of the Company shares.
The rights conferred upon the proper basis.
The directors may also resident in South Africa, or any other holders of any shares shall not, unless refuse to register an allotment or overseas branch register of the otherwise expressly provided in the transfer of shares whether fully paid members of the Company, may be rights attaching to those shares, be or not in favour of more than four held in uncerti cated form in deemed to be varied by the creation persons jointly.
accordance with any system outside or issue of further shares ranking If the directors refuse to register an the UK that enables title to such shares pari passu with them.
allotment or transfer, they shall send to be evidenced and transferred Transfer of shares the refusal to the allottee or the without a written instrument and which All transfers of shares that are in transferee within two months after the is a relevant system.
The provisions of certi cated form may be effected date on which the letter of allotment or the Articles shall not apply to shares by transfer in writing in any usual or transfer was lodged with the Company.
of any class that are in uncerti cated common form or in any other form form to the extent that the Articles are A shareholder does not need to obtain acceptable to the directors and may inconsistent with the holding of shares the approval of the Company, or of be under hand only.
The instrument of that class in uncerti cated form, the other shareholders of shares in the of transfer shall be signed by or on transfer of title to shares of that class Company, for a transfer of shares to behalf of the transferor and except by means of a relevant system or any take place.
in the case of fully paid shares by or provision of the CREST regulations.
on behalf of the transferee.
The transferor shall remain the holder of the shares concerned until the name of the transferee is entered in the register of shareholders.
All transfers of shares that are in uncerti cated form may be effected by means of the CREST system.
132 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Governance Directors The Articles provide that at each AGM Directors shall not be less than ten nor all those directors who have been in more than 18 in number.
A director is of ce for three years or more since not required to hold any shares of the their election, or last re-election, shall Company by way of quali cation.
In addition, a director Company may by ordinary resolution may at any AGM retire from of ce increase or reduce the maximum or and stand for re-election.
However, minimum number of directors.
in accordance with the Code, all directors will be subject to annual Powers of directors re-election.
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and any directions given by Signi cant agreements: special resolution, the business of the Change of control Company will be managed by the At 31 December 2012, Anglo Board who may exercise all the powers American had committed bilateral of the Company.
and syndicated borrowing facilities totalling $12.2 billion with a number The Board may exercise all the powers of relationship banks that contain of the Company to borrow money change of control clauses.
$7.4 billion and to mortgage or charge any of its of the Groups bond issues also contain undertaking, property and uncalled change of control provisions.
In capital and to issue debentures and aggregate, this nancing is considered other securities, whether outright or as signi cant to the Group and, in the collateral security, for any debt, liability event of a takeover change of control or obligation of the Company or of any of the Company, these contracts may third party.
be cancelled, become immediately The Company may by ordinary payable or be subject to acceleration.
resolution declare dividends but no Purchases of own shares dividend shall be payable in excess At the AGM held on 19 April 2012, of the amount recommended by the authority was given for the Company directors.
Subject to the provisions of to purchase, in the market, up to the Articles and to the rights attaching 198.4million Ordinary Shares of to any shares, any dividends or other 86 54 91 US cents each.
The Company monies payable on or in respect of a did not purchase any of its own shares share may be paid in such currency during 2012. as the directors may determine.
The directors may deduct from any Indemnities dividend payable to any member all To the extent permitted by law and sums of money if any presently the Articles, the Company has made payable by him her to the Company qualifying third party indemnity on account of calls or otherwise in provisions for the bene t of its relation to shares of the Company.
directors during the year, which remain The directors may retain any dividends in force at the date of this report.
payable on shares on which the Copies of these indemnities are open Company has a lien, and may apply the for inspection at the Companys same in or towards satisfaction of the registered of ce.
debts, liabilities or engagements in respect of which the lien exists.
By order of the Board Appointment and replacement of directors The directors may from time to time appoint one or more directors.
Nicholas Jordan The Board may appoint any person Company Secretary to be a director so long as the total number of directors does not exceed 14 February 2013 the limit prescribed in the Articles.
Any such director shall hold of ce only until the next AGM and shall then be eligible for election.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 133
