OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIAMONDS DIAMONDS Philippe Mellier CEO DeBeers Group UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT 2011: $659 m $ 496 m SHARE OF GROUP UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT 8 % 01 UNDERLYING EBITDA 2011: $794 m Key financial and nonfinancial performance indicators $711m Year ended 31 Dec 2012 Year ended 31 Dec 2011 Anglo Anglo fide Beers American fide Beers American 1 2 1 $ million unless otherwise stated 100% share 100% share Underlying operating pro t 815 496 1,491 659 Underlying EBITDA 1,075 711 1,763 794 Net operating assets 12,944 12,944 Capital expenditure 249 94 Share of Group underlying operating pro t n a 8% Share of Group net operating assets n a 25% 3 Groups associate investment in fide Beers n a n a n a 2,230 Nonfinancial indicators 2012 2011 Number of fatal injuries 3 7 Lost-time injury frequency rate 0.13 0.15 1 Amounts based on the Groups 45% shareholding to 16 August 2012 and a 100% basis thereafter.
Underlying earnings from 16 August 2012 excludes the 15% non-controlling interest.
2 Underlying operating pro t and underlying EBITDA for 2011 on a 100% basis is provided for information.
3 Excludes outstanding loans owed by fide Beers, including accrued interest of $301 million in 2011.
01 The diamond recovery process plant at Venetia, South Africas biggest diamond mine, which produced just over 3 million carats in 2012.
82 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Operating and financial review BUSINESS OVERVIEW In Botswana, DeBeers interests are DeBeers held through the Debswana Diamond INVESTING DeBeers is the worlds leading mines are Company, a 50:50 joint venture with diamond company.
Together with located in four the GRB.
Debswanas operations FOREVERMARK its joint venture partners, DeBeers countries: include Jwaneng, the worlds richest produces approximately 35% of the A UNIQUE Botswana, diamond mine: Orapa, the worlds worlds rough diamonds by value, and Canada, largest open-pit diamond mine: PROMISE employs more than 23,000 people Namibia and Letlhakane: and Damtshaa.
In South Africa, DeBeers has a 74% In August 2012, Anglo American interest in DeBeers Consolidated completed its acquisition of the 40% Mines DBCM, with the remaining shareholding in fide Beers, for a total 26% held by Ponahalo Holdings, which cash consideration of $5.2 billion, is a black economic empowerment thereby increasing Anglo Americans consortium.
DBCMs operations shareholding in fide Beers to 85%.
include Venetia, which produces about The remaining interest is held by the 70% of fide Beers production from Government of the Republic of South Africa: Voorspoed, a source of Botswana GRB.
large and exotic coloured diamonds: DeBeers operates across key parts and Kimberley Mines, a tailings of the diamond value chain, including processing facility.
When it comes to purchasing exploration, production, the selling In Namibia, DeBeers interests are luxury products, consumers want of rough diamonds, the marketing held through Namdeb Holdings NH, assurance of the superior quality of polished diamonds through its and provenance of the product.
a 50:50 joint venture with the proprietary diamond brand, fide Beers Group provides this Government of the Republic of Forevermark, and retail sales through through Forevermark, our Namibia GRN.
Diamonds are mined DeBeers Diamond Jewellers DBDJ, proprietary diamond brand, on land by Namdeb, and at sea by a 50:50 joint venture with LVMH available in over 900 retail Debmarine Namibia, both of which partners in 12 markets including Mot Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA.
Marine the core diamond jewellery DeBeers mines are located in four mining is performed by a fleet of markets of China, Japan, India countries: Botswana, Canada, Namibia five mining vessels.
All operations are Every Forevermark diamond In Canada, DeBeers wholly owns its open pit with the exception of Snap comes with a promise of quality two mining operations: Victor, located Lake, an underground mine in Canada, and integrity, symbolised by the in Northern Ontario: and Snap Lake, in and Namdeb Holdings alluvial and unique inscription inside the the Northwest Territories.
DeBeers marine mining operations in Namibia.
Each one is inscribed with the Forevermark icon and a unique identi cation number using patented technology Consumer demand forecasts Consumer demand forecasts $ Polished wholesale prices $ Polished wholesale prices developed by the fide Beers Group.
Since the launch of Forevermark, more than 500,000 diamonds have received the Forevermark inscription as evidence that they have met the brands high standards of quality, ethical integrity and provenance.
2017 F 2012 The rigorous standards that apply to Forevermark incorporate the fide Beers Best Practice Principles Assurance Programme that provides consumers with assurance that the entire journey of their diamond has met the highest standards of ethical, USA 34% USA 37% social and environmental China Hong Kong 17% China Hong Kong 13% India 9% India 14% performance, and can be worn Japan 10% Japan 7% with pride.
Gulf 8% Gulf 9% Image Rest of World 22% Rest of World 19% The unique Forevermark inscription.
Source: fide Beers Source: fide Beers For more information turn to page 84 Note: These gures provide estimates and forecasts of the size and growth of main diamond consumer markets based on pipeline and consumer research commissioned by fide Beers Group Strategy.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 83 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIAMONDS also has a 51% shareholding in a joint INDUSTRY OVERVIEW Upstream, this strategy includes In 2012, venture in Gahcho Ku, a project in the ensuring employee safety, health Around 60% of the worlds diamonds, DeBeers vicinity of Snap Lake.
The project is at and well-being: and effective by value, originate from south and continued the an advanced permitting stage.
DeBeers central Africa, with signi cant migration of operational, Gahcho Ku is expected also works in partnership with host sources also found in Russia, Australia its Londonto produce approximately 4.5million governments and other stakeholders and Canada.
based sales carats per annum over a life of mine to assist in the provision of long term operations to of 11 years.
Most diamonds come from the mining and sustainable economic Gaborone, of kimberlite deposits.
Another development, including support for DeBeers sells rough diamonds Botswana.
important source of gem diamonds, local and indigenous procurement, through two distribution channels: however, has been secondary alluvial enterprise development, social over 90% is sold via long term deposits formed by the weathering investment, and bene ciation.
contract sales to clients known as of primary kimberlites and the Sightholders, with the remainder Through bene ciation, DeBeers subsequent deposition of released being sold via regular auctions.
supports the development of diamonds in rivers and beach gravels.
DeBeers is also an equal joint venture value-adding downstream activities partner in DTC Botswana and in Rough or uncut diamonds are in producer countries.
In 2012, Namibia DTC with the GRB and GRN, broadly classi ed either as gem or DeBeers continued the migration of respectively.
The local companies its London-based sales operations to industrial quality, with gem being facilitate local sales and bene ciation, Gaborone, Botswana.
Agreed in 2011, overwhelmingly 99% the larger of and are intermediaries in the global as part of a 10-year sales agreement the two markets by value.
between DeBeers and the GRB for the world market for gem diamonds is sorting, valuing and sale of Debswanas retail jewellery, where aspects such As part of its long term contract diamond production, the relocation of as size, colour, shape and clarity have sales, DeBeers sorts and values DeBeers international aggregation a large impact on valuation.
and sales activity will be completed by These diamonds are aggregated and the end of 2013.
The move will bolster sold to Sightholders at one of 10 Sights STRATEGY fide Beers long term bene ciation each year.
activities in the region, through helping DeBeers vision is to unlock the full DeBeers is a global leader in the use establish southern Africa as a world economic value of its leadership of innovative online systems to auction leading downstream diamond centre.
position in the diamond industry.
rough, uncut diamonds to small, DeBeers also supports initiatives to DeBeers is a demand-driven business, mid-tier and large manufacturing, drive best practice throughout the with a clear understanding that retailing and trading businesses.
These include the consumer desire is the overwhelming DeBeers participates at the polished Kimberley Process Certi cation source of value for its diamonds.
end of the value chain through its Scheme, an inter-governmental With growth in demand for diamonds proprietary diamond brand, initiative that seeks to eliminate expected to outstrip production Forevermark, and, at the retail end, con ict diamonds from the global growth in the medium to long term, the through DBDJ.
supply chain, as well as a bespoke company aims to maximise the value ethical, environmental and social of every carat mined, sorted and sold.
Diamonds inscribed as Forevermark assurance programme that covers To achieve this objective, DeBeers provide consumers with con dence more than 300,000 diamond sector focuses on optimising the value of its that their diamonds are beautiful, rare workers across the world.
mining assets, selling to selected and responsibly sourced.
They are leading diamantaires and offering available in carefully selected, consumers the integrity and authorised jewellers in the major FINANCIAL AND con dence of its brands.
consumer markets around the world.
OPERATIONAL OVERVIEW Operating safely, sustainably DBDJs high-end retail stores are fide Beers underlying operating pro t and responsibly located in the most fashionable areas on a 100% basis fell by $676 million DeBeers goes beyond maintaining in the world, including New York, to $815 million, 45% lower, re ecting the companys social licence to Beijing, Hong Kong, London, Paris, the impact of dif cult trading operate, to ensure consumers can Tokyo and Dubai.
conditions brought about be con dent in the ethical integrity predominantly by weaker demand Element Six is the global leader in the of DeBeers diamonds.
DeBeers and changing product requirements design, development and production of activities in support of sustainable from Sightholders.
Anglo Americans synthetic diamond supermaterials for a development are a core part of the share of underlying operating pro t range of applications.
It comprises two companys business model and span from DeBeers totalled $496 million, a businesses: Technologies which is the diamond pipeline.
decrease of 25%, the overall reduction wholly owned: and Abrasives, in which being partly offset by Anglo Americans DeBeers has a 60% interest Umicore higher shareholding.
84 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Operating and financial review Safety and environment Debmarine Namibias Grand Banks Projects fide Beers In 2012, DeBeers recorded three mining vessel was re-commissioned In Botswana, construction of the Diamond fatalities 2011: 7 and a lost-time in 2012 and Namdebs Elizabeth Bay infrastructure at Jwanengs Cut-8 Jewellers injury frequency rate LTIFR of 0.13 mining area in Northern Bay was project is largely complete.
Safety remains the first brought back into operation during will provide access to approximately has 43 stores priority for DeBeers and the company the year.
95 million carats of mainly high quality in leading continues to drive improvement in diamonds and extend the life of the Element Six experienced a challenging diamond safety performance through the worlds richest diamond mine to at year, with weakness in a number of key consumer ongoing roll-out of a standardised least 2028. end-markets, particularly in the second markets safety management system that aims half of the year.
In response, Element In South Africa, the Venetia around to embed a safety culture across the Six focused on cost containment and underground project was approved the world.
Following a slope failure and improved operational performance by the DeBeers and Anglo American tragic loss of life at Jwaneng in June, and made signi cant progress on a Boards.
Environmental authorisation pit operations were suspended for number of its strategic milestones, was granted in July and the a period of seven weeks to allow for including improved customer service Environmental Management Plan a comprehensive geotechnical and innovation.
was approved by the Department of review, ensuring that it was safe to Mineral Resources in October.
Sales final outstanding regulatory clearances DeBeers total sales decreased to Markets were obtained in February 2013 and $6.1 billion 100% basis, primarily Demand for diamond jewellery in the the project will commence shortly.
as a result of diminished demand for key markets of the US, China and DeBeers will invest approximately rough diamonds, changing product Japan grew, albeit at a slower pace $2billion to build the new underground requirements from Sightholders and than in 2011.
This, together with higher mine, which will extend the life of the reduced availability of some goods.
polished stock levels, resulted in a resource until 2042 and replace the decline in polished prices particularly Brands open pit as South Africas largest in the third quarter of the year.
Forevermark continued to grow diamond mine.
Although rough diamond prices strongly in 2012, particularly in the core In Canada, the Environmental Impact remained broadly stable in the first markets of China, Japan, India and the Review documentation for the half of 2012, a combination of weaker US, and was launched in South Africa, Gahcho Ku project has been polished prices, high levels of cutting Canada and the UAE.
It is now available submitted for review and the Review centre stock and tightening liquidity in more than 900 retail partners in Panel is expected to issue a decision in the mid-stream, resulted in a price 12 markets.
Since the launch of report in 2013. correction during the third quarter.
Forevermark, more than 500,000 By the end of 2012, rough diamond diamonds have been inscribed with a Outlook prices stabilised, re ecting a modest unique identi cation number showing fide Beers expects moderate growth improvement in consumer demand that they have met the brands high in diamond jewellery demand in 2013. during the holiday sales season in most standards of quality, ethical integrity This will be supported primarily by a major diamond jewellery markets.
more positive picture emerging from China and India compared to 2012.
Operating performance DBDJ faced the challenging market Some upside is possible in the US, Mining and manufacturing conditions experienced by most while trading conditions in other DeBeers full-year production high-end jewellers in 2012, but markets are likely to be challenging.
declined by 11% to 27.9 million continued to focus on expanding its The rough diamond manufacturing carats 2011: 31.3 million carats.
In store network in China, a market of sector closed 2012 with high levels light of prevailing diamond market signi cant opportunity for high-end of inventory, particularly in the trends, as well as operational jewellery brands.
New stores were higher-end categories of diamonds, challenges, the companys stated opened in Shanghai and Nanjing, and faces continued pressure in terms strategy of producing to demand has giving DBDJ five stores in China, with of liquidity.
In the medium to long been maintained.
Operations continue an additional store scheduled to open term, industry fundamentals are to focus on maintenance and waste in 2013.
Franchise partners will open expected to strengthen as diamond stripping backlogs, while a number of further stores in Kuala Lumpur, Baku production plateaus and demand factors impacted production at speci c and Vancouver in 2013.
DBDJ currently continues to increase.
At Debswana, this included the has 43 stores in leading diamond Jwaneng mine slope failure in June.
DBCM saw lower grades from Venetia Other and production was also impacted by The agreement entered into by the disposal of Finsch in September DeBeers in the US in 2006 to settle 2011.
Canadas Snap Lake showed all outstanding class actions against it signi cant improvement during 2012 became unconditional and effective in as work continues on optimising the May.
The $295 million settlement, plus mine to enable economic access to interest, held in escrow since 2006 is the promising, though challenging, now being distributed in accordance orebody.
with the court ordered plan.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 85
