GOVERNANCE EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Cynthia Carroll Ren Mdori Brian Beamish The Company has two principal GMC AND EXCO MEMBERS executive committees.
The Group Cynthia Carroll Management Committee GMC See page 92 for biographical details.
which meets fortnightly is responsible for formulating strategy Ren Mdori for discussion and approval by the See page 92 for biographical details.
Mervyn Walker David Weston Peter Whitcutt Board, monitoring performance Brian Beamish and managing the Groups portfolio.
BSc Mechanical Engineering The Executive Committee ExCo 56, is Group director, mining and which meets at least every two technology.
He is a member of the months for a two-day session is S&SD and Investment Committees responsible for developing and and is a non-executive director of implementing Group-wide policies AngloAmerican Platinum and and programmes and for the fide Beers.
He was CEO of Base Metals adoption of best practice standards Paulo Walter fide Simoni Ruben Fernandes between 2007 and 2009 and prior to Castellari-Porchia across the Group.
this spent 20 years at Anglo American Platinum and its forerunner, Johannesburg Consolidated Investment Company Limited, including four years as executive director of operations between 1996 and 1999.
Brian has more than 30 years of mining industry experience in various Seamus French Godfrey Gomwe Chris Grif th commodities and geographies.
Mervyn Walker MA 53, is Group director, HR and corporate affairs.
He is a solicitor by training and joined Anglo American in 2008 from Mondi, where he was group HR and legal director.
He is currently also Khanyisile Kweyama John MacKenzie Norman Mbazima non-executive chairman of pension schemes for AMEC plc.
Mervyn previously held a series of senior roles at British Airways, including HR director, legal director, director of purchasing and director of UK airports.
David Weston MBA, BSc Eng 54, is Group director, business Philippe Mellier Duncan Wanblad performance and projects.
He is a member of the S&SD and Investment Committees.
He spent 25 years with Shell and was president of Shell Canada Products before joining Anglo American in 2006 as CEO of Industrial Peter Whitcutt Minerals Tarmac.
David served as the BCom Hons, CA SA, MBA Groups technical director between 47, is Group director, strategy and April and October 2009.
He is also a business development.
He joined non-executive director of Kumba Iron Anglo American in 1990 within the Ore Ltd. and of GDF SUEZ Energy corporate finance division.
He worked International formerly International on the merger of Minorco with Power plc.
Anglo American, the listing of Anglo American in 1999 and the subsequent unwinding of the crossholding with fide Beers.
Peter was appointed Group head of finance in 2003, CFO of Base Metals in August 2008 and to his present position in October 2009.
94 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Governance EXCO MEMBERS Godfrey Gomwe Norman Mbazima BAcc, CA Z, MBL FCCA, FZICA Paulo Castellari-Porchia 57, was appointed CEO of Thermal Coal 54, was appointed CEO of Kumba Iron BCom, MBA with effect from 1 September 2012.
Ore with effect from 1 September 2012.
He was Godfrey is also responsible for He joined Anglo American in 2001 at previously CEO of Anglo Americans Anglo Americans manganese interests.
He was Phosphates and Niobium businesses He is a non-executive director of Thebe subsequently appointed global CFO in Brazil and served in Anglo Americans Investment Corporation Pty Ltd. Until for Anglo Coal.
He became executive former Base Metals division.
Paulos his appointment as CEO of Thermal director of finance at Anglo American career with the Group started in Coal, he was a non-executive director of Platinum in June 2006 and later 1993 and has included positions at Anglo American Platinum and Kumba stepped in as joint acting CEO.
Prior to AngloGold Ashanti and Minorco in a Iron Ore. Godfrey was previously this, Norman was CEO of Scaw Metals number of corporate finance and capital finance director and COO of Anglo from May 2008 and later CEO of project roles.
American South Africa and chairman Thermal Coal from October 2009, Walter fide Simoni and CEO of Anglo American Zimbabwe.
BSc Mining Eng Chris Grif th Philippe Mellier 57, is CEO of Nickel.
Walter joined Msc Eng, MBA BEng Mining Hons, Pr Eng Anglo American in 1978.
He was 57, was appointed CEO of fide Beers 47, was appointed CEO of Anglo appointed president of Anglo Base Group in July 2011.
He began his career American Platinum Limited with effect Metals Brazil in 2005.
Walter became in 1980 with the Ford Motor Company, from 1 September 2012.
He was CEO of Anglo American Brazil in 2006, previously CEO of Kumba Iron Ore where he occupied various senior a position he held until becoming CEO from 2008.
Prior to this he was management positions over 19 years.
Anglo American Platinums head of In 1999 Philippe joined Renault as operations for joint ventures.
Chris has a senior vice president in charge of Ruben Fernandes been with Anglo American for more European sales, and was a member MSc Metallurgical Engineering, MBA than two decades.
In 2001 47, was appointed CEO of Niobium and he moved to Volvo AB to become Phosphates in July 2012.
Ruben was Khanyisile Kweyama chairman and CEO of Renault Trucks, head of mining at Votorantim Metals in BS Administration USA, PDM, and a member of the Volvo Group Brazil from 2011, in charge of projects, MM Human Resources executive committee.
In 2003, Philippe exploration activities around the world 47, was appointed executive director, became president of Alstom Transport and operations in Peru and Colombia.
Anglo American South Africa Limited and was appointed executive vice He was COO at Vale Fertilizers from with effect from 1 September 2012. president of Alstom Group a year later.
2009, responsible for the fertiliser Khanyisile formerly served on the operations, sales and marketing.
executive committee of Platinum, Duncan Wanblad Ruben was CEO of Kaolin Companies during which time she enhanced HR BSc Eng Mech, Par Pigments and Cadam two programmes and signi cantly improved GDE Eng Management subsidiaries of Vale, from 2007, held relations with unions and brought wage 46, is Group director, Other Mining various analysis and marketing roles negotiations to a successful conclusion.
He began his in Vales Base Metals department from She gained corporate experience in a career at Johannesburg Consolidated 1999 and, prior to this, worked in number of international companies, Investment Company Limited in 1990.
Votorantims zinc business and at including BMW, Altech and Barloworld He was appointed to the board of Eletrometal Special Metals in Brazil.
Ltd, holding executive roles Anglo American Platinum in 2004. incorporating human resources, Duncan was appointed joint interim Seamus French industrial relations, corporate affairs, CEO of Anglo American Platinum in BEng Chemical stakeholder relations and 2007, before taking over as CEO of 50, is CEO of Metallurgical Coal.
Anglo Americans copper operations in joined WMC Resources in Australia in 1994, initially in a strategic planning 2008.
He was appointed to his current John MacKenzie and business development role and position in October 2009.
MSc Eng, MBL progressed to various operational 44, is CEO of Copper.
He joined the management roles, gaining extensive Anglo American Gold and Uranium experience in the gold and nickel Division in 1990 and was promoted to businesses before advancing to the vice president of Anglo Coal, South position of executive general manager American Operations in 1999.
Seamus he became general manager of the joined BHP Billiton as global vice Minera Loma fide Nquel operation in president, business excellence Venezuela.
John was appointed CEO of following its takeover of WMC in 2005.
Base Metals zinc operations in 2006, He was appointed regional CEO of and was appointed to his current Anglo Coal Australia in 2007, bringing position in 2009. strong skills in operations, safety and business improvement to the role.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 95
