OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW RESOURCES AND TECHNOLOGY INNOVATING SOLUTIONS WITH THE FUTURE IN MIND 36 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Operating and financial review Thermal Coals exible conveyor train is set to be a game-changer in the safe and ef cient production of coal from underground mines.
FLEXIBLE CONVEYOR TRAIN SETS NEW RECORD In producing 116,708 tonnes in September 2012, 25 % the 110-metres-long exible conveyor train FCT PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENT based underground at Greenside achieved the IN CONTINUOUS MINER OUTPUT highest monthly coal output ever recorded TARGETED BY 2014. outside the US.
Developed in conjunction with Joy Mining Machinery, the FCT is a continuous haulage system that eliminates bottlenecks, thus HIGHEST MONTHLY PRODUCTION IN 2012 allowing continuous miners to operate at maximum capacity.
The key to the FCTs effectiveness is its exible 116,708 tonnes conveyor and traction system that permits it to To achieve the targeted productivity increase, Greenside must be operated, by remote control, as a single unit.
The ability to continuously convey material along its entire length, while simultaneously 117 kt 116 kt moving to follow the continuous miners every 102 kt 100 kt move, offers a distinct advantage over all other types of haulage.
The FCT also offers safety bene ts through eliminating the need for shuttle cars, thereby reducing vehicle and pedestrian interaction.
Sept 2012 Oct 2012 Nov 2012 Dec 2012 01 Main, 01 and 02 Members of the The FCTs Greenside team who assisted in successful the successful introduction implementation of the mines 110 demonstrates the metre long exible 02 value being delivered conveyor train the first of its kind from Thermal Coals in South Africa.
technology partnerships: this system The Greenside FCT project team are has the potential to transform our among the most competent people in underground coal mining operations the business.
Avery Bailey Godfrey Gomwe FCT specialist CEO, Thermal Coal Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 37 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW RESOURCES AND TECHNOLOGY INNOVATION TO DELIVER VALUE OUR RESOURCES TECHNOLOGY to our operations.
The teams also A concerted develop and implement or assist The resources Anglo American Our strong in-house technology systems operations with the implementation considers critical to achieving capability provides world class approach of techno-economic solutions.
The its strategic aims include: solutions to Anglo American and has now been Field Services section provides its global operations.
Mining adopted in Knowledge and expertise.
hands-on machine health monitoring and Technology, which comprises order to expertise to operations.
Proved and Probable Reserves seven highly specialised facilitate a summary is contained on technical groups that concentrate Technical Solutions recently minings pages 192193. their expertise in speci c valuedeveloped and is now implementing transition to a adding areas, made a signi cant an integrated drill and blast solution for more modern, Full details of the Groups Ore contribution to the Group on surface operations comprising mine automated and Reserves and Mineral Resources several fronts.
planning, drill and hole monitoring, technologically estimates are found on pages on-bench explosive quality testing mature era.
In collaboration with the business units, as well as on-bench blast monitoring the heads of the Mining, Metallurgy, and analysis.
The solution provides Geosciences and Engineering operations with the capability to disciplines have nalised a global set reconcile actual performance with of Group Technical Standards and designed performance, in real time, associated guidelines aimed at which increases the visibility of actual enhancing project delivery, sharing bottlenecks and allows enhanced best practice, optimising value added decision making at the mine site.
The to operations and mitigating technical Equipment Monitoring System EMS, risks.
Gap analyses are conducted aimed at identifying equipment by business units and operations to condition remotely, has successfully determine compliance with the been rolled out to sites in Australia, standards, and plans are being put in South America and South Africa and place to address any gaps that have has been expanded from haul truck been identi ed.
The discipline heads monitoring to monitoring other critical with their team of experts continue equipment.
An integrated water to provide technical assurance to management solution has been projects and support the identi cation developed to meet the growing needs of signi cant asset optimisation of the Groups operations in this area.
On the fundamental research side, The effective development and Technical Solutions has successfully management of technical talent within combined molecular modelling with the Group has also been a focal point.
fast track chemical effectiveness evaluation to quickly identify non-toxic Our Technical Solutions division and more effective reagents without supports business units, operations having to rely on traditional trial and and project teams as well as the error experimentation.
various Group functions across the entire mining value chain, from Our Technology Development unit exploration to mine closure.
The manages, coordinates and integrates division provides fundamental technology development across research as well as development and the Group.
Progress continues on piloting services.
Multi-disciplinary realising Anglo Americans long term teams are made up of in-house technology vision and is concentrated experts from all the traditional on laying the platform for a radical engineering disciplines, as well as change in technology over the coming mining, metallurgy, geometallurgy, years.
The work focuses on long term, process and chemistry, industrial high value projects in underground engineering, materials handling, mining, metal recovery and energy safety, occupational health, ef ciency, as well as the shorter sustainable development, geophysics, term demonstration of automation hydrogeology, and quality and technologies to improve safety and compliance.
In addition, project add value.
engineering and change management specialists provide consulting services 38 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Operating and financial review 1 Mine life per commodity The development of proprietary Our Thermal Coal business has Years, minimum to maximum exploration tools remains a priority, identi ed 15 technologies in order 6 to 24 with some already in use and improved to form a prioritised pipeline for models undergoing testing prior to the technology development.
These provide a Thermal Coal achieved a number of 2 to 35 signi cant competitive advantage for technology milestones and is the first Anglo American in the search for new coal mining company in South Africa 8 to 26 Tier One orebodies.
to commission Flexible Conveyor Train technology FCT underground 5 to 70 The shorter term projects will see at Greenside and Goedehoop.
The various automated vehicles being implementation of the technology 17 to 22 demonstrated at certain opencast resulted in a marked reduction in mines during 2013 and multiple novel underground coal transport vehicles, underground mining machines being 3 to 30 thereby signi cantly improving safety tested on platinum mines.
Success while also increasing productivity.
in these projects would make a 4 to 27 Thermal Coal has started the journey signi cant impact on the safety and of automation of some of the opencast competitiveness of Group operations.
eets, including articulated dump 0 Range years 70 A concerted systems approach has trucks, overburden drills and Iron ore now been adopted in order to facilitate Metallurgical coal bulldozers.
Furthermore, automation Thermal coal minings transition to a more modern, provides opportunity for Copper automated and technologically mature improvements in utilisation, Nickel Platinum era.
Effort is being concentrated on productivity and quality, as well as Diamonds creating the necessary building blocks safety and health.
1 Mine life is the extraction period in years for scheduled to support both open pit and Ore Reserves comprising Proved and Probable At our Metallurgical Coal business, Reserves only.
For diamonds, life of mine years underground methods in steadily we are making progress in several is reported and is based on scheduled Probable moving up the steps towards Reserves including Indicated and some Inferred areas on the technological front.
The Resources considered for life of mine planning.
In particular, Smart Cap fatigue-management Note: the 30 years for platinum is due to 30 years attention is currently being placed, being the maximum number of years for which a system has moved to the inter alia, on automation-speci c mining right is granted in South Africa.
Signi cant technologies such as underground work has been undertaken to reduce mapping, positioning and obstacle carbon emissions from the detection.
Emphasis, too, is being underground mines through improved placed on integrated operations monitoring, capture and utilisation of centres as the hub of the automation potential fugitive emissions.
Remote approach needed to command monitoring of equipment health and integrated data in a risk-managed performance has been embedded environment in order to deliver through the Brisbane-based improved performance, as well as to Benchmark Performance Centre, coordinate and drive sustainable where the health and performance performance improvement.
of both open cut and underground equipment is being monitored and actions taken to improve performance.
In coal processing, laboratory scale trials have been completed on enhanced processing for coals with high inherent ash and clay: if successful, our reserves base of high quality metallurgical coal could potentially increase.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 39 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW RESOURCES AND TECHNOLOGY Exploration expenditure EXPLORATION Nickel exploration expenditure by commodity in 2012 was $4million and related mainly Global exploration activity for 2012 to nickel laterite exploration in the focused on green eld projects across Morro Sem Bon district in Brazil.
a number of mature and frontier Elsewhere, near-mine exploration locations, as well as on adding value, was undertaken at Niquelndia through increasing resources and Codemin, also in Brazil.
reserves, to our operations and advanced projects.
Our exploration Phosphates and Niobium exploration expenditure in 2012 amounted to expenditure was $2 million and $206 million and covered 18 countries.
was focused on green elds projects in central Brazil and near-mine Iron Ore exploration expenditure of exploration at Boa Vista niobium.
$23 million was concentrated around operations and projects in Africa, Platinum exploration accounted Australia and Brazil.
In South Africa, for $4million and was focused on exploration was undertaken to support investigating new opportunities within Kumbas Sishen and Kolomela Iron Ore $23 m South Africas Bushveld Complex Metallurgical Coal $18 m operations: reconnaissance drilling and on ful lling of the statutory work Thermal Coal $14 m on high priority targets con rmed programme requirements to keep Copper $39 m Nickel $32 m mineralisation and drilling capacity has tenure in good standing.
The Platinum $4 m been increased to further investigate potential for shallow resources Phosphates and Niobium $2 m their potential.
In Brazil, activity related Diamonds $23 m that may be mined using opencast Central exploration activities $51 m methods was investigated through to preliminary drilling and geological drilling programmes during the year.
activities around the Minas-Rio project.
Platinum exploration continued at Metallurgical Coal exploration Copper exploration expenditure Unki in Zimbabwe.
expenditure of $18 million focused of $39million consisted mainly of Since acquisition in August 2012, on drilling, seismic surveys, and near-mine and green elds exploration DeBeers has spent $23 million coal quality analysis near existing drilling in Chile where key activities $59million for the full year, on a 100% operations in Australia and Canada included drilling at Los Bronces basis on exploration programmes in with the aim of improving the and Mantos Blancos.
Green elds Angola, Botswana, Canada and India.
fide nition of additional coking coal exploration was also conducted in The exploration team continued to resources.
In Australia, drilling and Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, provide technical services to the seismic activities were performed, Greenland, Indonesia, Peru, the US resource extension programmes including at the Foxleigh and Rolfe and Zambia.
for the Jwaneng and Orapa mines Creek projects.
In Canada, the Polymetallic  in Botswana, and the Victor mine exploration team was strengthened group elements exploration in Canada.
at the Peace River Coal Trend mine expenditure included within the Nickel and surrounding exploration leases, commodity line as disclosed in note 7 with the aim of fide ning additional to the financial statements amounted coking coal resources.
to $28 million and concentrated on Thermal Coal exploration expenditure Sakatti in northern Finland.
Exploration totalled $14 million, being spent at this advanced project aimed to primarily on drilling and analysis in fide ne the limits of the orebody and South Africa.
During 2012, exploration to test other surrounding high priority drilling was undertaken at 10 project targets.
Green elds polymetallic areas, with the objectives of meeting exploration was conducted elsewhere both statutory work programme in northern Finland, western Brazil, the requirement as well as providing Musgraves region of Western Australia geological evaluation information and the Canadian Arctic.
and geological models for project advancement through the various stage gates.
40 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Operating and financial review Global HIGH-TECH EXPLORATION IN FINLAND exploration activity for 2012 focused on green eld projects across a number of mature and frontier locations, as well as on adding value, through increasing resources and reserves, to our operations and advanced projects.
01 02 04 03 A Low Temperature Superconducting The LT-SQUID has been employed deposit as it enabled a greater Quantum Interference Device by Anglo American eld teams to penetration depth to be reached.
LT-SQUID is a very sensitive help search for so-called blind Another example is at the Sakatti magnetometer that is capable of deposits that have no visible polymetallic project in Finland.
measuring and distinguishing expression on the ground surface.
Owing to the highly conductive nature between discrete magnetic responses It has revolutionised how we look at of the interconnected mineralisation using superconducting loops.
The and model the picture beneath the at the project, normal TEM LT-SQUID is considered particularly ground surface, particularly at depth.
geophysical techniques were not useful for discriminating between able to provide accurate readings.
This has enabled Anglo American metallic deposits such as nickel The team then used the LT-SQUID to discover signi cant deposits sulphides, which can be masked system, and that information such as Gamsberg East zinc by certain rock types that can also ultimately supported the discovery in Namaqualand, South Africa.
hold an electric current for of the main mineralised body.
Images Electromagnetic TEM methods 01 Project geoscientist Circ Malo-Lalande The LT-SQUID was developed would not have been enable to with the LT-Squid.
in collaboration between Anglo identify the at-lying metallic 02 Exploration manager Mattias Johansson American and the Institute for conductor located 250 metres foreground and exploration geologist Physical High Technology IPHT beneath the ground surface, or Craig Hartshorne examine drill cores.
The LT-SQUID distinguish between two metallic 03 Drilling in progress at the Sakatti drill site.
is the sensor, cooled using liquid sulphide types that have different 04 Drill operators Jarmo Kairaaja left, and helium -298C, and measures the levels of electromagnetic Tiejo Apukairaasa on Sakatti rig No.
8. response to an electromagnetic conductance.
The LT-SQUID sensor current response after the current also helped to fide ne the geometric has been transmitted into the ground.
dimensions of the Gamsberg East Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 41
