OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW STRATEGY IN ACTION STRATEGIC ELEMENT: Investing in world class assets and the most attractive commodities SURPASSING STANDARDS W ITH THE FUTURE IN MIND 14 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Operating and financial review We have a clear strategy of deploying capital in those commodities with strong fundamentals and the most attractive risk-return pro les that deliver long term, through-the-cycle returns for our shareholders.
EXCEEDING EXPECTATIONS Kumbas Kolomela mine, which was brought into production five months ahead of schedule in 718 December 2011, is a key element of our South HOMES ARE BEING BUILT TO ACCOMMODATE African iron ore growth strategy.
BY THE END OF the operation was expected to ramp up through 2012, 615 HAD BEEN COMPLETED, WITH THE 2012 to produce between 4 and 5 Mt of saleable REMAINDER DUE BY Q2 2013. product, it surpassed expectations to achieve design capacity by the third quarter, shipping 8.5 Mt of iron ore to customers in the year.
Safety performance at Kolomela has been outstanding: the project and operations achieved a combined 29million man hours, without a fatal incident or lost-time injury between March 2010 and October 2012, setting a new benchmark for the Group and for projects of this nature in South Africa.
01 IRON ORE PRODUCTION FOR KUMBA MT 70 Mtpa Kumba plans to grow organically to achieve production of 70 Mtpa from South Africa.
70.0 43.4 43.1 41.9 41.3 02 2009 2010 2011 2012 Target It is such occasions as today, the Main Fitter Martha opening of a new mine, the creation Zenda at Kolomela of new economic activity and Kumba is studying iron ore plants load-out station jobs which makes one proud and opportunities to feed conveyor.
The emphasises the importance of expand Kolomelas conveyor transfers iron ore from the mining in our country.
production through a stacker reclaimer bene ciation process, yard to bins Susan Shabangu which could add a which feed the South Africas Minister Sishen-Saldanha further 6 Mtpa of production.
of Mineral Resources Norman Mbazima 01 The Kumba Kolomela rail loading CEO, Kumba Iron Ore facility is designed to transfer iron ore rapidly to rail wagons on the export rail system.
c. 85% 02 Maintenance operator Mattieus OF PERMANENT EMPLOYEES Dikwidi at the 63.7% Fe ARE FROM THE NORTHERN CAPE Kolomela plant.
PROVINCE, VERSUS A TARGET AVERAGE GRADE OF OF 75%.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 15 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW STRATEGY IN ACTION STRATEGIC ELEMENT: Investing in world class assets and the most attractive commodities PROJE CT DELIVERY TO CONTINUE TO DRIVE HIGH QUALITY PRODUCTION GROWTH IN BRIEF The Groups extensive portfolio 31December 2012, on a post-tax The Groups of undeveloped world class basis.
The first phase of the project will Cerrejn P40 8 Mtpa export extensive resources and pipeline of growth begin its ramp up at the end of 2014. thermal coal expansion in portfolio of options span its chosen core Colombia first coal in 2013.
The published resource has increased undeveloped commodities.
It offers the more than fourfold since acquisition to Minas-Rio 26.5 Mtpa iron ore world class Group exibility to sequence 5.77 billion tonnes in 2011, of which we project in Brazil injunctions resources investment in line with the Groups have recently converted 1.45 billion lifted and first ore on ship and pipeline view of market dynamics and tonnes to Ore Reserves.
We anticipate FOOS end of 2014. of growth the geopolitical environment.
increases in the resource con dence opportunities Capital is prioritised to maximise Grosvenor 5 Mtpa and further conversion of resources spans our value accretion while minimising metallurgical coal project to reserves through our ongoing in ll chosen core risk exposure, taking into in Australia longwall drilling programme.
consideration the Groups production in 2016. resulting funding capacity.
In Colombia, the brown eld expansion project, P40, aims to increase value We have a number of projects in the by increasing export thermal coal CAPEX: 4 strategic execution phase and are progressing production capacity by 8 Mtpa to growth projects with the development of other growth 40 Mtpa 100% basis, through $ bn projects, including the 225,000 tonnes additional mining equipment and 2012 per annum tpa Quellaveco green eld the debottlenecking of key logistics 1.7 copper project in Peru.
infrastructure along the coal chain.
2011 The Minas-Rio iron ore project The project was approved by 2.4 in Brazil is expected to capture a Cerrejns shareholders in the third 2010 signi cant part of the pellet feed quarter of 2011.
The project is 2.3 market with its premium product progressing well and is expected to featuring high iron content and be delivered on schedule, with first low contaminants.
Phase 1 of the coal expected in 2013.
Minas-Rio project is expected to CAPEX: Other projects The green eld Grosvenor produce 26.5 million tonnes per $ bn metallurgical coal project is situated annum Mtpa, with potential 2012 immediately to the south of optimisation to 29.8 Mtpa.
1.3 AngloAmericans Moranbah North During the year Anglo American metallurgical coal mine in the Bowen 2011 1.0 completed a detailed cost and Basin of Queensland, Australia.
The schedule review of the project.
The mine is expected to produce 5Mtpa 2010 1.0 review included third party input and of high quality metallurgical coal from examined the outstanding capital its underground longwall operation expenditure requirements in light of over a projected life of 26 years and current development progress and to bene t from operating costs in the CAPEX: Stay in business the disruptive challenges faced by the lower half of the cost curve.
The review included a detailed Grosvenor forms a major part of the 2012 re-evaluation of all aspects of the Groups strategy of tripling hard coking 2.7 outstanding schedule, with a focus on coal production from its Australian maximising value and mitigating risk.
2011 assets, using a standard longwall and 2.4 Following completion of the review, coal handling and preparation plant 2010 estimated capital expenditure for CHPP design.
In its first phase of 1.7 the Minas-Rio project increased to development, Grosvenor will consist $8.8billion, if a centrally held risk of a single new underground longwall contingency of $600 million mine, targeting the same well is utilised in full.
On the basis of understood Goonyella Middle coal the revised capital expenditure seam as Moranbah North, and will requirements and assessment of the process its coal through the existing full potential of Phase 1 of the project Moranbah North CHPP and train excluding at this stage the potential loading facilities.
The Grosvenor for future expansions up to 90 Mtpa, project is currently in execution, with Anglo American will record an engineering work progressing to plan, impairment charge of $4 billion at construction under way and longwall 16 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Operating and financial review production targeted to begin in 2016. bene ting from attractive ore 2012 in relation to water usage, A pre-feasibility study for expansion grades, low waste stripping and environmental responsibility and by adding a second longwall at molybdenum by-product production.
Anglo Americans social contribution Grosvenor is under way.
Anglo American completed the over the life of the mine, and has been feasibility study for the project in late held as a model for stakeholder Quellaveco is a green eld copper 2010, and took the decision to suspend engagement in Peru.
The project project in the Moquegua region of progress in order to engage more received three critical permits during southern Peru that has the potential actively with the local communities the fourth quarter of 2012 and to produce 225,000 tpa of copper through a formal dialogue table Anglo American is targeting from an open pit over a mine life of process, following requests from local submission to the Board for approval approximately 28 years.
The dialogue process in 2013. is expected to operate in the lower reached agreement in early July half of the cash operating cost curve, SELECTED MAJOR PROJECTS Approved First Full Green eld G production production 1 2 Sector Project Country Brown eld B date date Capex $ bn Production volume 3 Iron Ore and Manganese Minas-Rio Phase 1 Brazil G 2014 2016 8.8 26.5 Mtpa iron ore Groote Eylandt Expansion Project Australia B 2013 2013 1 0.6 Mtpa manganese ore Metallurgical Coal Grosvenor Phase 1 Australia G 2014 2016 2 5.0 Mtpa metallurgical Thermal Coal Cerrejn P40 Colombia B 2013 2015 2 8.0 Mtpa thermal Copper Collahuasi expansion Phase 2 Chile B 2013 2014 1 20 ktpa copper Mantoverde desalination plant Chile B 2013 2013 1 To sustain current copper production plans Platinum Twickenham South Africa G 2016 2021 2 180 kozpa re ned platinum Bathopele Phase 4 South Africa B 2013 2013 1 65 kozpa re ned platinum Bathopele Phase 5 South Africa B 2013 2017 1 139 kozpa re ned platinum 4 5 Diamonds Jwaneng Cut-8 Botswana B 2016 2018 3 approx.
10 million carats pa Venetia U G South Africa B 2021 2024 3 approx.
4 million carats pa 6 Other Mining and Industrial Core Boa Vista Fresh Rock Brazil B 2014 2015 1 6.5 ktpa total niobium production Unapproved Green eld G Indicative 2 Sector Project Country Brown eld B production volume Iron Ore and Manganese Kolomela Expansion South Africa B 6.0 Mtpa iron ore Sishen Lower Grade South Africa B 6.0 Mtpa iron ore Sishen Concentrates Phase 1 South Africa B 1.1 Mtpa iron ore Minas-Rio Phase 1 AO Brazil B 3.3 Mtpa iron ore Minas-Rio Expansion Brazil B TBD Metallurgical Coal Moranbah South Australia G 12.0 Mtpa metallurgical Grosvenor Phase 2 Australia B 6.0 Mtpa metallurgical Drayton South Australia B 4.0 Mtpa export thermal Thermal Coal New Largo South Africa G 11.0 Mtpa thermal Elders Multi-product South Africa G 3.1 Mtpa thermal Mafube South Africa B 4.3 Mtpa thermal Copper Quellaveco Peru G 225 ktpa copper 7 Michiquillay Peru G 222 ktpa copper Collahuasi Expansion Phase 3 Chile B 469 ktpa copper 8 Pebble USA G 187 ktpa copper 9 Los Bronces District Los Sulfatos Chile B G TBD Nickel Jacar Brazil G TBD Morro Sem Bon Brazil G TBD Platinum Tumela Central Shaft South Africa B 128 kozpa re ned platinum Mogalakwena NC Debottlenecking South Africa B 70 kozpa re ned platinum Mogalakwena Expansion Phase 2 South Africa B TBD 10 Diamonds Gahcho Ku Canada G 4.5 million carats pa Other Mining and Industrial Core Gois II Brazil B 1.4 Mtpa phosphates concentrate 1 Capital expenditure shown on 100% basis in nominal terms.
2 Represents 100% of average incremental or replacement production, at full production, unless otherwise stated.
3 Capital expenditure, post-acquisition of Anglo Americans shareholding in Minas-Rio, includes 100% of the mine and pipeline, and an attributable share of the port.
4 Waste stripping at Cut-8, an extension to Jwaneng mine, began in 2010.
Carat recovery will commence in 2016, with Cut-8 becoming the main ore source for Jwaneng from 2018.
5 Infrastructure expenditure of approximately $450 million has already been spent.
Project expenditure, including infrastructure expenditure, is likely to total approximately $3 billion and is anticipated to create access to 95 million carats over the life of the mine.
6 An extension to mine life by mining the unweathered ore after oxides have been depleted.
New processing plant from crushing to leaching required.
8 Pebble will produce molybdenum and gold by-products.
Other copper projects will produce molybdenum and silver by-products.
10 Gahcho Ku has received fide Beers board approval subject to completion of the permitting process and receipt of certain regulatory clearances.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 17 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW STRATEGY IN ACTION STRATEGIC ELEMENT: Organising ef ciently and effectively LIFTING PERFORMANCE WITH THE FUTURE IN MIND 18 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Operating and financial review We organise our business ef ciently and effectively to outperform our competition throughout our value chain.
DRIVING VALUE THROUGH COMMERCIAL EXCELLENCE During 2012, we introduced a more globally 50 Mt coordinated and strategic approach to the GROUPS FREIGHT PORTFOLIO way we manage our commercial activities, TARGET BY 2015. aimed at delivering substantial additional value for the Group.
A key element of the new approach is the location of business units export sales and marketing 1 2012 REVENUE GENERATED BY CUSTOMERS IN CHINA activities in Singapore and London, to enable us to be closer to our customers in the Asia-Paci c and European markets, and be more agile and $5.9 bn $6.4 bn responsive to their needs.
$5.9 bn The new Singapore hub opened in July 2012, $5.1 bn with Metallurgical Coal, Thermal Coal and Platinum establishing a base there during the $3.5 bn year and others, including Iron Ore and Copper, following in 2013.
New global competence centres will also support value creation by driving excellence and innovation in areas such as logistics, 2009 2010 2011 2012 shipping and market intelligence.
1 The Groups revenue including attributable share of revenue from associates.
For instance, all our global shipping activities have now been consolidated into a single freight book, with an increasing proportion of cargo deliveries arranged by us rather than the buyer.
Consolidating our freight book improves our purchasing power and enables us to be more ef cient in managing shipments through our loading facilities.
Sharing vessels and coordinating deliveries will also make better use of global shipping routes, reducing freight costs and turnaround times.
01 Main and 02 The recently opened This new approach brings us closer Anglo American sales and marketing to our customers, enabling us to be hub, in Singapore.
more responsive to their needs.
We 01 Iron ore from can also create signi cant additional Kumbas Sishen commercial value by coordinating mine, 861 kilometres away, is transferred our approach globally, improving our from rail wagons at product mix, enhancing our logistics, the dedicated export port of Saldanha on and using more sophisticated South Africas marketing tools and techniques.
Dr Alexander Schmitt Group Head, Commercial Coordination 02 c. 57 Mt 574 vessels YEAR-ON-YEAR INCREASE IN IRON IRON ORE VESSELS INTO QINGDAO ORE IMPORTS TO CHINA IN 2012.
Source: MySteel and Anglo American data Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 19 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW STRATEGY IN ACTION STRATEGIC ELEMENT: Organising ef ciently and effectively EMBEDDING OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE GROUPWIDE ASSET OPTIMISATION During 2012, ORs were conducted Supporting operational excellence We continue at Collahuasi Copper joint venture : are the Resource to Market R2M We continue to deliver on to develop Mantos Blancos Copper : optimisation and Group Benchmarking our asset optimisation AO our employees Bathopele Waterval UG2 programmes.
The objective of the programme that has been business Concentrator and Precious Metal R2M programme is to integrate in place since 2009.
Having improvement Re nery Platinum : Bokoni Platinum planning and execution across the surpassed our $1 billion target skills and joint venture : Orapa, Letlhakane and mining value chain.
This ensures that set in terms of the sustainable have trained Damtshaa mines DeBeers : and our an operation is managed with an AO bene ts from core businesses approximately Phosphates business.
understanding of how decisions made by the end of 2011, we continue 1,300 people are likely to impact other parts of the to focus on embedding the A prominent element of the AO through our value chain.
During 2012, R2M was methodologies, and in uencing programme is to embed business central AO launched at Coppers Los Bronces mindsets and behaviours improvement knowledge and skills Academy.
mine in Chile and Platinums necessary for delivering AO within the business.
This is being Mogalakwena mine in South Africa bene ts across our operations.
achieved through our AO change and has delivered improved management programme, which One of the key features of the AO performance and enhanced mining encompasses skills development programme remains the Operation exibility.
As an example of speci c and sharing of key learnings, practices, Review OR process initiated in improvements, blasted rock stock and case studies through dedicated and average tonnage per blast 2010.
This structured eight-step internal communication channels.
have increased substantially at review process enables our business We continue to develop our LosBronces, leading to reduced units to drive towards operational employees business improvement congestion at the mine.
excellence through the identi cation skills and have trained approximately and prioritisation of business In 2012, we launched the first phase 1,300 people through the Groups improvement opportunities, in of our Group Benchmarking Tool.
accordance with our technical The tool aims to deliver a platform standards and our commitment to As we continue to equip our people that provides a single and validated safety and sustainable development.
with the necessary skills and tools to source for benchmarking information advance business improvement, we in Anglo American.
The first phase The ORs are a collaborative effort are also creating unifying systems and of the project delivered KPIs for that combine our central technical frameworks that will result in improved equipment ef ciency in opencast capability with our operational operational performance.
The next phase, planned for expertise across the Group, thereby currently developing an Operational completion by end of 2013, will creating teams that are able to identify Excellence Framework OEF, the include additional KPIs for opencast value improvement opportunities purpose of which is to provide a clear benchmarking as well as the launch and share leading practices across and consistent reference for how of underground and metallurgical the Groups entire mining value chain, we operate and maximise the value benchmarking information.
which includes the resource, mine, proposition for Anglo American.
The OEF focuses on those priority areas that are fundamental to driving operational performance, bringing together, and ensuring consistent application of all the relevant standards and processes to support the operations.
20 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Operating and financial review SUPPLY CHAIN Sustainable and responsible supply chain Supplier partnerships TOTAL COST Local procurement Our relationships with suppliers have Anglo Americans procurement spend OF OWNERSHIP been strengthened considerably in on goods and services represents a recent years.
These relationships have IMPROVEMENTS signi cant development opportunity.
resulted in minimised lead times for Expenditure on suppliers based in AT PLATINUM major equipment delivery and have the host communities close to our mitigated in ationary pressure and operations was $1.5 billion.
supply risk to our operations.
Supply Chain is working with key suppliers We proactively design local in each region as part of our Top 40 procurement initiatives to optimise initiative to identify additional savings, opportunities to integrate local waste elimination opportunities and to businesses into our global supply minimise cost in ation through 2013. chain.
In doing so, we believe we can Proactive reviews of equipment make a signi cant socioeconomic and services on our operations have contribution to our host communities, led to the identi cation of savings as well as ef ciencies in our supply chain by lowering logistics costs and opportunities and are delivering total securing access to critical goods cost of ownership TCO bene ts and services.
The Anglo Converting Process ACP uses a rubber hose in its Anglo Americans Group-wide local Framework agreements are now matte feed transfer into the procurement policy, launched in 2010, in place with 33 key suppliers, furnace via a submerged steel is now embedded in all our operations.
representing a formal alignment in lance.
The value of the product our commercial relationships.
These transported through the matte During the year, all operations made agreements are critical in the current transfer system and hose is progress in developing their local market as they provide the platform $12.5million per day.
Any procurement strategies and are now for value creation and greater unplanned downtime, therefore, measuring and reporting local spend.
incurs signi cant cost to the plant transparency of cost, demand through reduced production, In making sourcing decisions, however, and capacity.
we also need to ensure that we remain competitive.
Sourcing from countries The ACP previously made use Regional gross expenditure 2012 where we do not operate is sometimes of standard specialised rubber % of total expenditure hoses.
These hoses, however, essential if the products are not had a lifespan to transport available locally.
China is a key approximately 1,500 tonnes, customer and strategic business meaning they had to be replaced partner and we have a sourcing 11 times a month on average.
strategy to build long term, valuable Aside from the replacement relationships with Chinese suppliers.
costs, this had a signi cant This includes identifying Chinese impact on production.
suppliers from whom local businesses A focus team from ACP can source and provide maintenance critically evaluated the hoses, and support services locally.
developed alternatives, then approached Dunlop Industrial Local procurement is a particular Products for the supply of the priority in our South African alternative hoses.
The ACP operations, forming an important focus team, together with part of our contribution to the Dunlop, were able to develop South Africa 45% countrys drive to promote black Australia 18% a t-for-purpose ceramic tiled Chile 20% economic empowerment.
Brazil 15% managed businesses spent Other 2% The new hoses are able to ZAR 25.8 billion $3.1 billion, 54% transport on average 25,000 of South African discretionary tonnes and only need to be expenditure, with historically replaced once a month, resulting disadvantaged South African in realised value that has, to date, businesses not including goods exceeded expectations.
and services procured from parastatal Image Platinums ACP plant in Rustenburg, companies and municipalities.
For more information, visit www.
com Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 21 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW STRATEGY IN ACTION STRATEGIC ELEMENT: Operating safely, sustainably and responsibly BUILDING RELATIONSHIPS WITH THE FUTURE IN MIND 22 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Operating and financial review We believe that operating safely, sustainably and responsibly is not only fundamental to our licence to operate, but is also an increasingly important source of competitive advantage.
OPEN DIALOGUE IN PERU In late 2010, our Quellaveco copper project located near Moquegua in southern Peru faced considerable local opposition from communities concerned at what they saw as its potential negative impact, in particular on water availability in a severely water-stressed area.
In response, Anglo American agreed to pause the project and to participate in an extensive, 01 structured dialogue table with local and national stakeholders, led by the regional president Martn Vizcarra, with a view to addressing KEY FACTS community concerns.
Reserves and Resources During 18 months of detailed negotiations, the 916.4 Mt Proved and Probable Reserves project team was able to understand the root at 0.65% TCu cause of local worries, address the lack of 1,092.0 Mt Measured and Indicated information about both the environmental Resources at 0.39% TCu safeguards of the project and its multiple potential social and economic bene ts, and adapt aspects Contained copper 5.9 Mt of the project design to increase those bene ts.
Agreement at the dialogue table, Began March 2011 broad social and political support for Quellaveco, Ended July 2012 and Anglo Americans approach held up as best practice for socially responsible mining in Peru.
22 plenary meetings 45 sub-committee meetings 31 organisations participating A final agreement comprising 26 wide-ranging programmes addressing water, environment and regional development issues Main At our Quellaveco project in Peru, OUR QUELLAVECO COPPER PROJECT process manager Gonzalo Manrique IS LOCATED IN SOUTHERN PERU uses a model of the proposed mine and processing facilities to dialogue table 02 representatives from the local Moquegua community.
This was a victory 01 Participants representing for openness, local and national transparency and stakeholders and Anglo American engagement and all attend the final participants in the meeting of the dialogue table process are to be in Moquegua.
Together we showed 02 Selma Fernandes, that our project can bring huge from our Supply Lima bene ts to Peru and Moquegua.
We Chain team in Copper, with local now need to ensure we deliver on our Cuzco procurement analyst commitments and continue the work Milagros Myrick, at to maintain our licence to operate.
the Quellaveco Puno projects Arequipa Moquegua of ce.
Eduardo Serpa Moquegua Anglo Americans chief negotiator Tacna Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 23 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW STRATEGY IN ACTION STRATEGIC ELEMENT: Operating safely, sustainably and responsibly SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT IN EVERYTHING WE DO Our strong governance structures SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY MAKING A As a company relating to sustainable development Most of our operations are located in that exploits a DIFFERENCE support this aspiration, providing emerging economies, many of which nite resource, clear lines of responsibility from the Our aim is always to operate have low levels of socioeconomic we aspire to operational level through to the Board.
To ensure a lasting operating our A dedicated global Safety and Making a tangible difference is positive social and environmental mines in a Sustainable Development Risk and fundamental to our licence to legacy, we supplement the value way that is Assurance team provides expert operate and an important source generated through our core activities environmentally opinion, in conjunction with our of competitive advantage.
We paying taxes, salaries, and payments responsible, internal Anglo American Business strive to realise exceptional to suppliers with initiatives designed bene ts host Assurance Services, on the adequacy operational value by embedding to develop host communities over the communities of risk-control measures to ensure sustainable development in long term, many of which are and leaves a that current and emerging risks are everything we do from our undertaken in partnership with NGOs, positive social effectively controlled.
This secondsystems, risk processes and communities, and local governments.
party perspective, together with procedures, to the way in which subject matter expertise internal and If we fail to account for our actions we consult and work with our external, enables us to identify critical and do not engage appropriately with stakeholders.
Mining can be a safety, health, social and environmental our communities, we risk undermining high-risk business but we do improvement opportunities.
our reputation and jeopardising not accept that anyone should Sustainable Development is fully our licence to develop and operate be injured while working for us.
integrated within the project projects.
The relative importance of Safety, therefore, remains our management and asset optimisation labour relations and local economic number one priority.
As a processes, ensuring that broader development activities has grown, as company that exploits a nite sustainability and licence-towitnessed by the industrial action in resource, we aspire to operating operate issues are duly taken into South Africas mining industry in the our mines in a way that is account in operational and decision second half of 2012. environmentally responsible, making processes.
bene ts host communities and Our strategy and management In this section we provide an leaves a positive social legacy.
approach overview of our management Anglo Americans social strategy approach and performance relating focuses on observance of human to social and community activities, rights, proactive engagement with safety and health, and environmental our stakeholders and leveraging our performance.
Our website core business to support long term www.
Community additional information on our development activities prioritise sustainability performance, including local procurement and supplier a stand-alone sustainability report development, building local capacity, as well as separate reports from including providing infrastructure for certain of our individual companies health care, housing and sanitation, and operations.
and investing in enterprise and skills development.
The Anglo American Social Way contains a mandatory set of standards that prescribe rigorous minimum requirements for social performance across the Group.
The requirements of the Social Way are integrated into the stage-gate reviews of our new capital projects and our due diligence procedures for mergers and acquisitions.
24 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Operating and financial review Social investment output indicators BUILDING Total number of community development projects 1,602 delivering bene ts to communities in 2012 STRONG TOWNS Total number of businesses supported 17,598 IN MINING Jobs created maintained through enterprise 64,927 REGIONS development initiatives Bene ciaries of education projects 256,980 Bene ciaries of sports, arts, culture and heritage projects 645,211 Bene ciaries of community development projects 1,065,821 Bene ciaries of disaster and emergency relief projects 43,684 Bene ciaries with improved livelihood 448,395 A lack of municipal capacity in our host communities can have Our commitment to respecting human Promoting sustainability a negative effect on residents and on Anglo Americans ability rights forms the foundation of our in our supply chain and to plan.
Our new partnership approach to community engagement local procurement approach to capacity building and development.
Human rights best We expect and encourage our in South Africa and Brazil aims practice requirements are integrated suppliers to act in a safe, sustainable to offer an effective and into the Social Way and all other and responsible manner.
relevant policies, systems and tools expectation is given effect through In South Africa, we have teamed throughout the business.
our policy on sustainable development up with the Development Bank of in the Anglo American supply chain In 2012, we rolled out a GroupSouth Africa to improve capacity and our Supplier Sustainable wide community development peer in host mining areas and create the Development Code.
countrys first example of a review process, which draws on public-private partnership in this internal expertise, as well as external We are also committed to promoting eld, with the aim of enabling partners such as CARE International local procurement throughout our municipalities to supply basic to ensure that our investments in mining life cycle.
In doing so, we services like water and electricity community development are as believe we can make a signi cant effectively, rather than Anglo effective as possible.
socioeconomic contribution to our American supplying them directly.
host communities as well as improve Our industry leading Socio-Economic At our Barro Alto nickel operation ef ciencies in our supply chain by Assessment Toolbox SEAT is the in Brazil, Anglo American has been lowering logistics costs, and securing collaborating with Agenda Pblica primary means by which we enhance access to critical goods and services.
since 2008, in an effort to prepare the development outcomes and both the local government and capacities of host communities.
We citizens to live in a society that use SEAT to improve operations would grow as mining revenues understanding of their socioeconomic started to ow into the town.
impacts both positive and negative, In both Brazil and South Africa, the enhance stakeholder dialogue and projects follow two broad strands: the management of social issues, empowerment of communities to build our ability to support local enable them to understand their socioeconomic development, and rights and hold the government to foster greater transparency and account: and training and skills accountability.
The third version development for public of cials of SEAT was published during the to enable them to ful l their roles year and has been made available and respond to public demand.
publicly, as a leading practice resource Although Anglo American for other companies to use.
provides funding in both cases, our knowledge of the local area, our input into project planning and evaluation, and our local relationships have all proved important elements of the work.
Image Liomar Vidal, an Anglo American community relations of cer, at the Professora Maria Siqueira Pinto school, which Anglo American helped to build in Barro Alto.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 25 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW STRATEGY IN ACTION STRATEGIC ELEMENT: Operating safely, sustainably and responsibly 2012 Global social investment Our local procurement policy is now Infrastructure and local Enterprise expenditure embedded across the Group and all capacity development Total: $154 m development operations have made encouraging Our mines are often situated in areas is one of progress in developing local that are underdeveloped and remote, the most procurement strategies.
In 2012, where the associated infrastructure effective means expenditure on suppliers based in the such as roads, health facilities and of ensuring communities close to our operations water can be used to the advantage that the bene ts was $1.5 billion 2011: $1.1 billion.
A particular for host In 2012, we hosted a conference focus is addressing South Africas communities as for our leading on-site suppliers in acute shortage of affordable housing.
a result of our South Africa and agreed a number Notably, we have entered into a mining activities of initiatives to improve the welfare of partnership agreement with the will be our contractor employees and their Development Bank of Southern Africa sustainable.
A number of commitments DBSA to build the capacity of 10 of were made by both parties during the our host municipalities.
This initiative conference, including a requirement will enable local governments to Community development 43% that all employees on our operations in deliver on their basic public service Education and training 21% South Africa would have access to obligations: for example, in the elds Health and welfare 11% basic medical care facilitated by of water and electricity supply, Environment 5% Sports, arts, culture and heritage 5% Anglo American where necessary, management of local infrastructure Water and sanitation 2% as well as making Anglo Americans projects and revenue collection.
We Incorporating: highly regarded tools, initiatives and have also briefed the South African Disaster and emergency relief 1% Institutional capacity development 1% resources in the areas of community Chamber of Mines so that other Employee matched giving 1% engagement and community companies may replicate this model.
Other 10% development available to contractors.
Our capacity development Enterprise development activities focus on strengthening the 2012 Global social investment Enterprise development is one of skills, competencies and abilities expenditure by region the most effective means of ensuring of employees and community Total: $154 m that the bene ts for host communities members to promote robust, as a result of our mining activities will self-suf cient local economies be sustainable.
Since the 1980s, we long after our mines have closed.
have been pioneering approaches Corporate social investment to building small businesses in South In 2012, Anglo Americans corporate Africa, and have now extended our social investment CSI spend in local reach rmly into Chile and Brazil.
communities totalled $154 million In 2012, we took a more strategic 3% of pro t before tax, up from approach to enterprise development $129 million in 2011.
We have a that has involved speci cally designing standardised reporting process schemes for countries such as Peru, for all our social investments, with Brazil and Botswana, as well as for robust metrics to monitor the level particular focus areas such as housing of social performance.
This facilitates and low-carbon technologies.
consistent reporting of outputs, and South Africa 62% Rest of Africa 1% helps to identify the most effective United Kingdom 1% projects, delivery methods and Americas 33% partners, in order to try and maximise Other 3% the value that Anglo American and its host communities get from these investments.
A fuller analysis of the Groups social investment activities can be found in the Sustainable Development Report 2012.
26 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Operating and financial review Total number of fatal injuries SAFETY Total number of lost-time injuries and fatal injury frequency and lost-time injury frequency Offering a safe and healthy workplace rate 20082012 rate 20082012 is a core component of our employer Fatalities FIFR Lost-time injuries LTIFR of choice agenda.
We aim to achieve 30 0.016 2,500 1.2 zero harm by creating and instilling a company and industry culture 0.014 25 1 2,000 that protects people from harm and 0.012 improves their health and well-being.
20 0.8 0.010 1,500 Performance 15 0.008 0.6 Although the number of people who 1,000 lost their lives while working for us 0.006 10 0.4 declined to 13 for the year 2011: 17, 0.004 any loss of life is unacceptable and no 500 5 0.2 one should have to risk their life while 0.002 working for us.
Seven of these deaths 0 0 0 0 occurred at our Platinum business, 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 where the majority of fatal incidents FIFR Fatalities Lost-time injuries LTIFR still occur, despite a signi cant improvement of 61% over the past five years.
All operations have safety Occupational health Our lost-time injury frequency rate improvement plans that prioritise Our approach is governed by the LTIFR improved from 0.64 in 2011 these elements based on operational Anglo American Occupational Health to 0.60 in 2012.
The operational risk management Way, which sets out a series of recordable case frequency rate, which and learning from incidents standards, guidelines and assurance includes any injury that requires more programmes are a particular focus processes aimed at preventing harm than first aid treatment, has started for all business units.
continued to roll out new mandatory technical standards that address our Our strategy and management HEALTH principal health risks relating to noise, approach Effective management of occupational dust inhaled hazards or airborne Anglo Americans safety strategy is health protects our people, enhances pollutants, fatigue, alcohol and founded on three key principles: a productivity, and helps maintain our substance abuse.
We also refreshed mindset of zero harm: the elimination licence to operate and our global the risk management approach within of repeat incidents: and the consistent reputation.
Promoting a healthy the Occupational Health Way to align application of simple, non-negotiable community and a safe and healthy with our Group-wide integrated risk standards.
workforce is bene cial for everyone.
We use the Anglo American safety Our strategy and management The ability to capture and manage journey model which recognises approach health information is critical if we are the importance of the roles of both We strive to proactively identify and to keep our workforce and their people and systems in a mining manage the source of potential health families healthy.
Building this capability business to measure our progress risks in the workplace, and to eliminate within our business was a central in delivering against our safety exposure to hazards that can cause activity in 2012 and will continue in the strategy.
We believe we are currently disease to develop.
Building on these coming year.
at the compliant stage, with a growing initiatives is our employee health and number of operations moving to The number of occupational disease wellness programme, which includes proactive and a decreasing number cases reported in 2012 was 170, a strong emphasis on combating being characterised as reactive.
This HIV AIDS and tuberculosis TB within translates to an incidence rate of 0.189, Our current suite of Group safety our workforce and their families, an 8% reduction.
programmes focuses on issues that particularly in southern Africa.
Beyond will improve our level of maturity on the our immediate workforce, we strive to journey model.
These programmes help strengthen healthcare systems in involve: operational risk management: under-serviced rural areas and build learning from incidents: risk and partnerships to improve access to change management: leadership: quality health care.
developing people: leading indicators: corporate safety work streams: supply chain safety initiatives: integrating safety throughout the business: and our 2012 safety leadership summit.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 27 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW STRATEGY IN ACTION STRATEGIC ELEMENT: Operating safely, sustainably and responsibly Tackling TB and HIV Promoting healthcare in the ENVIRONMENT We remain We are recognised leaders for our broader community While the extraction and processing one of the key HIV AIDS programmes in the Our activities to promote healthcare of minerals and metals is fundamental private-sector workplace.
The continued high in the broader community include to the global economy, its associated supporters of prevalence of HIV in southern Africa planned investments in health systems activities result in the unavoidable the Global Fund is linked to a rising incidence of TB, strengthening in our neighbouring disturbance of land, the consumption to Fight AIDS, which has become a most disturbing communities, as well as activities of resources, and the generation Tuberculosis and pressing issue for us and our aimed at supporting health care in of waste and pollutants.
Growing and Malaria and employees.
We have an active developing countries more broadly.
regulatory and social pressure, of the Global programme aimed at addressing We remain one of the key privateincreasing demands for limited natural Alliance for the escalating TB epidemic.
This is sector supporters of the Global Fund resources, and the escalating costs Vaccines and evidenced in our TB incidence rate, to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and of energy and water all highlight the Immunisations.
which continues to decline and is, at Malaria and the Global Alliance for business imperative of responsible 958 per 100,000 employees, lower Vaccines and Immunisations, a environmental management.
than both the national and industry public-private partnership that is Within this context, the principal averages.
Despite these efforts, it is increasing access to immunisation in environmental risks facing our with deep regret that 59 employees the worlds poorest countries.
business relate to water, climate died from TB in 2012.
We do not accept change and energy.
that anyone should die from this We use the knowledge and experience preventable and treatable disease.
gained from our workplace health Please refer to our stand-alone programmes to support community Sustainable Development Report People enrolled in our HIV Wellness outreach programmes and strengthen for a review of our management Programme are also offered TB community health systems: that is, approach and performance relating prevention therapy.
Testing through the people, the processes and the to land management, biodiversity, our wellness programme is the technology that make local health waste and air quality.
entry point to our comprehensive services work.
In South Africa, we programme of prevention, care, support Our strategy and management are working with the provincial health and treatment for HIV and AIDS and all approach departments in the Eastern Cape, employees who test positive are invited We seek to effectively manage our Mpumalanga, Northern Cape and to enrol.
In 2012, we tested and environmental risks by minimising our North West provinces, which are all counselled 95,244 employees and impacts and by taking advantage of associated with our operations or are contractors 2011: 110,010, while opportunities that deliver long term labour-sending areas, to improve more than 90% of our employees in bene ts to our stakeholders.
southern Africa check their HIV status potential gains to our business include every year, on average.
In 2012, we In Brazil, we continue to work with access to secure, affordable and saw a signi cant increase in the number the highly regarded Brazilian NGO, sustainable supplies of water and of employees who are estimated to Reprolatina, to improve access to energy for our operations, reduced be HIV-positive enrolling on the quality health services, particularly costs, improved productivity, shorter programme 70% against 61% with regard to reproductive health for permitting times and an enhanced in 2011. women and girls with a current focus reputation.
Implementation of our on the communities surrounding the strategy is through the following three By year end, we had 5,332 employees Barro Alto nickel operation.
areas of activity: driving operational on anti-retroviral therapy ART 2011: excellence: investing in technology: 4,730.
A major challenge is ensuring and engaging and partnering with peoples adherence to treatment, and our stakeholders.
extra emphasis is placed on providing support and counselling and ensuring The Anglo American Environment diligent care at a primary care level.
Way and its mandatory performance standards on social and environmental impact assessments, water, air quality, mineral and non-mineral waste, hazardous substances, biodiversity, rehabilitation and mine closure, all guide our approach to responsible environmental management.
28 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Operating and financial review Total water required, WATER Total water consumed 20082012 3 Million m by use in 2012 Security of water supply is a core % 180 business risk and a critical element of our social and legal licence to 170 operate.
Our operations need large volumes of the right quality of water for both production and processing.
160 Yet more than 70% of our mines are in water-stressed areas where access 150 to water is already a signi cant socioeconomic concern.
At the same 140 time, our operations present a potential environmental risk in terms of water 130 quality.
We are committed, therefore, to providing water security for our operations and the communities Water re-used recycled in process 73% 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 where we operate.
Water used for primary activities 24% Anglo American actual Water used for non-primary activities 3% Business as usual BAU baseline Our strategy and management approach We have an ambitious 10-year strategy In 2012, we also completed a Our performance that is split into three distinct steps.
water-quality audit protocol and Despite acquisitions, expansions and The first step, Be disciplined, is about undertook a series of audits across production increases, and taking into getting the basics right.
The second the Group, which will inform our account disposals, the Group has step, Be proactive, encourages understanding of how to better maintained a reasonably stable level operations to go beyond compliance, manage water quality risk.
of water demand since 2007. while the third, Build resilience, takes Technology Anglo Americans consumption of us to being part of broader, catchmentTo achieve our long term goal of water used for primary activities has level water solutions.
Our intention is 3 becoming water neutral, we estimate increased by 6%, from 115 million m to achieve water neutrality at our new 3 we will have to halve the current in 2011 to 122 million m in 2012. mines by 2030. consumption of new water at The primary driver was Los Bronces Two years into the strategy, we have operations and ensure that more than copper mine in Chile, which increased largely consolidated the first stage 80% of that water is recycled.
We will our Copper business water of our journey and are now targeting 3 need to identify and invest in new consumption by 7 million m. This the more advanced proactive and technology solutions to achieve this.
gure would have been signi cantly resilient stages.
higher if it were not for the large To better understand and fide ne our increase in water recycled from the Operational excellence water technology pathway, we have operations tailings dam this more Operational excellence in relation to researched what water neutrality 3 than doubled to 82 million m of water water management is mainly about would mean for a mine, as well as how in 2012.
The increase was further being smarter in the way we use and to achieve a carbon neutral mine, mitigated by 26 water savings manage water.
Our Group technical recognising the potential trade-offs projects around the Group that standard includes detailed between water and energy savings.
requirements on water-reduction Another focus has been working target setting, water monitoring and More than 70% of our operational reporting, and site-level water action with the UK Met Of ce, Imperial water requirements were met by plans WAPs, which have driven a College London and others, on recycling re-using water over the past positive shift in our approach to modelling the potential regional two years.
Within the Group there have managing water at operations.
impacts of changes in precipitation been several high performers in terms resulting from climate change.
In 2011, we implemented our water of recycling, with some reaching levels ef ciency target tool WETT, which Engagement and partnerships as high as 9097%.
Our operations forecasts the projected business-asWherever we operate, we engage with are also seeking to reduce their usual water demand of individual host governments, local authorities, dependency on high-quality water by operations and establishes a register communities, NGOs, businesses switching to the use of lower waterof water-saving projects.
The rolling and other stakeholders on a range of quality grades where this is deemed t out of WETT across the Group during water-related issues, and participate for the intended use.
Currently, potable 2012 has led to tangible water savings, in global policy debates on water.
water accounts for just 18% of our total.
more effective water management, better tracking and reporting, and increased awareness of water conservation.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 29 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW STRATEGY IN ACTION STRATEGIC ELEMENT: Operating safely, sustainably and responsibly CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY Total energy consumed Technology 20082012 Achieving our long term milestones Climate change presents a signi cant Million GJ in energy management hinges business challenge.
The key risks on identifying and implementing 120 we face are: increasing energy and innovative, step-change technologies.
compliance costs associated with new We are researching many policy measures, including potentially 115 opportunities with key stakeholders, signi cant costs from carbon pricing: and have invested nearly $200 million changing demand for our products: 110 to date in low carbon technology, and increased risks associated with such as the Capcoal and Moranbah the physical impacts of climate change North methanered power stations on our operations and neighbouring 105 in Australia.
We aim to enable our operations and local communities to Our technology vision is to run cost 100 address and adapt to the causes and ef cient, low-carbon if not carbon effects of climate change.
Our approach focuses on three areas: reducing how Our strategy and management 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 much energy we use: recovering and Anglo American actual approach re-using some of that energy: and Business as usual BAU baseline Climate change is integrated into using alternative energy sources.
In multi-disciplinary, Group-wide risk parallel, we continually investigate management processes.
We are in the opportunities for carbon offsetting.
Total GHG emissions second year of our 10-year climate 20082012 Our longer term research areas change strategy.
Million tonnes include using lique ed petroleum Operational excellence 25 gas LPG and methane capture to Our leading energy and carbon power trucks, introducing clean coal management programme, ECO MAN, 2 technology, and piloting platinumhas enabled us to understand how based fuel cells as an alternative power energy management can be used to system for underground locomotives.
It 20 In recent years we have focused provides a structured approach to on assessing the potential physical achieve our objectives and it helps impacts of climate change in a number our people understand their of potentially high-risk operational responsibilities and accountabilities.
Building on this Each mine has a programme in place climate change impact assessment to continually improve how it manages work, in 2012 we worked with the UK energy usage, with targets to reduce Met Of ce to prioritise all our projects consumption in relation to a business- 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 across the Group in terms of when as-usual projection.
Anglo American actual Business as usual BAU baseline climate change time of emergence During 2012, we established a Group signals will arise.
We are also piloting carbon steering committee to a study to capture issues around coordinate activities that lower our climate and weather model data into exposure to carbon compliance costs, project design.
including building our capacity to buy Engagement and partnerships and sell carbon allowances.
We continue to work with governments, our business peers, and other stakeholders to help shape equitable and effective climate change policies.
In South Africa, we are especially active in discussions around a carbon pricing policy and have welcomed the opportunity to participate in the debate and in the development of a solid fact base to in uence an effective carbon policy aligned with the countrys development objectives.
30 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Operating and financial review Our performance Anglo Americans energy consumption has increased by 6 million gigajoules MANAGING METHANE GJ year-on-year to 108 million GJ in 2012.
The rise is primarily as a result of electricity consumption increases at Los Bronces copper mine and Nickels Barro Alto operation.
A further increase of 1 million GJ at Metallurgical Coal as a result of production increases at the open cut mines was mitigated by a relatively small reduction at Platinum arising from industrial action.
These increases were further mitigated by 215 energy-saving projects, accounting for reductions of nearly 5% equal to saving 4 million GJ of energy and $75 million, that were completed in 2012.
Anglo Americans greenhouse gas emissions GHG have dropped slightly year-on-year from 19 Mt of CO equivalent CO e emissions 2 2 to 18 Mt of CO e in 2012.
An expected 2 rise in GHG emissions associated Methane emissions represent In South Africa, our New Denmark with increased energy consumption a signi cant challenge to our mine has helped to design and was mitigated by methane underground coal mining operations develop a world first mobile aring in Australia and South Africa.
As system that will reduce its annual management activities at Metallurgical methane is 21 times more damaging methane emissions from ventilation Coal and our decision to discontinue to the environment than carbon boreholes by an expected 15%.
public reporting on methane dioxide CO, we have made it a Flaring burns off methane, rendering 2 emissions associated with priority to identify and implement it 18.5 times less harmful to the 1 spontaneous combustion.
technologies that will mitigate the environment than venting.
Under impact of this greenhouse gas GHG the Kyoto Protocol, methane aring 1 The reason for this is two-fold: our peers do not and transform an environmental is an eligible Clean Development report on emissions from spontaneous combustion liability into an asset.
The project and there is currently no consistent methodology for could therefore generate more than doing so.
We will, however, continue to monitor and Methane is found, in differing manage these emissions internally.
$8 million in revenue in its first concentrations, in the majority of decade through the sale of Certi ed coal seams.
For safety reasons, it Emission Reduction CER credits, needs to be continually ventilated depending on prevailing CER prices.
for underground mines but its impact on the environment also has to be Another facet to this challenge is considered.
Since 2008, we have the ventilation systems, which run been piping methane-rich gas from continuously and require signi cant our underground Moranbah North energy.
At Goedehoop mine we and Capcoal mines to two dedicated have reduced our GHGs related to gas red power stations.
When ventilated air methane by improving burned, methane is one of the how we manage these systems.
By cleanest fossil fuels, producing less isolating the areas underground that CO for each unit of heat produced require ventilation and identifying 2 than other hydrocarbon fuels.
By and addressing any leaks, we have capturing methane, the two power reduced the amount of methane stations together prevent 2.5 Mt ushed out of the machinery as of CO equivalent emissions from well as the electricity required to run 2 entering the atmosphere each the ventilation system.
Ventilation year the equivalent of taking systems at other underground mines 500,000 cars off the road, or in Thermal Coal are also set to be planting 3.6 million trees and optimised, contributing greatly generate 77 MW of electricity for towards our 2015 ECO MAN targets.
2 the Australian national grid, which Image is enough to power 48,000 homes Senior project manager Ellis Lawrie foreground and Energy Developments Limited project manager per year.
Michael Ball inspect a gas engine at the Capcoal underground waste coal mine gas power station.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 31 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW STRATEGY IN ACTION STRATEGIC ELEMENT: Employing the best people WORKING WITH COMMUNITIES WITH THE FUTURE IN MIND 32 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Operating and financial review We offer a range of housing options to our South African mineworkers as part of our broader strategy to improve the living conditions of our employees.
IMPROVING HOUSING IN SOUTH AFRICA We want all our employees to enjoy quality housing and living conditions.
In South Africa, where there 11,648 is a shortage of affordable housing and long EMPLOYEES AT OUR SOUTH AFRICAN waiting lists for units being built, this is a particular OPERATIONS STAYING IN MINE challenge.
In partnership with local and provincial ACCOMMODATION.
government, we help to alleviate this problem.
We invest in improving the housing and living conditions of employees and making it possible for them to buy their own homes in sustainable Platinum areas near our mining operations.
Our vision is 6,743 employees reside in company that all of our employees in mining communities and privately leased houses.
who would like family accommodation have that option.
All hostels have been converted into single accommodation villages.
Our Platinum, Iron Ore, Thermal Coal businesses and fide Beers proactively engage in developing There are four ongoing housing projects properly serviced land to facilitate housing in its portfolio.
development in areas where services are Iron Ore inadequate or do not exist.
The business units From March 2012, employees no longer collaborate with reputable developers to stay in hostels.
encourage and promote affordable home ownership among employees at all levels.
Where Sishen has built 1,662 houses to possible, land is donated to the municipality to accommodate their employees.
facilitate the rehousing of communities residing Sishen plans to build an additional 1,720 in informal settlements.
We engage with the houses in Kathu for current and future Chamber of Mines and with organised labour to housing needs.
address issues and options for home ownership.
While 11,648 employees currently reside in mine accommodation, our objective is to lessen employee dependency on the company to As an industry, we need to work with provide accommodation.
our stakeholders to discuss openly how the migrant labour system can be changed to create more sustainable lives and communities.
Thermal Coal Cynthia Carroll Currently 33% of employees live in Chief Executive mine-provided accommodation.
203 houses have been built for sale Main Platinum Union to date.
south mine time and attendance operator Gift Mpho takes A new project to provide an additional possession of one of 272 units in the eMalahleni area the 400 new houses has commenced.
being built at the Northam Extension 6 Housing Project.
fide Beers fide Beers has no hostels at its 01 These houses for Thermal Coal three South African operations.
employees and their families are being Currently engaging with South Africas built with bricks National Union of Mineworkers NUM made partly from gypsum which regarding the facilitation of home was formerly ownership.
discarded as a waste product Approximately 550 houses planned to from the eMalahleni be built across three operations and water-treatment investigations on rent-to-buy options plant.
01 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 33 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW STRATEGY IN ACTION STRATEGIC ELEMENT: Employing the best people THE RIGHT PEOPLE IN THE RIGHT PLACES Resourcing with the Number of permanent employees OUR PEOPLE future in mind 1 and contractors by region Our people are as vital to our Having the right people in place 2012 success as our mining assets.
is vital to achieving our business They determine how effectively objectives.
Within the context of a we operate, represent our values very competitive job market, ensuring and are critical to building and we understand our current and future maintaining our reputation with skills needs, and actively drive plans to stakeholders.
Ultimately, it is meet these, is a key strategic priority our people who will realise our for HR.
Throughout 2011 we put in ambition and deliver on our place foundations to enable more strategy of being the leading effective workforce planning.
included a Group-wide monthly headcount reporting process and system and a common framework OUR STRATEGY AND for categorising roles across the MANAGEMENT APPROACH organisation.
During 2012, we built Africa 97,298 Our human resources HR strategy on these foundations, implementing Europe 396 North America 583 a new annual strategic workforce is anchored in Anglo Americans South America 31,319 planning process and system that objective to be the leading global Australia 6,619 ran successfully to support the 2012 Asia 104 mining company and in supporting 1 Excludes associates and OMI non-core operations.
the objective of being the employer of choice.
We see the quality of Our improved workforce planning our people as a key source of capability will play a pivotal role in Alongside our performance competitive advantage.
targeting our talent sourcing activities management process, we continued to and guiding the work we do to build To attract and retain the best people embed the People Development Way, global talent pools.
Talented graduates, we need to: our global capability framework bursars, interns, apprentices and detailing the behaviours, knowledge, Demonstrate that we have a clear other trainees form an important part skills and experience required of our and compelling strategy for success of our sourcing strategy.
During 2012, employees to achieve our strategic we saw nearly 3,000 graduates, Offer safe, worthwhile and objectives.
2012 also saw the bursars, apprentices and other stimulating work introduction of career path tools aimed trainees supported by the company.
at guiding employees career Be organised for effectiveness development decisions.
At certain of our operations we are and ef ciency legally required to recruit a percentage Formal learning is delivered at both Maintain the right leadership culture of mining related roles from within the business unit and Group level with immediate and local communities Support people to develop and external training expenditure across in which we operate.
The recent progress Anglo American amounting to implementation of text-based job $98 million, 3% of total employee Pay people competitively.
applications has enabled us to more costs in 2012 2011: $79 million, effectively access community The Group HR function operates as 2.2% of total employee costs.
The members in remote locations part of a lean corporate centre and continued development of first-line particularly across South Africa.
focuses on: essential governance: managers to improve operational and capturing synergies across the Group: people management capabilities has Supporting our people to and sharing knowledge and expertise.
The first-line develop and progress Policies and standards are set through managers development programme Managing our peoples performance a collaborative process involving the builds on current best practice across plays a key role in guiding their businesses.
Once set, compliance the Group and will be rolled out behaviour and development.
During with these is mandatory.
2012 we continued to roll out our these standards, our HR management Group-wide performance The Adult Basic Education and systems and processes provide the management process and system, Training programme, which is run by foundation that allows us to deliver on which aligns individual objectives our businesses and corporate centre our HR agenda.
with the companys strategy while of ce in South Africa provides general reinforcing our values.
Our We are implementing a wide-ranging education to adults who have not had management and professional three year plan of work to further access to formal schooling.
In 2012, employees have regular performance improve these foundations.
1,239 employees, contractors and and career development reviews with community members enrolled in their managers.
For the remaining the programme.
In addition, 2,638 employees, performance employees and community members management is largely team-based.
were provided with portable skills 34 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Operating and financial review training.
This puts emphasis on training Fostering sound industrial A signi cant part of our operational Across our people in skills not traditionally needed relations workforce consists of contractors: businesses, within the company, so that they are During 2012, two strikes exceeding therefore, the effectiveness of the targets employable after mine closure.
one weeks duration were recorded.
relationships between us and our have been Platinum experienced eight weeks contracting companies, and between Building leadership capability set to increase of illegal industrial action and unrest at those companies and their employees, We see strong leadership and further female five of its mines where operations were will remain important.
managerial capabilities as central to representation, halted.
Kumba Iron Ore experienced achieving our business objectives and Protecting labour rights both within the 12 days unprotected occupation of the sustained success in the mining sector.
As signatories to the United Nations management companys Sishen Mine.
Beyond capability, we see maintaining Global Compact, we are committed population and the right leadership culture as critical to Approximately 84% of our permanent to the labour rights principles the workforce encouraging people to want to work workforce is represented by work provided in the International Labour as a whole.
For this reason councils, trade unions or other similar Organisation core conventions, we focus on and continuously review bodies and covered by collective including the right to freedom of high quality leadership development bargaining agreements.
The nature of association and collective bargaining, and have a range of over 200 these agreements varies by country the eradication of child and forced external and internal development labour and non-discrimination.
However, protecting the programmes currently in use across rights of employees and ensuring fair do not tolerate any form of unfair the Group.
and compliant employment practices discrimination, inhumane treatment, are principles that apply to everyone forced labour, child labour, harassment Recognising and rewarding who is employed by Anglo American, or intimidation in the Anglo American performance regardless of any recognised, workplace.
Full observance of these It is important to our success that the formal representation employees issues is also required of our suppliers structure and level of our remuneration may form part of for collective in tenders and compliance is audited.
and rewards are consistent across the bargaining purposes.
At our operations, we have clear Group and competitive in each of policies and processes in place in the markets within which we operate.
Building and maintaining sound order to ensure that we do not employ We benchmark our remuneration relationships with our employees and any underage or forced labour.
No schemes against our peers and trade unions is fostered through: incidents of employing under-age or implement comprehensive A culture of inclusivity and, forced labour were reported in 2012. performance-based reward systems consistent with our company value of with the aim of attracting and retaining care and respect, a genuine concern the best people.
for the well-being of our employees, Creating a diverse organisation partners and communities.
By year end, 23% of managers were Ongoing, open and meaningful women, representing an increase dialogue, ensuring that relevant from 22% in 2011.
15% of our overall changes to the organisation or its workforce is female.
Across our practices are tabled with trade businesses, targets have been unions for discussion prior to their set to increase further female implementation and that, in turn, any representation, both within the employee concerns are brought management population and the for discussion with the organisation workforce as a whole.
before they become the subject In our South African operations we of disputes.
continued to promote transformation Our appreciation of the fact that in the workforce.
By year end, 62% of many of the issues affecting our our management were historically employees are issues that affect the disadvantaged South Africans rest of the mining sector and, in some HDSAs, representing a signi cant cases, society as a whole.
In these increase on the 51% recorded at instances, as a responsible corporate the end of 2011.
HDSA employees, citizen, we have a broader role to play including white women, represent in tabling and positively in uencing 80% of our workforce as a whole in discussion and issue resolution.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 35
