OVERVIEW OUR STRATEGY AND BUSINESS MODEL OUR STRATEGY AND BUSINESS MODEL INVESTING World class assets in the most attractive commodities OPERATING BECOMING ORGANISING Safely, Ef ciently THE LEADING sustainably and MINING and effectively FIND SECURE COMPANY responsibly Our exploration teams discover Gaining and maintaining ore deposits in a safe and our social and legal licence EMPLOYING The best people responsible way to replenish to operate, through open the reserves that underpin our and honest engagement future success.
with our stakeholders, is critical to the sustainability of our business.
OPERATING INVESTING Anglo American aims to become the leading global mining company the investment, the partner and the employer of choice through the operational excellence of world class assets in the most attractive commodities, and through a resolute commitment to the highest standards of safe and sustainable mining.
As our business model illustrates, mining is only part of the story.
Our sector-leading exploration teams strive to nd the resources The LT-SQUID has been During the year, outstanding we will mine in the future and we engage with a broad range of employed by our eld teams to injunctions were lifted at our stakeholders from governments to local communities and help search for so-called blind Minas-Rio iron ore project in NGOs to secure our right to mine those resources.
Many of the deposits that have no visible Brazil.
Following a detailed commodities we mine are processed and re ned further before expression on the ground review, capital expenditure has we apply our market knowledge to deliver a quality product our surface.
It has revolutionised increased to $8.8 billion and customers value.
how we look at and model the first ore on ship is expected at picture beneath the ground the end of 2014.
We believe we can achieve our aim of becoming the leading Go to page 58 for more surface, particularly at depth.
global mining company through our four strategic elements: information on this story Go to page 41 for more information on this story Investing in world class assets in those commodities that we believe deliver the best returns through the economic OPERATING cycle and over the long term namely, iron ore, metallurgical coal, thermal coal, copper, nickel, platinum and diamonds.
Organising ef ciently and effectively to outperform our competition throughout our value chain.
Operating safely, sustainably and responsibly, in the belief not only that this is fundamental to our licence to operate, but also that this is an increasingly important source of Securing our licence to build competitive advantage.
The safety of our people is our key and operate a mine depends core value and we are relentless in striving to achieve our on winning the trust of many goal of zero harm.
We participated Employing the best people.
We recognise that attracting, in an extensive, structured developing and retaining the best talent is essential to dialogue table with local and achieving our ambition.
national stakeholders in our Quellaveco copper project in Our strategic elements are put into action across our Peru, which helped us to reach business model.
agreement with the local community and regional government to develop the project.
Go to page 22 for more information on this story 08 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 Overview MINE PROCESS MOVE SELL We apply more than 95 years We generate extra value by Whether providing innovative We collaborate with our of opencast and deep-level processing and re ning many haulage solutions within a customers around the world mining experience along with of our commodities.
mine, or coordinating global to tailor products to their unique in-house technological cargo deliveries, we offer speci c needs.
expertise to extract mineral ef cient and effective resources in the safest, most transport of our commodities.
INVESTING ORGANISING ORGANISING ORGANISING Our Kolomela mine, The technical team at our commissioned five months Phosphates business ahead of schedule in 2011, proposed an innovative produced 8.5 Mt of iron ore solution to re-use phosphate in 2012, above expectations waste in the fertiliser In September 2012, our During 2012, we opened our of 45 Mt.
The Go to page 14 for more recently installed exible new sales and marketing hub technique was put into fullinformation on this story conveyor train produced in Singapore, enabling us to be scale production during 2012, 116,708 tonnes of thermal coal closer to our customers in the with 40% of phosphate waste EMPLOYING at Greenside mine, achieving Asia-Paci c market and be being re-used in the year, the highest monthly coal more agile and responsive to resulting in lower production output ever recorded outside their needs.
costs and a signi cant Go to page 18 for more the US.
environmental bene t. information on this story Go to page 36 for more Go to page 87 for more information on this story information on this story OPERATING OPERATING Our Nickel business is addressing the shortage of quali ed people at its operations in Brazil by tailoring a trainee graduate programme to develop the businesses Following completion of the engineers and leaders of Los Bronces expansion in Working with the aerospace the future.
On successful Chile, our Copper business industry, Sishen developed completion of the programme, implemented a water a unique collision avoidance the trainees will be ready recirculation system to help system for mining vehicles, to start their career at reduce the water requirement dramatically reducing the Anglo American.
in an already stretched number of vehicle-related Go to page 73 for more catchment area.
information on this story Go to page 69 for more Go to page 55 for more information on this story information on this story Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 09
