Strategic review Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 30 Plan A Plan A is about doing the right thing and encouraging our employees and PLAN A HIGHLIGHTS customers to join us.
In 2011 12, Plan A continued to make us more efficient: Total commitments contributing 105m net benefit back into the business.
Our fifth anniversary represents a significant milestone on the Plan A journey and since launch we 180 have continued to raise the bar.
We now have 180 commitments under seven pillars, which are driving our ambition to become the worlds most sustainable Commitments achieved major retailer.
This year we achieved a further 43 commitments taking our total achieved to 138.
138 Involving our customers Waste In June 2011 we launched Forever Fish In February 2012 we achieved our a major new campaign to help commitment to send no waste to landll discover customers learn about sh and protect from our stores, ofces, warehouses more our beaches and marine life.
We have and construction activities.
Against a also invited our customers and our 2006 07 base we reduced food waste employees to participate in around 120 by 40%, with none sent to landll and beach cleans across the UK and Ireland.
89% processed to generate energy using anaerobic digestion.
Through the year, customers enthusiastically supported Plan A We re-used or recycled 147 million events including our One Day clothes hangers, with the savings used Wardrobe Clearout for Oxfam and the to fund UNICEF activities to alleviate Worlds Biggest Coffee Morning for poverty for children and their families Macmillan Cancer Support.
As set out in Bangladesh page 28.
Launched on page 16, weve taken our Oxfam in July 2011, this scheme will see M&S partnership even further with the launch donate at least 650,000 a year to of our shwopping initiative.
How we do business Natural resources How we do Business report We continued to work closely with our This year we achieved our commitment For more detailed information farmers, growers and other suppliers to to sustainably source 100% of our wild about our progress please develop and implement sustainability sh.
We now have 257 M&S food visit marksandspencer.
All employees who have products made using sustainable palm copy of our How we do Business direct contact with suppliers completed oil with GreenPalm oil and GreenPalm Report 2012. responsible buying training this year.
Kernel Oil certicates purchased for all other productions that contain palm oil.
As detailed on page 24, we opened our new Sustainable Learning Store We completed three major water at Westeld Stratford City adjacent to stewardship projects with suppliers.
Weve also M&S Model Forest programme which conducted trials on alternative fuels, goes beyond FSC certication to including a small fleet of dual-fuel diesel include best practice in manufacture Looking ahead and compressed natural gas vehicles, and transport was extended to supply Plan A is integral to our as well as the first hydrogen fuel cell our cardboard food packaging.
future plans: engaging our powered fork lift trucks in the UK.
customers, making us a Fair partner more efficient business Climate change We extended our ethical assessments and forcing us to innovate.
In January 2012, we became carbon to cover our top ten property suppliers, As we continue to grow neutral across all stores, ofces, as well as our carrier bag, uniform and from a predominantly warehouses and delivery eets mannequin suppliers.
Working with the UK focused business operated by M&S in the UK and international Global Social Compliance to a multi-channel, Republic of Ireland the first major Programme, we reduced the international retailer we retailer in the world to do so.
Since administrative burden on our suppliers, will need a more seamless 2006 07, we have improved the fuel by identifying credible codes and approach to sustainability.
efficiency of our Food and General monitoring schemes they can apply to We are pleased with our Merchandise delivery eets by 28% their businesses.
progress to date but we and 30% respectively and have reduced know we still have a carbon dioxide emissions generated long way to go on our by refrigeration and air conditioning journey to become the leakage by 54% per sq ft. worlds most sustainable major retailer.
Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Strategic review Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 31 Supplier training Weve worked with Oxfam and Business in the Community to develop ways of measuring community health and prosperity in our supply chains.
Since 2010, we have trained more than 121,000 people mainly in our General Merchandise supply chains on employee rights and responsibilities, health care, numeracy and literacy.
121,000 Customer Carrier bag charging profits from our 5p Food carrier bag charge raised 1.4m for charities, of which 400,000 went to Groundwork to support funding for gardens, parks and play areas.
The other 1m supported our new Forever Fish campaign, which is helping fund beach clean activity.
4m Renewable energy We have now moved to renewable energy contracts for all electricity purchased Plan A products directly.
These include Fairtrade tea Were making good an increased amount Our latest range progress towards of electricity from of Fairtrade tea is our goal of giving small-scale generators, packed at source all M&S products including a new by smallholders a Plan A quality.
Archimedes screw in Kenya, allowing Currently, 31% of water wheel installed them to earn a larger M&S Food and General on the Thames at the share of the profits.
Jointly funded by the have a Plan A quality, UKs Department such as Fairtrade, for International animal welfare or Development DFID, healthier food making this project is the first of it easier for our its kind in the world.
customers to make sustainable choices.
