Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information o l f a i W w c n o a r a y k n i i s n F g Overview Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 07 How M&S creates value for its shareholders Over the last 128 years M&S has grown from a market stall to a multi-channel retailer with over 1,100 stores worldwide, employing more than 81,000 people.
We remain true to our founding values of Quality, Value, Service, Innovation and Trust ensuring our offer continues to be relevant to our customers.
Our own brand model sets us apart from the competition delivering Only at Your M&S food, fashion and homeware to our customers.
How we create value for our shareholders Customer Financial Delighting customers Driving profitable with innovative, growth through Only at Your M&S increased sales and products, supported by effective cost and an easy and enjoyable margin management.
shopping experience across all our channels.
Ways of working People Delivering continuous Engaging employees improvement across in our plans and Your M&S all operations ensuring we have the Customers are at the heart of our underpinned by our right people to deliver business and through our Customer Plan A commitment to our growth ambitions.
Insight Unit, we ensure their needs are recognised in all our business decisions.
Through a combination of focus groups and consumer research Innovative ways of working we are in touch with over 17,000 Across the business we promote a customers every month, helping us culture of continuous improvement anticipate their needs.
encouraging employees and our What we offer suppliers to nd new, more efficient ways Our longstanding history of innovation of doing things.
We have an ongoing helps us lead the way with first-toprogramme to restructure our supply market products across food, fashion chain implementing new systems and and homeware.
We are the UKs leading improving our operational execution.
clothing retailer and offer high-quality Underpinning this is our commitment to food, with a focus on freshness, Plan A creating a sustainable business convenience and speciality.
As an model for the long term.
own-brand retailer our products are Protecting Your M&S unique and we further differentiate our Protecting the business from both offer through exclusive collaborations operational and reputational risk is an and a careful selection of the very best essential part of our Boards role.
take a holistic view of the risks facing Reaching our customers M&S both now and in the future by Our products are sold through 731 UK considering external competitor and stores and 387 internationally.
Over Investing in our people economic factors, our core operations, 93% of the UK population is within in a We continually engage and involve our key business change activity, as well as 30-minute drive of a full line M&S store people in our plans to ensure they fully emerging future risks.
Action plans to and our franchise partnerships ensure understand the vital role they each play.
address these risks are in place across our Simply Food offer is available in the We communicate with our employees the business to help ensure our most convenient locations from across a range of channels and long-term sustainable growth.
Details of railway stations to motorway services.
From our risk management and mitigation Our fully mobile-enabled website makes the Board down, we are focused on plans are outlined on page 46 of our M&S accessible 24 7 and were developing leadership and future talent Accountability section.
combining the best of web and store to secure strong succession and deliver service, as well as offering new our growth ambitions.
channels, to make it even easier to shop with M&S.
