Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Strategic review Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 15 Focus on the UK Last year we set out plans to invest in our UK business and enhance our already strong position in our home market.
This programme is now well underway and over the last 12 months customers have started to notice the improvements we have made.
Stores We are now rolling out our new store format at the rate of one a day until mid 2013.
The new look and feel is helping customers take a fresh look at what we have to offer and customer recommendations at completed stores are around 10% higher than the rest of the portfolio.
Find out more about the work weve done to improve our stores on page 24.
Brand Discover how our Only at Your M&S positioning has helped increase sales of our exclusive, innovative products on page 16.
Food Home Our new look Food Halls are helping Find out on page 20 to enhance our position as a high how our exclusive quality specialist food retailer.
Weve partnerships with iconic introduced new fresh deli counters designer Terence Conran and added more authentic style and European designer bakeries.
Customers are enjoying the Marcel Wanders are ne new w rus rust tiic c, ar art tiisan san ffe ee ell encouraging customers o of f t th he b e ba ake ker riie es s a an nd s d sa alle es a s ar re u e up p 25 25% %.. to reappraise M&S Y Yo ou u can can r re ead ad mor more e about about our our Home.
per perfformance ormance in in F Fo oo od d on on page page 2 21 1..
Clothing With the launch of M&S Woman and M&S Man we put the spotlight back onto the iconic, wardrobe staples that M&S does best.
We also had our biggest ever year in Kidswear, with customers turning to M&S for great quality kids clothing.
Read more about the work we have done across Womenswear, Lingerie, Menswear and Kidswear on page 18.
Our plan in action Strategic review Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 16 Focus on the UK Our brand In such a competitive marketplace, its been more important than ever to highlight the great value and quality we offer across M&S.
This year, our campaigns served a dual purpose: reassuring our most loyal customers that we are meeting their needs and encouraging potential new shoppers to take a fresh look at M&S.
Throughout the year we have showcased the very best Only at Your M&S innovations: providing compelling reasons to shop with us.
Our campaigns Listening to our customers Throughout the year, our Clothing reassure The clear message from customers is campaigns featured wearable that they are budgeting carefully: ring interpretations of the latest fashion customers that fencing the things that matter to them trends, demonstrating how these styles we are in touch most, such as special occasions and work for all shapes and tastes.
In the spending on children.
We responded autumn, we ran two complementary TV with their needs.
with promotions that addressed these ads, which brought together a collection priorities, such as our upbeat Kidswear of stunning womenswear looks to Steven Sharp Executive Director, Happy Half Term offer and Our Gift to highlight the brands total appeal.
Marketing You 25%-off deals in December, which In September 2011 we launched our delivered a record week for Menswear.
first dedicated sub-brand advertising Launched in 2008, our iconic Dine In to highlight the distinctive brand offer remains as relevant today as it personalities and help customers more was then.
Coupled with our Christmas easily pinpoint the range that suits their partnership with ITVs The X Factor style.
Renowned model David Gandy opposite, Dine In helped make M&S brought his relaxed, continental style an essential part of Saturday nights at to our Italian-influenced Collezione home: providing restaurant-quality food menswear and we introduced top model at an affordable price.
Rosie Huntington-Whiteley and Hollywood actor Ryan Reynolds as the Showcasing our products faces of Autograph opposite.
Shot by Our Only at Your M&S positioning is iconic fashion photographer Rankin, a rm xture in all campaigns: from a dynamic black and white campaign unique innovations to the latest trends, encapsulated the energy and ethos of it highlights what is new and different Limited Collection.
This year we continued our our core M&S fashion, with the launch successful innovation-led ads, of the M&S Woman and M&S Man.
showcasing products such as our unique Tummy Tuck swimwear, sales 2012 celebrations Looking ahead of which increased by 450%.
2012 is a unique year for Britain and We want to show that we we wanted to do something extra In Food our product was the star of are more in touch with special to mark the occasion.
With the show, demonstrating the lengths our customers than ever friends and family at the centre of we go to in order to make our offer truly before: anticipating their celebrations, we launched our nostalgic special.
Our advertising around key needs and in tune with 2012 spring TV campaign, featuring dates such as Easter and Mothers Day the things that matter much loved M&S faces including confirmed why customers can trust most to them.
In the year Twiggy and Gary Barlow.
It harks back M&S food for the most important ahead, we will continue to an era of simple pleasures, showing occasions.
We highlighted the to develop our sub-brand how M&S can deliver all the ingredients provenance and quality of ingredients identities, inspire our to make a British summer truly great.
that set us apart from the competition customers and give them Featured lines were well received and and featured lines, such as our new new reasons to shop since airing we sold over 3,700 of the Golden Hot Cross Buns, proved with M&S.
per una dress worn by Myleene Klass.
extremely popular, selling over 580,000. discover Plan A Shwopping unwanted clothing of any more In April we introduced brand when they buy a new shwopping fronted by garment in M&S stores.
Its a Clothes are then reused, sustainable fashion initiative to recycled or resold by our transform the way we shop.
partner Oxfam giving Were asking customers to millions of garments a life exchange, or shwop, old or beyond landll.
Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Strategic review Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 17 Focus on the UK CUSTOMER INSIGHT The Autograph campaign feels stylish, contemporary and chic.
Autograph Our new faces perfectly encapsulate the elegance, sophistication and contemporary feel of Autograph: their worldwide appeal is a great t for our most international brand.
Autograph led the marketing campaign aign for our recent nt retu retur rn n t to o France ce a an nd s d sa alle es o s of f t the he range range a at t our our agship agship Champs Champs llys yse es s s st to or re e a ar re a e am mo on ng t g th he h e hiig gh he es st t a acr cro oss ss our our e en nt tiire re por porttffolio olio..
Unique M&S Money In a highly competitive market, M&S Money continued to be a name to trust: with over three million credit card customers.
We have exciting plans for M&S Money in the year ahead, as we continue to develop our product offer.
The X Factor Stories behind Watched by over the campaign 13 million people, Social media channels such as Facebook, our partnership with The X Factor put M&S Twitter and Pinterest at the heart of the as well as our own M&S weekend.
This years TV channel allow us to better tell the stories nalists appeared in our festive ad, singing an behind our campaigns.
exclusive version of We now have the most When You Wish Upon engaged Facebook fanbase of any top 20 a Star.
Refreshed on a weekly basis in line with retailer, with over the show, customers 625,000 fans and more told us it gave a more than 75,000 Twitter followers.
This year we modern edge to our much anticipated launched M&S Stories, a Christmas ad.
new online community space that provides the latest news and expert insights.
Strategic review Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 18 Focus on the UK Clothing and Home In a highly competitive market, M&S remains the UKs first choice for clothing.
Customers appreciated our interpretations of seasonal trends, underpinned by our continued focus on great value and quality.
We delivered strong performances across Lingerie, Menswear and Kidswear but saw a more mixed performance in both Womenswear and Home.
Overall Clothing and Home GM sales were down 0.9%, with Home impacted by our exit from Technology.
This year we Actions against our plan We also relaunched our sub-brands, to put the spotlight give them more distinctive identities.
Our Introduced M&S Woman and M&S Man per una brand is over ten years old and back on the as our core clothing ranges we have listened carefully to our iconic style and Relaunched all of our sub-brands customers to ensure the brand has evolved with them reecting the vibrant Segmented Home into lifestyle categories quality of M&S colours and feminine style they love.
Our Classic, Contemporary and Design Limited Collection offers fashion forward clothing.
Womenswear style for a broad age range and helped At M&S we cater for all women, attract younger shoppers, whilst the Kate Bostock Executive Director, whatever their style or budget.
We have understated elegance of our Classics General Merchandise consistently offered quality clothing at range continued to appeal to the more great prices, and through the year we traditional customer.
Our confident and CLOTHING HIGHLIGHTS worked hard to provide the right pricing sophisticated Autograph range and our Womenswear market share mix: meeting customers demand for Indigo Collection casualwear performed value but providing the opportunity to well, with sales up 9% and 16% 10.4% trade up into our better and best respectively.
In the summer, we ran an Lingerie and Beauty Outstanding Value campaign, which We strengthened our position as the Menswear market share saw us reduce prices on opening price UK market leader in lingerie, as lines to remind customers of the 12.1% customers turned to us for the widest excellent value we offer in our good 0.6% pts choice from everyday cotton ranges.
We sold over 70,000 coloured essentials to vintage-inspired glamour.
chinos at 19.50 each, appealing to Kidswear market share During the year we rened our everyday customers wallets as well as their t-shirt bra range to make it easier to sense of style.
6.8% shop and increased choice in footfall- 0.2% pts We made the seasons key looks work driving lines such as hosiery, boosting for the M&S customer and launched a sales by 7%.
We offered stand-out Lingerie market share regularly refreshed core fast fashion range value with high-impact promotions such opposite.
Customers loved the as the 3 for 10 knicker offer, driving 27.4% contemporary twist we put on some of record performances on featured 0.2% pts their favourite pieces such as court ranges such as our favoured Brazilian Kantar Worldpanel Clothing and Footwear shoes, sales of which were up 77% on knickers, sales of which rose 49%.
value market share 52 w e 15 April 2012 the year.
We also added more dress Our success in lingerie was driven by options and responded to core stylish Only at Your M&S innovation such customer feedback with an increase in TM as our Flatter Me range.
Increased longer length attering sleeve choices.
colour options and soft fabrics ensured TM Last year we promised to make the M&S our Heatgen warmwear was both clothing brand a destination in its own pretty and practical: helping us grow right.
This core range represents around further in the over 55 market.
Our new TM half of our offer and this year we took Waistsculpt lingerie tapped into the steps to revitalise the collection with the popular Mad Men trend for an hourglass launch of M&S Woman opposite.
silhouette and we sold over 74,000 items.
Plan A: British made hosiery more sustainable future by West Mill factory in creating a more efficient Derbyshire became the first business.
The site produces UK clothing factory to gain a third of all M&S hosiery and M&S eco-factory status.
its UK location helps us Employing environmentally quickly turn around fashion friendly processes has forward ranges, such as the helped the factory build a featured Limited Collection.
Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Strategic review Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 19 Focus on the UK First choice for CUSTOMER INSIGHT schoolwear We continued to innovate M&S Woman across our schoolwear this year, introducing Expandicuff on shirts is what I want eliminating the need to undo buttons and from M&S:  Body Sensor tights.
We also extended our stylish clothes sizing options, adding plus and slim t options with a purpose.
to both boys and girls school ranges.
Savile Row Inspired In March we launched an exclusive collaboration with award-winning tailor Richard James.
Taking inspiration from the best of British tailoring, Savile Row Inspired offers classically styled, hand nished tailoring in UK-made fabrics to our global customer.
Fast fashion We introduced a regularly refreshed core fast fashion collection in M&S Woman, delivering the seasons key looks in just six weeks.
Customers loved our great value interpretations of trends such as colour blocking.
All items were priced under 35 and we sold around 4,000 of the featured multi-striped top.
Style 6 weeks M&S Beauty Beauty continued to grow by focusing on great value skin, bath and body ranges, as well as signature fragrances.
We extended and upgraded existing ranges and teamed up with Ragdale Hall to create a new luxury Spa collection, with prices starting from just 6.
6 M M&S W &S Wo om ma an n T Th he e a ad d camp campaign aign ffea eat tu uring ring T Tw wiiggy ggy and and L Liisa sa Sno Snow wdon don placed placed ou our r st sty ylish lish w wa ar rd dr ro obe be m must ust ha hav five es s rmly rmly in in t th he e spo spot tlight light.. Strategic review Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 20 Focus on the UK Clothing and Home continued Menswear formal jacket amongst the best sellers.
everyday items, we have worked hard Menswear delivered another good year, Footwear and accessories performed to attract them to more fashion-led growing market share and improving its particularly strongly under our pieces, with sales of our girls style credentials.
The newly dened sophisticated Autograph brand, as male Autograph range growing 14%.
sub-brands helped reduce duplication shoppers became more confident in Home across our ranges and enabled putting together a styled look.
In a difficult market customers remained customers to more easily locate the Kidswear cautious about spending on big ticket right style for them.
With budgets stretched, parents trust furniture items, opting to update rooms This year we broadened our customer M&S quality and value.
We delivered with elements from our core ranges and prole in Menswear, attracting a our biggest ever year for Kidswear, with smaller accessories.
This environment, younger shopper whilst continuing to particularly strong performances in our coupled with our exit from technology meet the needs of our core customer.
baby and toddler and schoolwear meant sales were down 10%.
Our casual North Coast collection ranges.
We made good progress against helped us broaden appeal and We continued to introduce new our plan to segment Home into delivered sales up 12%.
customers to the brand through our baby distinct lifestyle options Classic, The launch of M&S Man boosted the and newborn ranges, offering great Contemporary and Design below.
prole of the affordable, iconic items in innovations in supersoft yet hardwearing The Classic range, designed in house, our core range, such as classic black fabrics and affordable gifting options.
continued to represent the best of chinos.
Our reputation for unbeatable Having worked hard to develop our baby M&S Home and our hero departments quality helped drive sales growth in offer over the last two years, these of kitchen and dining, bedding and bath heartland areas such as everyday customers remained loyal and helped all delivered good growth.
deliver good growth as they transitioned for customers looking for affordable to our toddler ranges, sales of which were items to update their home by delivering Our Blue Harbour brand delivered up 10%.
great value, more choice and stronger modern updates on heritage-style fashion inuences.
We also worked knitwear and traditional tweeds, with Our increasingly strong position in hard to improve availability on these sales up 183% and 81% respectively.
footfall-driving staples, such as favourite lines.
Customers also responded well to the sleepwear and essentials, provided a coordinated, continental style of great opportunity for us to grow kids Collezione, with our Linen Miracle fashion too.
As parents shop for these Collaboration CUSTOMER INSIGHT This year we launched our Conran Exclusive Design collection comprising 314 lines across furniture, Its not what youd bedding, lighting it forms the basis of our Contemporary offer.
Our Christmas gift shop featured a new range of homeware products expect from M&S.
and accessories from leading European designer Marcel Wanders.
Conran definitely makes Home feel more modern.
Looking ahead With value remaining front of mind for customers, we will stay focused on Contemporary providing the great quality products that they trust us to do well.
We will provide customers with compelling reasons to buy, through appropriate interpretations of trends and regularly updated ranges.
The roll-out of our new store format will strengthen the in-store presentation of our clothing brands, helping customers better identify the styles for them.
Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Strategic review Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 21 Focus on the UK Food Our Food business performed strongly in a tough market with total sales up 3.9% to 4.7bn and like-for-like sales up 2.1%.
We maintained our focus on freshness, speciality and convenience and continued to lead the way with high quality, first-to-market products.
Our customers benefited from greater choice across all our ranges and our heritage of innovation kept them coming back to nd something new and exciting in our Food Halls.
Our new Food Actions against our plan improving the usual appeal of our food Halls showcase offer.
The new Food Halls deliver an Reinforced our position as a specialist exciting visual experience for customers the quality and food retailer that showcases the outstanding quality innovation that and freshness of our products.
Increased the number of product lines Improved in-store availability Quality and value make M&S food Customers tell us that the quality of Introduced 100 new international truly special.
our food sets us apart from our brands, available only at M&S competitors.
During the year we John Dixon Executive Director, Food Overview improved the quality of many of our Household budgets were under existing products, without increasing FOOD HIGHLIGHTS increasing pressure this year.
For example, we made one of customers remained loyal to M&S, our all time lunch favourites even better Revenue trusting us to deliver great quality and value, adding 40% more prawns to our 4.7bn exceptional value especially at the Prawn Mayonnaise sandwich.
This 3.9% most important times of the year.
We also also ensured that special occasions launched improved versions of our Market share were ring fenced and were determined great value top-selling products, such to enjoy important occasions such as as our Quiche Lorraine with 40% more 3.8% Christmas and New Year.
level Customers noticed this upgrade and Deals were important to customers independent quality scores increased looking to control their spending, Promotions as a result.
The gourmet Dine In for 20 without compromising on quality.
We promotion for Valentines From our commitment to sustainable responded with high-impact, simple Day featuring a premium menu and shing to our Fairtrade partnerships, our deals such as our 3 for 10 offer on an extra course delivered a record performance, with almost 700,000 close working relationships with meat and sh and the much loved couples enjoying a romantic meal suppliers help us deliver food that is Dine In, providing stand-out value in a at home.
ethically sourced and of the highest heavily promotional marketplace.
Our high standards of animal also made efforts to protect customers welfare were recognised this year, with from much of the ination in commodity a Sustained Excellence award in the prices through better buying, more RSPCA Good Business Awards 2011. efficient stock management and As part of Plan A, we also source as improved operations.
much food as possible from the UK and During the year we also embarked on the Republic of Ireland.
This year, we an exciting programme of changes to delivered record sales of Englishour Food Halls, reinforcing our status as sourced fruit, including the first ever a specialist food retailer and clearly English grown Rainier cherries: a much differentiating our already strong sweeter variety, which has previously proposition.
We relaunched our in-store only been available from US growers.
bakeries and introduced new deli counters to some of our stores, Plan A: Healthier milk such as grass, maize and Working with our dairy rapeseed helped improve farmers we developed Better herd health and fertility.
Just For You milk, containing 6% one year will help remove 84 less saturated fat than tonnes of saturated fat from standard milk.
Altering the our customers diets.
cows diet using only wholesome ingredients Strategic review Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 22 Focus on the UK Deli and bakeries Food continued With a focus on speciality breads, our new bakeries have a rustic, authentic feel.
They provide freshly baked goods throughout the day and sales are up 25% since launch.
Our new deli counters serve the very best fresh products including delicious plats du jour such as the Six Layer Lasagne and our Salmon Tian Appetiser.
Quality Perfect plants, less waste M&S is the first retailer in the world to use revolutionary technology to keep plants in top condition during transit, thereby reducing waste.
M&S suppliers developed a compostable wood bre pad that easily absorbs and releases water.
Holding around 15 times its weight in water, the pad is packed under gift-bagged or potted plants, releasing water as the compost dries.
Flavours of the World What M&S does best Our new Flavours of the World Customers turn to us at the most important times range showcases 100 of the of the year, trusting us to deliver outstanding quality very best speciality products and something different.
In 2011, we delivered from around the globe.
The another great Christmas, introducing 600 seasonal collection comprises authentic lines and achieving over 20% increase on products including olive oils and Christ Christmas mas F Fo ood od t to o O Or rd der er sale sales s.. chocolates.
Many are sourced from small suppliers with limited or season-specic availability: and not found anywhere else on the UK high street.
600 100 Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Strategic review Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 23 Focus on the UK Though budgets were stretched, and November.
We responded to the Operations customers didnt want to cut back on latest culinary trends, such as specialist We introduced our Customer Ready quality.
This year we highlighted our poultry, and were the first high street Food initiative in all our stores during the great value through bigger, higher retailer to provide free-range guinea summer.
Our Food Halls now include impact promotions.
Now in its fourth fowl, as well as British-bred poussin.
zoned areas, which are owned by year, our iconic Dine In promotion employees on the shop oor.
Employees This year we also offered more choice, continued to increase in popularity, up are responsible for ensuring their section with the aim of encouraging our regular 10% on last year.
In February, we remains visually appealing and well customers to do more of their weekly adapted the popular format with a stocked and their improved product shop with us.
We conducted extensive traditional meal deal offering a hearty knowledge allows them to offer more research during the year both online main course such as Salmon en Croute, help to customers.
Along with other and in stores to understand exactly a potato side and a prepared vegetable measures, the initiative has contributed what our customers wanted.
Customers responded to a reduction in net waste of 10%.
result, we increased our core product well to the genuine value of the offer catalogue by 1,000 lines.
Among these Our ongoing investment in new IT and we sold over 940,000 meals.
were larger value packs for family systems continued to improve on-shelf In addition to our promotional activity, shoppers, such as double concentrate availability.
We also made better use of we run weekly price checks against the fruit squash and 1kg bags of pasta, as available space to improve choice and competition to ensure our everyday well as a greater selection of scratch redesigned our packaging, making it products remain competitive.
easier for customers to identify and front of mind for our customers, we select from the appropriate range.
introduced Simply M&S, a range of over 500 products that highlights M&S quality at great everyday prices.
Available in store since May 2012, we plan to extend the range further in the year ahead.
Innovation and choice Customers come to M&S because they know theyll nd something different discover Health each time they shop with us.
We more continued to lead the market with Healthy eating ranges innovative new products and this year We promoted healthy we introduced some 1,900 new lines.
eating through count on us and Simply Fuller Our food innovation provided Longer: now the top two health brands in the UK convenient solutions to help timemarket.
We listened to our r pressed customers entertain and customers and introduced d impress.
In the autumn we launched the new additions to both these se e e ranges during the year, Dessert Menu range including showkeeping the menus fresh stopper creations such as the Tarte aux and appealing.
Abricots and traditional favourites like the Proterole Stack.
Since launch it has become the number one chilled Award winning quality dessert brand in the UK.
For the festive The exceptional quality season, we made it easier for of our food was acknowledged by customers to entertain at home, with a Looking ahead numerous awards this new quick-cook turkey and a record 59 year.
This includes the 2012 13 shows every sign of party food options.
In the run-up to best non-vintage being another challenging year Champagne for M&S Christmas, we had our best ever week for food retailers.
Customer Herbert Beaufort Brut at for party food, selling 2.3 million packs.
both the Decanter World spending will remain cautious Wine Awards 2011 and We worked closely with our suppliers and carefully planned.
We will the International Wine during the year to deliver more continue to build on our existing Challenge 2011. innovation in quality produce.
We strengths and deliver more of launched the UKs first ever reverse what our customers expect from season British-grown asparagus, us: the highest quality food, an developed with grower John Chinn in inspiring shopping experience, the Wye Valley, which was available great product innovation and exclusively in M&S between September clear, stand-out value.
Strategic review Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 24 Focus on the UK UK stores This year we began work on delivering a more inspiring shopping experience to OUR STORES the 20 million customers that visit our stores every week.
As we rolled out our Total UK portfolio new store format, we provided even higher standards of customer service, set against more challenging targets.
At the same time, we continued to extend our 731 UK store portfolio to ensure we had stores in the most convenient locations for all our customers.
Premier Actions against our plan clothing sub-brand, so customers can 11 quickly identify which best suits their Grew our UK store presence, including style.
The refreshed Food Halls support Major our Simply Food business our position as a speciality food retailer Began the roll-out of our new store format with revamped artisan bakeries and 42 fresh deli counters.
Fresh produce is Delivered a more localised product range now displayed in authentic wooden High street for our customers crates and owers are presented in 243 We continued to expand our UK store traditional oristry buckets.
portfolio, adding over 400,000 sq ft of We also completed our work to better Outlet space this year through new stores, segment our stores according to local developments and extensions.
This has ensured that 47 our presence in key developments and we have the right product mix in place retail park sites and remained active in Simply Food owned and allocate the correct amount of town centres, maintaining investment in space in store to individual ranges.
168 Service in store We have a pipeline of new stores and In a challenging trading environment, Simply Food franchised are committed to enhancing our great service is more important than position in major cities.
Our stores met tougher service 220 highlight was the opening of our measures and achieved higher mystery 136,000 sq ft sustainable learning store shopping scores: 82% compared to at Westeld Stratford City, adjacent to 78% last year.
New store developments at Gloucester, Shefeld Our Customer Ready Food initiative Looking ahead Crystal Peaks and Peterborough are outlined on page 23 helped improve In the year ahead we will underway and we are in the process of performance and in February 2012 we continue the roll-out of delivering four new stores in retail parks.
were ranked the UKs number one food our new store format.
We Now in its tenth year, our convenient retailer by the Institute of Customer will also launch our Simply Food offer continued to ourish Service.
Customer Ready and we opened 25 stores this year.
initiative into Clothing and To deliver the best possible customer Home to help deliver an New look stores experience its essential that we run an improved experience Following a successful pilot scheme, efficient business.
This year we worked across entire store our new store format opposite was to reduce queue times, through portfolio.
As explained on rolled out to 66 stores by the year end.
increased use of self check-out tills, page 26, we will continue This is continuing at the rate of roughly better tagging systems and improved to work closely with our a store a day, including stores in our scanning procedures at the till point.
e-commerce team to ongoing modernisation programme.
We continued to work closely with integrate our shopping product teams on space, range and As promised, the format delivers a more channels to provide a display planning and our new stock inspiring experience, with clearer brand great experience for our management systems improved differentiation and improved navigation.
customers however they on-shelf availability.
This includes dened brand areas that choose to shop.
reect the unique handwriting of each Plan A: Sustainable stores 100% FSC glulam timber in Opening in August, our the roof.
Rainwater harvesting Cheshire Oaks store will will offset a significant feature the latest sustainable proportion of the stores building technologies mains water requirement and including retail rsts such as 70% of the stores heat will the use of Hempclad panels come from heat reclaim and in the external walls and a biomass boiler.
Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Strategic review Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 25 Focus on the UK CUSTOMER INSIGHT I love hearing about all the new things in store the employees are really knowledgeable about the products.
Westeld Stratford City Arranged over four oors, our new Westeld Stratford City store has created over 550 new jobs.
It is home to a 26ft deli bar and all the inspirational features of the new store format.
The stores unique location provides an opportunity to showcase the very best of M&S to an international audience.
Service New look stores Knowledge to share The new format is As part of our Customer already inspiring Ready service initiative, shoppers to take a short videos from M&S 10% fresh look at M&S.
experts such as our Customer sh buyer and our recommendations Master of Wine are at the updated stores now uploaded twice a are around 10% week to an online portal higher than the rest to help store colleagues of the business.
share their passion for our products with customers.
Great service This year we launched a new customer service training initiative Small things, big impact.
The concept underpinned all our in-store activity and showed employees how even minor changes in behaviour and attitude can make a big difference to customers and deliver better sales too.
