Strategic review Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 28 International Our International business continued to grow, with sales up 5.8% to 1.1bn.
INTERNATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS This year we added 26 stores to our portfolio and entered new markets, giving International revenue us a total of 387 stores across 43 territories.
We also established a new organisational structure to help us deliver our growth plans.
Led by skilled 1.1bn international retailers, the team now combines M&S experience and fresh talent to spread new ideas and best practice across the business.
Stores 387 Actions against our plan street stores at Connaught Place and South Extension in Delhi.
These agship Growing International sales Territories locations help build awareness of the Building a more international company M&S brand, complementing our existing 43 mall offer.
Growing in our priority markets and entering new markets with a bricks and Our franchise operations are central to clicks approach our international plans see opposite, and this year we opened 24 new stores Building a more international with our 18 global franchise partners.
company With our partner Fiba, weve opened This year we put in place a new eight new Russian stores: expanding structure dividing the business into in key locations such as Moscow and three regions: Europe, Asia and the new cities including Kazan.
We appointed a director to alongside Al-Futtaim, we grew our lead each region, supported by a head Middle East presence opening five of business development to drive new stores including a second store in Cairo, market growth.
We also created an Egypt and three in the UAE.
international visual merchandising team opposite to ensure M&S customers In difficult trading environments we have a more consistent brand managed our costs tightly and took the experience wherever they are.
difficult decision to close four stores across Greece and Eastern Europe.
We are operating as a more After identifying operational issues in our international business, having integrated Czech business, we responded quickly international marketing and buying into taking full management control of the the core teams.
By using in-country Looking ahead business opposite.
knowledge and expertise, alongside With a new structure local sourcing, we are delivering a more In November we returned to the French embedded, our priority is appropriate offer for each local market.
market, with a clear bricks and clicks to grow our International strategy opposite.
We will Priority markets central to our international expansion, continue to expand our We are focused on the clear growth both in existing and new markets: presence in priority opportunities in our existing territories: enabling us to combine stores, the web markets and work with China, India, Russia and the Middle and digital technologies to tailor our existing partners to enter East.
Concentrated in the Shanghai channels for the way customers shop new markets with a region, our Chinese stores continued and quickly extend the reach of our clearly dened business to perform strongly and we now have brand.
For example, we increased the plan.
We will build seven stores, having opened three this product offer of our 1,400 sq m Paris awareness of the M&S year.
Working with our partner Reliance store by adding touch screen browse brand with tailored Retail, we accelerated growth in India and order points.
marketing campaigns and to give us 25 stores in total.
We added will roll out our new store six new stores, including our first high format across our international portfolio.
Plan A: UNICEF hanger three-year programme recycling designed to reach the We added a new angle to our poorest communities in hanger recycling by donating Mymensingh and Dhaka, 57p for each box of hangers Bangladesh, improving we recycle to UNICEF, the childrens lives by providing worlds leading childrens health care, access to clean charity.
This funds a water and an education.
Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Strategic review Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 29 Addressing key Return to France issues Trading over three We placed an oors, our new Paris experienced M&S retail store occupies a team in our Czech agship location on the operations to help iconic Champs lyses refocus the business.
The store attracted over We realigned pricing 2,600 customers on its and introduced a new opening day and were look format to our now growing our Prague store.
These presence in Paris, with measures improved plans announced for performance in this four further stores.
important region and Across France we are now rolling this customers can also out across 48 stores access M&S through in the Czech Republic, our first international Poland, Slovakia, website.
Total Europe: Total Middle East and North Africa: Total Asia: 15 7 stores 12 2 stores 10 8 stores four new stores opened -1 net 20 new stores opened 16 net 13 new stores opened 11 net Growth International shipping Weve reduced the proportion of international goods shipped via the UK by 13% which improves efficiency, reduces costs and gets products to countries quicker.
Over 35% of stock now moves direct Strengthening franchise to destination via our partnerships four regional hubs in Sri We want customers Lanka, China, Istanbul wherever we trade to and Singapore.
experience the same M&S, regardless of the business model behind it.
We aligned ourselves more closely with our 35% franchise partners to provide more trading support in areas such as cataloguing and engaged them in the M&S brand at events such as our Looking good Partner Conferences.
With our new visual merchandising team we are establishing an international centre of excellence for product handling.
Thanks to new guidelines, each clothing sub-brand is now displayed to its fullest potential in store helping customers identify which fashion brand best meets their own style.
