Strategic review Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 26 Multi-channel This year we grew ahead of the market, with sales increasing 18%, as customers found it easier to shop with us in the way that suits them best.
New innovations helped us better integrate our different shopping channels, allowing customers to shop online, via mobile or through in-store ordering and receive their goods directly or collect in store.
We laid the foundations for future multi-channel growth, with a skilled team in place and our new Being truly platform build underway.
multi-channel Actions against our plan Developing a leading multi-channel shopping experience means making Increased multi-channel sales With a exible range of order and Developing a leading multi-channel delivery options, Shop your Way it possible for shopping experience continued to grow in popularity.
The service encourages customers to shop customers to Building a platform for future across different channels, providing international, multi-channel growth shop Your M&S choices that t with their busy lifestyles.
More customers are now shopping For the first time, we made sale in their way.
with M&S online: weve grown our share products available for in-store collection of online trafc and have over 3.4m and 40% of Clothing and Home orders Laura Wade-Gery Executive Director, weekly visits, up 11%.
This growth was are now collected in store.
Multi-channel E-commerce supported by the increased use of As our customers shopping habits smartphones and tablets, with sales from MULTI-CHANNEL HIGHLIGHTS change its essential that we change our mobile-enabled site up over 200%.
As part of this, we delivered Revenue Customers increasingly rely on the more choice and inspiration into our convenience of online, with 26% of stores, with Style Online opposite.
559m schoolwear and over a third of dresses New browse and order points were 18% bought this way.
We made it even also added to enable customers to Site trafc more convenient this year, extending shop more of our product catalogue.
next day delivery options and adding We equipped advisors with iPads to 3.4m per week improved search functions.
We also offer more personal assistance to 11% gave customers more choice, adding customers and add value to their more online-exclusive products, in-store experience.
We introduced Over the year we launched a series product personalisation on essentials of initiatives and trials to help us better Looking ahead such as chinos and black dresses and understand how our customers interact Put simply, we want more gave customers a new opportunity to with the latest technologies across of our customers to shop shop with us, launching M&S Outlet both our retail and marketing channels with us across more of online opposite.
To achieve Online is not only a place for customers to this we will create new, This year we made progress against buy, its where many come to browse and inspirational opportunities our plans to become an international, research too.
M&S TV showcases our to engage with M&S and multi-channel retailer, with the launch latest trends and innovations.
This year it deliver an even better of our first international websites for the was viewed over 1.7 million times and customer experience.
We French opposite and Irish markets.
encouraged customers to spend longer will continue to provide We also appointed developers for our online.
Product reviews were up 500% more customers around new site build, which will provide us and are an increasingly popular way for the world with access to with a robust platform to grow our customers to interact with M&S.
Objective M&S products, as we multi-channel ambitions.
feedback makes other shoppers more grow our international likely to buy and provides invaluable e-commerce offer.
insights that help us to improve products.
Plan A: Closed loop collected, broken down cashmere and transformed into We created an online stylish Autograph coats.
The infographic to tell the story infographic format made it behind our innovative easy to share across social recycled cashmere coat.
networks and was one of the The graphic explained how most read features on our returned garments are M&S Stories site.
Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Strategic review Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 27 M&S Outlet online CONSUMER INSIGHT Our successful M&S Outlet format was launched online, offering even I love being able to view more customers access to fantastic discounts on our clothing ranges.
The site received over 1.1 million visitors in the full range online its first six weeks and the buzz around the launch helped boost sales at our and then pick it up at my existing 47 M&S Outlet stores.
Trialling new technology This year we installed Wi-Fi in ten stores so customers could more easily access product information via QR codes on store dcor.
In February, the new Aurasma augmented reality app helped us bring the model on our Valentines Day billboard at Waterloo Station to life.
We also became the first UK retailer to create an app for Samsungs internet-connected TV.
To view the interactive ad you need an open internet connection 1.
Download and instal the Aurasma Life app to your smartphone.
Open the Aurasma Life app and point the camera at the ad.
Innovation Christmas Food French website to Order In October we launched For the first time, our our first international Christmas food was website, serving available to order online customers across for collection in store.
Priced in euros 40% of customers took and with local delivery advantage of the new prices, over 10,000 service and total sales products from our were up over 20% as Clothing and Home a result.
ranges are available on the French language website.
Style Online Style Online uses multimedia technology to extend the reach of our clothing sub-brands into smaller stores.
Catwalk videos and our interactive outt builder tool complement product samples in a boutique style environment.
Customers can purchase products from order points or through a dedicated advisor.
Those with a QR reader can use the link below to view the Style Online video
