Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 68 Other disclosures Principal activities and Business review 1,297,912 shares under the terms of the 2002 Executive Share Option Scheme at prices between 256p and 352p.
Marks and Spencer Group plc the Company is the holding 19,345,308 shares under the terms of the United Kingdom company of the Marks & Spencer Group of companies the Employees Save As You Earn Share Option Scheme at Group.
Marks & Spencer is the UKs largest clothing retailer prices between 203p and 559p.
with 731 stores across the country.
We sell high-quality, great value food, homeware and clothing and are the UK market Restrictions on transfer of securities leaders in womenswear, lingerie and menswear.
However our There are no specic restrictions on the transfer of securities in customers shop with us in stores, online or by phone the Company, which is governed by the Articles and prevailing we aim to provide the best and most convenient shopping legislation.
Nor is the Company aware of any agreements experience from purchase through to delivery.
With 387 stores between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on in 43 territories across Europe, the Middle East and Asia, we the transfer of securities or that may result in restrictions on are growing our international presence to make the M&S brand voting rights.
more accessible to customers around the world.
Variation of rights The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to set out in this report a fair review of the business of the Group during the Subject to applicable statutes, rights attached to any class financial year ended 31 March 2012 including an analysis of the of share may be varied with the written consent of the holders position of the Group at the end of the financial year, and a of at least three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the of that class, or by a special resolution passed at a separate Group known as a Business review.
general meeting of the shareholders.
The information that fulls the Business review requirements Rights and obligations attaching to shares are incorporated by reference and can be found in the following Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, any sections: resolution passed by the Company under the Companies Act 2006 and other shareholders rights, shares may be issued Chairmans statement on pages 2 and 3 with such rights and restrictions as the Company may by Overview on pages 2 to 7 ordinary resolution decide, or if there is no such resolution or Strategic review on pages 8 to 33 so far as it does not make specic provision as the Board as Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 45 to 47 dened in the Articles may decide.
Subject to the Articles, the Financial risk management on pages 97 to 102 Companies Act 2006 and other shareholders rights, unissued Social, environmental and ethical matters on pages 30 to 31. shares are at the disposal of the Board.
More information is given in the How We Do Business report Powers for the Company issuing or buying back its available on our website at marksandspencer.
com own shares hwdbreport2012 The Company was authorised by shareholders, at the 2011 Pages 1 to 72 inclusive together with the sections of the Annual AGM, to purchase in the market up to 10% of the Companys Report incorporated by reference consist of a Directors report issued share capital, as permitted under the Companys that has been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in Articles.
No shares have been bought back under this authority reliance upon applicable English company law and the liabilities of during the year ended 31 March 2012.
This standard authority the directors in connection with that report shall be subject to the is renewable annually: the directors will seek to renew this limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
It is the Companys present Other information to be disclosed in the Directors report is intention to cancel any shares it buys back, rather than hold given in this section and indexed on page 72. them in treasury.
profit and dividends The directors were granted authority at the 2011 AGM to allot relevant securities up to a nominal amount of 132,079,033.
The profit for the financial year, after taxation, amounts to That authority will apply until the conclusion of the 2012 AGM.
The directors have declared At this years AGM shareholders will be asked to grant an dividends as follows: authority to allot relevant securities i up to a nominal amount Ordinary shares m of 133,890,820, and ii comprising equity securities up to a Paid interim dividend of 6.2p per share nominal amount of 267,781,640 after deducting from such last year 6.2p per share 97.6 limit any relevant securities allotted under i, in connection Proposed final dividend of 10.8p per share with an offer of a rights issue, the Section 551 Amount, such last year 10.8p per share 172.3 Section 551 amount to apply until the conclusion of the AGM Total ordinary dividend of 17.0p per share to be held in 2013 or, if earlier, on 30 September 2013. last year 17.0p per share 269.9 A special resolution will also be proposed to renew the The final ordinary dividend will be paid on 13 July 2012 to directors powers to make non pre-emptive issues for cash in shareholders whose names are on the Register of Members at connection with rights issues and otherwise up to a nominal the close of business on 1 June 2012. amount of 20,083,623.
A special resolution will also be Share capital proposed to renew the directors authority to repurchase the Companys ordinary shares in the market.
The authority will be The Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 31 March limited to a maximum of 160m ordinary shares and sets the 2012 comprised a single class of ordinary share.
Details of minimum and maximum prices which will be paid.
movements in the issued share capital can be found in note 24 to the financial statements.
Each share carries the right to one Interests in voting rights vote at general meetings of the Company.
During the period, Information provided to the Company pursuant to the Financial 20,643,220 ordinary shares in the Company were issued as Services Authoritys FSA Disclosure and Transparency Rules follows: DTRs is published on a Regulatory Information Service and on Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 69 the Companys website.
As at 31 March 2012, the following the 1.325bn Credit Agreement dated 29 September 2011 information has been received, in accordance with DTR5, between the Company and various banks contains a from holders of notiable interests in the Companys issued provision such that, upon a change of control event, unless share capital.
new terms are agreed within 60 days, the facility under this agreement will be cancelled with all outstanding amounts Ordinary shares % of capital Nature of holding becoming immediately payable with interest: Indirect 4.51% BlackRock 79,693,916 5.03% & CFD 0.52% the amended and restated Relationship Agreement dated 1 February 2012 originally dated 9 November 2004 as Capital Research & Management 77,589,854 4.85% Indirect interest amended on 1 March 2005, between HSBC and the Company and relating to M&S Money, contains certain AXA S. A.
76,111,596 4.81% Direct & Indirect provisions which address a change of control of the Company.
Brandes Investment Partners, L. P. 74,959,501 4.73% Indirect interest Upon a change of control the existing rights and obligations of the parties in respect of M&S Money continue and HSBC gains Legal & General Group plc 63,188,326 3.99% Direct interest certain limited additional rights in respect of existing customers The Wellcome Trust 47,464,282 3.01% Direct interest of the new controller of the Company.
Where a third-party No changes have been disclosed in accordance with DTR5 in arrangement is in place for the supply of financial services the period 31 March 2012 to 21 May 2012. products to existing customers of the new controller, the Deadlines for exercising voting rights Company is required to procure the termination of such arrangement as soon as reasonably practicable whilst not Votes are exercisable at a general meeting of the Company being required to do anything that would breach any contract in respect of which the business being voted upon is being in place in respect of such arrangement.
Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to corporate members, by corporate representatives.
arrangement is so terminated, or does not exist, HSBC gains The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms certain exclusivity rights in respect of the sale of financial of not than less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the services products to the existing customers of the new holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Where the Company undertakes a re-branding calculating the 48-hour period, the directors can, and have, exercise with the new controller following a change of control decided not to take account of any part of a day that is not a which includes using any M&S brand in respect of the new working day.
controllers business or vice versa, HSBC gains certain termination rights exercisable at its election in respect of the significant agreements change of control Relationship Agreement: There are a number of agreements to which the Company the agreement between Marks and Spencer plc and is party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change Marks and Spencer Pension Trust Limited as trustee of of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
Details The Marks and Spencer Pension Scheme the Pension of the significant agreements of this kind are as follows: Fund dated 12 May 2010 relating to Marks and Spencer the 267m Medium Term Notes issued by the Company on Scottish Limited Partnership the Partnership contains a 28 March 2007, 400m Medium Term Notes issued by the clause such that, upon a change of control of the Company, Company on 30 November 2009 and the 300m Medium Marks and Spencer plc shall elect that the Partnership Term Notes issued by the company on the 6 December either i surrenders its discretion over the payment of annual 2011 to various institutions MTN and under the Groups distributions to the Pension Fund: or ii increases the rate 3bn Euro Medium Term Note EMTN programme contain at which compensatory interest accrues on any annual an option such that, upon a change of control event, payments by the Partnership that Marks and Spencer plc combined with a credit ratings downgrade to below has elected as general partner of the Partnership to defer: sub-investment level, any holder of an MTN may require the Company does not have agreements with any director the Company to prepay the principal amount of that MTN: or employee that would provide compensation for loss of the 250m puttable callable reset notes issued by the ofce or employment resulting from a takeover except that Company to various institutions on 11 December 2007 provisions of the Companys share schemes and plans may under the Groups 3bn EMTN programme contain an cause options and awards granted to employees under option such that, upon a change of control event, combined such schemes and plans to vest on a takeover.
with a credit ratings downgrade to below sub-investment Board of directors level, any holder of an MTN may require the Company to prepay the principal amount of that MTN: The membership of the Board and biographical details of the directors are given on page 40 and 41 and are incorporated the $500m US Notes issued by the Company to various into this report by reference.
Details of directors beneficial institutions on 6 December 2007 under section 144a of and non-beneficial interests in the shares of the Company are the US Securities Act contain an option such that, upon shown on page 63.
Options granted under the Save As You a change of control event, combined with a credit ratings Earn SAYE Share Option and Executive Share Option downgrade to below sub-investment level, any holder of Schemes are shown on pages 66 to 67.
Further information such a US Note may require the Company to prepay the regarding employee share option schemes is given in note 13 principal amount of that US Note: to the financial statements.
the $300m US Notes issued by the Company to various Laura Wade-Gery joined the Board on 4 July 2011 as Executive institutions on 6 December 2007 under section 144a of Director, Multi-channel E-commerce, Louise Patten did not the US Securities Act contain an option such that, upon seek re-election at the 2011 AGM and stepped down from the a change of control event, combined with a credit ratings Board as a non-executive director on 13 July 2011, Vindi Banga downgrade to below sub-investment level, any holder of was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director on such a US Note may require the Company to prepay the 1 September 2011.
Miranda Curtis joined the Board as a principal amount of that US Note: Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 70 Other Disclosures continued non-executive director on 1 February 2012.
Sir David Michels addition many of our store colleagues can join the briengs by stepped down from the Board as Deputy Chairman and Senior telephone to hear directly from the business.
These types of Independent Director, following the end of his second three-year communication are supplemented by our employee publications term on 29 February 2012.
Jan du Plessis was appointed Senior including, Your M&S magazine, Plan A updates and DVD Independent Director on 1 March 2012.
In line with industry best presentations.
More than 3,500 employees elected onto Business Involvement Groups BIGs across every store and head ofce practice, all directors will stand for election at the 2012 AGM.
location to represent their colleagues in two-way communication The appointment and replacement of directors is governed and consultation with the Company.
They have continued to play by the Companys Articles, the UK Corporate Governance a key role in a wide variety of business changes, in what has been Code the Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related a very busy year.
The Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the shareholders.
Subject to the Articles, the The seventeenth meeting of the European Works Council Companies Act 2006 and any directions given by special EWC established in 1995 will take place in July 2012.
This resolution, the business of the Company will be managed by Council provides an additional forum for informing, consulting the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company.
and involving employee representatives from the countries in the European Community.
The EWC includes members from The Company may by ordinary resolution declare dividends not our partly owned companies established in the Czech Republic exceeding the amount recommended by the Board.
Subject to and Greece, as well as representatives from the Republic of the Companies Act 2006, the Board may pay interim dividends, Ireland and the UK.
The EWC will have the opportunity to be and also any xed rate dividend, whenever the financial position addressed by the Chief Executive and other senior members of of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies its payment.
the Company on issues that affect the European business.
This Appointment and retirement of directors will include the directors of International and Multi-channel, and the director of Plan A, which all have an impact across the The directors may from time to time appoint one or more European Community.
The Board may appoint any person to be a director so long as the total number of directors does not exceed the Directors and senior management regularly attend the National limit prescribed in the Articles.
Under the Articles any such Business Involvement Group BIG meetings.
They visit stores director shall hold ofce only until the next AGM and shall then and discuss with employees matters of current interest and be eligible for election.
The Articles also require that at each concern to both employees and the business through meetings AGM at least one-third of the current directors must retire as with local BIG representatives, specic listening groups and directors by rotation.
All those directors who have been in ofce informal discussion.
The business has continued to engage at the time of the two previous AGMs and who did not retire at with employees and drive involvement through a scheme called either of them must retire as directors by rotation.
On a quarterly basis the business poses a a director may at any AGM retire from ofce and stand for question to gather ideas and initiatives on a number of areas re-election.
However, in line with the UK Corporate Governance including how we better serve our customers.
Several Code 2010, all directors will stand for annual election at the thousand ideas are put forward each time and the winning 2012 AGM.
employee receives an award and the chance to see how this is implemented by the Company.
Directors conicts of interest Share schemes are a long-established and successful part The Company has procedures for managing conicts of of our total reward package, encouraging and supporting interest in place.
Should a director become aware that they, employee share ownership.
In particular, around 25,000 or their connected parties, have an interest in an existing or proposed transaction with Marks & Spencer, they should notify employees currently participate in Sharesave, the Companys all employee Save As you Earn Scheme.
Full details of all the Board in writing or at the next Board meeting.
Internal schemes are given on pages 59 to 60. controls are in place to ensure that any related party transactions involving directors, or their connected parties, We have a well established interactive wellbeing website, called are conducted on an arms length basis.
com, a completely bespoke website and service continuing duty to update any changes to these conicts.
It gives any employee the opportunity to access a wealth of information, help and Directors indemnities support.
We cover all areas of wellbeing, from healthy eating The Company maintains directors and ofcers liability and exercise to help in overcoming issues such as stress, insurance which gives appropriate cover for any legal action financial challenges, achieving a positive work-life balance and brought against its directors.
The Company has also granted problems with sleeping.
indemnities to each of its directors and the Group Secretary to the extent permitted by law.
Qualifying third party indemnity The response since its launch in May 2010 has been excellent provisions as dened by section 234 of the Companies Act with 11,500 employees making personal pledges to improve 2006 were in force during the year ended 31 March 2012 and a specic health or wellbeing issue.
Employees are able to remain in force, in relation to certain losses and liabilities which interact with one another, post information about clubs and the directors or Group Secretary may incur to third parties in groups in their area and can gain access to information about the course of acting as directors or Group Secretary or corporate projects which link to their personal health pledges.
employees of the Company, or of any associated company.
We have already received hundreds of testimonials from employees telling us that they are enjoying the programme, feel Employee involvement better as a result and enjoy its social community-based style.
We remain committed to employee involvement throughout the We maintain contact with retired staff through communications business.
Employees are kept well informed of the performance from the Company and the Pension Trust.
Member-nominated and strategy of the Group through personal briengs, regular trustees have been elected to the Pension Trust Board, including meetings, personal letters home, email and broadcasts by the employees and pensioners.
We continue to produce a regular Chief Executive and members of the Board at key points in the Pensions Update newsletter for members of our final salary year to all head ofce employees and store management.
In pension scheme and the M&S Retirement Plan.
Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 71 Equal opportunities 2011 to 31 March 2012.
There were no disputes relating to GSCOP during the financial year ended 31 March 2012.
The Group is committed to an active equal opportunities policy from recruitment and selection, through training and development, Creditor payment policy performance reviews and promotion to retirement.
It is our policy For all trade creditors, it is the Groups policy to: to promote an environment free from discrimination, harassment agree the terms of payment at the start of business with and victimisation, where everyone will receive equal treatment regardless of gender, colour, ethnic or national origin, disability, that supplier: age, marital status, sexual orientation or religion.
All decisions ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment: and relating to employment practices will be objective, free from bias pay in accordance with its contractual and other legal and based solely upon work criteria and individual merit.
Company is responsive to the needs of its employees, customers The main trading company, Marks and Spencer plc, has a and the community at large.
We are an organisation which uses policy concerning the payment of trade creditors as follows: everyones talents and abilities and where diversity is valued.
We were one of the first major companies to remove the default general merchandise payments are received between 25 retirement age in 2001 and have continued to see an increase in and 60 days after the stock was invoiced: employees wanting to work past the state retirement age.
Our food payments are received between 19 and 25 days after oldest employee is 85 years old and joined the business at age the stock was invoiced: and 80.
The Company once again featured in The Times Top 50 distribution suppliers are paid monthly, for costs incurred in places for Women to work in April 2012 and consider this that month, based on estimates, and payments are adjusted highlights how equal opportunities are available for all.
quarterly to reect any variations to estimate.
Employees with disabilities Trade creditor days for Marks and Spencer plc for the year It is our policy that people with disabilities should have full and fair ended 31 March 2012 were 26 days, or 17 working days consideration for all vacancies.
During the year, we continued to last year 26 days, or 17 working days, based on the ratio demonstrate our commitment to interviewing those people with of Company trade creditors at the end of the year to the disabilities who full the minimum criteria, and endeavour to retain amounts invoiced during the year by trade creditors.
employees in the workforce if they become disabled during Market value of properties employment.
We will actively retrain and adjust their environment The directors believe that the open market value of the where possible to allow them to maximise their potential.
We properties of the Group exceeds their net book value.
continue to work with external organisations to provide workplace opportunities through our innovative Marks & Start scheme and Charitable donations by working closely with JobCentrePlus.
During the year and in line with our Plan A commitments, the Essential contracts or arrangements Group made charitable donations to support the community of 11.4m last year 12.3m, excluding management costs and The Company is required to disclose any contractual or other memberships.
These principally consisted of cash donations arrangements which it considers are essential to its business.
of 6.9m last year 6.9m which included Breakthrough Breast We have a wide range of suppliers for the production and Cancer, Macmillan Cancer Support, Great Ormond Street distribution of products to our customers.
Whilst the loss of, or Hospital, UNICEF, Groundwork, WWF, MCS, our Marks & Start disruption to, certain of these arrangements could temporarily programme and local community donations.
We also donated affect the operations of the Group, none are considered to be 1.3m last year 1.3m of employee time, principally on essential, with the exception of certain warehouse operators fundraising and volunteering, Marks & Start and school work and the provider of the Companys E-commerce platform.
As a business we have reduced our Groceries Supply Code of Practice waste in the last five years and now do not send anything to The Groceries Supply Chain Practices Market Investigation landll.
This reduction in waste is reected in our overall Order 2009 Order and The Groceries Supply Code of reduction in waste stock donations to a variety of charities, Practice GSCOP has been in force since February 2010.
3.2m last year 4.1m including Oxfam, The Newlife Foundation and Shelter.
The Company operates a number of systems and controls to ensure compliance with the Order and GSCOP including We also had another successful year supporting a number the following: of our charity partners in raising funds of 8.5m last year 10.9m.
This principally consisted of funds raised from the terms and conditions which govern the trading customer clothing donations to Oxfam through The Clothing relationship between M&S and those of its suppliers that Exchange, funds raised by Groundwork as a result of M&S supply groceries to M&S incorporate GSCOP: support and employee and customer donations.
new suppliers are issued with information as required by Political donations the Order: The Company has a Code Compliance officer as required No political donations were made during the year ended under the Order, supported by our in-house legal 31 March 2012.
Marks & Spencer has a policy of not making department: and donations to political organisations or independent election employee training on GSCOP is provided, including annual candidates or incurring political expenditure anywhere in the refresher programmes and new starter training.
world as dened in the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
Under the Order and GSCOP, The Company is required to submit an annual report detailing its compliance with GSCOP Events after the reporting period to the Audit Committee for approval and to the Ofce of Fair The details and impacts of events after the reporting period Trading.
The Company submitted its report to the Audit can be found in note 29 on page 106.
Committee on 11 May 2012 covering the period from 1 April Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 72 Other Disclosures continued Going concern and 41 of the Annual report, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the financial statements, the directors have considered the business the Group financial statements, which have been prepared activities as set out on pages 1 to 37 as well as the Groups in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true principal risks and uncertainties as set out on pages 45 to 47. and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and Based on the Groups cash ow forecasts and projections, the profit of the Group: and Board is satisfied that the Group will be able to operate within the Business review contained in this report includes a fair the level of its facilities for the foreseeable future.
For this review of the development and performance of the business reason the Group continues to adopt the going concern basis and the position of the Group, together with a description of in preparing its financial statements.
the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Auditors Disclosure of information to auditor Resolutions to reappoint  LLP Each director confirms that, so far as he she is aware, there is as auditors of the Company and to authorise the Audit no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors Committee to determine their remuneration will be proposed are unaware and that each director has taken all the steps that at the 2012 AGM.
he she ought to have taken as a director to make himself Annual General Meeting herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
The AGM of Marks and Spencer Group plc will be held at the Royal Festival Hall, Southbank Centre, London on Index to principal Directors report disclosures 10 July 2012 at 11am.
The Notice of Meeting is given, together Information required to be disclosed in the Directors report can with explanatory notes, in the booklet which accompanies be found on the following pages: this report.
Annual General Meeting 72 Directors responsibilities Appointment and retirement of directors 70 The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report, Auditors 72 the Remuneration report and the financial statements in Board of directors 69 accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each Charitable donations 71 financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the Creditor payment policy 71 Group and Company financial statements in accordance with Deadlines for exercising voting rights 69 International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted Directors conicts of interest 70 by the EU.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give Directors indemnities 70 a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Directors responsibilities 72 Company and of the profit or loss of the Company and Group Disclosure of information to auditor 72 for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Employee involvement 70 directors are required to: Employees with disabilities 71 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Equal opportunities 71 consistently: Essential contracts or arrangements 71 make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Events after the reporting period 71 state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the EU have Going concern 72 been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed Groceries Supply Code of Practice 71 and explained in the financial statements: and Interests in voting rights 68 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Market value of properties 71 unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
Political donations 71 Powers for the Company issuing or buying The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting back its own shares 68 records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time Principal activities and Business review 68 the financial position of the Company and the Group and to profit and dividends 68 enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Restrictions on transfer of securities 68 Remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 Rights and obligations attaching to shares 68 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of Share capital 68 the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for significant agreements change of control 69 taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of Variation of rights 68 fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity By order of the Board of the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the Amanda Mellor, Group Secretary preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the London directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 40 21 May 2012
