Overview Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 04 Marketplace Understanding the way our customers think and the factors that influence Consumer Barometer their shopping behaviour is key to our success.
Our Customer Insight Unit We launched our Consumer CIU uses a combination of customer analytics and research to build an Barometer in June 2010.
This ongoing accurate picture of the trends and issues that affect the decisions our listening exercise enables us to track customers make.
trends and plan ahead based on consumer sentiment and behaviour.
What is happening in the How does this affect our customers?
Since the downturn of 2008, The Consumer Barometer comprises 2011 12 was a year of continued consumers have been on a journey a monthly online survey of a changing economic turbulence.
UK Gross of acceptance and, for many, 2011 12 sample of 4,000 people and covers Domestic Product GDP was revised was the year they took charge of their a range of topics from spending down during the year, as the budgets.
Consumers acknowledged patterns to future plans.
We Government faced the difficult that some rising costs, such as petrol, undertake additional in-depth challenge of tackling the deficit, whilst were unavoidable, and instead focused research with a smaller sample, stimulating economic growth.
However, on spend that they were able to which provides us with more detailed consumers now have a greater manage.
This positive action helped insight into how consumers are understanding of how to manage their customers regain a sense of control, thinking and what inuences their households through difficult times and optimism increased in the latter decisions.
We process the monthly enabling them to better plan ahead.
results within one week, to give the business an instantaneous view of Despite this clarity, confidence However, nances remained tight, with customer needs.
This up-to-date remained fairly low as consumers felt little exibility in monthly spend.
This insight allo allow ws s us us the impact of ination on their shopping, pressure, coupled with a greater focus to be ag giile le i in n compounded by rising fuel prices.
on housekeeping, meant consumers our resp ponse onses s Though ination eased in early 2012 increasingly shopped to a planned list.
from tiime melly y consumers have not felt the full benefit, They were not easily distracted by promotio on ns t s to o as incomes were hit by pay freezes, promotions, using them as a shopping great pr ro oduct duct reduced hours and cancelled overtime.
strategy and actively seeking out value choice.
in the form of clear, straightforward These factors contributed to a deals on their planned purchases.
decrease in market footfall of 1.6%, as consumers had to make tough choices.
Priorities remained close to home, In this challenging environment, some with a renewed emphasis placed on well-known retailers were faced with the value of family time, health and administration and store closures.
Careful planning helped Others responded with heavy consumers protect the things that promotions as retailers competed mattered to them most, such as CUSTOMER INSIGHT ercely for consumers limited spending on their children.
occasions such as Christmas and I still want quality Mothers Day were also ring fenced, There were moments of light relief with an increased focus on more clothing that will last during the year.
The Royal Wedding traditional celebrations at home.
in April 2011 and Christmas provided but Im prepared reasons to celebrate.
However, these to wait for a deal events were also characterised by heavy promotional activity and before I buy.
Our Gift to You Christmas promotion Our high impact 25% off focused deals over Christmas provided clear, stand-out value on the items our customers wanted most.
Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Overview Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 05 GFK CONSUMER CONFIDENCE INDEX 10 5 0 -5 -10 -15 -20 -25 -30 -35 -40 -45 Product focus Through clearer differentiation of our Food has been at the heart of Clothing: The overall market remained sub-brands supported by dedicated customers celebrations at home.
static, with little movement in either advertising we made it easier for Consumers looking to treat themselves volume or value.
Consumers continued customers to nd the right items for needed reassurance they were getting to invest in staple items, looking for them to refresh their look.
Improved something truly special and turned to increased longevity and versatility.
visual merchandising also helped us trusted retailers, especially for important Wearability was a priority as they show customers how to wear the occasions.
Our promotions catered sought stylish pieces that would last latest trends.
for this determination to enjoy time beyond the season, complementing with the family, as set out on page 16.
Home: The housing market continued and updating their existing wardrobe.
Consumers willingness to spend on to be sluggish and sales of furniture products that matter also played to our Limited budgets also meant consumers and other big ticket items remained strengths, as we continued to innovate looked to retailers for clear fashion slow.
Consumers found it difficult to and expand our healthy eating ranges.
direction: wanting the confidence that justify purchasing until replacements they were buying the right item to could not be postponed any longer.
Macro-economic factors have made refresh their look in line with each A sentiment of making do prevailed, everyday value a growing priority for seasons trends.
but with socialising at home taking consumers.
The launch of our new the place of going out, consumers Simply M&S range showcases the Quality remained important and refreshed and updated their homes fantastic value available on over 500 of customers recognised the merits of with smaller accessories.
our customers favourite food products.
buying into higher price tiers, using promotions as a way to make these Segmenting our Home offer under more affordable.
Value was front of more distinctive lifestyle categories has mind and we took steps to address helped provide customers with more this with our Outstanding Value inspiration for easy room updates.
Food: Growth in the food market However, spending on childrens this year came largely from price clothing was ring fenced as female ination.
Intense competition between consumers in particular put family supermarkets resulted in a constant priorities before themselves.
stream of promotions, many of which left consumers feeling confused.
Consumers used promotions as a strategy to reduce weekly spend and wanted genuine value from uncomplicated deals on the items on their shopping list.
04 Mar Jun Sep Dec 05 Mar Jun Sep Dec 06 Mar Jun Sep Dec 07 Mar Jun Sep Dec 08 Mar Jun Sep Dec 09 Mar Jun Sep Dec 10 Mar Jun Sep Dec 11 Mar Jun Sep Dec 12 Mar Overview Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2012 06 Marketplace continued CUSTOMER INSIGHT Our strategy is aligned with these growth MULTI-CHANNEL SALES opportunities and we are focusing our 600 Im planning to expansion on existing markets such as India, the Middle East and the Shanghai 500 enjoy this summer region of China.
In doing so, we are reducing our dependency on the UK with a traditional 400 economic cycle and maximising the celebration with my efficiency of our existing global supply 300 chain and infrastructure.
200 Across our international customer base, there was a consistent demand for 100 quality.
Our British heritage, coupled with Mobile sales our brand values, supported this position Purchasing from 08 09 09 10 10 11 11 12 particularly on Food, with traditional mobile phones products such as tea and biscuits increased by over 200% in the performing well.
In Clothing, we know How are our customers shopping?
customers recognise M&S quality, but This year, customers told us that want more clarity around our fashion shopping was not just about spending offer.
Launched in autumn 2011, our their limited budget wisely.
They wanted Autograph campaign page 17 has to enjoy their experience and feel helped better showcase our style inspired, engaged and valued by credentials.
The international roll-out of retailers.
As a result, service was seen as our new store format will make it easier a key differentiator and, in a confusing for customers to identify the signature promotional landscape, customers really style of each of our clothing sub-brands.
valued the assistance of helpful and knowledgeable employees.
How does Plan A help us respond to More consumers chose to shop across market pressures?
Plan A, our 180-point eco and ethical This trend was supported by the plan, helps us tackle the sustainability dramatic growth of smartphone and issues that face all major retailers.
With tablet ownership in the UK.
Online and key raw materials under pressure, Plan A mobile channels provided consumers helps us develop a more sustainable with a more convenient way to research supply chain focusing on areas such as and buy, and many saw it as a safer cotton and sustainable shing.
way to shop reducing the temptation of In a challenging economic environment, store browsing.
Plan A enables us to run a more efficient business too reducing waste Our customers are increasingly active and energy use.
In turn, we are sharing online and women aged 45 to 55 spend our learning with our 2,000 suppliers more time online than any other age worldwide enabling them to reduce group.
As a result, weve provided more their own manufacturing costs and engaging content to help inform their create a more sustainable future.
online research and provide reassurance that they are making In a competitive marketplace, Plan A sound purchases.
Weve also integrated provides a point of difference.
M&S is digital innovation, such as our new Style well known for its sustainability Online offer explained on page 27, into credentials and is seen as a leader by Looking ahead our stores, to add value to customers important stakeholders in the sector.
In Consumers are ready for another shopping experience.
addition, this year we worked hard to challenging year feeling more International engage customers in new and exciting prepared and in control.
With a Ongoing pressures in the Eurozone initiatives such as our Beach Clean tight rein on their budgets, value resulted in challenging trading conditions project, explained on page 30. will be more important than ever in markets such as Greece, the Czech especially on everyday items.
Republic and the Republic of Ireland.
They are protecting their spend for However, there was strong GDP growth the key events of 2012 such as the in some markets including Russia, the Jubilee and Olympics and are Middle East, China and India.
making plans for truly special celebrations at home.
