4 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Market Overview The UK pub market We operate in the UK eating-out 1 There are approximately 51,000 pubs in the UK.
and drinking-out markets through Managed pubs are operated by a pub company or brewer which our pubs: sell our products to the employs a salaried manager and pub staff and determines the UK on-trade and off-trade: and service style and product range.
We estimate there to be approximately 8,000 managed pubs in the UK.
Marstons has export to 53 countries worldwide.
around 500 of these and our variety of operating formats allow us maximum exibility to best meet our consumers needs.
We research carefully the markets Approximately 25,000 pubs in the UK are tenanted pubs owned by in which we operate so that we can a pub company or brewer but leased to and operated by a third assess and understand them, thus party tenant or lessee, who pays rent.
The tenant or lessee is responsible for the management of the pub and generally improving our standards, service contracts to purchase some or all of their drinks products from the pub company or brewer which owns the pub.
This part of the and range to gain market share.
agreement is called the tie.
We have around 1,000 tenanted and leased pubs.
The relationship between pub owners and tenants and lessees has been the subject of government scrutiny in recent years.
Marstons has long argued that fair, sustainable rents and a partnership approach are vital for the success of tenanted and leased pubs, and our agreements comply with the Pub Industry Framework Code of Practice.
In 2009 we introduced franchise agreements into our tenanted estate which enable us to take greater control over the retail offer and standards whilst the pub is operated by a franchisee.
These are described in the Business Review on page 11.
We have approximately 500 franchised pubs.
The UK pub market also comprises free houses and pubs which are independently owned and operated by private individuals, partnerships or companies.
We supply around 3,800 customers through our independent free trade channel.
1 British Beer & Pub Association Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements www.
co. uk Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 5 Eating out Beer Approximately 50 billion was spent on eatingout in 2012, and this UK alcohol consumption is in decline overall, with alcohol sales in is projected to continue growing.
Whilst the pub-restaurant share is pubs falling but growth in alcohol consumed in the home.
The still small, its growth is outperforming other categories of the reasons include the harmful impact of legislation and taxation on 2 eating-out market.
On average, consumers are going out on pubs: competition for disposable income and leisure time: lifestyle around 20 separate occasions for food and drink per month, with changes including increased health awareness: the economy: and food-led business growing faster than wet-led business the the adaptation of pubs to exploit growth in casual dining.
food-led sector has seen a 12% rise in consumers visiting a pub for 3 a meal.
The market is heavily regulated, with the beer duty escalator presenting relentless taxation increases.
Politically, the UK However, economic pressures continue to affect the UK consumer, Governments Alcohol Strategy describes a number of driving down real household disposable income.
Consumer commitments including the introduction of a minimum unit price for confidence remains low but spend on everyday treats and low alcohol and a consultation on a ban on the sale of multi-buy alcohol ticket items has been resilient, and this includes value-for-money discounting.
Early indicators from Scotland, where such a ban has meals in pub-restaurants.
already been implemented, are that it has had a significant impact, with a decrease in volume since October 2011 in the Scottish 4 Our new-build strategy and focus on value-for-money dining off-trade.
represents a significant growth opportunity against this backdrop.
There is an opportunity to gain market share by providing Marstons strategy is focused on the growth areas of the market consumers with conveniently located pub-restaurants offering good and we have established ourselves as category leaders in premium value and quality service in attractive surroundings.
Our focus on cask and bottled ale.
We continue to outperform a declining beer the new-build strategy and our implementation of the F-Plan has market through our focus on cask and bottled beers, avour, craft resulted in significant growth in food sales, which now comprise and regional provenance.
In the last year we have increased our 44% of sales in our managed pubs.
category share in premium cask ale by 1.4% to 18% and in bottled 5 ale by 2.4% to 22%.
We aim to continue to leverage value from localness and produce high quality premium cask and bottled ales 2005 2012 through brewing.
Food Sales Mix 28% 44% 4 Symphony IRI Meals served 14 million 28 million 5 British Beer & Pub Association Spend per head on food 5.70 6.17 2 Numis 3 Deloitte 6 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review On the following pages our Business Review will set out our clear and focused strategy: give details on how our strategy works: explain how our Business Model supports the delivery of our strategy: and review our performance and finances.
Our strategy Managed Pubs Estate development Our strategy is to exploit High quality estate, directly operated by Marstons and develop our competitive Broad range of trading formats advantage in pubs and Consumer focus Value for money: great service brewing sectors.
F-Plan food, families, females, forty fty somethings Tenanted and Franchised Stable traditional estate Long-term partnership Flexible agreements attractive to entrepreneurs Promotional support: access to Marstons buying power Evolution of franchise agreements Low barriers to entry Simple model efficient operation Brewing Sales Independent Free Trade National On-Trade including our own pub estate Take Home including supermarkets Export Brewing Our brands include Pedigree, Bankss Bitter, Cumberland Ale, Hobgoblin and Brakspear produced at our breweries in Burton upon Trent, Wolverhampton, Cockermouth, Ringwood and Witney Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements www.
co. uk Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 7 Objectives Progress Future Plans Increase estate to around 600 sites Completion of 60 new-build pubTarget of 20-25 nationwide within five years restaurants in last three years new-build sites in 2013 Flexibility in range of trading formats Food sales mix increased to 44% of Maintain value offer sales, from 28% in 2005 Continued development of the Expansion of premium pubs offer F-Plan LFL sales and margin growth in each of the last three years Develop traditional tenanted model Offer tenants and lessees exibility Increase capex to 5m per annum to on rents and beer pricing delivering drive growth Moderate growth through stable profits in 3% growth relationship Over 90% retention rate Stable profits Continued growth through franchise Retail Agreement in around 500 sites Extend to at least 600 sites agreements Double digit profit growth Focus on long-term growth in Expansion of Independent Free Trade Expand Independent Free Trade premium cask and bottled ales operation around local breweries customer base driving 3% increase in customers Localness leverage value from local Maintain segment market leader breweries Segment market leader in premium status and grow share cask and bottled ales 8 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review continued STRATEGY AND IMPLEMENTATION Our strategy has been developed over time to be effective for the current economic climate and focuses on the organic development of the business.
In implementing our strategy, a key change this year is that all pubs managed, tenanted and franchised are now operated by Marstons Inns and Taverns under the leadership of Peter Dalzell.
There are five key components to our plans: Expansion of the managed estate through building new pub-restaurants Investment in new-build pub-restaurants has been the primary growth driver in our business.
Over the past six years we have built over 80 pubs across England and Wales including 25 in 2012.
From an investment perspective, the new-build programme has generated a consistently high return on capital, achieved through the careful selection of sites and a strong consumer offer.
This good performance is demonstrated by the fact that the average annual return on capital of our new-build programme since 2009 has been around 18%, representing an investment multiple of less than 6x EBITDA.
This high return on capital has generated significant equity value, contributing to a 56% valuation uplift for new-build pub-restaurants.
Our site selection criteria include high trafc ow and proximity to residential areas, with locations being principally on retail and leisure parks and on main arterial routes to local population centres.
Our experienced acquisitions team have established good relationships with site developers, helping to maintain a preferred partner status in many areas and a strong site pipeline for the foreseeable future.
We intend to build between 20 and 25 sites in 2013, including our first sites in Scotland.
We expect to continue investment at a similar level over the next few years.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements www.
co. uk Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 9 Development of a range of pub formats appropriate to local markets 28% of sales mix.
We expect food sales mix to continue to Our range of pub formats is one of the strengths of our business increase as a consequence of greater focus: we were the 2012 model, enabling us to meet different customer expectations when winner of the Neighbourhood Pub category of the Menu visiting pubs: in each format, our objective is to be the best place Innovation & Development Awards Midas.
Future investment in around here for celebrating, socialising and convenience.
Our these pubs will be focused on maintenance capital and improving formats fall into three principal groups, each of which achieved standards in existing sites.
Premium pubs and bars: this category comprises mainly Destination food pubs: our pubs in this category are principally Pitcher & Piano, but will in future include a small number of pubs in two formats Two for One and Milestone.
Both formats which have been identied as suiting a more independent style in offer excellent value-for-money to customers, with a focus on terms of pub design, food and drink, and service.
The first three high quality food and drink in a relaxing pub environment at pubs are currently being converted, with up to 12 more identied affordable prices.
Service standards are high, including full table if the project is successful.
Pitcher & Piano has performed well in service in most sites.
Our focus on service and pub ambience, 2012, with good growth in like-for-like sales and profit: food sales together with interesting and varied menus, supports a high food mix of around 20% has increased through the introduction of new sales mix of around 55%.
Our new-build pub-restaurants are menus and a commitment to freshly prepared meals.
operated in these two formats.
Operating within these formats Marstons Inns offers high quality Taverns: our community pubs are also principally in two formats pub accommodation in 50 pubs, and in 2013 we will build two Village and Homestead, the latter being suburban lodges to be operated by Marstons Inns.
Our primary objective is to offer traditional pub entertainment and everyday value food and drink in a traditional community local pub environment.
Typically, these are wet-led pubs, although food sales are increasing and now represent 10 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review continued STRATEGY AND IMPLEMENTATION The F-Plan, value and service Over the last seven years our organic development has been underpinned by the F-Plan: a focus on Food, Families, Females and Forty Fifty somethings.
The plan was introduced in anticipation of consumer trends including the development of the UK eating-out market: social and demographic changes such as higher female employment and a maturing UK population: and the potential for pubs to offer a better experience to families after the introduction of the smoking ban in 2007.
The impact of the plan on Marstons managed pubs has been transformational.
Food sales have increased from around 28% of sales in 2005 to 44% in 2012, with 28 million meals served in the period and food-led occasions accounting for 75% of customer visits.
The success of our family friendly approach is evident in the three-fold increase in childrens meals sold over seven years, and our commitment is visible in the development of designated family areas within our new-builds and Midas award-winning childrens menus.
We anticipate that Marstons will continue to increase market share within the casual dining sector as we invest in new sites, offering good value and high service standards both key priorities for customers.
The introduction of full table service within our destination food pubs is referred to on page 9.
New developments include the introduction of a new customer feedback system called the SMILE report and hand-held tills which, together with a new kitchen management system, are being rolled out to speed up order taking, service and billing.
The development of the F-Plan is supported by comprehensive recruitment and training programmes designed to ensure that we recruit the best staff available in a highly skilled area, with clear development, training and career paths for all of our pub staff.
co. uk Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 11 Innovation and flexibility in the tenanted and franchised estate t Simplicity: licensees retain around 20% of turnover with no The success of our innovative approach to managing our tenanted payments for rent.
Marstons bears all the running costs allowing estate, which has included franchises since 2009, is demonstrated licensees to focus on revenue maximisation.
by the increase in operating profit growth achieved in 2011 and the 3.2% increase in operating profit in 2012.
This performance is t Reduced funding: licensees are required to place a refundable ahead of peers in the tenanted and leased sector as a whole, which deposit, typically 5,000, but do not have to buy xtures and has generally seen profits decline sharply for several years.
t Reduced licensee risk: other than for payroll costs, Marstons In determining our own response to pressures on tenanted and has responsibility for running expenses and stock.
We ensure leased pubs we have focused on three principal groups of pubs: that these costs are managed effectively through using our traditional agreements, franchise agreements, and pubs identied established retail systems and our Group purchasing power.
An important feature of the Retail Agreement is that there is an Traditional agreements: this group comprises around 1,000 enhanced customer proposition.
We undertake moderate pubs which continue to attract the best operators.
Our approach is investment typically 50,000 per pub to improve the pubs focused on four areas: appeal and provide amenities such as music, games and Sky Sports where appropriate.
The overall retail offer, including menus t Pub standards: in 2012 we invested around 7 million in and drinks range, is determined centrally by our Managed Pubs maintenance capital, and expect this to remain broadly similar team: we are therefore able to ensure value, quality and consistency in 2013. in the offer.
t Agreement exibility: in order to attract the highest quality operators we have significant exibility, including free-of-tie The benets to Marstons are clear: the post-conversion profitability agreements, to ensure we place the right licensee in each pub.
of the franchised estate is strong with 13% volume growth and 23% Our agreements are subject to a legally binding Code of Practice profit growth achieved in 2012.
Licensee stability is high, at over which complies with the Industry Framework Code.
90%, and we receive more applicants for Retail Agreement pubs t Sales and business support: we offer direct promotional than for those operating under traditional agreements indicating support and a wide range of goods and services which enable prospective licensees clearly value the benets described above.
licensees to benefit from Marstons scale and buying power.
Around 30% of applications are from people new to the pub sector.
Examples include food, waste management, cleaning materials and pub equipment.
The Retail Agreement has so far been introduced into smaller pubs with a sustainable future which were formerly tenanted.
We are now t Licensee quality: recruitment across all of our pubs in the process of introducing a new version, The Pub Franchise, managed, tenanted and franchised is handled by one team.
which we believe is appropriate for pubs with a greater turnover This unique structure provides wider opportunities for licensees, opportunity.
This is suitable for operations within our Taverns and has resulted in greater consistency and rigour in our formats, Village and Homestead.
We have trialled four sites in the recruitment processes.
Licensee stability remains at over 90% year and all are achieving positive results.
As a result we expect to maintaining the high level achieved in 2011. extend this further into the estate in 2013.
Overall, this group of pubs achieved rental growth and profit stability In summary, we anticipate that the franchised estate will comprise in 2012. around 600 pubs by the end of the next financial year.
The eventual Franchise agreements: we now have around 500 pubs operating population of the franchised estate will be determined by periodic under the Retail Agreement, up from 337 in 2011.
The Retail review of the managed and tenanted estates to ensure that each Agreement was first introduced by Marstons in 2009 with the pub is operated under the most appropriate format.
principal objectives of improving the offer to consumers and generating higher profits for Marstons and licensees.
This type of Disposals: we regularly review the traditional estate and the agreement, with variations and modications, has since become an franchised estate to ensure that pubs which do not have a established operating model in the tenanted and leased sector.
The majority of these are likely to be sold There are three principal benets to licensees: for alternative use.
We anticipate that disposal proceeds will be around 30-40 million per year for the next few years and will be a mixture of traditional and franchised pubs.
12 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review continued STRATEGY AND IMPLEMENTATION Differentiation in the beer market through a localness and premium ale strategy We increased beer volumes by 2% in 2012, building on the volume growth and market share gains achieved in recent years.
Our strategy for continued market share gains has two principal elements: a brand range comprising genuinely local ales in the on-trade, and a focus on premium bottled ales in the off-trade.
This strategy has enabled us to benefit from increasing consumer demand for regional beers, particularly cask ales, in pubs: and for high quality premium brands in the off-trade.
Our brand portfolio is supported by high standards of service to our customers in the independent free trade and pub sector generally, and through category knowledge and leadership including ownership of publications such as The Cask Ale Report and The Premium Bottled Ale Report.
Our market leadership has been further demonstrated by the continued success of our innovative TM fastcask system.
This has enabled us to expand the market for cask ale into venues which historically would not easily have stocked cask ale including cricket venues, holiday parks and music TM festivals.
Fastcask now accounts for 30% of our cask ale sales, up from 20% in 2011.
Our marketing activity reects the national and regional mix of our brands: nationally, we continue to invest in Marstons Pedigree as The Ofcial Beer of England Cricket, and Hobgoblin remains positioned as the Unofcial Beer of Halloween.
Regionally, we support local brands through sponsorship of events including the New Forest Show, the Henley Regatta and the Keswick Jazz Festival.
co. uk Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Our Business Model We operate in an increasingly dynamic sector.
Pubs are evolving and improving, with fresh ideas coming from all parts of the market independent operators, tenants and lessees, franchisees, and managers.
The beer market too is vibrant, particularly in the area of cask and premium beers, with craft, natural ingredients, and localness all of increasing interest to consumers.
In this market, consumer knowledge, awareness of market trends, and operating flexibility are all necessities.
The business model needs to incorporate each of these requirements.
Ours is a simple business model: a substantially freehold pub estate, well located and well run, supported by a highly cash generative brewing business and Well located, well underpinned by robust nancing.
Our model is designed to ensure that we derive run, substantially maximum benefit from our experiences in all parts of the market.
freehold pub estate We have a wide range of operating structures to provide optimal exibility: through our franchise agreements: traditional agreements: and managed pub formats.
By managing all of our pubs in one division, Marstons Inns and Taverns, we have increased the spread of best practice in our pubs and reduced our costs of Supported by operation.
Not only does this increase the spread of new ideas, our people benefit from increased awareness of what is happening in the market as a whole.
a highly cash generative brewing There is a close and long-established relationship between our brewing and pub businesses: the role of the brewery is intrinsic to maintaining beer quality, and an business important differentiator compared to many of our competitors.
Marstons Beer Company is also able to use insights from our pub businesses in building successful trading relationships in the wider sector.
14 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review continued GROUP OVERVIEW Ralph Findlay Andrew Andrea Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer These results demonstrate resilience despite Our performance clearly demonstrates the weak economy and very poor weather progress against our key financial objectives.
All areas of the business The increase in dividend is consistent with achieved increased revenue and profit in the our stated policy to achieve dividend cover of year, demonstrating the continuing appeal of around 2 times earnings in the medium term.
We have a clear, proven strategy which is appropriate for current market conditions, and which is achieving growth.
2012 summary Our results demonstrate good progress in implementing our strategy, significant increase in the value of our managed estate offset by a despite the challenging consumer environment and exceptionally wet reduction in the carrying value of our tenanted and franchised estate.
weather over the summer months.
As a result, we are able to announce Within the overall uplift in the managed estate, the average increase in growth in earnings and dividends.
value of new-build pub-restaurants was at a 56% premium to the build-cost.
As stated in our year-end trading update, for accounting Revenue increased by 5.5% to 719.7 million, with growth achieved in purposes revaluation surpluses are required to be recognised in the each of our trading segments: Managed Pubs: Tenanted and revaluation reserve whilst a pre-tax exceptional charge of 215 million Franchised: and Brewing.
Operating profit increased but, as has been taken through the income statement.
anticipated, operating margin was 0.7% below last year principally reecting more pubs operating under our innovative Retail Agreement The proposed final dividend of 3.9 pence per share represents a 5% around 500 at the year end, compared to 337 last year and a higher increase compared to 2011, providing a total dividend for the year of off-trade sales mix in Brewing.
Margins improved in Managed Pubs as 6.1 pence per share, which is also up 5% 2011: 5.8 pence.
a consequence of good cost management and modest price Dividend cover increased to 2.0 times 2011: 1.9 times.
increase in dividend is consistent with our stated policy to achieve dividend cover of around 2 times earnings in the medium term.
Underlying operating profit increased by 2.3% to 157.9 million, with underlying profit before tax of 87.8 million, up 9.2% 2011: 80.4 Our key financial objectives remain: sustainable growth, increasing million.
Underlying earnings per share increased by 9.8% to 12.3 pence return on capital, and reducing leverage.
Our performance clearly per share 2011: 11.2 pence per share.
Net debt at the year end was demonstrates progress against these objectives.
Cash return on 1,121 million 2011: 1,101 million, including the benefit of a 20 million capital employed has increased to 10.7%, reecting the continued sale and leaseback transaction completed in the second half year at an disciplined allocation of capital within the business.
We have attractive cost of finance.
acquired a number of sites during the year to secure development in 2013 and 2014 which has meant that at the year end the ratio of During the year the pub estate was valued independently, the last net debt to EBITDA is unchanged at 5.6 times.
On a pro-forma valuation having been undertaken in 2007.
The overall value of the basis, incorporating the impact of the 2012 new-build programme, estate is broadly in line with the existing book value, including a debt to EBITDA is 5.4 times.
co. uk Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 15 Marstons Pub Career Path The Marstons Inns and Taverns career path supports and encourages over 11,000 employees working within our pubs to gain the skills required to do their job, but more importantly provides a visible path through which they can develop their career.
Caroline Weatherston Kyle Gunn The Deputy Manager Programme gives Kyle joined Marstons as bar staff whilst Deputy Managers the opportunity to studying at university and having seen the develop within Marstons as a future career opportunities and the development Licensed Retail Manager.
The programme route available has worked his way up from offers training and allows the Deputy being a member of the front of house team, Manager to complete relief management and through three levels of Keyholder training to gain experience within different formats.
Assistant Manager over a nine month period and then onto the Deputy Manager Caroline joined Marstons in May 2009 and Programme.
He was later appointed as a worked two nights a week as a member of Licensed Retail Manager at the Kings staff.
Six months later she had progressed to Highway in Derby, putting into practice Keyholder Assistant Manager level.
Caroline everything he had learnt.
began the Deputy Manager Programme in 2011, opening up opportunities to work in But Kyles development hasnt stopped two new-build pub-restaurants: in total she there when he saw an advert for the spent two months supporting the newTrainee Area Operations Manager builds.
The adventure continued with a move Programme he applied and was successful.
David Thompson, Chairman, has indicated to the Newton Grange in Durham.
In July 2012 he took on his first area of pubs his intention to retire after 35 years service.
and uses everything he has learnt to Davids contribution to the Company and Being on the programme gives you all support his Licensed Retail Managers and the industry has been immense, and his the support you need.
We are driven to their teams in running great pubs.
intellect and capacity for hard work have succeed, as the people you come into been invaluable.
During Davids tenure, as contact with share different experiences Working for Marstons is proving to be Managing Director from 1986 to 2001, and and provide help and support when a fantastic career choice.
Not only have as Chairman since 2001, the Company has necessary.
The programme is based on I established a clear career path, but I expanded from its regional origins to strong networks and support from the have also been supplied with all of the become a national pub operator and tools, training and support that I need trainers and head office staff.
to get to where I want to be.
It is highly In Carolines final week of the Deputy inspiring to work for a company that is David will continue to demonstrate the Manager Programme, she started the ball so actively and dynamically encouraging passion and enthusiasm for the industry, rolling in applying for pubs and was people development.
and for which he is renowned, through his successful in being appointed to The Priory other business interests.
He will remain as Inn in Hull.
She has put her own stamp on Chairman until his successor is appointed: the pub and is beginning to grow the Our career path ensures clear routes Robin Hodgson will lead the selection business in the local community.
She has to career progression are visible to all process.
already won an award from her Regional and open to everyone.
The emphasis we Operations Managers for the customer place on giving our people the skills and service in her pub.
confidence we need in our business is reflected in the fact that we also have an experienced training team in place.
Cheryl Evans, Human Resources Director for Marstons Inns and Taverns 16 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review continued PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Current trading and outlook Managed Pubs We have seen an encouraging start to the new financial year.
In Total revenue increased by 3.5% to 405.5 million reecting the Managed Pubs, like-for-like sales in the eight weeks to 24 November continued strong performance of our new-build pub-restaurants 2012 increased by 2.0%, with food sales growth of 3.4%, and wet and growth in like-for-like sales, offset by the impact of the disposal sales improving by 0.9%.
In our Tenanted and Franchised pubs, profit of 20 pubs over the last two years.
Excluding disposals, revenue trends continue to improve steadily and are estimated to be up around within the retained estate has increased by 7%.
Our beer brands are performing in line with our expectations.
operating profit of 74.2 million was up 4.5% 2011: 71.0 million.
Average profit per pub has grown to 151k, an increase of 4.1%.
We expect market conditions to remain challenging for the foreseeable future, with consumer confidence continuing to be subdued by weak Total like-for-like sales were 2.2% above last year, with growth in all economic conditions.
Nevertheless, we are confident that our strategy three segments of the estate: destination food pubs, taverns and is appropriate and that our focus on value, service and quality will premium pubs and bars.
Like-for-like food sales were up by 2.4% continue to be attractive to our customers.
achieved principally through volume growth, reecting our continued focus on offering value-for-money and evolving the High quality pub estate F-Plan.
Food now accounts for 44% of total sales 2011: 42%.
During this financial year our pub estate has been externally revalued in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
The key results of the Like-for-like wet sales increased by 2.2%, outperforming a declining revaluation are as follows: UK on-trade drinks market.
Sales of premium brands performed t The overall estate value of 2 billion is broadly in line with the well complementing the growth of food sales within the estate.
carrying value reported in the 2011 accounts.
Premium cask ale sales increased for the fourth year in succession, t The new-build sites that have been built since 2009 have been with growth in premium lager sales.
Wine is an increasingly valued at over 50% above their build cost.
important category and now accounts for around 20% of our t Excluding new-builds, the managed pub estate has increased in drinks volumes.
value reecting its improved quality.
t The reduction in value of the tenanted and franchised estate reects We achieved a 0.2% improvement in operating margin through the current value of tenanted and franchised pubs in the market exibility in menu management, a continued focus on cost place.
management and modest price increases during the year.
We have t Our nancing strategy assumes a certain level of disposal activity achieved a combination of both sales and margin growth in each of each year.
The revaluation of the tenanted and franchised estate the last three years despite the challenging economic backdrop, a provides a pipeline of assets that can full this disposal objective competitive environment and a period of continuous cost ination.
without any impact on Group profits.
t For accounting purposes, revaluation surpluses are recognised in Capital investment included around 60 million in new-build the revaluation reserve whilst some deficits are required to be pub-restaurants, and 22 million in the existing estate including the recognised in the income statement.
Accordingly a pre-tax refurbishment of 30 pubs and 14 garden investments.
exceptional charge of 215 million has been taken through the income statement.
Tenanted and Franchised Total revenue increased by 9.0% to 200.5 million reecting the The estate valuation has no impact on underlying trading increased contribution from Retail Agreements.
Underlying performance or on the Groups cashow.
operating profit was 81.8 million, an increase of 3.2%.
Average profit per pub increased by 4.1% to 50k.
Performance and financial review Underlying In the traditional estate performance was stable with operating Revenue operating profit Margin profit in line with last year.
Rent increased by 2% and operating 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 margins in these pubs were similar to last year.
m m m m % % Managed Pubs 405.5 391.8 74.2 71.0 18.3 18.1 In the remaining 600 pubs the conversion of pubs to Retail Tenanted and Franchised 200.5 183.9 81.8 79.3 40.8 43.1 Agreement has contributed to a significant improvement in Brewing 113.7 106.5 16.4 16.3 14.4 15.3 performance.
profit from this group of pubs increased by 23% with Group Services 14.5 12.3 2.0 1.8 significant improvement in the converted pubs, offset by a decline in those pubs yet to be converted.
Retail Agreements operated in Group 719.7 682.2 157.9 154.3 21.9 22.6 around 500 pubs at the year end.
co. uk Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 17 The Evolution of Franchise Operating margin was 2.3% below last year at 40.8%, primarily due to franchise agreements.
These agreements generate The last year has seen exciting development in increased profit but the operating margin our franchise agreements.
The innovative Retail percentage is reduced as a consequence of Agreement, a type of franchise agreement, was first accounting for sales at full retail value.
Providing an enhanced consumer Capital investment in the period was proposition, with around 50,000 typically spent by 32 million including around 12 million Marstons to improve the pubs appeal and amenities, in Retail Agreement pubs.
the Retail Agreements also offer licensees low entry Brewing costs, reduced risk and the ability to retain 20% of Total revenue increased by 6.8% to the turnover of the pub.
The Retail Agreement suits 113.7 million.
Underlying operating profit smaller pubs with a sustainable future which were increased by 0.6% to 16.4 million.
formerly tenanted: this model is now evolving to add Overall ale volumes were up 2% compared The Pub Franchise, for larger pubs with a greater to last year, with premium cask ale volumes turnover opportunity.
up 3% and bottled ale volumes up 18%.
We have maintained our market-leading position, increasing our market share in The Pub Franchise is competitively placed in the each of these categories by over 1%.
franchise market, appealing to a wider range of entrepreneurs and is based on the franchisee In the independent free trade our account retaining a 20% share of turnover and 20% profit base increased by 3% to more than 3,800 share in return for a 1.5% annual fee and upfront customers, and premium ale sales to this payment, including working capital, of 25,000. sector increased by 3%.
In the take home market we continue to perform very strongly A dedicated Franchise Operation Team has been set with volumes up 14%.
up to support franchisees and their consumer offer, and to promote the proposition to experienced and Operating margin was down versus last new entrepreneurs.
Nicola and Lee, the franchisees year at 14.4%, reecting the higher at The Wiggington in Tamworth, have found The Pub proportion of volume through the off-trade, Franchise to be a rewarding enterprise.
We have a which commands a lower margin.
background in the pub trade, but the combination of being fully supported by Marstons in The Pub Franchise whilst still feeling like we are running our own business, suits us down to the ground.
We feel proud to operate this pub under the Marstons franchise umbrella.
18 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review continued PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Group Services Interest cover of 2.3 times has improved versus last year As reported in our Interim Results, central costs at the half year 2011: 2.1 times.
were higher due to insurance costs and one-off advisory fees.
Costs in the second half year have been broadly in line with last Pensions year.
Our final salary pension scheme at the year end showed a deficit of 24.5 million before tax 2011: 7.1 million surplus, principally due to Capital expenditure and disposals a lower discount rate.
Capital expenditure was 129.8 million in 2012 2011: 111.5 million, including the construction of 25 new-build sites and the During the year we concluded the triennial valuation to 30 development of a further 150 Retail Agreements.
The review concluded that the cash deficit expenditure to be between 115 million and 125 million position has improved by around 30 million to 75 million.
As a in 2013. consequence of the review we have agreed to maintain the existing top-up contribution plan.
Contributions to the scheme were broadly During the year we generated 48 million of cash including 20 similar to last year with a top-up contribution of around 11 million.
million from a sale and leaseback transaction, and 28 million from The top-up contribution increases at 5.75% annually.
the sale of pubs from both the managed and tenanted estate.
Taxation Financing The underlying rate of taxation before exceptional items of 20.4% The Group has a 257.5 million bank facility to May 2016, and the in 2012 is below the standard rate of corporation tax of 25% amount drawn down at 29 September 2012 was 175 million.
This primarily due to a deferred tax credit on the increase in the tax base facility, together with a long term securitisation of approximately 1 cost of properties, and a corporation tax credit on the recognition billion, provides us with an appropriate level of nancing headroom of a benefit relating to prior year tax issues.
for the medium term, with a structure that continues to provide operational exibility.
The Group has significant headroom on both The underlying tax rate has decreased by 0.5% from 20.9% in 2011. the banking and securitisation covenants.
Importantly, the Group also has exibility within the nancing structures to transfer pubs Exceptional items between the banking and securitisation groups.
There are net exceptional charges of 180.2 million after tax.
This reects the impairment of freehold and leasehold properties During the year the Group entered into a new swap arrangement to of 215.1 million, together with a 2.8 million write-off of 2020, which effectively replaces the 140 million swap arrangement unamortised finance costs relating to the Groups previous bank that was due to expire in October 2014.
This new arrangement xes facility, a net 4.6 million charge relating to the Groups new swap interest on 120 million until 2020.
The reduced interest costs resulting arrangements and a 3.7 million charge which recognises interest from the new arrangement will mitigate the impact of the increase in charges arising from outstanding tax liabilities relating to unresolved securitisation interest for the financial years 2013 and 2014. tax issues.
This has been offset by a 2.9 million net gain in respect of the mark-to-market movement in the fair value of certain interest Subject to market conditions, it is our intention to diversify our rate swaps.
There is an exceptional tax credit of 43.1 million of sources of nancing over the medium and long term.
which 41.0 million relates to the items described above and 2.1 million relates to deferred tax in respect of the change in the Net debt of 1,121 million at 29 September 2012 is an increase of rate of corporation tax.
20 million compared to 1,101 million at 1 October 2011.
The modest increase in net debt is a consequence of the previously highlighted increase in capital expenditure.
Operating cashow of 168 million remains resilient.
For the period ended 29 September 2012 the ratio of net debt to EBITDA before exceptional items remained stable at 5.6 times 2011: 5.6 times.
It remains our intention to reduce this ratio to around 5.0 times, principally through EBITDA growth generated from our new-build investment programme.
co. uk Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 19 Food Development Celebrating our heritage has been at the forefront of our food development this year and Britishness, with a focus on British regional dishes, was woven into our product development briefs at all levels.
The food development journey starts with suppliers being invited to present their ideas to the team in our purpose built training kitchen.
Once the parameters of a dish have been decided suitability for customer, season, quality, format and cost the dishes start to form the basis of the years menus.
Menu trialling is becoming an integral part of food development at Marstons and it is another example of how we demonstrate our commitment to understanding our consumer better and putting their feedback into action.
Before a menu launch, our staff are trained at a special cook-off session, providing staff with an opportunity to taste new dishes and to demonstrate their new menu knowledge to their customers.
With main menu launches, encouraging customers to try new tastes can be challenging the top ten bestselling dishes have not changed for over ten years!
Using our digital customer database, we now offer menu preview evenings, across the majority of our pub restaurant formats, to encourage customers to try the newly developed dishes.
A range of traditional regional dishes were developed for pubs to offer on their specials boards during British Food Fortnight.
We also ran a social media competition to nd Britains favourite regional dish, with Lancashire hotpot winning first place and now being incorporated onto our menus.
20 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business Review continued PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The following represents, in the opinion of the Board, the principal risks of the business.
It is not a complete list of all the risks and the priority, impact and likelihood of the risks may change over time.
The following risks and mitigating actions are not stated in any particular order of priority.
ECONOMIC Mitigation Factor Impact Maintaining value for money consumer proposition.
Marstons Customers spend less on our products and business relies upon the spending capacity of its eating out.
Customer choice exible pricing options.
Basic cost of living could increase in Forecasting and investment returns become Competitive offering.
High standards of service and quality.
Risk Associated Objective Consumer trends analysis supports the view that eating out remains resilient despite Economic growth remains very low and a fall in Maximising the return on investment.
consumer confidence impacts upon the sales within our pubs and of our products and services.
FINANCIAL COVENANTS Mitigation Factor Impact Sophisticated accounting systems.
Lenders to the business expect that Marstons Breach of covenants could result in additional Constant monitoring of financial ratios.
repay capital and interest on time and operate financial operating restrictions being imposed on Group strategy, business plans, acquisitions within stated covenants.
and project development built upon the Loss of reputation amongst investors.
preservation of corporate financial covenants.
Risk Associated Objective Annual audit by Marstons external auditors Breach of financial covenants.
of the compliance to the covenants.
agreed a number of financial operating ratios High rating for Marstons bonds.
with lenders to the business which it cannot Reputation protected.
exceed without breaching the terms of its loans.
Business nanced at rates of interest that allow profit to be generated to provide further growth in the Group.
ACCOUNTING CONTROLS Mitigation Factor Impact Sophisticated accounting systems and controls.
The financial systems of the Group have to Loss of investor confidence.
handle large numbers of transactions securely Credible financial targets.
and ensure that transactions are properly Regular management accounts by recorded.
Risk Associated Objective Clarity of reporting to explain any divergence from targets.
Breakdown of internal accounting controls Safeguard the assets of the business.
leading to material financial misstatement or Segregation of duties.
failure to meet financial targets.
Restriction of access controls over financial information and transaction processing.
Levels of authority over the approval process for transactions.
Banking controls over the approval of payments.
INVESTMENT PLANS Mitigation Factor Impact In-house property development team with proven experience in delivering new build The programme of building new pub-restaurant Increased competition for development sites for projects.
In-depth knowledge of site availability.
Corporate growth targets are not met.
Expert understanding of planning Risk Associated Objective legislation.
Investment plans do not meet targets.
Risk of a Maximising profit growth and development of a Maintain pipeline of new sites for future reduction in the availability of quality sites for high value property estate.
Competition from other operators for development sites.
co. uk Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 21 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Mitigation Factor Impact Anti-virus and rewall protection.
Marstons is heavily reliant upon its IT network to significant disruption would be caused to the Constant vigilance and monitoring threats process transactions, conduct operations on a daily trading operations of the Group.
posed by hacking, breach of access ground level and report on results.
Physical protection of servers and networks.
Risk Associated Objective Back up procedures and continual IT risks: A stable IT environment that allows the Group monitoring regarding the integrity of data 1 external interference in the computer to conduct its operations with a high degree of integrity and rehearsal of recovery system: efficiency and speed without disruption.
2 compliance with the Digital Economy Act Protect sensitive data, particularly that which is 2010 and security of data: Business continuity plans.
commercially damaging if openly available.
3 disaster recovery of backed up data taking Option to switch to alternative back up longer than four hours.
servers replicating the live servers, with no significant period of downtime.
User proles segregating access to sensitive data and functions.
PEOPLE Mitigation Factor Impact Comprehensive induction and training programmes.
Increased demand for high calibre people, Marstons may not meet its financial targets.
particularly in the recruitment of licensees.
Regular capability reviews and individual development plans.
Risk Associated Objective Clear career path for pub team members.
Failure to attract and retain the best people.
A stable and skilled employee base will allow An on-going programme of engagement the Group to deliver its strategic priorities.
with employees through regular surveys, feedback sessions and action workshops.
Regular attitude surveys with our tenanted and franchise operators.
Range of exible agreements with our tenants and franchisees.
REGULATORY Mitigation Factor Impact Thorough training and monitoring programmes for all our pub operators and The Group is subject to many different areas of Increased taxation could reduce revenue and operational support teams.
regulation and increasing public focus on the increase costs across the Group.
effects of alcohol and obesity.
Comprehensive procedures in place to Further regulation could restrict the ability ensure compliance with current legislation of our licensees to operate their pubs in a including health and safety, food safety and sustainable manner.
Risk Associated Objective Active participation in consulting with the Greater Government intervention may Operating a sustainable and profitable Government and other trade bodies through signicantly affect our business operations.
Code of Practice provides transparency and strengthens our relationship with the tenant.
Health and Safety manager provides regular reports to the Board.
Annual risk assessments of key areas.
22 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility t Circa 52% of our workforce is female 51% in 2011.
For us, Corporate Social t More than half of our workforce work exible hours, many of whom do so to t work around other commitments.
A quarter Responsibility CSR is about of the workforce typically works less than 16 hours per week.
t Half of our workforce is under the age of 25 and every year we more than just focusing on the provide thousands of young people with their first employment experience, preparing them for the world of work, whatever environment: it is about the their ultimate career aspirations may be.
t Our youngest employee is 16 and our oldest employee is 86. development of our employees t 40% of our Licensed Retail Managers are female.
and how we relate to our Training and development customers, suppliers and the Encouraging all of our employees to take advantage of our training and development opportunities is a fundamental part of our local communities that strategy for success.
We first achieved the Investor in People award in 1995 and have been continuously accredited since that date.
We are an Accredited Training Centre for both the Chartered To oversee our approach to CSR, the Group has an Environmental Management Institute CMI and the British Institute of Innkeeping & Corporate Social Responsibility E&CSR Committee chaired by BII and run programmes that offer a wide range of supervisory, Stephen Oliver, Managing Director of Marstons Beer Company.
The managerial and operational training qualications.
We actively Committee has day-to-day responsibility for the implementation of encourage employees to take up further education opportunities CSR policies within the Group and reports to the Board.
A separate and are currently supporting employees undertaking 18 types of and more detailed Corporate Responsibility Report is available at further and higher education.
We offer graduate training scheme www.
opportunities and are particularly proud of our industry leading apprenticeship programmes designed to attract both applicants Our values who wish to undertake professional training without incurring the The underlying values that guide delivery of our business are that student debt burden associated with full time higher education and we should always aim to be FIT.
FIT summarises three those who want to gain a nationally recognised qualication as part fundamental behaviours that are now well embedded throughout of their management career.
the business: t Fairness Any action, decision or policy adopted within the t This year, our retail staff and Licensed Retail Managers have Marstons Group should be both equitable and reasonable.
It undertaken over 24,000 online induction, customer service and should not result in one particular group of stakeholders gaining responsible retailing training courses plus a further 2,400 an unjustified advantage or benefit at the expense of another.
classroom based courses, together with the rollout of our t Integrity If a commitment is made it should be kept.
If it cannot SMILE customer service offer.
This equates to an investment of be delivered or circumstances change so that an alternative circa 62,500 hours of paid training for our retail team.
course of action is appropriate this should be clearly explained.
t This year over 2,000 Keyholder and kitchen training t Transparency Wherever there is the freedom to do so, the programmes have been completed and since 2009, 39 people Group should act in a manner that is open to the scrutiny of our who started on our Deputy Manager Programme have been employees and the wider community.
promoted to either run their own pub or take roles at our Head Ofce.
Our people t Over the last three years 118 individual CMI and BII We employ about 13,000 people, offering local job opportunities qualications have been achieved by Marstons Head Ofce throughout England, Scotland and Wales.
In addition our franchise employees.
and Retail Agreement operators, tenants and lessees also employ t We are accredited to run the BIIs new Multi-Site Retailer significant numbers of people across the country.
Many of our Programme via our own internal People Development team.
employees work on a exible part-time basis to suit their personal t We received 128 applications per position for our last Graduate circumstances offering excellent opportunities for people either Training scheme entry, 75% higher than the national average seeking to work around child caring responsibilities or returning to for the year Source: Association of Graduate Recruiters.
the work environment after a career break.
co. uk Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 23 Marstons seeks to operate in a transparent manner where its people The Group Health and Safety Manager oversees the operation of are concerned and this is supported by a full Equal Opportunities controls within managed pubs and monitors compliance across the policy and a Whistleblowing policy, both of which can be seen on Group.
The results of those audits directly impact upon the the Investors section of our website.
evaluation of Licensed Retail Managers performance.
The safe operation of our pubs is built upon safety training, documented Community commitment safety instructions, safe design and engineering, and established Community involvement and localness are at the very core of our routines of safety inspection.
Where appropriate we source locally, we recruit locally and we seek to be our customers local choice.
We see playing a Our tenants, lessees and franchise and Retail Agreement operators, positive part in our local communities as part of our business are primarily responsible themselves for the health and safety of strategy, running open days at our breweries and supporting a huge their employees and customers.
Our tenants and lessees are, range of community and charitable events both through our however, provided with documentation on creating a health and brewing sites and our pubs.
safety policy and on risk assessing the workplace and the threat of re.
We also provide support for our tenants and lessees to help them full their legal obligations particularly in respect of equipment t Our employees also run their own Marstons Employee Charity inspections and re risk assessments.
Fund, which the Company supports by match-funding the employee contributions.
In the last 12 months the fund has Responsible retailing donated over 14,500 to a range of local good causes Responsible drinking nominated by our staff.
The Group is a long-standing member of the British Beer and Pub t Marstons Inns and Taverns MIT also runs a Charitable Trust Association BBPA, and the Company continues to be a signatory funded equally by the Company and employee contributions to the Portman Group Code which promotes responsible attitudes and in the last year has made awards of over 11,000 to help towards drinking alcohol and the Drinkaware Trust.
support charitable activity run in our MIT pubs.
t Marstons made a direct donation of 10,244 to the We have made a significant investment in e-learning tools which all Responsible Gambling Trust.
MIT pub staff must complete.
A core part of our investment in e-learning is the identication of potential under-age drinkers.
The Health and Safety Company also runs similar training to ensure tenants, lessees and The health and safety of our employees, customers and the general franchise and Retail Agreement operators are aware of their public is treated with the utmost importance.
Information on responsibilities in this area.
accident rates, compliance and audit scores for all areas of the business is reviewed by the Board on a regular basis.
A description Marstons actively supports the Challenge 21 initiative and of our health and safety systems and policy is available on our maintains close links with licensing and other enforcement bodies website.
to help ensure that our pubs operate in a responsible and considerate manner.
We also operate our own test purchase Day-to-day responsibility for health and safety in the workplace is programme to further reinforce the compliance message.
delegated to operational managers best placed to monitor and control safety.
This is supported by individual site health and safety Challenge 21 committees responsible for reviewing safety controls, monitoring t This year over a quarter of a million productive challenges were accident rates and implementing improvements.
recorded, with a further 125,000 challenges resulting in acceptable proof of age being provided prior to service.
Our Supply Chain Health and Safety Manager manages the operation of our health and safety systems and compliance to job safety instructions for our Production and Distribution teams.
The Where Pubwatch and Best Bar None initiatives are in place we Company uses an incident recording and investigation application expect our Licensed Retail Managers to play an active part in these giving management greater oversight of the emerging trends, arrangements, and none of our pubs operate a 24 hour licence.
We allowing better tracking of audit scores for our breweries and have established operating procedures and promotion policies depots and assessment of corrective actions taken.
within those pubs we manage to ensure that they comply with the Mandatory Code of Practice relating to the retailing and promotion of alcohol.
24 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility continued A practical demonstration of this commitment is the Companys Food safety and supply decision to sign up to many of the pledges that form part of the In 2012 we spent 54 million on purchasing food 2011: 53 million, Governments Responsibility Deal.
sourcing over 900 lines from more than 120 suppliers.
We are determined to ensure that the goods we buy are produced ethically, and are socially and environmentally sustainable.
Recognition of our role in improving peoples health: To maintain consistently high standards of food quality and hygiene, 2.
Enabling people to make healthy choices: all of our suppliers are either British Retail Consortium approved, 3.
Fostering a culture of responsible drinking: complete a self-audit or are audited by an independent food 4.
Encouraging people to become more physically active: and hygiene company.
As part of this process, suppliers must be able to 5.
Actively supporting our workforce to lead healthier lifestyles.
demonstrate full traceability of all products supplied to managed pubs.
Healthy eating A continuing part of our strategy is to offer healthier and more Having five regional breweries within the Group helps minimise the sustainable food choices without compromising quality or value for carbon footprint we generate in producing and distributing our the customer.
Similarly, by sourcing locally wherever possible and keeping our external suppliers under review we are able to minimise food We are committed to offering customers healthier meals, for and delivery miles.
example: t Over 300,000 of our calorie counted dishes with less than 500 All of our purchasing professionals abide by the Chartered Institute calories per meal were served this year.
of Purchasing and Supplys CIPS Code of Ethics and the European t As part of the Core Commitments of the Responsibility Deal: Eco Management and Audit Scheme.
None of our meals contain articial trans fats or hydrogenated fats and oils: and Award Winning Food All new products we launch have to achieve 2012 salt targets.
Providing healthy food does not mean compromising quality and this has been recognised in 2012: In Managed Pubs, where vegetables are an accompaniment to a t At the 2012 Menu Innovation & Development Awards, MIT main meal they provide two portions of an adults 5 a day secured the award for Best Neighbourhood menu.
requirement, we do not add salt to chips, we grill rather than fry our t At the National Fish & Chips Awards 2012, MIT was a nalist in sausages and all meals are free from genetically modied the category for Best Foodservice Outlet serving Fish & Chips.
We promote food sustainability in a number of different ways, such as: t In 2011 12 we sold 474 tonnes of sh secured from sustainable and ethical sources to assist in allowing endangered stocks to replenish.
t We use Prep High Performance cooking oil which supports the production of sustainable palm oil via the Green Palm trading programme.
t We source 4,600 tonnes of chips from a responsible supplier who uses the potato remnants for animal feed, fertiliser and renewable energy.
co. uk Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 25 Environment We are committed to reducing the environmental impact of our Case Study activities by reducing the use of raw materials wherever possible, reducing energy consumption and emissions and through the Efficiency improvements in responsible disposal of waste.
Detailed information is provided in our annual Corporate Responsibility Report.
new-build pub-restaurants In 2012, we continued with the installation of equipment into our managed pubs to reduce the energy consumed by lighting, refrigeration and heating including LED lighting to front of house areas, free air cellar cooling and responsive heating controls.
In 2013, we will focus on further installations of LED lighting in pubs and free air cellar cooling, increasing employee awareness and involvement with our Take Control campaign and developing heat recovery systems.
Key environmental data Unit 2012 2011 Gas GWH 202.9 187.7 Electricity GWH 124.4 124.1 3 Water breweries 000 m 753.9 704.8 Fossil fuel diesel 000 gallons 583.0 579.3 Emissions CO 000 tonnes 102.1 98.9 2 Total waste 000 tonnes 47.7 42.0 Waste recycled % 73.1 75.7 The following are now included within our standard design: Company car fuel usage is not currently measured and is excluded from the calculation of carbon dioxide emissions and fuel usage.
The fuel gures shown are for the distribution fleet.
LED lighting is installed instead of traditional incandescent lighting.
LED lighting consumes approximately 80% less energy, demonstrating a return on investment of 48%.
New developments in technology allow us to better manage water use in the toilets.
Urinal management systems control the amount of ushes depending on customer usage.
Toilet cistern devices reduce the amount of water usage per ush by between 10% and 30%.
Voltage Optimisation reduces incoming voltage to the pub reducing energy consumption and improving the running efficiency of electrical equipment.
The average energy savings across retro tted sites are calculated at 9%.
Proud to be a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series
