2 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Chairmans Letter Dear Shareholder, Development of all the colleagues who work in Marstons strategy is producing decent returns.
Marstons is a pre-occupation of the Board.
Last year We are building new pubs in areas where consumer we created 400 new apprenticeships, and sponsored demand is growing, contributing to sales growth of 38 colleagues in further education.
The success of higher return include the in-built experience and knowledge within new-build pubs, steady development of the tenanted the Company, and also the development of your and franchised estate, and growth in ale sales lifted management.
underlying profit before tax by 9.2% to 87.8 million.
Refreshment of the Board and succession planning The quinquennial valuation of our pubs confirmed therein is also key.
Thus we welcome Peter Dalzell to that our estate value remains at 2 billion and the Board who, having joined us in 1995 has been demonstrates the importance of investment to keep responsible for all parts of our pub estate: managed, up with changes in pub-goers taste and the anticipation of demographic change.
It also confirms tenanted and franchised.
We also welcome Nick that building new pubs creates solid additional value, Backhouse, Non-executive Director, who joined in with our new pubs valued at 56% in excess of February 2012.
Nick has extensive experience in our build-cost.
In total, new-build pubs and the high industry and in the development of media and quality of our existing managed pubs lifted values by consumer communications.
During the year we 163 million.
However, as a consequence of the grim reported the departures of Alistair Darby, Chief effects of legislation and taxation on smaller pubs our Operating officer, and Miles Emley, Non-executive tenanted estate fell in value by 186 million.
Director: I thank them for their contributions.
Turning to the dividend, three factors influence us: the At the same point, having joined Marstons, then The reinforcement of our balance sheet values: achieving Wolverhampton & Dudley Breweries, PLC, in 1977 it sustainable profit growth: and conrmation of the is time for me to pass on the Chairmanship and to effectiveness of our strategy of organic development.
Thus a committee under the We are pleased therefore to recommend a final chairmanship of Robin Hodgson will lead the dividend of 3.9 pence per share for the year, an selection process for my successor.
I started at a increase of 5%, with cover of 2 times.
This return to time when both beer volumes and beer prices were growth in dividend is a key milestone.
rising fast: that was followed by the  of the 1980s: and the ensuing However, it is not helpful that we y in the face of the consolidation of the brewing and pubs sector implacable headwinds created by the Government.
polished off most of our competitors.
Now we are Last year your Company paid in excess of 300 trading in a period of intransigent Government million in taxation to the Exchequer: in contrast, opposition to the enjoyment of our pub going dividends paid to shareholders were 33.5 million it customers.
Notwithstanding the not inconsiderable is abundantly clear that the Government is taking too storm-cloud, if brewers cannot enjoy themselves it is much from our customers pockets.
a poor do: I have had 35 hugely enjoyable years working with dedicated and entertaining colleagues.
Neither this Government nor the last two, malign though their influence might be on your Company in These results are the fruit of the hard work of all particular and pub-goers in general, can dampen our colleagues at Marstons.
Looking to enthusiasm for developing your business.
In this the future, we have a clear and proven strategy.
report we record the solid progress in improving The prospects for the Group are good.
trading performance, in updating our pub estate, and in developing the appeal of our local beer brands.
Investment in new pubs is central to this strategy: in 2012 we spent 60 million on new-builds, with 1,000 new jobs created and plans to create a further 1,000 jobs in 2013.
David Thompson Chairman 29 November 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements www.
co. uk Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 3 We offer something for everyone: a welcoming environment, great food, beer and real value-for-money.
We operate around 2,150 pubs situated nationally, comprising tenanted, franchised and managed pubs, all at the heart of thriving local communities.
We operate five breweries each producing distinctive local ales of genuine provenance.
