28 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report for Marstons PLC Company Registration Number 31461 The Directors present their report and audited financial statements Environmental policy of the Group for the 52 week period ended 29 September 2012.
Environmental policy is determined by the Board and further details can be found in the Corporate and Social Responsibility Principal activities Report on page 25 and in the separate Corporate Responsibility Our principal activities are operating managed, tenanted, leased Report at www.
and franchised public houses, brewing beer and wholesaling beer, wines, spirits and soft drinks.
Research and development In-house research and development is undertaken alongside Business Review work with the British Beer and Pub Association and Brewing The Chairmans Letter on page 2 and the Business Review on Research International.
pages 6 to 25 provide detailed information relating to the Group, its business model and strategy, the operation of the business, future Capital structure developments and the results and financial position for the period Details of the Companys issued share capital and of the ended 29 September 2012.
Details of the principal risks and movements during the period are shown in note 27 to the financial uncertainties facing the Group are set out on pages 20 to 21.
The Company has one class of ordinary above information is incorporated by reference into and shall be shares and one class of preference shares.
On a poll vote, ordinary deemed to form part of this report.
and preference shareholders have one vote for every 25p of nominal value of ordinary and preference share capital held in Corporate governance statement relation to all circumstances at general meetings of the Company.
The corporate governance statement as required by the Disclosure The issued nominal value of the ordinary shares and preference and Transparency Rules 7.2.
1 is set out on pages 31 to 38 and is shares is 100% of the total issued nominal value of all share capital.
incorporated by reference into this report.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys Environmental and social matters share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
The Company considers that it has essential relationships with: There are no specic restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the Our people transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general We depend on our employees and aim to establish a diverse and provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
inclusive culture based on clear communication, training and The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of development, employee benets and a commitment to health and the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer safety in the workplace.
We have strong working relationships with of securities or on voting rights.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 26 to the Customers and consumers financial statements on pages 81 to 82.
Where shares are held on We have a wide range of customers including national behalf of the Companys share schemes, the trustees have waived supermarkets, pub companies, tenants and free trade operators, their right to vote and to dividends.
and every individual that steps into one of our pubs.
We conduct extensive consumer research to monitor our performance and to Under the Articles of Association, the Directors have authority to understand their needs and preferences.
allot ordinary shares subject to the aggregate set at the 2012 Annual General Meeting AGM.
The Company was also given Local communities authority at its 2012 AGM to make market purchases of ordinary Breweries and pubs often have historic importance in and are shares up to a maximum number of 57,069,549 shares.
Similar intrinsically connected with their local communities.
We recognise authority will again be sought from shareholders at the 2013 AGM.
the importance of fostering and sustaining these strong relationships.
We carefully consider the impact of our business With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the upon the environment and our largest breweries have to Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the UK Corporate demonstrate annually to the Environment Agency that they actively Governance Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
manage their impact upon the local environment in order to achieve The Articles may be amended by special resolution of the their Integrated Pollution Prevention Control permit.
The powers of the Directors are further described in the Corporate Governance Report on page 32.
Regulatory bodies The licensing system within the UK tightly controls the operation of Change of control our pubs.
We are an active member of several industry bodies and There are a number of agreements that take effect after, or full details can be found in the Corporate and Social Responsibility terminate upon, a change of control of the Company, such as Report on pages 22 to 25. commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, property lease arrangements and employee share plans.
None of these are Suppliers considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the We carefully manage our dependence upon suppliers and also their business as a whole.
Furthermore, the Directors are not aware of dependence upon us.
Disruption to supply would otherwise be a any agreements between the Company and its Directors or significant threat to business continuity.
We are not solely reliant upon employees that provide for compensation for loss of ofce or one particular supplier: contingency arrangements are planned for, employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
documented and subject to continual review.
Suppliers own continuity plans are collected and periodically a number are audited.
