30 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors Report for Marstons PLC continued Company Registration Number 31461 Employee information Going concern The average number of employees within the Group is shown in The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to note 5 to the financial statements on page 65. affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business Review.
The financial position of the Group is Apart from ensuring that an individual has the ability to carry out a described on pages 16 to 18.
In addition, note 20 to the financial particular role, we do not discriminate in any way.
We endeavour to statements on pages 74 to 77 includes the Groups objectives, retain employees if they become disabled, making reasonable policies and processes for managing its exposure to interest rate adjustments to their role and, if necessary, look for redeployment risk, foreign currency risk, counterparty risk, credit risk and liquidity opportunities within the Group.
We also ensure that training, career risk.
Details of the Groups financial instruments and hedging development and promotion opportunities are available to all activities are also provided in note 20. employees irrespective of gender, race, age or disability.
The Board has a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Full details of arrangements relating to employees are described in Company have adequate resources to continue in operational the Corporate and Social Responsibility Report on pages 22 to 23. existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the financial statements set out on pages 49 to 86 and 88 to 94 have been prepared on the going concern basis.
Creditor payment policy Individual operating companies within the Group are responsible for following payment policies which are based on the BIS Better Events after the balance sheet date Payment Practice Code for all suppliers.
Copies of this Code can There have been no significant events since the balance sheet date be obtained from the Companys registered ofce.
Trade payables which would have a material effect on the financial statements.
for the Group at the financial period end are estimated as representing 47 days purchases 2011: 49 days purchases and for Annual General Meeting the Company were nil 2011: nil.
The AGM of the Company will be held at Wolverhampton Racecourse, Holiday Inn Garden Court, Dunstall Park, Political and charitable donations Wolverhampton, WV6 0PE at 12 noon on 22 January 2013.
The Full details of our charitable contributions can be found in the notice convening the meeting, together with details of the special Corporate and Social Responsibility Report on page 23.
Our policy business to be considered and explanatory notes for each is not to make any donations for political purposes in the UK or to resolution, is distributed separately to shareholders.
It is also donate to EU political parties or incur EU political expenditure.
co. uk, where a copy can be viewed and downloaded.
Financial Instruments The disclosures required in relation to the use of financial instruments By order of the Board by the Group are set out in note 20 to the financial statements on pages 74 to 77 and further details on our treasury policy and management are set out in the financial statements on pages 75 to 77.
Auditors Anne-Marie Brennan  LLP has indicated its willingness to Company Secretary continue as auditors and their re-appointment has been approved 29 November 2012 by the Audit Committee.
Resolutions to re-appoint them and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the 2013 AGM.
