16 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2006 Business review Market review Meggitts primary markets are in aerospace and The sectors outlook remains extremely positive.
defence, where our products and systems are designed Measured in available seat kilometres ASK, the to operate in harsh conditions, to the highest standards International Air Transport Association forecast of reliability and safety.
Our core technologies are another rise in global traf c of 5.8% on 2006 levels, also well suited to specialist related applications in defying high oil prices.
ASK is regarded as a key proxy the industrial gas turbine, energy, automotive and of prospects for the volume growth in the aftermarket Revenue by segment medical elds.
that accounts for nearly 56% of Meggitts civil Civil 44% aerospace business.
To protect our shareholders against the cyclical trends in Military 39% Other 17% individual segments, we balance our revenues between Airbus and Boeing continue to forecast strong original equipment OE and their aftermarkets, civil and deliveries of original equipment in 2007900 military applications and across a global customer base aircraftafter a 24% increase on deliveries in 2006. served from facilities in Asia, Europe and the US.
These will meet the rise in global air travel levels boosted by rapid growth in India and China: replace Meggitts growth prospects for 2007 are good.
Demand ageing eets: and offset the impact of high oil prices for air travel and new aircraft continues to rise strongly.
with more ef cient aircraft, all of which suggests Defence spending in the US remains strong too and, continued large civil original equipment growth up while the rate of growth is expected to slow in the to 2010.
To satisfy demand and meet the ramp-up in near term, is close to a 50-year high.
High technology production needed over the next few years, Meggitt Revenue by geographic markets continue to show interest in the extreme destination continues to invest in upgrading and expanding environment, high performance sensors and sensing North America 49% its manufacturing, focusing on service, seeking systems in which Meggitt excels.
Europe 23% alternative low-cost procurement sources and UK 16% actively managing its supply base.
Rest of world 12% Civil aerospace Regional aircraft, business jets and general aviation 44% of Meggitts revenues come from civil aerospace.
OE revenues accounted for around 10% of Meggitts Our products are on almost all aircraft in service and total revenue.
The regional jet market is expected to range from next generation larger platforms including recover from 2007 as products such as the new the Airbus A380 and Boeing 787 to light jets such Chinese and Russian regional jets come to market.
The industry as a The business jet sector is still exhibiting an exciting whole continues to move forward with exciting new upward trend with quarterly deliveries at their highest programmes such as the Airbus A350 Extra Wide Body levels over the last two years.
This re ects a stronger, programme, all of which present opportunities for international economy, increasing corporate Meggitt to feed its product pipeline and secure future pro tability and rising personal wealth.
We are also aftermarket businessthe service and spares seeing the emergence of an air taxi infrastructure required to keep aircraft ying.
in the United States, with start-up operators establishing themselves in Florida, Texas, California 5000 and New England and stimulating the development of new aircraft types, the Light Jet LJ and Very Light 4000 Jet VLJ.
Meggitt has been a signi cant player in both programmes from their inception with good 3000 positions on aircraft such as the Eclipse 500 and the Embraer Phenom 300.
2000 Overall, the trends in this sector are positive and 1000 indicate strong growth in a primary market throughout 75 77 79 81 83 85 87 89 91 93 95 97 99 01 03 05 which we have a balanced and extensive presence in the major civil aircraft categories across OE and Annual available seat kilometres for world traf c millions Source: IATA the aftermarket.
17 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2006 1200 A further $93.4 billion emergency supplemental was requested to cover equipment reconstitution and the 1000 cost of operations for the remainder of scal year 2007.
This is on top of the $70 billion already provided 800 for war activities last September, bringing total war funding for the year to $163.4 billion.
600 The themes of the scal year 2008 budget cover a commitment to military readiness and ground force 400 strength: enhanced combat capabilities and continued 200 development of capabilities to maintain superiority 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 against potential threats.
Improvements to joint ground capabilities include the Armys Future Combat Forecast large jet deliveries System which, with a range of superior technologies Source: UBS, Airbus and Boeing including Meggitts advanced automatic ammunition loading equipment, will continue to modernise and Environmental regulation offers further opportunity.
integrate ground forces and increase the effectiveness In 2006, seven major European aerospace groups of the individual soldier.
Joint air capabilities will agreed to work together on a cleaner skies project advance with more military ghter jets, sustained involving a joint technology initiative partly funded Joint Strike Fighter support and enhancements to by the European Commission to reduce the noise, existing aircraft.
Meggitts products are present across emissions and fuel consumption of next generation all these classes representing 39% of group revenue aircraft and related components and operations.
Analysis of civil aerospace Meggitts condition monitoring technologywhich Aftermarket 56% now includes Radatecs turbine tip clearance As the Department of Defense reconstitutes its forces Large jet 22% measurement toolsis key to emissions management to maintain a high state of military readiness and Other 22% and the reduction of fuel consumption and will help restore capability levels, increased Army procurement aircraft manufacturers respond to regulatory funding will boost demand for Meggitts spares and requirements globally.
Meggitts military aftermarket accounted for 32% of its military revenue in 2006 Military following the high utilisation rates of equipment in Afghanistan and Iraq such as the AH-64 Apache, The defence industry is a growing Meggitt market.
F A-18 Hornet, Abrams tank and Stryker ghting Our products support key current and future air, land vehicle.
Meggitt supports these and other platforms and sea systems including combat aircraft such as the with an extensive range of products, spares, repairs Apache attack helicopter, USAF Raptor, Euro ghter Analysis of military and technical services to ensure continuous Typhoon and the Joint Strike Fighter: the US Armys Aftermarket 32% operational availability and support the extensive Future Combat Systems mounted combat vehicles: OEM 68% overhaul that follows redeployment.
and the M1A2 SEP Abrams tank.
Beyond active operations, Meggitt is responding to The US accounts for almost 50% of the worlds global the training requirements of military and government defence budgets.
President Bushs budget request law enforcement organisations reinforcing Homeland for scal year 2008 was $624.6 billion, including $481.4 Security.
In 2006, Meggitt acquired and integrated billion in discretionary authority for the Department of Firearms Training Services Inc FATS into its defence Defense base budget and $141.7 billion to support the systems business.
FATS is regarded as the leading Global War on Terror.
This represents real growth of provider of innovative, virtual weapons training 8.6% in the base budget over scal year 2007 and is the services and is expected to play an important role first time an estimate of the cost of the wars in Iraq and in enhancing training for modern warfare and the Afghanistan has been provided in advance to meet continuing Iraq and Afghanistan campaigns.
Congress request to end supplemental funding.
18 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2006 Market review continued 550 manufacturing, procurement and aftermarket facilities in Asia continue to capitalise on the regions 500 strong growth in air traf c. 450 Beyond aerospace and defence 17% of Meggitts revenue lies in the application of our 400 primary sensing systems and controls technologies 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 to markets beyond aerospace and defenceindustrial Projected US defence spending excluding supplementals gas turbine, medical, test engineering and automotive.
$ billion Source: US Department of Defense and management estimates Meggitt continues to respond to the demand for vehicle safety testing from the leading automotive companies Combined European defence budgets are expected and dynamic testing for research and development to remain stable at around 1.8% of GDP compared from NASA and the European Space Agency.
The focus on progressing Asian automotive markets continue to grow strongly major development programmes that include Meggitt and with it our position sensors business.
New product product such as Euro ghter Typhoon and the A400M lines are being supported and manufactured in our continues.
Spending in the UK will continue to respond China facility and we have responded with complete to ongoing commitments on the international stage position measurement assemblies to the industrys and Meggitt is responding to opportunities created requirement for more economical fully assembled by the MoD for new partnership models, supplying sub-systems.
New safety legislation on pedestrian more services and products into the MoDs logistics impact detection and the adoption of safety as a key infrastructure as the groups capabilities expand.
automotive marketing concept is creating demand This was demonstrated in 2006 by a 20-year contract for the enhanced data collecting capacity of our new award from QinetiQ for supplying aerial targets to automotive crash sensors family.
UK Ministry of Defence facilities.
This contract is 40 initially valued at more than 50 million and will help The industrial gas turbine market continues to provide cement continued business revenues from the UK 30 growth opportunities for Meggitts leading conditionarmed forces.
Our higher temperature tolerant 20 sensors and processing electronics are key to reducing Meggitt worldwide cost and noxious emissions, while optimising ef ciency 10 and pro t. The power generation industry globally is North America remains the largest market by far 04 24 investing signi cantly in these areas, especially Asia, for military and civil aviation, representing 49% the Middle East and Russia.
The rising costs of fuel and World aircraft eet 000 of Meggitts total revenue.
With many facilities in raw materials continue to drive manufacturing plants Source: Boeing Current North America, Meggitt can provide our international Market Outlook 2005 in general to improve their operating ef ciencies.
businesses with ready access to the expanding Meggitts wireless monitoring systems and increased US market.
capacity from our China facility has positioned Meggitt With strong and growing manufacturing bases in to participate in this high growth area, with design wins Europe and Asia, we can also bene t from European for plants as diverse as food products, pulp and paper, defence spending reinforced by recent acquisitions steel and electronic materials in 2006. in France which have enhanced Meggitts sensing, We continue to invest for the long-term in new sensors electronics and ignition capabilities in an important for the medical and defence markets from sensors global centre for aircraft manufacturing.
They are that monitor patients activity levels to others that representing the groups interests with great success Analysis of other markets monitor battle eld brain impacts.
Many projects come to key mainland European customers such as Aerospace derivatives 58% with funding from the US government or are conducted Airbus, Eurocopter, Turbomeca and Hispano Suiza Non-aerospace with NASA and US universities.
and strengthening access to European defence electronics 42% programmes and EU funding.
