About us | Financial highlights | Chairmans statement | Operating and financial review Business review | Directors report | Corporate governance | Audit Committee report | Remuneration report | Directors responsibilities | Report from the auditors | Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements | Five year review | Parent company balance sheet | Notes to the parent company financial statements | Shareholder information | Glossary Business review Retail sales mix This review expands on the strategy outlined by the Chief Executive, Accommodation Machines 4% describing the main resources the Group has deployed to achieve and other 6% its results and presenting some examples of the strategy in action in FY2006.
Spirits 11% Leading the value for money casual dining market Food 35% Wines and Historically, Mitchells & Butlers sites were heavily concentrated in soft drinks 13% the main UK industrial areas of the North and Midlands.
However, following a number of disposals, the acquisitions of 550 pubs from Allied Domecq in 1999 and the purchase of the Acquired Sites in July 2006, as well as the addition of over 400 individual sites since Beer and cider 31% the early 1990s, the business is now spread across the UK, more broadly mirroring the demographics of the UK population with a Pro forma including the Acquired Sites and excluding sites disposed in FY2006 and to higher weighting in the affluent South East and London.
Trust Inns Ltd in October 2006 Percentage of sales by UK region Critical to this growth has been our absolute focus on providing including the Acquired Sites value to our customers, through the quality of product, service and amenity we offer.
Consequently the average price of a main meal Region % of sales in a Mitchells & Butlers pub is now around 6, highlighting the value South East 22% proposition, particularly considering the relative healthiness, quality of service and amenity that our pubs offer.
London 18% West Midlands 15% Generate significant drinks market share gains North West 10% As an independent retailer, Mitchells & Butlers has the flexibility to provide customers with an extensive choice of drinks at attractive Yorkshire and Humberside 10% prices.
For example, across the Company we now stock over South West 6% 40 draught products compared to only seven, five years ago.
Scotland 5% This innovation can be seen in the highly successful Ember Cask Ale East Midlands 5% Festival which is now in its fifth year and which this year helped to grow draught ale sales in the brand by over 7% against last years Northern 4% festival.
It can also be seen in the All Bar One Beer Boutique which Wales 4% with its combination of exciting new continental lagers, staff training, and customer education has driven footfall and grown the category.
East Anglia 1% We have not only extended the portfolio of beer brands that we offer, we are also now selling an improved soft drinks range including our own mixes of fresh juices, as well as a more interesting range of still Mitchells & Butlers pubs are predominantly in residential areas and sparkling waters and Coca Cola, removing our historic sole 75% with the vast majority either freehold or long leasehold reliance on Pepsi.
almost 90% and have high weekly sales of 17.5k some 3 times greater than the average for the UK pub industry.
Allied with this focus on new products is an equally clear one on improving quality.
New glycol systems aimed at improving the serve The estate over the last 10 years has therefore been fundamentally quality of our draught beers through the ability to consistently serve repositioned to capture the growth areas of the market.
Hence, at a lower temperature are in 700 pubs.
We have also introduced in a pub eating-out market that has grown by 31% since 2001 and draught wine into 110 of our pubs using the same technology, is forecast to grow by 29% in the next five years, Mitchells & Butlers which improves the serve quality for the customer and offers us has grown food sales from 26% of total retail turnover in 2001 attractive margins.
This equates to average weekly food sales per Mitchells & Butlers pub of 6,100 or over five times This focus on choice, value and quality has resulted in continued the pub industry average.
The conversion of the Acquired Sites market share gains in all the main drinks categories.
to Mitchells & Butlers proven brands and formats is expected to increase the food sales mix of the Company to around 40% over the next two years.
8 Report Mitchells & Butlers Annual report and accounts 2006 | building on its fame point of sizzling steaks at around 3.99.
Profitable market share gains Incremental returns on these two formats are currently running at MAB Estimated market over 24%.
This performance gives us the confidence to grow their volume growth volume growth distribution further next year and beyond.
Overall, we are achieving incremental returns of over 20% on the 134m of expansionary Food 6% 4% capital we have invested in total this year and last year.
Wines and soft drinks 6% 1% As eating-out in pubs continues to grow strongly, we are continually Spirits - 4% - 5% evolving our existing brands and formats to ensure they remain Beer and cider 1% - 3% relevant to customers requirements, particularly within the local market.
To that end, we have segmented our estate in the Country Same outlet like-for-like sales for 52 weeks vs. equivalent 52 calendar weeks of FY2005 including pubs disposed of to Trust Inns Ltd in October 2006 but excluding Acquired Sites Dining market by reference to their locations and customer MAB estimates based on BBPA AC Neilsen ONS data for the pub market demographics to enable us to match the offer tightly to the target market.
Within this market, we have our Premium Country Dining offer, where the average spend per head on food is around 16 Widen the inclusive appeal of the pub through high levels excluding VAT, to attract affluent commuters back to the pub.
We of amenity and service now have 30 pubs operating under this format.
We have also been Mitchells & Butlers operates a spectrum of brands and formats across evolving some of our Vintage Inns in areas where the demographics the four main segments of the market: Local Pubs, Pub Restaurants, of the local population have moved more upmarket, to offer a more High Street Pubs & Bars and City Centre Restaurants.
These have sophisticated dcor and menu range thereby increasing the average developed into some of the strongest consumer brands and formats in spend per head on food to around 10 excluding VAT compared to the industry.
The chart below sets out the range of brands and formats around 8 for Vintage Inns as a whole.
operated by Mitchells & Butlers in each segment of the market.
This project is in its early days but initial results are promising with an average uplift in sales of 32% in the invested sites.
In total in the year, the Group has invested 109m of maintenance capital, Spectrum of brands and operating formats with the aim of refreshing and revitalising existing businesses.
Local Pubs Pub Restaurants Residential 38% of pubs 37% of pubs 121 Harvester 29% of sales 171 Ember Inns 46% of sales 48 Pub Carveries Deliver a profitable, integrated food and drinks offer 30 Premium Country Dining 318 19 Other Pub Restaurants Critical to the success of our strategy to date has been our focus Other Locals 81 Scream on leveraging the growth in food to attract customers to the pub, 97 Toby 170 Sizzling 76 186 Vintage Inns thereby increasing higher margin ancillary drinks sales to maximise Metropolitan 235 Acquired Sites Professionals profitability.
We also aim to reinforce the link between food and drink through our marketing activity and sales promotions.
Drinks-led Food-led 36 Goose 74 ONeills 40 All Bar One Our evolution of the Sizzling Pub Co. brand over the last couple 46 272 Other High St of years has increased kitchen capacity and brought amenity Flares Reflex 22 Nicholsons 14 Browns standards up to date, resulting in a sales uplift of over 50%.
51 Classics Extract volume driven efficiencies High St Pubs & Bars Restaurants 22% of pubs 3% of pubs Scale at both the pub and corporate levels is critical in ensuring the 21% of sales City Centre 4% of sales success of our volume and value strategy.
Individual pub Strong branding Notes: 1.
Excludes Hollywood Bowl 25 outlets and Alex 42 outlets At the corporate level, the growth in our food sales over the last 2.
The Group operates 4,204 rooms adjacent to its pubs and pub restaurants under the Innkeepers Lodge and Express by Holiday Inn brands five years has enabled us to increase our purchasing power with 3.
Sales percentages represent UK managed sites excluding Bowling and Hotels.
Sales percentages for the Acquired Sites represent the year to May 2006.
For all other sites, sales suppliers, offsetting the faster growth in relatively lower margin percentages represent FY2006.
products such as food and wine and enabling us to counter the over 80m increase in regulatory and energy costs during that period.
In order to maintain the relevance of our brands and formats to our Through reduced costs we can increase quality, pass additional customers we invest in our pubs both to develop new brands and value on to our customers and in turn further increase our volumes.
formats and evolve existing ones.
So for example, in fresh fruit and vegetables, increasing volume ordered by 10% over the last two years with one supplier has reduced For example, the Group has developed a Pub Carvery format targeting the unit cost by 6%.
This focus has enabled us to hold our cost of the lower income groups and building on its long-term success with goods flat this year with the gain on new contracts offsetting inflation, Toby Carvery in the middle income bracket.
Pub Carvery offers a duty increases and the contractual increases in ongoing agreements.
freshly cooked carvery meal at around 3.99 in a pleasant relaxed environment, representing better value for money than the home cooked alternative.
Also targeting the mid to lower income brackets, the Group has been further evolving Sizzling Pub Co. to improve the menu offer and kitchen capability to serve higher volumes of food, Mitchells & Butlers Annual report and accounts 2006 Report 9 | About us | Financial highlights | Chairmans statement | Operating and financial review Business review | Directors report | Corporate governance | Audit Committee report | Remuneration report | Directors responsibilities | Report from the auditors | Financial statements | Notes to the financial statements | Five year review | Parent company balance sheet | Notes to the parent company financial statements | Shareholder information | Glossary survey of all employees not directly employed in the pub in order Value and volume to ascertain their opinions on a variety of working practices in a Reinvest margin in Staff training, scheduling, Increase confidential manner.
The results of this years survey were that the quality value incentives value overall aggregate score for employee satisfaction had improved for the third consecutive year with 94% of employees surveyed happy to recommend Mitchells & Butlers as a good place to work.
Reduce Value and Increase costs volume cycle volume Opportunity for continuous development through training is fundamental to staff motivation and we have established companyIncrease wide programmes to ensure our people, including those who are buying disabled or who become disabled whilst in our employment, are able power Supply chain Capacity management efficiency of productivity to fulfil their potential.
The Company invested an average of six training days per employee in FY2006 and we have been shortlisted in the 2006 Personnel Today awards for the excellence in graduate At the pub level, through operating large scale pubs, Mitchells recruitment category.
& Butlers is able to provide the quality of amenity and service and the range of products at good value prices that todays customers Employees are incentivised in a way that aligns their objectives demand.
The Company constantly invests in developing operating to those of the Company.
Pub managers, for example, in addition skills in the capacity management of kitchens, bars and serve times, to a basic salary have the potential to earn up to a further 50% as to deliver high service standards at peak trading times.
For instance, bonus dependent on the sales and profit performance of their pubs in pub restaurants, average cover turns have risen by over 7% to compared to target.
Similarly, corporate employees are incentivised almost 16 times a week in the last year.
Unit scale enables the Company to schedule and deploy staff Considerable emphasis is placed on employee communication, very closely to the trading patterns of the pub thereby capturing particularly on matters relating to the Companys business and additional sales at busy times and reducing labour costs during its performance.
Communication channels include regular team quiet periods.
Through sophisticated scheduling and forecasting meetings, communication forums, informal briefings, in-house of sales, Mitchells & Butlers has been able to maintain pub publications and the Company Intranet.
Regular feedback is obtained employment costs at 24% of sales despite the substantial real through employee focus groups and employee opinion surveys, the increases in the National Minimum Wage.
results of which are used in developing management policies and best practice.
The Company conducts a Business Forum at which The 239 sites acquired in July of this year represent a future Executive Directors and representatives of the senior management significant opportunity as we apply our productivity systems meet with employees at all levels to discuss business issues.
to them, convert them to our proven brands and formats, and include their sales volumes in our purchasing negotiations.
Grow profits and capture asset appreciation to benefit shareholders In the nine weeks of our ownership in FY2006 we have already seen some margin improvement and are targeting further Our strategy has generated further strong sales and operating profit significant potential savings.
growth this year, helping to drive higher values in the Companys property assets.
Extend the skill base of operational excellence throughout the estate Mitchells & Butlers has a unique, high quality estate of around Mitchells & Butlers consistently seeks to recruit and retain the 2,000 pubs and pub restaurants generating profitable growth.
best employees in the industry this is as true of the successful During the year, the ongoing securitised pub estate, 1,704 pubs, pub manager as it is of the Senior Executives of the Group, most was valued as a portfolio by Colliers CRE at 4.8bn, or 2.8m per of whom have worked together for over 10 years.
The Company pub, some 40% per pub higher than the previous valuation in is committed to providing equality of opportunity to all employees 2003.
In total, the Directors estimated the Groups property to be without discrimination and is supportive of the employment and worth over 5.5bn as at August 2006 including the Acquired Sites, advancement of disabled and disadvantaged persons.
the package of 102 smaller pubs subsequently disposed to Trust Inns Ltd for 101m and some 135 pubs outside the securitisation.
In a people orientated business, the evidence for the quality In view of Mitchells & Butlers accounting policies under IFRS, the of our employees can be seen in the results achieved in the last results of these valuations have not been recognised in the financial three years.
Like-for-like sales have grown by close to 5% per annum statements of the Group.
on average and at the same time we have delivered strong operating profit growth despite the regulatory and energy cost The Group has been able to borrow against these higher asset pressures.
Each of our teams, from the pub operators to marketing, values to invest in the business and to return more cash to purchasing and property, have contributed to these results through shareholders.
So during the year, in addition to organic investment their expertise.
In the last year, despite the corporate activity of 182m, we purchased the Acquired Sites and will have returned that has taken place, this performance has been maintained with some 560m to shareholders, including the Special Dividend of like-for-like sales up 4.1% and net margins slightly ahead of the 1 per share paid shortly after the year end.
This means that in total, previous year.
since the demerger in 2003, the Group has returned over 1.1bn in cash to shareholders over and above ordinary dividends.
The Group conducts an annual Corporate Employee Satisfaction 10 Report Mitchells & Butlers Annual report and accounts 2006 | have declined by 2%.
Overall like-for-like sales are ahead by 1.1%.
Current trading Sales growth has slowed as the autumn has drawn in and we Revenue in the seven weeks to 18 November 2006 has continued continue to believe that a full winters trading is required before to grow strongly with same outlet like-for-like sales 4.5% ahead taking a definitive view on the bans effect.
of last year, 2.9% ahead on an uninvested basis.
With some 80% of our estate across England and Wales having external space, we continue to develop our gardens and outside Like-for-like sales sheltered areas to minimise any future effect on drinks trade.
Our Scottish experience also leads us to continue to focus on widening 7 weeks ended the social appeal of our pubs by developing their reputation for 18 November 2006 Same outlet Uninvested serving good food at attractive prices.
This will leave us well placed to take advantage of the opportunity that the ban offers to attract Residential 5.3% 3.3% new, casual dining customers, who currently do not use pubs High Street 2.7% 1.9% because of tobacco smoke.
Our best estimate remains unchanged, that the year one impact will be to reduce the trend rate of sales Total 4.5% 2.9% growth, with a strong acceleration thereafter.
Excluding the 239 Acquired Sites We have already moved over 200 of our pub restaurants in England and Wales to non-smoking, with a less than 1% impact on Our pubs and pub restaurants in residential areas are driving our their rate of sales growth compared to those that still allow smoking, growth with same outlet like-for-like sales growth of 5.3%.
Our local even though customers can still go to other pubs where smoking is pubs have performed particularly well reflecting the high amenity currently permitted.
standards and value that they offer in their markets.
The development of their food and associated drinks offers is ensuring that they are Outlook increasingly capturing the growth in casual dining.
Our pub restaurants, which also target this market, continue to generate strong growth.
Overall trading conditions in the casual dining market remain strong, in line with the established long-term trends.
The Mitchells & Butlers In the High Street segment, same outlet like-for-like sales are 2.7% estate and operating formats have been repositioned over the last ahead of last year.
Trading in Central London remains buoyant and decade to capture a leading share of that growth.
our town pubs outside London are also well ahead, in both cases with particularly good growth in food.
The later evening market remains Our integrated food and drinks offers, in an informal pub challenging for our circuit bars and venues with the additional environment, are key to both the customer appeal of our formats competition from longer hours in local pubs.
and our high operating margins.
While the traditional on-trade beer market continues to decline, the range and value of our drinks offers Progress on pubs acquired from Whitbread PLC alongside high quality casual dining is enabling us to generate significant market share gains.
Our conversion of the Acquired Sites is progressing well.
We already have 25 pubs reopened and operating under our brands and expect Consumer demand has clearly been better than expectations during to have 50 reopened by Christmas and around 100 by Easter.
2006, although it is difficult to be sure if it will continue at this rate, The ongoing conversion of the Acquired Sites and the associated given the levels of household debt.
We continue to expect regulatory closure periods will inevitably hold back their full year contribution and energy cost increases of around 14m in the current year.
this year, particularly in the first half.
However, although they have only been open for a very short time, the initial sales uplifts on those The potential application of Real Estate Investment Trusts REITs open for more than a week are most encouraging.
as tax efficient structures for property assets from January 2007 is being closely examined.
Capturing freehold property appreciation During the short period prior to conversion, our aim is to maximise the is an integral part of Mitchells & Butlers strategy due to the direct profit contribution from the sites operated under franchise.
In the first relationship between the operating cash flows of a pub and its 16 weeks of ownership, like-for-like sales for these sites have declined at property value.
This is currently ensured through common ownership a rate slightly faster than the pre-acquisition trend.
Our focus has been of the pub asset and the control of its operation.
The Board is on the removal of unprofitable discounted sales and the implementation investigating the challenges of realising the potential tax advantages of our productivity processes to deliver an improvement in operating of a REIT, whilst preserving sufficient incentive for the operating margins.
Overall, progress to date has been in line with our expectations.
It is important that it should continue to deliver and gain from the long-term capital appreciation arising from the increasing Preparation for smoking ban cash flows generated by its operating and investment strategy.
In Scotland which represents 4% of the pubs in our estate, our experience so far suggests that large pubs, with the capability to In summary, Mitchells & Butlers has strengthened its leadership position serve high volumes of good food at attractive prices, will benefit from in the rapidly growing pub food market and continues to gain significant a ban on smoking.
However, smaller pubs, with limited food capacity drinks market share.
With further improvements in productivity and and a bias towards beer sales and machine income, are likely to suffer.
cost efficiency, together with high returns from investment in the estate In the first seven weeks of the year, food sales have continued to grow and the conversion of the Acquired Sites, the Board remains confident strongly with like-for-like sales ahead by 7%, whilst drinks sales in the future growth prospects of the Company.
Mitchells & Butlers Annual report and accounts 2006 Report 11 |
