14 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Business review Review of operations Trading in almost all of the Americas businesses Carbon was strong.
Our traditional businesses benefited Overview from the underlying strength of the US economy.
Demand for armour products was very strong Our Carbon Division produces a wide variety of throughout the year and significant capital technological solutions from carbon, graphite, investment has been made to meet demand.
These include carbon brushes for motors: body armour: graphite There has been improvement in some of our powder for the synthetic diamond sector: European markets, but the main focus in Europe seals and bearing solutions for the chemical during 2006 has been on successfully delivering processing and fluid pumping industries: on the major site rationalisation plans.
and a variety of components for the aerospace, In Asia, our Chinese businesses have had semiconductor processing and space another year of double digit growth and there exploration industries.
has been further significant investment in both Divisional structure manufacturing capacity and capability to ensure that this growth can be maintained.
With high quality manufacturing facilities and a skilled workforce of some 3,700 around the Products world, our Carbon Division supports its global The Carbon Division produces a wide variety customers, takes advantage of organic of products.
These include: growth in local markets and utilises low-cost locations where appropriate.
The Division has Carbon brushes and related components 39 manufacturing facilities in five continents.
including brush-holders, slip rings and In 2006 revenues were 213.6 million, of which terminal blocks for motors in industrial 30.2% was from Europe, 51.2% from the Americas and traction applications.
and 18.6% from the rest of the world.
Rotary transfer systems for the transmission 2006 financial performance of current in rotating equipment.
% Bearings and seals for fluid handling 2006 2005 increase applications.
Revenue 213.6m 199.9m 6.9 Protective armour for personal and vehicle Underlying operating profit 33.8m 27.4m 23.4 protection.
Underlying operating profit margin 15.8% 13.7% Graphite powder for the synthetic diamond Operating profit before special items.
Financial performance in 2006 represents a High purity graphite parts for use in highly further strong improvement compared with demanding environments such as prior years.
The Division has benefited from good semiconductor, nuclear and high temperature sales growth in a number of markets and from furnace applications.
the large number of rationalisation projects that have had a major impact on both the manufacturing and overhead cost bases.
Business review: Review of operations The Morgan Crucible Company plc 15 Helping to produce cleaner energy Carbon Division companies are established suppliers to the expanding global renewable energy market.
Our carbon brushes and brush-holders are used for wind turbine current collection and lightning protection.
16 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Business review: Review of operations Markets armour products has been strong throughout 2006.
We have invested significantly in The markets served by our Carbon manufacturing capacity and in technical Division include: resources to ensure that we are well placed to Electrical industrial and traction serve this growing demand.
During 2006, we acquired Aceram, a Canadian-based business, We provide electrical current transfer systems in order to complement further our armour from carbon brushes through to collectors and material portfolio.
rotary current transfer products, serving both original equipment manufacturers and the Diamond synthesis aftermarket.
Whilst this market is stable and We continue to be the leading supplier of relatively mature, we have been able to take highly engineered graphite powder used advantage of the good economic and industrial in the manufacture of synthetic diamonds.
growth in the Americas: in areas of specific Strong construction and oil drilling sectors mean product advantage, such as power stations: that demand continues to be robust.
We have and in areas of local organic growth, notably invested in developing technologies that help China.
We have global operations that match our customers to achieve high yields and to the locations of our customers including low-cost improve productivity and product quality.
manufacturing bases in Mexico, Eastern Europe and Asia.
Outlook Fluid handling The Carbon Division continues to enjoy a strong position in its traditional core markets.
In addition We supply carbon and silicon carbide our material and process competencies have components for the seals and bearings which allowed us to develop new product lines and are critical to the pumps and compressors market opportunities, providing the Division with used in many fluid handling industries such an exciting business pipeline for the future.
as chemical and food processing.
The fluid handling market has remained strong during The rationalisation of our manufacturing footprint the year.
We are continuing to invest in will continue in order to ensure that we manage capability and capacity in low-cost our cost base and provide the funds for further manufacturing operations where our customers investment in countries that provide both the are located, such as China and India.
highest growth opportunities and lowest cost Keep on operations.
There is also a strong commitment Protective armour to support our customers globally through our moving We produce a range of silicon carbide ceramics worldwide manufacturing presence.
Our carbon pantographs for personal body, vehicle and aircraft armour are used on many of the We are pleased to say that our robust financial worlds tram and rail systems.
systems, working globally with defence ministries.
performance in 2006 has put us on a strong They are a vital component: Continued Western military deployment, a high the pantograph collects the footing for the future.
level of government spending and a changing current from the overhead cable to power the tram or ballistic threat means that demand for our train.
We are renowned for the reliability of our products - many transportation systems rely on them.
Carbon is nonabrasive, has low electrical resistance and low mechanical friction.
All these advantages result in lower total running costs than alternative collector materials.
No wonder many of the worlds tram and railway systems use Morgan Carbon products.
Business review: Review of operations The Morgan Crucible Company plc 17 Cracking unique challenges ISIS is a world-class neutron company based in the UK.
They commissioned highly specialist metallised ceramic components from our Technical Ceramics Division as part of a major expansion project.
A Senior Client Project Manager comments: We have benefited from the considerable experience of the Morgan Technical Ceramics team at Rugby.
It is great to have such world-leading expertise on our doorstep.
2006 financial performance Technical Ceramics % Overview 2006 2005 increase Our Technical Ceramics Division makes an Revenue 162.5m 144.8m 12.2 extensive range of industrial ceramics products Underlying operating profit 17.0m 12.2m 39.3 for a wide variety of applications.
These include Underlying operating profit margin 10.5% 8.4% medical implants, power tubes used in airport security scanning devices and aerospace Operating profit before special items.
Most of our production is bespoke.
The Divisions revenue rose 12.2% to 162.5 million We offer full technical support and advice to and underlying operating profit rose 39.3% customers thoughout their product to 17.0 million.
The Division has experienced development cycle.
good underlying trading in the second half of Divisional structure the year which, combined with a particularly strong first half, helped the Division achieve Our Technical Ceramics Division operates its short-term goal of double digit underlying worldwide, offering value-added solutions, operating margins.
The business remains focused world-class research and development, on continued operating profit margin innovative design and application engineering.
progression with improvements seen in all The Division has sixteen manufacturing sites regions in 2006, supported by investment in across the USA, UK, Netherlands, Germany new product introductions.
and China and employs approximately 2,100 people.
Europe accounted for 44.9% of the 2006 The 2006 revenues were somewhat flattered divisional revenue of 162.5 million, 51.4% was by the significant increases that we saw in from the Americas, and 3.7% from the rest of the precious metal prices which were passed world.
through in our pricing to customers.
This represented c2.5% year-on-year revenue growth.
Although other raw material and energy costs also increased compared to 2005, these were countered by a combination of operational efficiencies and price increases.
18 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Business review: Review of operations Stimulating bone growth Our Technical Ceramics Division has recently developed a customdesigned ceramic feedthrough for use in an internal bone growth stimulator.
Bone stimulators are used as a supplementary form of therapy to help enhance the bodys bone healing process.
They emit low electrical currents, similar to those created naturally by broken bone, helping stimulate growth and creating successful fusion.
Business review: Review of operations The Morgan Crucible Company plc 19 Globally, the industrial equipment, medical, We have an extensive portfolio of materials aerospace and electronics segments continue combined with processing techniques such as to show good growth.
The US markets have injection moulding, engineered coatings and remained strong and our European business is ceramic-metal assemblies that are enabling also seeing strong performance, particularly medical equipment manufacturers to address in laser and power tube products for this opportunity.
Semiconductor processing In Asia the additional capacity recently installed to meet demand for the thermal processing The majority of the components we market is now fully utilised and we anticipate manufacture are classified as consumable further expansion as a result.
The demand for integrated circuits in electronic equipment is the main driver of Products the equipment market, combined with the The Division uses materials science and introduction and adoption of new and updated applications engineering to make products technology.
The installed base of equipment from a wide range of ceramic materials with using our products is large and demand properties tailored for use in a diverse range for spare parts continues through market of markets.
Overall demand slowed in 2005 but the market saw recovery in 2006 and Braze alloys for aero engine build and repair.
Ceramic components and sub-assemblies for Electronics engine monitoring and control equipment.
We supply niche applications within the Components and sub-assemblies for a broad electronics market where our products are range of medical applications, primarily differentiated by their superior material and or implantable devices, prosthetics, and surgical dimensional characteristics.
Markets for and diagnostic equipment.
components and sub-assemblies include Components and sub-assemblies used in telecommunications, lasers and optoelectronics wafer handling and processing chambers, and IT hardware.
The laser market continues serving both semiconductor processing to grow as devices find new applications and equipment manufacturers and wafer become smaller and more affordable to users.
Applications include cosmetic surgery, dentistry, product marking and spectroscopy.
A major Markets driver of the optoelectronics market is the Coping with The markets served by our Technical Ceramics demand for surveillance equipment in military Division are: and commercial applications.
the pressure Our Technical Ceramics Aerospace Within the IT hardware market, demand for data Division has produced a storage has increased dramatically as more piezoelectric transducer We serve the new-build and aftermarket in both for use as a high-accuracy, people are using home PCs for music, pictures the commercial and military aerospace sectors, cost-effective blood pressure and videos, and advances in technology create monitor.
Electronic sensors as a tier 2 supplier to the major manufacturers options for TV recording and playback.
provide greater accuracy and a supplier to MRO maintenance, repair and long-term reliability and overhaul companies.
Increased demands Outlook over mechanical devices, and, in addition to use in in passenger and cargo traffic are driving the conventional systems, Our Technical Ceramics Division has significant commercial market, resulting in growth in new they facilitate long-term potential for further revenue and profit growth.
monitoring, allowing medical builds for single-aisle, twin-aisle, large cargo Our strategy is to continue to focus on customers staff to analyse trends in a aircraft and regional jets.
and markets that are themselves growing and Medical are innovative in their approach.
More than 40% of the Divisions revenues are now in the growing Long-term durability, biocompatibility and markets of medical, aerospace and specialist specific mechanical and electrical properties electronics such as airport security detection make ceramic materials ideal for a range of devices.
We plan to increase our presence in medical applications.
An ageing population the rapidly expanding Asian region, helped by and a desire to employ non-invasive surgical new capacity in Yixing, China.
We are looking techniques have meant that this sector has a carefully for bolt-on acquisition opportunities need for ever smaller yet more complex that would enhance our offering in our core components.
markets, which together with a strong new business pipeline, leaves the Division well placed for the future.
20 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Business review: Review of operations Lightweight, agile and fuel efficient Our new FireMaster Marine Plus blanket produced by our Thermal Ceramics business is used in the manufacture of aluminium fast ferries.
The new ultra-lightweight fire insulation is designed for weight sensitive applications and provides typically 2030% weight savings compared to alternative solutions.
Reducing the weight of the ferry means that the fuel economy is improved, making it more energy efficient and safety is also enhanced.
During 2006, the Division has continued to Insulating Ceramics implement its strategy of geographical Overview expansion through capital investment and acquisitions.
European operations accounted Our Insulating Ceramics Division designs and for 41.2% of the 2006 divisional revenue 36.3% manufactures a wide variety of heat insulation was from the Americas, and 22.5% was from products and is a world leader in insulation and the rest of the world.
Profitability has followed a refractory technology, fibre, insulating firebricks similar profile, although, in general, the European and crucibles.
We provide services to several results have lagged behind, emphasising the global markets including heat management need for our ongoing rationalisation of sites solutions for steel making, and fire protection and functions.
systems for tunnels, fire doors and ducting.
TM Our world leading Superwool range of 2006 financial performance insulating fibre is used in many applications % ranging from automotive equipment solutions 2006 2005 increase to domestic appliances.
Revenue 301.7m 265.1m 13.8 Divisional structure Underlying operating profit 27.9m 21.5m 29.8 Underlying operating The Insulating Ceramics Division comprises profit margin 9.2% 8.1% two businesses: Thermal Ceramics and Operating profit before special items.
Molten Metal Systems formerly Crucibles.
Thermal Ceramics revenue for 2006 was Our Insulating Ceramics Divisions revenue rose 271.2 million 2005: 236.7 million and 13.8% to 301.7 million.
Underlying operating Molten Metal Systems generated 30.5 million profit margins were up, despite a continuation 2005: 28.4 million.
of raw material and energy price increases from previous years.
Underlying operating profit The Division employs approximately 3,500 people was up 29.8% to 27.9 million.
Energy and raw and has 35 manufacturing sites.
material prices have finally started to reverse, although they will still represent increases on 2006 as multi-year contracts expire.
Business review: Review of operations The Morgan Crucible Company plc 21 Thermal Ceramics Products Large differences remain between the Our Insulating Ceramics Division has several geographical regions in which we operate.
major product groups: Western European demand remained generally Thermal Ceramics flat: the industrial markets have suffered from competition from Asia, Latin America and Insulating fibres which include the Eastern Europe.
However, we have seen Superwool, Kaowool, Cerablanket, considerable growth in the Americas and Asia.
In 2006 we launched the higher temperature During 2006, we expanded operations in Superwool 607HT.
the west of India to take advantage of developments in the key market of ceramics Insulating firebrick and castable products in that region, as well as to strengthen export include the JM, K, TJM and Tri-Mor brands.
capabilities to the Middle East.
Our new Molten Metal Systems acquisition in Russia has commenced trading and has proved successful already.
This is in Foundry crucibles line with the Group strategy of moving to Energy efficient melting and holding furnaces lower-cost production countries and entering new geographical markets.
Heated molten metal transport ladles and other foundry consumables used in In conjunction with these geographical metal handling, purification, flow control expansions we acquired the US and Polish and temperature measurement.
fibre businesses from Cookson plc.
Both of these operations have contributed to the Markets performance of those regions, operating as Our Insulating Ceramics Division targets the immediate bolt-ons to our existing businesses.
following key markets: Molten Metal Systems Iron and steel Revenues in our Molten Metal Systems business We supply heat management solutions to steel rose 7.4% in 2006, partly as a result of more making and downstream processes, both direct favourable trading conditions in Asia and in to the steel producers and through major the Americas, whilst Europe remained flat.
In 2006, global steel production is In the early part of the year, our position in the estimated to have been up 9% on 2005, with growing Indian market was strengthened by almost all regions very buoyant.
Further growth the purchase of the minority shareholding of is expected in 2007. our partner in Morganite Crucible India Ltd. followed by the acquisition of the Diamond Aluminium Crucible Company in Gujarat.
Despite significant Reducing heat loss and improving heat increases in the cost of energy and some raw containment is a major opportunity for materials, operating margins were up as a result aluminium producers.
Our product range of the restructuring measures undertaken in the enables furnace design and performance to latter part of the previous year.
Our Superwool product range additional sales and management resources is used in consumable products to further in Asia during the year, in order to exploit enhance energy efficiency performance.
continuing market growth in the region.
We also advanced plans for the establishment Transportation and automotive of a manufacturing facility in China, which will We have expanded our presence in these commence production in the early part of 2008. markets with Superwool engineered products.
We have developed catalytic convertor mats, heat shields and special adhesives in house and with international partners in Japan, the USA and Europe.
22 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Business review: Review of operations The increased use of diesel engines offers In terms of new markets there is increasing further growth opportunities.
Increased activity interest in the following areas: in domestic and international air travel has Domestic appliances raised our revenues from consumable products for the production of aero engine blades and Manufacturers in this sector are now utilising insulation.
We also supply crucibles and foundry Superwool in ovens, microwaves, gas and oil consumables to the automotive sector which is boiler systems and water heating systems.
making increased use of components cast from Fire protection molten aluminium alloys with, for example, increasing fitment rates of alloy wheels.
Our materials are used in various applications including the protection of tunnels and the Petro-chemical construction of fire doors and ducting systems.
This market has shown strong performance in A growing market opportunity in fire protection 2006 in the Middle East, India, China and for offshore and petro-chemical facilities is being Eastern Europe, with 2007 expected to continue addressed through marketing partnerships to this trend.
Many of the opportunities are from offer customers a package of aligned products.
our new plants in the region and involve a In 2006, we launched our new Firemaster Marine project-based approach including design, Plus range which offers 20% weight savings to supply and supervision.
shipbuilders compared with earlier solutions.
In America and Europe we are also seeing Outlook increased maintenance activity in this sector.
Thermal Ceramics Ceramics The outlook for Thermal Ceramics remains This industry is currently dominated by European positive, with demand for heat management design and manufacturing companies.
We are and insulating products increasing due a major supplier to these companies and are to the high long-term cost of energy.
following the relocation of capacity to China Continued development has led to the and India.
We design and engineer solutions expansion of the Superwool range of fibre in Germany and Italy and then supply materials products.
An example of our expansion of from any of our manufacturing facilities across Superwool is engineered fibres for automotive the world according to customer requirements.
Higher pollution control standards are driving growth in this area.
Power generation Molten Metal Systems This market saw increased activity through 2006 and the expectation for 2007 is also good.
The outlook for Molten Metal Systems in 2007 is Our Superwool business benefits from the positive, particularly in Asia, where our efforts will growth of heat recovery steam generation be focused on the establishment and expansion systems which use insulation wools.
of low-cost production sites to meet growing local demand.
Some rationalisation of our Precious metal processing European manufacturing base is anticipated We provide crucibles and other foundry as the Asian demand is increasingly satisfied consumables to the precious metal refining, by our local production capabilities.
Good demand for precious metals for use in the auto-catalyst, electronics, jewellery and other areas has seen strong prices for a number of precious metals, making refining and reclamation viable from sources that were previously uneconomic.
However, the positive impact of this has been mitigated by a number of customers consolidating their facilities and closing plants in Europe.
Business review: Review of operations The Morgan Crucible Company plc 23 Cost efficient processing With increasing growth in the chemical processing industry and the growing awareness that we all need to use fuel and energy as efficiently as possible, our Thermal Ceramics business offers its customers an attractive choice of insulation materials.
We provide thermal and heat management solutions through products such as our award winning Superwool and our insulating firebricks.
