02 Business Review Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 National Grid Gas Business Review What we do Efficiency National Grid Gas is a part of National Grid, an international We aim to deliver world-class operational and financial network utility.
National Grid is dedicated to becoming the performance.
Our culture enables us to improve continuously worlds premier network utility.
National Grids core skills are in against demanding targets for safety, reliability and customer the management of large and complex networks.
Its businesses service and to enhance value for our shareholders.
are concerned with energy delivery and related services where Responsibility core skills can be exploited to create value.
We are committed to operating in a responsible way that UK gas transmission contributes to society.
In all our activities we operate within We own and operate the gas transmission network for Great National Grids Framework for Responsible Business.
This is the high-pressure gas pipeline network that runs across the country, comprising 4,282 miles of high-pressure gas Safety pipelines.
Following the sales of four of our gas distribution networks, we UK gas distribution continue to operate the UK national gas emergency number Our UK gas distribution business comprises almost half of Great 0800 111 999 for our networks, the sold networks and other Britains gas distribution system.
These are the gas pipelines gas transporters.
During 2005 06, we handled approximately that service homes and businesses.
Our gas distribution 2.5 million calls to the national gas emergency number.
business is the largest gas distribution network in the country.
It We again exceeded our targets on safety-related standards comprises 82,000 miles of distribution pipelines, distributing gas of service for the four gas distribution networks we continue to 11 million homes and businesses in England.
area from the North West, through the Midlands and Eastern England, to North London.
More than 97% of uncontrolled gas escapes where the gas leak cannot be stopped by turning the gas supply off at the On 1 June, we successfully completed the sales of four gas meter were attended within one hour.
More than 98% of distribution networks for 5.8 billion.
controlled gas escapes where the gas leak can be stopped We also continue to operate the UK national gas emergency at the meter were attended within two hours.
number for our networks, the sold networks and other gas Reduction in lost time injuries transporters.
Safety will always be at the centre of everything we do.
During We achieved our 35% controllable cost reduction target one 2005 06, 36 of our employees received injuries that resulted in year early.
them taking time off work, a 44% reduction compared on a likefor-like basis with 2004 05.
UK gas metering Our UK gas metering business provides metering and meter The employee lost time injury frequency rate provides a more reading services in the regulated gas metering market accurate indicator of year-on-year performance by taking into throughout Great Britain.
account changes in employee numbers.
The number of employee lost time injuries per 100,000 hours worked in 2005 06 fell to 0.2, a 44% improvement when compared Our brand promise with the previous year.
This is the way National Grid Gas approaches the delivery of all its services in all the communities in which it operates: There has also been a significant reduction in the number of contractor lost time injuries, falling from 57 in 2004 05 to 41 in Safety 2005 06, a 28% decrease.
Nothing we do is more important than the safety of our employees, contractors, customers and the general public.
Golden Rules for safety A sustainable business must operate to the highest safety National Grids Golden Rules for UK gas operations are a standards.
fundamental building block for our Road to Zero.
The Road to Zero is our five-year programme to reach the target of Reliability zero injuries.
The Golden Rules are a framework that will help Our society depends on the reliable transmission and everyone in the business to be safe in everything they do.
National Grid Gas is focused on the highest rules apply as much to working in offices as they do to working levels of reliability, developing our networks and other businesses on site.
to meet the changing patterns of supply and demand.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Business Review 03 National Grid Gas The Golden Rules do not introduce new policies and procedures.
Benefits to commercial users include synchronised billing They reinforce what we should be doing all the time, setting the for multi-sites, identification of energy wastage and better standards for good safety behaviours and continuing to develop management of cost.
the culture whereby safety becomes second nature.
They will also be used to identify areas where improvements can be made Responsibility to make our working practices and behaviours even safer.
As a part of National Grid it is important to us that we promote and maintain National Grids reputation as a company that Reliability manages its businesses in a responsible way and which Investment in gas distribution networks contributes to all societies in which it operates.
UK gas distribution invested 444 million in the reinforcement, Group awarded top grade for apprentice scheme extension and replacement of the UK gas distribution network in National Grid has been ranked among the top 10 per cent 2005 06 compared with 359 million in 2004 05 this excludes of UK employers for its engineering apprenticeship scheme.
the investment in the four regional gas distribution networks that The company has been awarded Grade 1 one of the few were sold on 1 June 2005.
Replacement expenditure increased UK energy organisations to achieve the top mark for from 255 million in 2004 05 to 295 million in 2005 06 in outstanding leadership and management of its scheme by line with the planned increase in the long-term iron mains the Adult Learning Inspectorate, the Government body that replacement programme agreed with the Health and Safety monitors the standards of industry education and training.
This enabled us to fide-commission approximately The grade recognises National Grids standards in a range 1,700 km of gas main old gas pipe in 2005 06 compared to of areas, including attraction and recruitment, learning plans 1,458 km in 2004 05. for apprentices and contractual requirements set out by the Gas Operations fulfils the role of UK Gas Transmission Learning and Skills Council.
System Operator National Grid Gas apprentices are on a three year scheme and Operating from a newly established control facility, the Gas receive practical on and off the job training through National National Control Centre GNCC is responsible for operating Grids training centre at Eakring.
Great Britains gas transmission network safely, effectively and efficiently, managing the flow of gas from suppliers to Inclusion and diversity customers.
We ensure all gas entering the gas transmission Women in Networks is a network for women in the UK and the network meets the appropriate quality standards.
We operate US to provide an opportunity to bring together employees who the system in accordance with appropriate legislation and the share a common interest in making National Grid a great place Health and Safety Executive safety case, whilst facilitating to work.
Its aim is to allow employees to share and explore equitable and transparent access to all market participants.
some of the issues affecting women in the workplace.
The GNCC operates around 4,300 miles of high pressure Women in Networks was launched on 29 November with a live transmission pipeline across Great Britain, facilitating the cross-Atlantic link.
The UK event took place at the Heritage transportation of around 100 billion cubic metres of gas per year Motor Museum in Warwick, attended by about 200 people.
to power stations, industrial and commercial customers and Deputy Group Chief Executive of National Grid, Steve Holliday, approximately 20 million domestic customers.
launched the UK event and Mike Jesanis, Chief Executive of National Grid in the US, did the same in the US.
Efficiency Energy delivery and climate change Way Ahead National Grids Framework for Responsible Business includes Following completion of the Way Ahead restructuring programme a commitment to make our contribution to minimising climate in UK gas distribution, a series of strategic development initiatives change.
The Board of National Grid agreed our long term has been successfully delivered in support of our aim to be the strategy, mapping out how we will achieve this as well as most efficient UK gas distribution network.
Centralisation of many contributing to the UK Governments long-term emission key processes has enabled us to place increased emphasis on reduction targets.
safety and efficiency while sharing best practice across the During 2005 06, our direct and indirect emissions of organisation and delivering our office rationalisation programme.
greenhouse gas amounted to some 3.7 million tonnes CO 2 Having completed the Way Ahead transformation we are now equivalent, a 35% reduction compared with 2004 05.
This concentrating on continuous improvement techniques to refine reduction largely results from the sale of the four UK gas our existing business processes.
distribution networks during the year.
Automated meter reading Available to businesses via their gas suppliers, our UK gas metering business is now installing smart meter units for monthly and six-monthly read gas meters.
The new technology logs data remotely and uses either SMS text message or GPRS to send the meter reading data to the customer.
