Northumbrian Water Group plc 3 Annual report and financial statements 2005 06 Appendix to the business review GrouP FiNANCiAl kPis Cash interest cover NWl FiNANCiAl kPis Gearing to rCV Definition and calculation regulatory gearing Definition and calculation Net cash flow from operating activities Definition and calculation The ratio of Group net debt to NWLs less tax divided by net interest paid.
The ratio of NWL net debt to NWLs RCV.
The RCV The RCV represents the total capital value represents the total capital value of the Purpose of the appointed water and sewerage appointed water and sewerage business Measures the ability of the Group to business on which Ofwat allows a rate of on which Ofwat allows a rate of return at service its debt.
return at price reviews based on its view price reviews based on its view of the cost of the cost of capital.
source of underlying data Audited financial statements.
Purpose Purpose The RCV generates most of the revenue The RCV generates most of the Cash flow to net debt stream of the Group and the regulatory revenue stream of the Group and Definition and calculation gearing is an important factor in the regulatory gearing is an important Net cash flow from operating activities credit ratings.
less tax paid divided by net debt.
source of underlying data source of underlying data Purpose NWLs RCV is calculated by Ofwat and NWLs RCV is calculated by Ofwat and Indicates the Groups ability to reduce published each year.
Ofwat also publishes published each year.
Ofwat also publishes debt in the absence of need for anticipated values up to five years ahead, anticipated values up to five years ahead, additional investment, without resorting based on its last price determination.
based on its last price determination.
NWLs net debt can be found in the Group net debt is disclosed in the audited audited regulatory accounts and Ofwat financial statements.
source of underlying data annual reports on financial performance.
CliCk to returN to CoNteNts Northumbrian Water Group plc 35 Annual report and financial statements 2005 06 NWl NoN-FiNANCiAl kPis Drinking water quality Customer service standards Definition and calculation Definition and calculation Compliance with drinking water Customer service standards are regulations as monitored by the DWI.
established by Ofwat, the economic regulator, and calculated using source Purpose data in the company.
To monitor drinking water quality.
Purpose source of underlying data To monitor performance of NWL Samples recorded by NWL and audited against these predetermined standards by DWI.
environmental performance source of underlying data Definition and calculation Information collected by the company Percentage of population equivalent and submitted to Ofwat annually in June.
served by non-compliant works failing It is independently certified.
Customer satisfaction Purpose Definition and calculation To monitor the performance of NWLs Domestic customers satisfaction with sewage treatment works and their impact overall service and overall value for on the environment.
money, expressed as satisfaction averaged over the surveys carried out source of underlying data during the year.
Information recorded by NWL and the EA and reported on by the latter.
Purpose To enable the tracking of perception of reputation, service and value for money over time.
source of underlying data Surveys of 500 customers 300 north, 200 south chosen at random, but representative of the customer base, carried out each quarter a total of 2,000 customers.
CliCk to returN to CoNteNts
