Northumbrian Water Group plc 5 Annual report and financial statements 2005 06 Business review Left: NWLs Jimmy Thompson repairing a water main Right: NWG providing water in Gibraltar The Board of NWG has prepared this related services Mission review in accordance with Section AES provides environmental monitoring 234ZZB of the Companies Act 1985. services, analysis and technical consultancy To be a national leader As well as meeting that statutory to major industrial groups, environmental in the provision of requirement, the Board has extended regulators and local authorities the review to deal with other aspects throughout the UK and Ireland.
sustainable water, waste of the Groups business which were water and environmental addressed in its operating and financial SA Agrer NV Agrer provides overseas solutions and, through our review last year.
The Board believes that aid funded project work in developing this additional material will be of benefit countries through a number of competitive position, to to all stakeholders.
In preparing the funding agencies.
deliver stakeholder value review, the Board has taken account of the Accounting Standards Boards WHAt We Do and grow our business.
Business strategy NWG continues to focus on the Groups WHo We Are core competencies of water and waste Northumbrian Water Group plc water management, and aims to deliver To ensure we meet the aspirations set NWG owns a number of companies, value to all stakeholders by being a out in this mission, we focus on three which together with NWG, form the leading performer in the industry.
The largest of these companies, Northumbrian Water Limited NWL is Each subsidiary trading company is To maintain an excellent reputation and one of the ten regulated water and committed to operating in a way that our main relationships by: sewerage businesses in England and delivers efficient and effective outputs, Wales.
NWL operates in the north to benefit the customers it serves and creating shareholder value: east of England, where it trades as its fellow companies within the Group.
delivering best service levels to Northumbrian Water, and in the south This collaborative approach enables the customers: east of England, where it trades as Group to build on its strengths and to delivering regulatory outputs: and Essex & Suffolk Water.
Northumbrian grow organically and in a sustainable involving all key stakeholder groups.
Water currently provides water and way for the future.
sewerage services to 2.6 million people To ensure a stable financial profile by: and Essex & Suffolk Water provides NWG is firmly rooted within the water services to 1.7 million people.
This understanding maximising revenue: of, and commitment to, those delivering operational efficiency: and Water and waste water contracts communities is demonstrated by our securing low cost long term funds.
NWG owns a number of special purpose leadership in initiatives such as Water for companies for specific water and waste health, affordable housing and in our water contracts in Scotland, Ireland approach to corporate responsibility.
Our mission is clear to be a national leader: our strategy reflects this and provides a clear direction for all of our activities.
CliCk to returN to CoNteNts Northumbrian Water Group plc 6 Annual report and financial statements 2005 06 Business review Left: Dawn fishing at Kielder Water in Northumberland Right: The former Environment Minister, Elliot Morley, with NWLs southern water and networks director John Devall on his visit to Langford water treatment works in Essex To develop a culture of continuous A summary of the Groups performance against the KPIs is set out below: improvement by: a Financial performance against kPis maintaining a rigorous risk The financial performance of NWG and NWL is monitored against the same KPIs.
management process: promoting a flexible and proactive attitude: Target Performance 2 Current year Previous year embracing a sustainable and 1 KPI NWG NWL NWG NWL NWG NWL responsible approach: ensuring a focus on safety: and 3 encouraging employees to fulfil their Gearing to RCV 80% 70% 77% 66% 76% 68% potential.
Cash interest cover 2.5x 3.0x 2.7x 3.3x 2.7x 3.4x Cash flow to net debt 13% 13% 14% 17% 15% 17% Business planning is an important process within the Group and is central to delivery 1.
Each KPI is defined in the appendix see page 34. of the long term objectives of the 2.
Figures for the previous year are as at 31 March 2005. business.
It identifies how we plan to 3.
Less than 65% for the regulated business of NWL.
achieve our corporate objectives and establishes the targets and principal Group gearing to Regulated Capital Value to 2010, which will be made more actions against which business units RCV increased slightly to 77% over the challenging by further increases in report and are measured.
Cash interest cover remained stable energy prices.
focuses on key performance indicators at 2.7x.
More details are given in the KPIs which are set during the business financial review section on page 30. b other measures and evidence planning process and are linked to both The Group prepares detailed medium regulatory and business targets.
At NWL, gearing decreased to 66% term business plans and annual budgets, and to 58% for the regulated business which are reviewed and submitted to the kPis within NWL.
Targets are set to NWG uses many performance indicators, measure performance and regular both financial and non-financial, to monitor The focus at NWL continues to be financial forecasts are made.
NWL has combined many of improving efficiency levels and driving plans and budgets include an assessment them into a balanced scorecard that is down operating costs.
Continuous of the key risks and success factors facing used to calculate employees bonuses.
improvement will be necessary to ensure each business unit.
On a monthly basis, the company is successful in meeting management compares the actual A small number of these are KPIs.
For the targets set by Ofwat in its final operational and financial performance NWG the KPIs are all financial.
Our determination of price limits for 2005 of each business with plan and budget approach to non-financial KPIs is and this is reported to the Board.
illustrated using NWL as an example in an appendix on page 35.
CliCk to returN to CoNteNts Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2005 06 Left: Hanningfield reservoir in Essex Below: NWLs Marina Proudfoot flushing a water main c NWl performance against non-financial kPis regulation The UK water industry is closely regulated.
The standards of service Performance provided by NWL are monitored by Target Current year Previous year three main regulators Ofwat for levels of customer service, the EA for Customer service standards See paragraph below environmental protection and the DWI Customer satisfaction for drinking water quality.
NWL works overall service 91% 88% closely with these and the other value for money 83% 74% organisations that have an interest in Drinking water quality 99.9% 99.9% the services it provides.
Environmental performance 100% 100% Many of the standards the UK water industry is required to meet are influenced NWL maintained its high level of service, Its northern operating area is in a region by European Union EU Directives.
This continuing to achieve greater than of modest economic growth, with a is particularly true of environmental 99.9% compliance with drinking water declining industrial customer base standards.
The Water Framework regulations, 100% compliance with Look and industrial demand for water, but Directive WFD will become increasingly Up Table LUT effluent consents, and a with a growing demand from domestic important in determining priorities for star rating on most Director General DG customers.
It has well developed future environmental investment.
The only shortcoming related resources, such as Kielder Water, and is responsible, under the WFD, for setting to DG5, which measures performance on these, coupled with above average targets for water quality in the regions sewer flooding.
Due to intense summer rainfall in the region, enable it to meet rivers and estuaries and establishing a storms, NWLs performance slipped on anticipated demand.
In addition to programme of measures to achieve them.
Whether such storms are its sewerage services, NWL continues We look forward to working closely with rare events, unlikely to recur in the near to provide expert industrial effluent the EA and other stakeholders, such as future, or reflect changed weather treatment services through its massive farmers, land managers and The Coal patterns associated with climate change, treatment works at Bran Sands Authority, as these plans are developed.
The new Consumer Council for Water CCWater also has an important role Customer satisfaction surveys showed In contrast, NWLs southern operating in representing customer interests and sustained customer satisfaction and area is in a region that has experienced, ensuring that affordability is properly perceived value for money.
and is likely to continue to experience, taken into account.
This is an excellent rapid economic and population growth, opportunity to develop a sustainable, Financial performance although it too has seen a reduction in coordinated approach to achieving An overview of the Groups financial demand from heavy industry.
performance is provided in the financial emphasises the importance of the review section on pages 30 to 33. companys well developed plans for resource development to meet additional our oPerAtiNG eNViroNMeNt water demand in a region where water Geography resources are already constrained.
NWL operates in two different regions.
Northumbrian Water in the north east of England and Essex & Suffolk Water in the south east.
CliCk to returN to CoNteNts Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2005 06 Business review Left: NWLs Phil Nixon and Roger Culpin from Durham County Council with the latest trenching machine which will be used during mains refurbishment work Right: Employees at work in NWLs northern customer centre Ofwat sets price limits every five years NWL welcomes Ofwats new duty to to the site of its customer.
This requires and 2005 06 was the first year of the contribute to sustainable development.
NWLs Many of the key challenges for the water operating costs in the year were close industry including implementation of the NWL has introduced an Access Code, to Ofwats assumptions but profits WFD, developing long term maintenance following Ofwat guidance, and has were higher mainly due to greater than strategies, balancing supply and demand, produced indicative access prices that expected growth in income.
This is partly ensuring that bills remain affordable, cover both retail and combined supply due to signing new contracts to treat and managing the effects of climate situations.
Actual prices, however, have industrial effluent.
It is too early to change, have sustainable development to be calculated on a case-specific basis.
draw conclusions on the prospects for at their core.
outperformance over the review period.
Market activity is in the early stages of The challenging efficiency targets are made Ofwat and the quality regulators can play development but we expect a gradual tougher by the spiralling cost of energy.
an important role in the water industry increase in competition for non-household In addition, the rise in direct power costs by incentivising sustainable approaches.
customers over the coming years.
We has also caused a sharp increase in the But water companies must take the lead believe that the excellent standard of cost of key treatment chemicals.
The in promoting sustainable development service we provide to our customers company is reviewing options for mitigating both in their planning and operations.
places us in a strong competitive position.
the increase in power costs by reducing NWL will continue to make these energy consumption.
Reducing the responsibilities a high priority.
Sewerage and trade effluent services are size of NWLs carbon footprint in this not covered by the new regime.
way is consistent with our sustainable Competition development goals.
Water companies are largely natural relationships monopolies.
However, in December 2005 reputation This has been a year of regulatory the new Water Supply Licensing regime The Group continues to have a strong transition as the provisions of the took effect.
This opens the market for the reputation and the Board believes that Water Act 2003 take effect.
CCWater provision of water to large industrial and this is key to the Groups ability to represents the water and sewerage commercial customers who use at least conduct business.
Maintaining a good consumers in England and Wales and 50 million litres of water annually at a reputation is regarded by the Board as took over from WaterVoice on 1 October single site.
These customers can now a critical part of sustaining the legitimacy 2005.
CCWater is independent of both choose to be supplied either by their of the business in the eyes of customers the water industry and Ofwat.
existing water company or one of the and other stakeholders.
Reputation sits newly licensed suppliers.
NWL has been alongside providing a level of service to The new Water Services Regulation heavily involved in establishing the new customers at a high standard and the two Authority came into being on 1 April framework for competition.
together build trust in the organisation.
2006 replacing the Office of Water The Group fulfils its corporate Services.
However, the economic Competition may take one of two forms responsibility to the community through regulator for the water industry will and, as a consequence, there are now its operational and community activities.
continue to be known as Ofwat.
In the first, the licensee of Director General of Water Services is simply buys water wholesale from the replaced by a board.
We are pleased at local supplier and then retails it to the the continuity provided by Philip Fletchers customer.
appointment as Chair of the new In the second form, the licensee provides Authority and look forward to the water to be conveyed through the appointment of a Chief Executive.
distribution system of the local supplier CliCk to returN to CoNteNts Northumbrian Water Group plc 9 Annual report and financial statements 2005 06 Right: Sally Mutch from AES working on soil samples Below: Managing Director John Cuthbert presenting at the North East People Exchange Programme NWL monitors opinion on reputation by regulators, stakeholder organisations and Domestic customers tracking views through extensive research the public and helps to develop policy and NWL keeps its customers informed about programmes with our domestic and improve understanding of the industry.
its activities via direct communications commercial customers, employees and sent with bills and an annual magazine other stakeholders as well as extensive investor relations called The Source.
Other information is media monitoring.
Apart from statutory information, available on the website and customers investors could request a copy of the who are directly affected by works stakeholder relations Sustainable Development Performance receive tailored information depending The Group as a whole has a Code of report for last year.
As part of its on the activity.
Conduct covering its relationships with commitment to corporate governance, its customers, employees, suppliers, NWG has undertaken an independent industrial and commercial customers local communities, shareholders, other survey of the views of its largest NWL has a unique raw water base and a investors and the environment.
For NWL, shareholders on a range of issues greater dependency on its key industrial key relationships also include those with regarding the Company.
The overriding customers than is the case with other its regulators.
conclusion was that these shareholders UK water companies.
As a result, it has are pleased with the performance of the well-established relationships with its key NWG regularly communicates with its Company: that the Company is well industrial and commercial customers, stakeholders, for example, via direct placed to achieve the operational targets forged through managed accounts.
meetings with the business community set out in the regulatory review and that This proactive approach to customers and its representative groups such as the management team has performed has allowed NWL not only to maintain the CBI and Chambers of Commerce.
very well and is very accessible.
existing relationships, but also to build It is an active member of these and other its business by providing additional organisations.
It also meets national, regulatory services to existing and new customers.
regional and local authorities as well as NWL has developed a good working It continues to contribute to attracting MPs and MEPs and other appropriate relationship with its direct regulators, inward investment to the north east of organisations to explain ongoing work Ofwat, the EA and the DWI.
It works England, by providing the right quality and issues.
This includes attendance closely with local authorities, which and availability of water, and access at Party Conferences to ensure that have regulatory powers which affect to effluent treatment services, that it has the opportunity to speak to all the company, as well as other regional prospective investors find attractive.
NWL communicates authorities such as the regional with local communities through public development agencies.
It has developed NWL also provides a regular newsletter for meetings and written material when it relationships and partnerships with many commercial customers alongside a series needs to explain the impact of work other organisations which affect, or are of workshops to highlight services and it needs to carry out in their area.
These include other benefits for customers.
English Nature, the National Trust and industry relations the Wildlife Trusts as well as many NWL is a committed member of Water UK, other environmental and community the industry association that represents based organisations.
all UK water and waste water service suppliers at national and European level.
It provides a positive framework for the industry to engage with Government, CliCk to returN to CoNteNts Northumbrian Water Group plc 20 Annual report and financial statements 2005 06 Business review Left: Ian Macpherson accepts the award for the best health and safety committee in NWL Right: NWLs southern distribution teams Just an hour challenge to bring water to St Peters church, near Hanningfield reservoir in Essex employees These areas have been supported by The Water for health campaign Every company within the Group has dedicating our time, money and facilities continues to grow.
Supported by developed its own employee policies and have made a real impact within significant medical evidence it encourages reflecting the framework set out in the the communities in which we serve.
everyone to drink more water for their NWG Code of Conduct.
These are In general terms, activities have been health.
The initial focus was providing tailored to specific business objectives focused on supporting projects aimed free mains-fed water coolers for schools and operating environments.
Each at making areas which we serve a better via the Chill out scheme and, to date, company aims to recruit and retain the place to live, work and invest in.
190,000 has been paid into the fund best people, with a diverse range of skills, and nearly 250 schools have benefited experience and backgrounds, people Employee volunteering and involvement from water coolers for their pupils.
Water who are committed to making the runs through the Group and the Chairman cooler trials are being carried out in care company successful.
In return, companies has participated in the Just an hour homes and prisons within the area, aim to provide opportunities and training scheme along with 30% of employees.
alongside detailed research on the impact for employees to develop their skills Everyone is encouraged to give at least 12 of providing more drinking water facilities and capabilities to equip them to meet hours of their time at work to a community in such places.
the challenges of their role, while project or initiative.
Last year, 4,000 hours rewarding the contributions of both were donated in this way.
Employees also The education programme has focused teams and individuals.
benefit from the Cheque it out scheme, on the curriculum and competitions which allows them to utilise a special fund to encourage good citizenship and social and community relations to give money to their own community enterprise in schools.
The Group is The Group policy is to support the group or project.
involved with skills development and the communities in which it operates and all Managing Director chairs the Regional subsidiary companies are encouraged to The Group also works with the four Skills Partnership in the north east.
involve themselves in the areas they serve, community foundations which serve its although the scope for such involvement area and currently has nearly 870,000 Environmental partnerships play a key by smaller subsidiaries is limited.
invested primarily in endowment funds, part in the management of our sites.
which provide a long term investment The Wildlife Trusts of Northumberland, NWLs corporate responsibility for local community projects which Durham and Essex as well as the Broads programme is wide ranging and includes: benefit from grants derived from the Authority and the Davy Down Trust investment income.
Committees of provide experts to help with conservation an extensive community involvement employees determine the allocation of and education work, and play a critical programme: these grants based on expert advice role in development at these sites.
health and environmental received from the foundations.
campaigning: WaterAid is our adopted charity and our an educational programme: employee fundraising committee has regional support: and raised nearly 2 million since 1996 support for our adopted charity, with the help of the Group, customers, WaterAid.
These funds have helped WaterAid provide sustainable water and sanitation solutions together with hygiene education to people in Africa and Asia.
CliCk to returN to CoNteNts Northumbrian Water Group plc 2 Annual report and financial statements 2005 06 Left: Northumbrian Water Ellington Colliery Band with NWLs Ray Baldwin celebrating sponsorship from the company Below: Employees at one of the Building our future roadshows 100 HoW We PerForMeD NWL has performed very well on Ofwats In 2005 06, NWL responded to 10,241 For our domestic customers new method of measuring customer customer com90 plaints across our northern NWL is committed to providing a high telephone service which takes into account and southern operating areas, equivalent 80 standard of customer service that meets a combination of all lines busy, calls to 5.1 complaints for every 1,000 70 the expectations of both customers abandoned and customer satisfaction.
This is higher than and regulators.
underlying reason for this good performance previous years 60 and reflects the significant is that the company has always aimed to impact of summer storms when an 50 Once again, drinking water and answer customer calls in person rather than unprecedented number of customers 40 environmental standards have been met use automated telephone answering systems.
The quality of drinking water supplied in both our regions is very high and The number of properties flooded from CCWater formally reviews the quality 20 remains among the best in the country.
sewers increased significantly in 2005 06. of complaints handling.
During this 10 This was a consequence of an increased process they visit our premises to audit 0 The number of properties suffering number of intense, local storms that procedures, track samples of complaints Overall satisfaction Value for money unplanned interruptions to water supplies affected some of our most densely correspondence through our systems returned to normal low levels in 2005 06 populated urban areas.
For example, a and assess the quality of our responses.
after the major interruption caused by storm on 19 June 2005 was measured as In 2005 06, the assessment was that the unprecedented storms at Hexham in a once in 500 year event.
handling of 96% of all northern and January 2005.
The major scheme to southern complaints were rated as good.
replace the two pipes crossing the river NWL is very aware of the impact flooding Tyne that were washed away is progressing has on customers and is working with NWL has always monitored levels of well.
The pipe network in Hexham has also other stakeholders in the region to attempt customer satisfaction and these have been strengthened to improve the security to reduce the incidence of flooding and been consistently high.
In January 2005, of supplies in the area.
improve the way flooding is dealt with in a more extensive and robust research the immediate and longer term.
The results Managing the amount of water lost from formal liaison meetings with external are shown below.
our networks is a key priority for NWL.
bodies, such as local authorities, most Satisfaction level The leakage targets agreed with Ofwat notably Newcastle City, South Tyneside and % for 2005 06 were 157.5 megalitres per North Tyneside whose areas were worst 100 day Ml d in the north and 69.0 Ml d in affected the EA and local residents groups, 90 91 the south, and both of these targets have have proven invaluable in ensuring the 80 83 been met.
In the south, where resources most up to date information is fed back are scarce, this is, by most comparative to the wider community.
70 measures, amongst the lowest leakage 60 levels in the country.
NWL has committed Despite differing socio-economic 50 to make further reductions in both the characteristics, and increases in levels north and the south.
This will be achieved of water and sewerage charges during 40 by further increasing the coverage and the year, NWLs proactive cash collection 30 intensity of district metering, further approach has allowed it to maintain its 20 optimisation of pressure management, collection rates.
It also reflects NWLs improved methods for leak detection and successful initiative to encourage as many 10 better use of new technology, together customers as possible to use direct debit.
0 Overall satisfaction Value for money with our ongoing programme of renewal This still proves to be the most efficient of old pipes.
way to collect payment for bills.
CliCk to returN to CoNteNts Northumbrian Water Group plc 22 Annual report and financial statements 2005 06 Business review Left: NWLs Allan Daley inspects the water clarity at a customers property Right: One of the children in Malawi, Africa who has access to fresh water thanks to WaterAid This more rigorous approach, produces In addition, the existing arrangement to We take part in a number of community results which fully represent the opinions of treat effluent from the PTA production and partnership based initiatives in this our customer base.
Statistics for value for facilities at Wilton was successfully part of north Northumberland and are money are at its highest levels for six years.
transferred from ICI to Advansa UK members of the Kielder Partnership Limited, which was then extended to which is currently planning to build on For our commercial customers cover additional waste streams.
NWL the existing activities and facilities with NWL has continued to develop its commercial built its first anaerobic treatment facility further major developments in the area.
business with major companies and, in to carry out this work at Bran Sands and particular, has successfully negotiated three treatment began in February.
For our municipal customers major water and waste water services The Group is a member of two contracts, with John Baarda Limited, Biofuels The research with this group of customers consortiums delivering private finance Corporation plc and Corus UK Limited.
showed similar results to those for initiative contracts with Scottish Water for domestic customers with satisfaction levels waste water treatment.
At Levenmouth, NWLs largest commercial customer in the at 91% and value for money at 85%.
where the Group has a 75% shareholding north east is Terra Nitrogen UK Limited in both project and operating companies, based in Billingham.
Terra Nitrogen has For our leisure customers the effluent treatment plant is meeting attracted new investment to the region This is a thriving area of NWLs business, discharge consent conditions.
Practical by using its by-products, such as carbon largely focused on our reservoirs, completion of the odour treatment and dioxide, electricity and steam, to supply especially Kielder.
The year round sludge drying facilities has been achieved John Baarda which has now created activities have contributed to increasing and commissioning and performance the largest greenhouse complex in the both turnover and profitability.
NWLs commercial and network distribution teams worked closely with The popularity of the Winter At Ayrshire, the Group acquired John Baarda, growers of premium grade Wonderland event of Christmas activities Degrmont Limiteds interest in the tomatoes, to provide long term water for the family has grown and this year project and operating companies on and waste water services.
the number of visitors doubled, with 23 December 2005, taking the Groups around 13,000 people visiting Kielder interest to 75% in the project company Biofuels has moved into the region and over a six week period.
A highlight of the and 100% in the operating company.
built Europes largest biodiesel plant at summer months was Treibgut, a water The three effluent treatment plants Seal Sands on Teesside, where it produces based theatrical performance.
NWL continue to perform satisfactorily.
250,000 tonnes of biodiesel a year from hosted this internationally acclaimed renewable vegetable crops.
NWL has event as part of NewcastleGatesheads In Ireland, the Group is part of a already supplied water services and is Culture 10 programme and the Source contractual consortium that designed now working with Biofuels to provide of the Tyne Festival.
and built a 70 million waste water waste water services.
Biofuels is one of treatment plant for Cork City Council.
a number of businesses in the region to Throughout the year, we continued to Under the consortium agreement, the benefit from NWLs cost effective waste attract a diverse range of customers, from Group has full responsibility for the water treatment plant at Bran Sands.
fishermen to lodge guests, who enjoyed operation and maintenance of the plant.
being as energetic or relaxed as they Corus has also benefited from these chose in this rich and varied landscape.
AquaGib Limited, two thirds owned by effluent treatment services since 1998. the Group in joint venture with the It has now extended its contract with We carry out regular surveys of our Government of Gibraltar, continues to NWL, thus continuing the long term customers and 94% rated our customer operate Gibraltars dual drinking water relationship between the two companies.
service in this area as good or excellent.
and sea water distribution systems CliCk to returN to CoNteNts Northumbrian Water Group plc 23 Annual report and financial statements 2005 06 Right: NWLs Nicola Hawes working on K2 in the northern customer centre Below: Ian Harvey from one of NWLs northern distribution teams carrying out routine maintenance on a stop valve Case study: Mapping out a swift response WHO: Nicola Hawes, customer adviser, has worked in customer service for four years.
WHAT: She has been using NWLs specially designed information management system, K2, since its introduction this year.
K2 is a real time mapping tool which overlays customer contact and other operational activity onto our geographical information system GIS.
This not only details houses and buildings, but can also show sewer and water pipes so that the customer centre employees have all the information they need to build a bigger picture of what is happening in a particular area and give a prompt response to a customers enquiry.
WHY: Its brilliant, says Nicola, it means that when a customer phones, I key in the address and can see if there is a problem in the area straight away.
I can tell the customer what is happening, how long any work is likely to take and advise them what to do in the meantime.
In the past I had to take their details, investigate their query and call them back.
This way I can deal with things in one phone call, which is better for everyone.
CliCk to returN to CoNteNts Northumbrian Water Group plc 2 Annual report and financial statements 2005 06 Business review Left: Sir Fred at a Just an hour celebration event for NWLs employees Right: NWLs Barry Smith working on a filter at Layer fide la Haye treatment works in Essex under its long term contract with the For the second year running, all sewage NWL has recently signed a long term Government of Gibraltar.
treatment works, of which there are over agreement with RWE npower for it to 400 160 with numeric consents, met operate and sell the energy from NWLs For customers of our related the standards set by the EA.
This is a hydroelectric power station at Kielder services companies significant achievement as the number of Water.
This agreement has increased AES business grew by over 25% in the parameters tested for increases, and the the efficiency of the plant and will also last year in the Occupational Hygiene, standards in the consents become more improve its future reliability.
Contaminated Land, Ambient Air, and stringent.
The EA monitors performance Drinking Water sectors.
against standards set by both the Urban investment achievements 2005 06 Waste Water Treatment Directive and the NWL made a good start with the new The company also received its best ever Water Resources Act.
Ofwat uses some investment programme and expenditure annual audit results from UKAS in March of this information in comparing the is broadly in line with the requirements 2006 and received a commendable third operating performance of the various set out in the regulatory settlement.
Good progress has been made on work During the year, AES secured significant Pollution incidents continue to be a focus to improve our water treatment works contracts to provide analytical services of attention within the business and were at Chigwell, Whittle define, Horsley and to Water Services Northern Ireland and reduced for the second year running.
Warkworth to prevent pesticides from strengthened its relationship with Marks farming entering water supplies.
& Spencer where it now has a contract to NWL is a major consumer of energy monitor water systems at half of its stores within its water and waste water Over 591km of water mains have been across the country.
It also won a major processes and is already accredited under renewed or relined renovated to reduce contract for British Energys Hartlepool the Carbon Trusts Energy Efficiency iron in water supplies.
Nuclear Power Station and continues Accreditation Scheme.
Energy costs have to be one of the National Grids four risen substantially over the past two years Eight sewage discharges have been approved laboratories for the analysis of increasing the importance of reducing improved as part of the National contaminated soils.
NWL monitors power Environment Programme, including consumption closely and audits energy Hustledown and Seahouses, and 91 Agrer has successfully completed several and pump efficiency to identify areas combined sewer overflows have been important projects in Central Africa and where new plant operating procedures improved to enhance the aesthetic the former USSR and continues to win and efficiency improvement measures quality of rivers and streams.
Substantial new contracts in developing countries will reduce consumption.
work is also being carried out at Redcar sponsored by the main funding agencies.
to improve further the quality of the NWL also recognises the need to reduce bathing water.
Meeting quality standards its use of energy generated from fossil NWL upgraded its environmental fuel sources.
It currently meets its energy Investment schemes to improve the certification to the new 2004 version of needs from a mix of internal renewable sewerage system have removed 99 ISO 14001 known as ISO 14001:2004 generators installed at water and waste properties from our register for properties in December 2005.
This rigorous, water facilities and, since 2004, from at risk of flooding from sewers.
independently audited certification external supplies generated from continues to cover all areas of our green and high efficiency sources business, including operational sites such as hydro, wind and high quality and office-based teams.
CliCk to returN to CoNteNts Northumbrian Water Group plc 25 Annual report and financial statements 2005 06 Right: NWLs John Mowbray with Phil Payne from the NewcastleGateshead Initiative at the launch of the Tall Ships on the Tyne Below: NWLs Stuart Pudney, Chris Woodcock and Mark Charlton on board one of the Tall Ships whose crew was sponsored by NWL 100 90 80 70 NWL has now entered the pre-planning We have introduced health screening for the planned introduction of an updated 60 submission stage of the major project to all employees, whether it is critical for their intranet and touch screen facilities in those 50 enlarge its Abberton reservoir for water job or not, and provide all employees with areas where access to computers is limited.
Ten years have already access to private medical insurance cover 40 been spent carefully preparing this major for work related conditions.
NWL has Group companies use informal and 30 scheme which involves changes to continued to reduce the level of sickness formal measures such as the appraisal 20 existing abstraction licences, providing absence which is now down to 3.1%.
system, analysis of statistics and new pipelines, raising the reservoirs employee attitude su10 rveys to engage existing dam by 3.2 metres and Since April 2004, Group employees have with employees and understand their 0 constructing four additional small dams.
been able to invest in NWG shares in a needs, morale and motivation.
The planning application is due to be tax efficient way through the Share submitted in 2006 and, provided the Incentive Plan SIP, which provides a free NWLs commitment to monitoring and planning process proceeds smoothly, share for every three purchased.
By the measuring employee attitudes has construction will begin in 2010.
Once end of 2005 06, some 1,016 Group continued with a thorough survey filled in 2014, the capacity of the enlarged employees were investors in the SIP, conducted in the summer of 2005.
A total reservoir will be increased by some 60% owning a total of 1,335,065 NWG of 49% of employees completed a detailed and it will be an important part of our shares 0.25% of issued share capital.
questionnaire examining their views on plans to secure water supplies for our their job satisfaction, on the company, its customers in one of Britains driest regions.
Employees also have access to mybenefits image, management, communications, which provides a range of money saving training and development, team spirit, For our employees benefits including tax efficient childcare health and safety, customer service and Recruitment and retention rates within vouchers and discounted store vouchers.
the Group vary from subsidiary to Currently 17% of employees participate Employee survey subsidiary, depending on the sector and in the scheme.
Generally, 100 employee turnover levels are in line with Internal communication throughout the 90 2 4 the average for the sector within which Group is supported by annual roadshows, 3 80 1 each subsidiary operates.
For example, a briefing and magazine every two months, 6 7 70 5 turnover in NWL during the year was less weekly newsletters and newsflashes as than 7%.
These are under review, with 60 50 Throughout the Group we have 3,045 40 employees, from continuing operations, working as set out below: 30 20 10 Average number Group business unit of employees % 0 % 1 Enjoy job 82 Northumbrian Water Limited 2,540 83 2 Felt they were doing a good job and adding value 92 3 Received enough training to carry out their job safely 85 Water and waste water contracts 150 5 4 Environmentally aware 91 Related services 355 12 5 Proud to work for NWL 74 6 NWL has a good image 80 total employees 3,0 5 00 7 Encourages employee involvement in the community 80 CliCk to returN to CoNteNts Northumbrian Water Group plc 26 Annual report and financial statements 2005 06 Business review Left: NWLs Ivan Jepson with George Doodly Hexham Rowing Club with the double scull named Northumbrian Water, as a result of community sponsorship Right: Matt Marshall and Jack Freeman from one of NWLs southern distribution teams repairing a water main at Southend Pier in Essex The results were reported back through a Building upon the achievements of last All Group companies have health and summary report circulated to all employees year, NWL has made significant progress safety policies and ensure their employees and were also discussed with the in refining the human resources system to receive the necessary training to carry out representative bodies and at a series of provide further management information.
They also have policies roadshows to which all employees were Through mydata, managers now have to promote the health and well-being of invited.
A full copy of the survey results the ability to view full training history their employees.
was also published on our information for each of their team members and management system.
Management also have access to an on-line training NWL continues to use its Just culture agreed to address and report back on calendar and course catalogue, enabling framework to investigate reportable key issues raised in the survey.
a proactive approach to planning and accidents.
The framework identifies the tracking learning and development.
causes and implications of accidents, training and development ensures that lessons are learned and All Group companies are committed to For the year 2005 06, NWL have encourages safe behaviour and practices.
training and developing their employees, incorporated training and development to benefit both the employee and the into the business planning phase as part NWL has completed the second year of company.
They use an annual appraisal of departmental recruitment and people a five year health and safety plan, which system to monitor development plans.
This enables NWL to target contains targets to reduce the number and identify career development professional development and enhances of reportable accidents.
As an incentive opportunities and training needs.
for employees to be more aware of their Companies and employees use the own and their colleagues safety, the appraisal as a formal way to provide NWL successfully completed essential company introduced an initiative linking feedback and discussion.
skills in the workplace programmes and the correct reporting of accidents and is now ready to begin development of hazards, positive behaviour and the lack During the year, 36 senior managers the NWL accredited learning framework of reportable accidents, to monthly cash took part in the fifth management with relevant partners and national payments to the charity Mencap.
development programme and 90% of learning providers.
senior managers have now taken part.
This year the number of lost time This concludes what has proved to be a Working environment reportable accidents fell by over 50%, very successful programme and future A safe working environment is essential for which exceeded the 2006 07 target in management development options are all Group companies.
This is particularly the five year plan.
All employees are currently being reviewed.
A total of 174 important when employees work with actively encouraged to report hazards team leaders have now completed the hazardous substances or in potentially and near misses and the number of team leader development programme, dangerous situations.
The Group is health and safety issues reported has which was introduced in September committed to improving the health and increased as a result of that effort.
A further 96 team leaders are safety at work of all our employees.
resulted in a total of 68,740 being raised taking part during 2006 07, by which for Mencap, up from 20,500 last year, time 90% of NWLs team leaders will as we reduce accidents by identifying have completed the programme.
CliCk to returN to CoNteNts Northumbrian Water Group plc 2 Annual report and financial statements 2005 06 Left: Langford water treatment works in Essex Below: Durham County Cricket Club youth squad in action, one of the many local sporting teams that the company support risks AND resourCes Changes to the regulatory Changes to weather patterns and All subsidiaries within the Group identify environment and to legislation their impact and assess the impact of risks to their Regulation acts as a proxy for The Groups main business, the provision business.
The Group uses a model that comprehensive competition in the water of water and sewerage services, is closely identifies risks under five headings industry and regulators encourage high linked to the water cycle and is, therefore, environment, external, operations, standards and efficient operation in the influenced by the vagaries of the British finance, and reputation.
For each risk the adoption of industry best practice.
NWL is skilled and experienced unmanaged and managed likelihood and result, NWL is subject to ever tightening in managing climatic uncertainties, both consequence are identified, management standards, often requiring additional in terms of the impact of having too controls and frequency of monitoring human and financial resources and new little and too much rainfall.
Although are reported and the scale of the risk assets and systems.
Similarly, UK and EU completely outside its control, this has is assessed.
NWL has set measures to legislation changes on a regular basis and a detrimental impact on NWLs overall enable it to determine whether the risks the interpretation of existing laws can performance in the Ofwat evaluation of are significant to the business.
NWL has assessed the management team reviews the model possible impact of global warming on in detail every year to ensure that the Ofwat is required to take account of both its own operations and those of key inclusion and assessment of each risk changes in legal obligations applying industrial and commercial customers.
The NWG and NWL to water companies when it sets price Audit Committees consider the outcome limits at the five yearly periodic reviews.
Weather patterns appear to be changing, of this review.
In addition, the NWL board Where changes having a material with increasing incidences of hot, dry considers the management of significant financial impact occur between reviews, summers and heavy rain in winter.
risks at each of its meetings.
NWL or Ofwat may request an interim However, severe and irregular localised determination for a price change before storms seem to have become more Apart from NWL, none of the subsidiaries the end of the five year period.
Less frequent in recent years, causing has risks considered to be significant to significant unforeseen costs can be unwelcome sewer flooding to homes and the Groups short and long term value.
logged up, so that the costs can be properties.
Unlike 2004, this year has seen The NWG Board considers social, taken into account retrospectively at below average rainfall punctuated by some environmental and ethical risks as the next price review.
very heavy rainstorms in the summer.
outlined in the corporate governance Widespread flooding on Tyneside was report on pages 40 and 41.
Details of the The Group companies actively monitor caused by an extreme storm on the Groups treasury risks are contained in actual and potential changes to the afternoon of 19 June 2005 when over note 22 to the financial statements.
regulatory and legislative frameworks to 70mm of rain fell in three hours.
Other anticipate and, where possible, prepare heavy storms on 30 June, 13 August for the impact the changes will have.
The and 31 August 2005 also caused severe same legislation that creates additional flooding to properties.
cost burdens in NWL may also create market opportunities for AES.
CliCk to returN to CoNteNts Northumbrian Water Group plc 2 Annual report and financial statements 2005 06 Business review Left: NWLs Dave Pattinson background and Chris Holmes working on a sludge screen at Wear Valley water treatment works Right: One of NWLs project managers, Karen Welsh, at Birtley sewage treatment works social, environmental and Over the years, NWL has carefully designed During the year, a review of NWGs ethical risks its systems in Essex to take account of the approach to sustainable development The principal social, environmental or limited availability of water in summer.
resulted in the creation of a new Corporate ethical risk considered to be significant Consequently, our reservoirs are full at the Responsibility Team.
This team will develop, to the value of the Group is the possibility time of preparing this report.
The Langford monitor and champion NWGs corporate of the removal of the opportunity to use Recycling Scheme was commissioned responsibility strategy and encourage and sewage sludge as a soil conditioner on some two years ago to improve the facilitate cross-functional decision making agricultural land.
If this disposal route was security of water supply.
This scheme is for responsible business practice.
lost, NWL and other water and sewerage designed to treat up to 40 Ml d of water companies would need to find or during the summer months.
The resource NWL has an environment policy and a develop alternative ways to re-use or position is further enhanced by our sustainable development policy and the dispose of its sewage sludge.
This could industry-leading work to manage demand Managing Director is personally accountable mean higher capital and revenue costs and control leakage.
Customer responses to the NWL board for both of these.
to provide additional sludge processing to our long standing programmes to facilities.
However, NWLs existing encourage the wise use of water have also environment policy contract with Lafarge to use sewage helped to reduce demand.
NWL is committed to preventing sludge pellets as a fuel replacement in pollution, minimising its adverse cement manufacture, gives NWL a viable In the medium term, there is an identified environmental impacts, in the context alternative way of disposing of sludge in need to improve the security of supply of its activities as a water supply and the medium term.
and augment resources in the Essex area.
sewerage undertaker, and promoting Our plan to raise Abberton reservoir is positive environmental outcomes.
This Water resources described on page 25. is demonstrated through research to NWL has sufficient water reserves in its promote and deliver innovative solutions, northern area, largely due to Kielder Policy and management together with a continuing commitment Water and the ability to top up its NWG has replaced the Sustainable to improve its environmental performance major rivers during periods of drought.
Development Committee with a new across all its activities.
This includes asset Its southern area is in one of the driest Corporate Responsibility Committee which design, construction, operation and parts of the UK and rainfall has been low has a wider remit.
The new committee disposal, focusing specifically on air and since November 2004.
In Suffolk, both comprises directors, management team climate systems, the water environment, groundwater and river levels are at members and senior managers and has resource and raw material use, waste, about average for the time of year.
been established to review policies and conservation of biodiversity and heritage The situation in Essex is currently less to agree targets and the framework for and local communities.
challenging than that facing water activity in this important area.
Specialist companies further south and NWL working groups will be charged with sustainable development policy continues to ensure there is enough investigating and advising on specific NWL aims to use resources efficiently water available for customers needs.
environmental, workplace, marketplace and procure materials, goods and and community projects.
Area Corporate commodities on the basis of their Responsibility Committees, covering our environmental, social and economic northern and southern operational areas, impacts.
At the same time, NWL will will support the Committee by monitoring work to reduce, where possible, the the delivery of the corporate responsibility amount of wastes generated and re-use strategy in their areas as well as raising or recycle by-products.
It will also protect awareness of corporate responsibility and enhance biological diversity, activity and initiatives.
ecological systems and cultural heritage.
CliCk to returN to CoNteNts Northumbrian Water Group plc 29 Annual report and financial statements 2005 06 Right: NWLs Dave Forster lowers Nick Graham into the fish tank as part of the ranger training programme at Fontburn reservoir in Northumberland Below: Martin Measor from NWLs southern area working in the control room at Layer fide la Haye treatment works, in Essex DriViNG tHe BusiNess ForWArD Ofwat sets price limits using the industry investment aspects Ofwats review of NWLs price limits in cost of capital as a target rate of return Over the five years to 2010, NWL will its final determination in 2004 sets the on investment.
For the 2004 review of invest around 1 billion.
This will include framework for the five years to 2010 and, price limits, a figure of 5.1% real post tax maintenance of its existing assets as well given the impact of NWL on the Group, was used.
However, for later years in the as further improvements to the quality it will be a significant influence on the period, this return proved insufficient for of drinking water, sewerage assets, future development, performance many companies to achieve what were discharges to the environment, and levels and position of the Group.
Beyond its considered to be adequate financial ratios of service provided to customers.
regulated business, the Group anticipates for relevant investment grade rating from modest organic growth in all areas.
Consequently, upward As outlined on page 24, NWL is increasing financeability adjustments to price its investment to maintain its above ground Final determination limits were needed to ensure that the sewerage assets.
These have been assessed The determination included assumptions financial ratios would be sufficient.
In by Ofwat as deteriorating.
NWL has on operating and capital efficiencies.
NWLs case, the financeability adjustment invested heavily in the provision of new They were: was 20 million in 2002 03 prices most above ground sewerage assets and has of which comes into effect in 2008 09 effectively doubled its asset base in this annual average operating efficiency and 2009 10. area in the last ten years.
Increased capital improvements of 1.2% for water and maintenance investment will achieve and 2.0% for sewerage: Financial performance for the appointed maintain a stable performance.
overall capital maintenance efficiency business has been broadly in line with improvements of 3.6% for water and Ofwats assumptions this year, but the NWL is working hard to minimise the 3.9% for sewerage for the full five cost of power and abstraction charges effect of the increasing number of year period : and are both rising significantly above the localised heavy summer storms.
overall capital enhancement rate of inflation.
In this context, Ofwats improvements of 14.8% for water and efficiency assumptions for future The extent and impact of flooding from 14.6% for sewerage for the full five operating costs will be challenging.
sewers is a concern to NWL, its customers year period.
The allowance in price limits for this service improvement will Financial aspects not eradicate the problem, but it will Price limits allowed in 2005 06 increased by 6.5% before inflation and for the next mean that the worst cases can be four years are: addressed on the basis of priorities agreed with Ofwat and CCWater.
Price limits per year 2006 07 2007 08 2008 09 2009 10 NWL will also continue to invest in new and improved sewage treatment works % increase above inflation 3.7 3.2 1.0 0.6 to meet the discharge standards required for the protection of environments NWLs Regulatory Capital Value, as advised by Ofwat, at 31 March 2006 was 2,624 designated as sensitive and the million and for the next four years will be: requirements of the EU Freshwater Fish Directive.
At the same time, NWL is Regulatory Capital Value at 31 March 2006 07 2007 08 2008 09 2009 10 continuing to invest in improvements to unsatisfactory sewage overflows and in Outturn prices, assuming inflation reducing odours from a number of its of 2.5% per year million 2,755 2,875 2,979 3,058 sewage treatment works.
CliCk to returN to CoNteNts Northumbrian Water Group plc 30 Annual report and financial statements 2005 06 Business review Left: NWLs Sean McGlynn and Jasen Merritt working at Bran Sands effluent treatment works Right: Ben Anstee from AES carrying out an environmental noise and ambient air assessment The planning application to enlarge the impact of changes in population The net interest charge from continuing Abberton reservoir in Essex is due to be and industry levels, particularly with the operations was 106.0 million 2005: submitted in 2006 see page 25 and, development of the Thames Gateway 99.9 million and includes a credit of provided the planning process proceeds area on the demand for, and supply of, 13.0 million 2005: 14.1 million in smoothly, construction will begin in 2010. water: and respect of the amortisation of the debt When it is filled in 2014, the capacity of the impact of climate change, fair value.
the enlarged reservoir will be some 60% particularly where it relates to the greater than it is today.
increased incidence of flooding and Profit on ordinary activities before tax for changes in rainfall patterns.
the year was 130.3 million 2005: 96.3 NWL has almost completed its 20 year million.
The tax charge of 39.3 million mains rehabilitation programme and FiNANCiAl reVieW 2005: 20.1 million reflects increased has now started its mains flushing NWGs financial performance profitability and changes in tax rules on programme to reduce the incidence Revenue from continuing operations was capitalised maintenance expenditure.
NWLs 591.5 million for the year to 31 March effective tax rate for the year to 31 March investment programme, at three of its 2006 2005: 541.6 million.
Northumberland water treatment works, is mainly due to the price increase on to provide additional protection against water and sewerage charges to support The sale of subsidiaries contributed 14.6 pesticides is well under way and it has the continuing high capital investment million to the results for the year and this is started a project to identify whether the programme agreed as part of the recent included in the profit from discontinued management of the upland catchment regulatory price review.
operations of 15.4 million see note 8 for of the river Tees would be effective further analysis.
in protecting the raw water quality.
Profit on ordinary activities before interest from continuing operations for the year The Groups gearing has remained stable Future trends and factors was 236.2 million 2005: 196.1 million.
with net debt increasing by 129.4 million There is a range of known changes, Operating costs increased by 9.8 million to 2,010.4 million over the year.
Cash both short term and longer term, that 3% to 355.3 million.
At NWL, operating interest cover for the Group at 2.7x is may have an impact on the future costs have increased from 310.5 million unchanged from last year see page 16 development, performance and position to 320.9 million, principally reflecting for further analysis.
of NWGs subsidiaries in general and additional depreciation charges from the NWL in particular.
These include: commissioning of new assets, the impact of inflation plus increases in market prices the introduction of new UK and for power.
These increases have been EU legislation such as the Traffic partially offset by efficiency savings.
Management Bill and WFD, the Operating costs for the appointed business deadlines in existing legislation such in 2005 06 are in line with those estimated as the lower lead in drinking water in the 2004 final determination.
requirement in 2013 and proposals for future legislation such as the proposal for water and sewerage companies to adopt private sewers : CliCk to returN to CoNteNts Northumbrian Water Group plc 3 Annual report and financial statements 2005 06 Right: Abberton reservoir in Essex Below: The team at Hanningfield reservoir in Essex: Mick Robson, Dave Rounce, Peter Short and David Brown Case study: securing water supplies now and for the future WHO: Clare Ridgewell, demand planning manager at Hanningfield water treatment works.
WHAT: Clare is responsible for making sure we all use water wisely and encouraging customers to help us manage valuable water resources efficiently.
Wide scale distribution of water butts and cistern replacement devices are a practical way for customers to use water efficiently, said Clare.
The water audit packs we supply are an ideal way for customers to monitor and adjust how they use water in their homes and gardens.
As well as looking at how customers can help, NWL is working to secure water supplies in the future.
One key example is the major project to enlarge Abberton reservoir in Essex: when this expansion is completed in 2014, it will increase Abbertons capacity by 60%.
WHY: It is vital that NWL works with all our customers to respond to the challenges of the changing climate and weather conditions.
Clare is confident that a consistent and focused approach to water efficiency does make a difference.
It is essential that we manage the balance between meeting the needs of customers today and securing supplies for customers of the future.
CliCk to returN to CoNteNts Northumbrian Water Group plc 32 Annual report and financial statements 2005 06 Business review Left: Helen Jacobs from NWLs southern environment team with dormice boxes at Hanningfield reservoir, one of NWLs environmental protection schemes Right: NWLs northern areas Ashley Ferguson, Delphine Bourel and Paul Joyce take part in Just an hour to restore the Mary Joicey Lifeboat Accounting policies ULG provides overseas aid funded project On 20 April 2005, NWL effectively NWG is required to report its consolidated work through a number of funding completed the early redemption of financial results under International agencies and was sold, to PMTC six debenture stocks amounting to Financial Reporting Standards IFRS International Limited, for a consideration 3.7 million.
This is the first equal to its net assets of 26,642.
NWL gave formal notice of redemption year that the Group has presented its to the holders of the 11.2% redeemable financial statements under IFRS and the In the results for the year to 31 March debenture stock 3.5 million and the comparatives have been restated.
The 2006, the Group profit on the disposal of 12% redeemable debenture stock 2.0 consolidated financial statements have Entec and FPS was 14.0 million and 0.6 million and both were redeemed at par been prepared in accordance with IFRS as million respectively.
No tax arises on either on 31 December 2005. adopted for use in the EU and as applied disposal due to the availability of the in accordance with the provisions of the substantial shareholdings exemption.
A On 31 January 2006, NWF issued further Companies Act 1985. payment of 11.0 million was made into 60 million index linked 1.6274% the defined benefit scheme to meet the Eurobonds due in 2041.
The Group issued explanatory Section 75 liabilities of both FPS and Entec.
reconciliations detailing how the transition On 31 March 2006, the bondholders of from UK GAAP to IFRS affected the results There was no profit or loss on the the 350 million 6.875% Eurobonds due for the year to 31 March 2005, which were sale of ULG and no defined benefit in 2023 agreed to the substitution of published on 28 November 2005.
NWF as issuer, in place of Northumbrian reconciliations, including the impact on net Services Limited NSL, with the retention assets at the date of transition, 1 April Capital structure of the guarantee from NWL.
2004, are attached in the note to the In September 2005, Northumbrian Water financial statements see note 30.
Finance plc NWF, the finance subsidiary On 28 June 2006, the Group will of NWL, issued 150 million index linked redeem the remaining 172 million sale of subsidiaries 2.033% Eurobonds due in 2036.
The 8.625% Eurobonds utilising five year In line with the strategy to focus on the proceeds were used to repay short term committed bank facilities of 125 core water and waste water business, and loans and fund the continuing capital million, with the balance to be paid following the receipt of several expressions programme.
This was the Groups first from existing cash resources.
of interest, the Group disposed of FPS on index linked debt issue and NWL will 8 July 2005, Entec on 5 October 2005 and benefit from the cash flow advantage NWL has agreed the terms of two issues ULG on 10 April 2006. from this type of debt.
of index linked Eurobonds amounting to 200 million with a real coupon of FPS, which provides infrastructure In November 2005, the EIB entered into a c. 1.75% and an average maturity of 45 replacement and rehabilitation services, new 100 million facility with NWL.
Subject to the finalisation and terms was sold to a management buy-in for a offers NWL attractive funding and will be of customary documentation, these index cash consideration of 0.8 million.
drawn on an index linked basis mid 2006, linked Eurobonds are expected to be issued with a ten year maturity.
This will take advantage The total consideration for the sale of of the current low cost of funds and secure Entec, which provides environmental and sufficient resources to meet the needs of engineering consultancy services, to its the capital investment programme until management was 30.0 million, satisfied 2010.
When issued, the Groups debt by 29.0 million in cash and 1.0 million portfolio will comprise c. 75% on a fixed of loan notes.
interest rate basis and average maturity will extend to about 20 years.
CliCk to returN to CoNteNts Northumbrian Water Group plc 33 Annual report and financial statements 2005 06 Left: NWLs Tony Lightley and Andy Tomlin at Amble sewage treatment works in Northumberland Below: Wear Valley water treatment works in County Durham Credit rating A final dividend of 7.04 pence per share The most recent actuarial valuation, The credit rating for NWL has remained for the year ended 31 March 2006 as at 31 December 2004, reported that consistent throughout the year at will be recommended by the Board to the scheme was 97.6% funded and BBB stable Fitch and S&P and Baa1 shareholders at the AGM on 27 July new employer contributions were stable Moodys.
2006 and, if approved, will be paid on recommended by the scheme actuary.
15 September 2006 to shareholders The Group agreed an alternative proposal treasury policies and objectives on the register at the close of business to make capital payments of 36.1 million The main purposes of the Groups on 18 August 2006.
Together with the by April 2006 and 23.3 million by April treasury function are to assess the Groups ordinary interim dividend of 3.52 pence 2007, covering both employee and ongoing capital requirement, to maintain per share, the ordinary dividends paid employer contributions to 31 December short term liquidity and to raise funding, and proposed for the year will be 10.56 2010.
The Group also launched a salary taking advantage of any favourable pence per share 2005: 10 pence per sacrifice arrangement, on 1 April 2006, market opportunities.
It ensures access to share.
This represents an increase of under which savings in employer national medium term committed back up facilities 5.6% on the dividend for the previous insurance contributions are also paid into on a five year basis.
year and is consistent with the Boards the scheme.
decision to maintain a progressive It also invests any surplus funds the dividend policy with real increases The deficit under IAS 19 at 31 March 2006, Group may have, based on its forecast of around 3% p. a.
The board of our was 3.7 million 2005: 76.4 million.
requirements and in accordance with the main subsidiary, NWL, has proposed Groups treasury policy.
On occasions, a dividend policy consistent with the The Group also operates a defined derivatives are used as part of this underlying assumptions adopted by contribution scheme and, as at process, but the Groups policies prohibit Ofwat in its recent final determination.
31 March 2006, there were 258 their use for speculation.
Full details are contributing members.
provided in note 22 to the financial A special dividend of 2.82 pence per statements.
The Group is operating in share was paid in the year, in respect of Further details of both schemes compliance with its policies.
the profit on disposal of subsidiaries of are disclosed in note 27 to the 14.6 million.
Cash flows liquidity As noted previously, the Group has The dividend cover, including the This business review was approved by the available substantial undrawn committed special dividend, for the year is 1.5x, Board on 6 June 2006 and signed on its bank facilities in order to maintain and 1.7x excluding deferred tax and behalf by the Managing Director.
the amortisation of debt fair value.
The ordinary dividend cover from continuing John Cuthbert earnings per share and dividends operations for the year is 1.7x, and 1.9x Managing Director Basic and diluted earnings per share excluding deferred tax and the 6 June 2006 were 20.55 pence 2005: 14.94 pence amortisation of debt fair value.
Earnings per share from Pensions continuing operations, adjusted for IAS The Group operates a defined benefit 39, deferred tax and the amortisation of pension scheme providing benefits based debt fair value were 19.62 pence 2005: on pensionable remuneration.
remains open to existing members and to new employees of NWL.
As at 31 March 2006, there were 2,351 active members.
CliCk to returN to CoNteNts
