Business Review About Pearson Our strategy Pearson is an international media and education Over the past decade we have transformed Pearson by focusing on companies which provide education in company with world-leading businesses in education, the broadest sense of the word: companies that business information and consumer publishing.
Through a We create and manage intellectual property, which we combination of organic investment and acquisitions, promote and sell to our customers under well-known we have built each one of our businesses into a leader brand names, to inform, educate and entertain.
We in its market, and we have integrated our operations deliver our content in a variety of forms and through so that our businesses can share assets, brands, a variety of channels, including books, newspapers and processes, facilities, technology and central services.
We increasingly offer services as well as Our goal is to produce sustainable growth on our content, from test administration and processing to three key financial measures adjusted earnings per teacher development and school software.
share, cash generation and return on invested capital Though we operate in more than 50 countries which we believe are, together, good indicators that around the world, today our largest markets are we are building the long-term value of Pearson.
the US 65% of sales and Europe 25% of sales.
We do this by investing consistently in four areas, Our businesses which are common to all our businesses: Content We invest steadily in unique, valuable Pearson consists of three major worldwide businesses: publishing content and keep replenishing it.
Pearson Education is the worlds leading education Over the past five years, for example, we have company.
We are a leading publisher of textbooks, invested $1.6bn in new content in our education supplementary learning materials and electronic business alone.
education programmes for teachers and students of Technology and services We invested early and all ages, and we play a major role in the testing and consistently in technology, believing that, in the certification of school students and professionals.
digital world, content alone would not be enough.
Pearson Education operates through three worldwide In 2006, we generated more than $1bn in sales from segments, serving School, Higher Education and technology products and services, and our testing Professional markets.
and assessment businesses, serving school students The Financial Times Group is a leading provider and professionals, made more than $1bn of sales, up of international business and financial news, data, from around $200m seven years ago.
comment and analysis, in print and online.
It has International markets Though we currently generate two major parts: two-thirds of our sales in the US, our brands, content and  models work FT Publishing includes the Financial Times and around the world.
All parts of Pearson are investing FT. com, one of the worlds premier sources of in selected emerging markets, where the demand for business information, alongside our network of information and education is growing particularly fast.
national business newspapers, financial magazines and online financial information companies.
Efficiency Weve invested to become a leaner, more efficient company, through savings in our individual Interactive Data Corporation IDC provides businesses and through a strong centralised specialist financial data to financial institutions and operations structure.
Over the past five years, we retail investors.
Pearson owns a 62% interest in have increased our profit margins from 9.9% to IDC, which is publicly listed on the New York 13.4% and reduced average working capital as Stock Exchange NYSE:IDCO.
a percentage of sales in Pearson Education and The Penguin Group is one of the worlds foremost Penguin from 30.7% to 26.3%, freeing up cash English language publishers.
We publish the works for further investment.
of many authors in an extensive portfolio of fiction, We believe this strategy can create a virtuous circle non-fiction and reference titles, under imprints efficiency, investment, market share gains and scale including Penguin, Hamish Hamilton, Putnam, which in turn can produce sustainable growth on our Berkley, Viking and Dorling Kindersley.
financial goals and the value of the company.
1 Pearson Governance and Financial Statements 2006 Business Review Continued 2006 financial overview Key Financial Measures and Performance Indicators Adjusted earnings Operating cash flow Pearsons three key financial measures are adjusted per share earnings per share, cash flow and return on invested capital.
In 2006, adjusted EPS and cash flow reached record levels, and our return on invested capital increased from 6.7% in 2005 to 8.0%, above our weighted average cost of capital of 7.7%.
Pearsons sales increased by 4% to 4.4bn and 40.2p 575m adjusted operating profit was up 15% to a record 592m.
All parts of Pearson contributed, with good 34.1p 570m sales growth, further margin improvement and double-digit profit increases in each business.
06 06 Adjusted earnings per share were 40.2p, up 18%.
Earnings per share Cash generated in 05 05 generated from normal the year before tax operating activities.
Operating cash flow increased by 5m to 575m and free cash flow by 2m to 433m.
Cash conversion was Return on invested capital Profit per employee strong at 97% of operating profit even after an exceptional 113% cash conversion rate in 2005.
The ratio of average working capital to sales at Pearson Education and Penguin improved by 1.1% points to 26.3%.
Statutory results show an increase in operating profit to 540m 516m in 2005.
Basic earnings per share 8% 17k were 55.9p compared with 78.2p in 2005, which included the 302m profit on the sale of Recoletos.
06 06 Post tax return generated Adjusted operating profit 05 05 During the year, we completed a series of bolt-on on financing provided divided by the average by shareholders.
acquisitions in Education including Promissor, Paravia Bruno Mondadori, National Evaluation Systems, PowerSchool and Chancery and the FT Note: throughout this review, we refer to a series of Key Performance Indicators alongside our key financial measures.
Our total Management uses these Indicators to track performance on investment in acquisitions in 2006 was 363m.
non-financial measures such as market share or growth relative Together, these acquisitions contributed 147m of to our industries.
sales and 17m of operating profit to our 2006 results after integration costs, which are expensed.
The board is proposing a dividend increase of 8.5% to 29.3p, the largest increase for a decade.
Subject to In December 2006 we announced the sale of shareholder approval, 2006 will be Pearsons 15th Government Solutions to Veritas Capital for $560m straight year of increasing our dividend above the in cash, $40m in preferred stock and a 10% interest rate of inflation, and in the past five years alone we in the company.
In 2006 Government Solutions have returned approximately 1bn to shareholders contributed 286m of sales and 22m of operating through the dividend.
The sale was completed in February 2007.
As part of our plan to reduce our UK pension deficit, we will inject 100m of the cash proceeds from the sale of Government Solutions into our UK Group pension plan during 2007.
2 Pearson Governance and Financial Statements 2006 Pearson outlook 2007 Houghton Mifflin Riverdeep Group and Thomson, alongside smaller niche players that specialise in a We expect 2007 to be another good year for Pearson particular academic discipline or focus on a learning with continued margin improvement and growth technology.
Competition is based on the ability to ahead of our markets.
We expect to achieve good deliver quality products and services that address the underlying earnings growth, cash generation well specified curriculum needs and appeal to the school ahead of our 80% threshold, and a further boards, educators and government officials making improvement in return on invested capital.
In 2007 we continue to invest in the growth and We report Pearson Educations performance by the market-leading positions of our businesses, including: three market segments it serves: School, Higher extending our lead in education, investing in new Education and Professional.
programmes for students in School and Higher Pearson Education: outlook 2007 Education and in testing and software services that We expect School to achieve underlying sales growth help educators to personalise the learning process, in the 4-6% range: Higher Education to grow in the both in the US and internationally: 3-5% range: and Professional sales to be broadly developing our fast-growing assessment level with 2006.
We expect margins to improve businesses, which provide testing and related again in School and Professional, and to be stable services to educational bodies: in Higher Education.
building the international reach of the Financial School: overview Times both in print through its four editions Our School business contains a unique mix of worldwide and online through FT. com: publishing, testing and technology products, which developing a business concentrating on providing are increasingly integrated.
It generates around financial information services for financial two-thirds of its sales in the US.
institutions, corporations and their advisers: In the US, we publish high quality curriculum growing our position in consumer publishing, programmes for school students covering subjects balancing our investment across our stable of such as reading, literature, maths, science and social bestselling authors, new talent and our own studies.
We publish under a range of well-known home-grown content.
imprints that include Scott Foresman in the elementary school market and Prentice Hall in Pearson Education: overview secondary.
Our school testing business is the leading Pearson Education is the worlds largest publisher provider of test development, processing and scoring of textbooks and online teaching materials.
services to US states and the federal government, It serves the growing demands of teachers, students, processing some 40 million tests each year.
parents and professionals throughout the world for We are also the leading provider of electronic learning stimulating and effective education programmes, programmes for schools, and of Student Information in print and online.
Systems technology which enables schools and In 2006 Pearson Education had sales of 2,877m districts to record and manage information about or 65% of Pearsons total.
Of these, 2.2bn 75% student attendance and performance.
were generated in North America and 0.7bn 25% In the US, more than 90% of school funds come in the rest of the world.
Pearson Education generated from state or local government, with the remainder 68% of Pearsons operating profit.
Our School companys Pearson Education competes with other publishers major customers are state education boards and local and creators of educational materials and services.
These competitors include large international companies, such as McGraw-Hill, Reed Elsevier, 3 Pearson Governance and Financial Statements 2006 Business Review Continued Outside the US, we publish school materials in School Key Performance Indicators local languages in a number of countries.
We are US School sales growth versus industry the worlds leading provider of English Language Teaching materials for children and adults, published under the well-known Longman imprint.
We are i Pearson: 12.1% also a leading provider of testing, assessment and qualification services.
Our key markets outside the ii Industry: 9.9% US include Canada, the UK, Australia, Italy, Spain, South Africa, Hong Kong and the Middle East.
i Pearson: 2.7% 06 05 School: 2006 performance 05 Headline Underlying millions 2006 2005 growth growth ii Industry: 8.8 % Sales 1,455 1,295 12% 6% 06 i Pearson's total year on year sales growth in basal and Adjusted supplementary product in the US ii the year on year sales operating profit 184 147 25% 17% growth of the US industry excluding Pearson.
Adoption cycle win rates Significant share gains in US School publishing Pearson US School publishing business up 3%, against an industry decline of 9% excluding Pearson: 6% decline including Pearson source: Association of American Publishers, as we benefit from our sustained investment in new basal programmes and innovative digital services.
33.0% Pearson takes the leading share of the new adoption market : 30% of the total market and 33% where we 32.5% competed.
#1 or #2 market share in reading, maths, science and social studies.
Total new adoption 06 Pearson's market share by value of new business in opportunity of approximately $670m in 2006, down 05 US adoption states.
Market share is quoted as a percentage of the total value of adoptions that we from $900m in 2005. participated in.
Innovative digital programme for California takes Testing contract win rates #1 position and a 43% market share in elementary social studies.
Digital curriculum services being developed for new adoptions.
US School new adoption market expected to grow strongly over the next three years estimated at $760m in 2007: $900m in 2008: $950m in 2009.
41% 51% In the US, 20 adoption states buy textbooks and related programmes 06 on a planned contract schedule or adoption cycle.
The level of spending The lifetime value of US school testing contracts won by Pearson 05 varies from year to year with this schedule, depending on the number of this year as a percentage of the total lifetime value of adoptions in the largest states and subjects.
In open territory states, school contracts bid for this year.
districts or individual schools buy textbooks according to their own schedules, rather than on a statewide basis.
4 Pearson Governance and Financial Statements 2006 Strong growth and continued share gains in school testing Good growth in international school US School testing sales up in the high single digits International testing businesses continue to benefit after 20% growth in 2005, benefiting from from technology leadership.
In the UK, we have further contract wins, market share gains and marked over 9 million GCSE, AS and A-Level scripts leadership in onscreen marking, online testing and on screen.
In 2007 we will roll out Results Plus across embedded formative assessment.
the UK, providing students, teachers and parents with online access to question-level examination Acquisition of National Evaluation Systems fines, performance data.
the leading provider of customised assessments for teacher certification in the US, with contracts in 16 In school publishing, UK launch of ActiveTeach states including Florida won in 2006 and technology provides multimedia resources for maths California renewed in 2006. fines expands our and science teaching and brings market share gains.
testing capabilities in an attractive adjacent market.
Market-leading school companies in Hong Kong and South Africa outperform their markets.
School technology business broadened Acquisition of Chancery and PowerSchool enhances Acquisition of Paravia Bruno Mondadori PBM, our leading position in the US Student Information one of Italys leading education publishers.
Integration on track and good progress in integrating publishing, sales and growth prospects as schools upgrade information marketing, distribution and back office operations systems to manage and report data on student with our existing Italian business, and in sharing attendance and performance.
Organic growth and margin improvement continues Successful launch of regional adaptations of English in digital curriculum business, Pearson Digital Adventure with Disney, our worldwide English Learning.
Continued investment in new generation Language Training programme for elementary digital products to meet demands of school districts schools, in Asia and Latin America.
Higher Education: overview Four product nominations in six categories, more Pearson is the US largest publisher of textbooks and than any other education company, for the Software related course materials for colleges and universities.
and Information Industry Association Codie We publish across all of the main fields of study awards.
The products are: Prosper, a formative with imprints such as Prentice Hall, Addison Wesley, assessment tool for at-risk students: Write to Learn, Allyn & Bacon and Benjamin Cummings.
Typically, a web-based tool for learning to read and write: professors or other instructors select or adopt the Chancery SMS, a student information system for textbooks and online resources they recommend for middle and large school districts: and California their students, which students then purchase either in History-Social Studies.
Today the majority of our textbooks are accompanied by online services which Our technology now touches the lives of many include homework and assessment tools, study students.
The SIS business provides assessment, guides and course management systems that enable reporting and business solutions to over 29,000 professors to create online courses.
We have also schools servicing more than 25 million students.
introduced new formats such as downloadable audio PDLs digital curriculum solutions have helped raise study guides and electronic textbooks which are sold the achievement levels of over 20 million students.
In addition, we have a fast-growing We have around 3 million students and teachers custom publishing business which works with registered to use one of our online school learning professors to produce textbooks and online resources platforms in the US.
specifically adapted for their particular course.
5 Pearson Governance and Financial Statements 2006 Business Review Continued In 2006, our Higher Education business generated Pearsons market share by 3% to 25% and is the approximately 80% of its sales in the US.
Outside the bestselling launch of a first edition in the discipline US, we adapt our textbooks and technology services in the past decade.
for individual markets, and we have a growing local Continued strong double digit growth in custom publishing programme.
Our key markets outside the publishing which builds customised textbooks and US include Canada, the UK, Benelux, Mexico, online services around the courses of individual Germany, Hong Kong, Korea, Taiwan and Malaysia.
Higher Education: 2006 performance Good progress in international markets Headline Underlying Good growth in local language publishing millions 2006 2005 growth growth programmes.
Increasing focus on custom publishing Sales 795 779 2% 4% and technology based assessment services with the Adjusted MyLab suite of products.
operating profit 161 156 3% 3% Higher Education Key Performance Indicators Steady growth momentum US College sales growth versus industry US Higher Education up 4%, ahead of the industry once again.
Over the past eight years, Pearsons US Higher i Pearson: 7.2% Education business has grown at an average annual rate of 7%, compared to the industrys average ii Industry: 5.4% growth rate of 4%.
Rapid growth in online learning and custom publishing i Pearson: 3.6% Approximately 4.5m US college students using one ii Industry: 3.5% 06 of our online programmes.
Of these, approximately 06 2.3m up almost 30% on 2005 register for an 05 i Pearson's total year on year sales growth in college 05 online course on one of our MyLab online product in the US ii the year on year sales growth of the US industry excluding Pearson.
16 subject-specific MyLab online homework and Online learning usage assessment programmes now available supporting more than 200 titles.
Research studies show significant gains in student success rates and productivity improvements for institutions.
Strong market share, student performance and institutional productivity gains in college maths, supported by MyMathLab.
4.5m In psychology and economics, two of the three 3.6m largest markets in US higher education, Pearson publishes successful first edition bestsellers: Cicarrellis Psychology together with MyPsychLab 06 05 The number of students and professors registered to use one and Hubbards Economics together with of Pearsons online college learning platforms in the US.
Cicarrellis Psychology increases 6 Pearson Governance and Financial Statements 2006 Professional: overview Professional publishing: further margin improvement Our Professional education business publishes Technology publishing profits up as further cost educational materials and provides testing and actions offset continued industry weakness.
Our publishing Strong performance from Wharton School imprints include Addison Wesley Professional, Publishing and FT Press imprints, aided by Pearsons Prentice Hall PTR, Cisco Press for IT professionals, global distribution and strong retail relationships.
Peachpit Press and New Riders Press for graphics 41 titles published in 2006 including Jerry Porras, and design professionals, Que Sams consumer and Stewart Emery and Mark Thompsons Success Built To professional imprint and Prentice Hall Financial Last the sequel to Built To Last and Jeffrey Gitomers Times for the business education market.
We have The Little Red Book of Sales Answers, The Little Gold a fast-growing Professional Testing business, Pearson Book of Yes Attitude.
Three Wall Street Journal VUE, which manages major long-term contracts business bestsellers, two BusinessWeek bestsellers to provide qualification and assessment services and one New York Times bestseller in 2006. through its network of test centres around the world.
Key customers include major technology companies, Government Solutions: sale completed in February 2007 the Graduate Management Admissions Council, the Sale of Government Solutions to Veritas Capital National Association of Securities Dealers and the for 560m in cash, 40m in preferred stock and a UKs Driving Standards Agency.
We also provide a 10% interest in the company completed in range of data collection and management services, February 2007. including scanners, to a wide range of customers.
Government Solutions contributed 286m of sales Professional: 2006 performance and 22m of operating profit to Pearson in 2006.
Headline Underlying millions 2006 2005 growth growth Sales 627 589 6% 3% Adjusted operating profit 60 45 33% 29% Note: includes Government Solutions Professional Testing: rapid organic sales and profit growth Professional Testing sales up more than 30% in 2006 and have doubled over the past two years.
Approximately 4m secure online tests delivered in more than 5,000 test centres worldwide in 2006.
Successful start-up of the worldwide Graduate Management Admissions Test.
220,000 examinations delivered in 400 test centres in 96 countries, in first year of new contract.
Professional Testing moves from around breakeven in 2005 to profitability in 2006.
Successful integration of Promissor, acquired in January 2006.
Combination brings together two leading international professional testing companies and takes Pearson into new US state and federal regulatory markets.
Professional education is not technically a segment under IFRS and 7 Pearson Governance and Financial Statements 2006 therefore has no segment specific key performance indicators.
Business Review Continued Financial Times Group: overview In August 2006, we acquired Mergermarket, an online financial data and intelligence provider.
The FT Group provides a broad range of data, analysis The acquisition strengthens the FT Group, adding and services to an audience of  proprietary content, a premium customer base, business people and financial institutions.
In 2006, the reliable growth from new revenue sources and FT Group had sales of 698m, or 16% of Pearsons attractive financial characteristics to the organisation.
total sales 15% in 2005, and contributed 21% of Pearsons operating profit.
FT Publishing joint ventures and associates Our joint ventures and associates include: It has two major parts: FT Publishing, our network of international and national business newspapers and 50% interest in The Economist Group, publisher online services: and Interactive Data Corporation, of the worlds leading weekly business and current our 62%-owned financial information company.
affairs magazine: The FT Groups newspapers, magazines and websites 50% interest in FT Deutschland, a German language compete with newspapers and other information business newspaper with a fully integrated online sources, such as The Wall Street Journal, by offering news, analysis and data service: timely and expert journalism.
It competes for advertisers with other forms of media based on the 50% interest in FTSE International, a joint ability to offer an effective means for advertisers to venture with the London Stock Exchange, which reach their target audience.
IDC competes with publishes a wide range of global indices, including Reuters, Bloomberg and Thomson Financial on a the FTSE index: global basis for the provision of financial data to the 50% interest in Business Day and Financial Mail, back office.
In Europe Telekurs is also a direct publishers of South Africas leading business competitor for these services.
newspaper and magazine: FT Publishing 33% interest in Vedomosti, a leading Russian The Financial Times is the worlds leading business newspaper: international daily business newspaper.
Its average daily circulation of 430,469 copies in December 14% interest in Business Standard, one of Indias 2006, is split between the UK 31% of circulation, leading business newspapers.
Continental Europe 27%, the US 31%, Interactive Data Corporation Asia 9% and the rest of the world 2%.
In 2006, Interactive Data Corporation is a leading provider of approximately 70% of the FTs revenues were financial market data, analytics and related services to generated through advertising.
The FT also sells financial institutions, active traders and individual content and advertising online through FT. com.
The companys businesses supply timeFT.
com charges subscribers for detailed industry sensitive pricing, evaluations and reference data for news, comment and analysis, while providing general more than 3.5 million securities traded around the news and market data to a wider audience.
world, including hard-to-value instruments such as illiquid bonds.
FT Publishing also includes: FT Business, which publishes specialist information on the retail, personal and institutional finance industries through titles including Investors Chronicle, Money Management, Financial Adviser and The Banker: Les Echos, Frances leading business newspaper, and a number of joint ventures and associates in business publishing.
8 Pearson Governance and Financial Statements 2006 FT Group: 2006 performance New newsroom creates an integrated multimedia newsroom, improving commissioning, reporting, Headline Underlying millions 2006 2005 growth growth editing and production efficiency, and providing Sales: further cost savings.
FT Publishing 366 332 10% 8% Sustained progress across FT Publishing IDC 332 297 12% 4% Acquisition and integration of Mergermarket, an online financial data and intelligence provider.
Total 698 629 11% 6% On a pro forma basis, Mergermarkets revenues Adjusted grew 80% in 2006, with 90% customer renewals.
operating profit: Margins improving as expected in spite of FT Publishing 32 21 52% 52% significant investment in new products and IDC 89 80 11% 9% geographic markets.
Total 121 101 20% 18% FT Business shows good growth and improves margins driven by strong performance in events, Continued growth and profit improvement at the UK retail finance titles Investment Adviser, Financial Financial Times and FT. com Adviser and internationally by The Banker, which FT newspaper and FT. com sales up 8% to 238m: celebrated its 80th year.
FT Business integrated with 9m profit improvement to 11m.
the Financial Times early in 2007.
FT advertising revenues up 9%, with rapid growth Les Echos achieves modest circulation average in online, luxury goods and corporate finance circulation of 119,117 and advertising growth in a categories, all up more than 30%.
weak market ahead of the 2007 French presidential FTs worldwide circulation up 1% to 430,469 elections: FT Deutschland outperforms the German Source: ABC, average for six months to December newspaper market once again, increasing circulation 2006.
FT. coms paying subscribers up 7% to 90,000 2% to 104,000. and December audience up 29% to 4.2m.
The Economist, increases its circulation by 9% Growing international presence and readership.
to 1.2m for the July-December ABC period.
47% growth in readership in the US Mendelsohn Interactive Data Corporation Affluent Survey MAS and 26% growth in the Faster organic growth Asian Business Readership Survey ABRS.
The FT FT Interactive Data, IDCs largest business ranked number one European business title in approximately two-thirds of IDC revenues, Europe for the fifteenth time European Business generates strong, consistent growth in North Readership Survey EBRS.
Readership surveys are one of the key measures of Improving momentum at ComStock and eSignal.
the FTs performance as indicated above.
Both the Comstock enjoys good new sales progress with EBRS and the ABRS are biennial.
In 2006 the FT institutional clients and lower cancellation levels.
readership reach of the EBRS was 13.1% of the eSignal produces continued growth in its base of surveyed population unchanged compared to direct subscription terminals.
The MAS which is annual, was up to 1.1% Renewal rates for IDCs institutional businesses 0.7% in 2005.
Other key performance indicators remain at around 95%.
are shown in tabular form on page 10.
Continued benefits of international expansion: approximately three-quarters of the FTs advertising booked in two or more international editions: almost half of the FTs advertising booked for all four editions worldwide.
9 Pearson Governance and Financial Statements 2006 Business Review Continued Continued focus on high value services FT Group Key Performance Indicators FT Interactive Datas growth driven by sustained FT advertising revenue FT average copy sales growth demand for fixed income evaluated pricing services growth and related reference data.
Continues to expand its market coverage, adding independent valuations of credit default swaps and other derivative securities.
CMS BondEdge launches fixed income analytical 3% data feed service.
Enables CMS BondEdge to deliver 06 new applications for sophisticated risk measures.
9% ComStock real-time services power algorithmic 9% trading applications.
ComStocks highly reliable, 2 % low-latency consolidated data-feed service supports 06 increasingly sophisticated institutional electronic The FT newspaper's The FT newspaper's 05 05 year on year advertising year on year average trading applications.
IDC divisions unified under the Interactive Data R FT. com unique user growth Interactive Data Corporation brand to emphasise the breadth of its comprehensive customer retention range of products and services across the front, middle and back offices of customers.
Further expansion into adjacent markets Following the acquisition of IS.
Teledata re-branded Interactive Data Managed Solutions in July 2006, IDC now provides customised, web-based financial 13% 95% information systems for retail banking and private client applications as well as for infomedia portals 8% 95% and online brokers.
com in March 2006, which The number of customers 06 06 L The FT's year on year renewing contracts as a 05 05 expanded eSignals suite of real-time market data growth in unique users percentage of total of FT. com.
platforms and analytics, added two financial websites.
As a result, eSignal is generating strong Internal statistics.
Interactive Data Managed Solutions and Quote.
com contribute over $50m to IDCs 2006 revenue.
FT Group: outlook 2007 The FT Group is expected to continue its strong profit growth.
At FT Publishing, advertising trends remain difficult to predict, but we expect our cost measures, integration actions and revenue diversification to push margins into double-digits in 2007.
IDC has stated that it expects to achieve revenue growth in the 6-9% range and net income growth in the high single-digits to low double-digits headline growth under US GAAP.
10 Pearson Governance and Financial Statements 2006 The Penguin Group: overview The Penguin Group: 2006 performance Headline Underlying Penguin is one of the worlds premier English millions 2006 2005 growth growth language book publishers.
We publish an extensive Sales 848 804 5% 3% backlist and frontlist of titles, including fiction and Adjusted non-fiction, literary prize winners, commercial operating profit 66 60 10% 22% bestsellers, classics and childrens titles.
We rank in the top three consumer publishers, based upon sales, Record literary success and bestseller performance in all major English speaking and related markets Record number of bestsellers for record number of the US, the UK, Australia, New Zealand, Canada, weeks Penguin US places 139 books on The New India and South Africa.
York Times bestseller list, ten more than in 2005, Penguin publishes under many imprints including, and keeps them there for 809 weeks overall, up 119 in the adult market, Allen Lane, Avery, Berkley, weeks from 2005: Penguin UK places 59 titles in the Dorling Kindersley DK, Dutton, Hamish Hamilton, BookScan Top Ten bestseller list, up 5 from 2005, Michael Joseph, Plume, Putnam, Riverhead and and keeps them there for 361 weeks, up 42 weeks Viking.
Our leading childrens imprints include from 2005.
Puffin, Ladybird, Warne and Grosset & Dunlap.
Penguin authors win a large number of prestigious literary awards including: a Pulitzer Prize for Fiction In 2006, Penguin had sales of 848m, representing March by Geraldine Brooks : a National Book 19% of Pearsons total sales 20% in 2005 and Critics Circle Award THEM: A Memoir of Parents contributed 11% of Pearsons operating profit.
by Francine du Plessix Gray : the Michael L. Printz Its largest market is the US, which generated around award Looking for Alaska by John Green : the 60% of Penguins sales in 2006.
The Penguin Group Whitbread Book of the Year Award Matisse the earns around 99% of its revenues from the sale of Master by Hilary Spurling : the Orange Prize for hard cover and paperback books.
The balance comes Fiction On Beauty by Zadie Smith : and the from audio books and from the sale and licensing Man Booker Prize The Inheritance of Loss by of intellectual property rights, such as the Beatrix Kiran Desai.
Potter series of fictional characters, and acting as a book distributor for a number of smaller Penguin UKs focus on fiction rewarded with a publishing houses.
substantial increase in market share, led by Marina We sell directly to bookshops and through Lewyckas A Short History of Tractors in Ukrainian.
Retail bookshops normally maintain Penguin US premium paperback format continues relationships with both publishers and wholesalers to accelerate revenue growth and improves and use the channel that best serves the specific profitability in the important mass market category.
We also sell through online Strong performance from paperbacks with Penguin retailers such as Amazon.
authors holding the #1 position on The New York Times paperback fiction list for a record 22 Penguin competes with other publishers of fiction successive weeks.
Principal competitors include Random House, HarperCollins, and Hachette Livre.
Continued focus on quality and efficiency Publishers compete by developing a portfolio of Pearson-wide renegotiation of major global paper, books by established authors and by seeking out print and binding contracts brings cost savings in and promoting talented new writers.
11 Pearson Governance and Financial Statements 2006 Business Review Continued Integration of Australia and New Zealand Subscribers to Penguin and DK opt-in newsletters warehouses and back office operations produces building rapidly, allowing Penguin consumers to further scale benefits.
personalise areas of interest and strengthening relationships with Penguin brand.
Investment in India as a pre-production and design centre for reference titles.
Jamie Olivers Cookcast was the first ever live streamed cookery webcast and one of the most Strong international growth successful webcasts ever in the UK.
Penguin India, which celebrates its 20th anniversary in 2007, continues its rapid growth and extends its Strong 2007 publishing schedule market leadership.
Penguin authors win all the Strong list of new titles for 2007 from bestselling prizes in Indias national book awards: Vikram and new authors including Alan Greenspan, Chandra in fiction for Sacred Games, Vikram Seth in Khaled Hosseini, Jamie Oliver, Al Gore, Jeremy non-fiction for Two Lives and Kiran Desai in readers Clarkson, Patricia Cornwell, Marina Lewycka choice for The Inheritance of Loss.
Penguin China continues to acquire rights to The Penguin Group: outlook 2007 between four and six Chinese titles each year, The Penguin Group is expected to improve margins following acquisition of Jian Rongs Wolf Totem, due further, as its publishing investment and efficiency to be published in English in 2008.
Penguin enters programmes continue to bear fruit.
the Chinese market with the launch of ten translated Penguin Key Performance Indicators Penguin Classic titles in 2007.
US Bestsellers UK Bestsellers Penguin South Africa grows strongly in 2006 and continues to increase market share.
Investing in digital to engage consumers Strong growth in online revenues and unique visitors to Penguin and DK websites.
Penguin leading the market in developing new 139 59 content creation and distribution models.
In 2006 Penguin won the Revolution Award for Best Brand 129 54 Building using Digital Channels and the Neilsen Nibbie for Innovation in the Book Business for the The number of Penguin The number of Penguin Penguin Remixed competition and the Penguin books entering the top books entering the top 06 06 10 bestseller list during 10 bestseller list during 05 05 Podcast.
These two initiatives have been followed the year in the US the year in the UK New York Times.
by further campaigns including the launch of the acclaimed Penguin Blog, Penguins presence in Second Life and the recent wiki-novel, A Million Penguins, which hosted 60,000 unique visitors in its first week.
DK Travel content made available on MSN and Rough Guides distributed through mobile phones.
12 Pearson Governance and Financial Statements 2006 Group financial review Taxation The tax rate on adjusted earnings increased slightly Operating profit from 30.3% in 2005 to 30.9%.
Our overseas profits, Total adjusted operating profit increased by 86m which arise mainly in the US, are generally subject to or 17% on a headline basis, to 592m in 2006 from tax rates which are higher than the UK corporation 506m in 2005.
Adjusted operating profit excludes tax rate of 30%.
But this factor was again offset by amortisation and adjustment of acquired intangibles releases of provisions following further progress in and other gains and losses on the sale of subsidiaries, agreeing our tax affairs with the authorities and joint ventures, associates and other financial assets reassessment of the provisions required for that are included within continuing operations.
the purposes of our adjusted operating profit we add back the profits from discontinued operations.
In For 2007, we expect our effective tax rate on adjusted 2006 these relate to the disposal of the Groups earnings per share to be in the 28-30% range.
interest in Government Solutions and in 2005 to both Our tax position benefits from deductions relating the disposal of Government Solutions and Recoletos.
to amortisation of goodwill arising on acquisitions, and from 2007 we will reflect these deductions in Statutory operating profit increased by 24m or 5%.
The amount of tax This was a lower increase than seen in the adjusted paid 59m in 2006 is not affected.
operating profit due to an increased intangible amortisation charge and the absence of the The reported tax charge on a statutory basis of 11m Marketwatch profit on disposal recorded in 2005. represents just over 2% of reported profits.
This low tax rate was mainly accounted for by two factors.
Net finance costs First, in the light of the announcement of the Net finance costs reported in our adjusted earnings disposal of Government Solutions, we are required comprise net interest payable and net finance income to recognise a deferred tax asset in relation to capital relating to post-retirement plans.
Net interest payable losses in the US where previously we were not in 2006 was 94m, up from 77m in 2005.
Although confident that the benefit of the losses would be we were partly protected by our fixed rate policy see realised prior to their expiry.
Second, in the light of page 21, the strong rise in average US dollar floating our trading performance in 2006 and our strategic interest rates had an adverse effect.
Year on year, plans, together with the expected utilisation of average three month LIBOR weighted for the US net operating losses in the Government Solutions Groups borrowings in US dollars, euros and sterling sale, we have re-evaluated the likely utilisation of at the year end rose by 1.5% to 4.9%.
Combining the operating losses both in the US and the UK: this has rate rise with an increase in the Groups average net enabled us to increase the amount of the deferred debt of 40m, the Groups average net interest rate tax asset carried forward in respect of such losses.
In 2006 the net finance The combined effect of these two factors was to income relating to post-retirement plans was an create a non-recurring credit of 127m.
income of 4m compared to a cost of 7m in the previous year, giving an overall net finance cost The Groups reported statutory tax rate for 2007 reflected in adjusted earnings of 90m in 2006 is expected to be significantly higher than normal, compared to 84m in 2005. as a result of the tax on the disposal of Government Solutions: taxable profit will be higher than the Our interest charge in 2007 will reflect the receipt statutory profit expected to be reported, although of the sale proceeds from Government Solutions, actual cash tax on the transaction will be substantially a 100m cash payment into our UK Group pension reduced by the losses brought forward, recognised plan, and higher interest rates.
13 Pearson Governance and Financial Statements 2006 Business Review Continued Minority interests when assumptions diverge from reality through the Following the disposal of our 79% holding in statement of recognised income and expense SORIE.
Recoletos and the purchase of the 25% minority Our charge to profit in respect of worldwide pensions stake in Edexcel in 2005, our minority interests and post-retirement benefits amounted to 60m now comprise mainly the minority share in IDC.
in 2006 2005: 68m of which a charge of 64m In January 2006 we increased our stake in IDC 2005: 61m was reported in operating profit and reducing the minority interest from 39% to 38%.
the net finance benefit of 4m 2005: charge 7m Dividends was reported against interest.
The dividend accounted for in our 2006 financial Pension funding levels are kept under regular review statements totalling 220m, represents the final by the company and the Fund trustees.
Following the dividend 17.0p in respect of 2005 and the 2006 completion of the latest actuarial valuation of the interim dividend of 10.5p.
UK Group pension plan as at January 2006, it was We are proposing a final dividend for 2006 of 18.8p, agreed that during 2007 additional payments bringing the total paid and payable in respect of 2006 amounting to 100m would be made by the to 29.3p, a 8.5% increase on 2005.
This final 2006 company to the plan.
proposed dividend was approved by the board in Corporate responsibility February 2007, is subject to shareholder approval at the forthcoming AGM and will be charged against Alongside our commitment to our financial goals, 2007 profits.
For 2006, the dividend is covered Pearson has a clear social purpose: to provide 1.4 times by adjusted earnings.
education, information and entertainment and help our customers get on in their lives.
Each one of our We seek to maintain a balance between the businesses pays great attention to the quality and requirements of our shareholders for a rising accuracy of its content and services: in education, stream of dividend income and the reinvestment for example, we are investing in a series of long-term opportunities which we identify around the Group.
studies to measure the efficacy of our programmes In recent years, our dividend policy has been to in enhancing student achievement.
increase the dividend ahead of the rate of inflation.
Beyond those basic products and services, we invest Looking ahead, the board expects to raise the in a range of activities to enhance Pearsons overall dividend more in line with earnings growth, contribution to society and to minimise any negative while building our dividend cover towards two impacts.
These activities include the work of our times earnings.
charitable arm, The Pearson Foundation: our efforts Pensions to reduce our environment impact: and our policies Pearson operates a variety of pension plans.
Our UK on employment, diversity, labour standards and the Group plan is by far the largest and includes a supply chain.
We publish a detailed annual report significant defined benefit section.
We also have some on corporate responsibility providing details of our smaller defined benefit plans in the US and Canada.
progress and plans in all these areas, which is available Outside the UK, most of our companies operate at www.
com community csr report2006 defined contribution plans.
Pearson is a founder member of the UN Global The income statement expense for defined benefit Compact on labour standards, human rights, the plans is determined using annually derived environment and anti-corruption.
We have also been assumptions as to salary inflation, investment selected for inclusion in the FTSE4Good, Dow Jones returns and discount rates, based on prevailing Sustainability and Business in the Community conditions at the start of the year.
The assumptions Corporate Responsibility indices.
for 2006 are disclosed in note 24 to our accounts, along with the year end deficits in our defined benefit plans.
We recognise actuarial gains and losses arising 14 Pearson Governance and Financial Statements 2006 People We believe that the best way for people to profit from the success of the company is for them to become The following table shows for 2006 and 2005 the shareholders.
Further detail of our employee share average number of people employed in each of our plans is shown on page 30 of the Directors Report.
We undertook Pearsons biennial employee survey in Average number employed 2006 2005 September 2006.
Over 9,700 Pearson colleagues from School 11,064 10,133 around the world, and from every part of our Higher Education 4,368 4,196 business, responded to the survey.
Each operating company reviewed the feedback in detail as it affected Professional 3,754 3,809 their part of Pearson.
We shared the overall results of Penguin 3,943 4,051 the survey via the Pearson intranet.
FT Publishing 2,285 1,952 We aim to be a diverse company a company that IDC 2,200 1,956 reflects the societies in which we operate.
We want to Other 1,669 1,573 attract the very best candidates, at all levels, regardless Continuing operations 29,283 27,670 of race, gender, age, physical ability, religion or sexual orientation.
We do not set specific, numerical targets Discontinued operations 5,058 4,533 for recruitment or promotion of particular groups, Total 34,341 32,203 but we place great emphasis on ensuring that the Our goal is to be the best company to work for and pool of applicants for our jobs is diverse.
We also each year we get closer to achieving that.
We provide aim to be a fair company where pay, retention, benefits, incentive plans and opportunities that rival promotions and redundancies are determined those offered by our competitors.
without discrimination and a company which uses diversity to help achieve our commercial goals and We maintain our policies to reflect a good work-life targets new opportunities in growing markets.
balance, and introduce new initiatives to reflect the changing expectations of our people, and we continue Suppliers to provide training and management development To be a successful and sustainable business we opportunities around the world to help people have to ensure that we balance our objective of progress.
We believe that all this helps to build a securing cheaper supplies without compromising strong culture and reinforces our values of being our standards of quality, causing harm to the brave, imaginative and decent.
environment or damaging our suppliers and their Communicating with our people is high on our list workers wherever they are in the world.
We have an internal communications We were one of the founder signatories to the programme which enables us to reach people through United Nations Global Compact.
This sets out a e-mails, employee roadshows and visits from our series of principles on labour standards, human senior managers.
We try to listen as much as we talk rights, the environment and anti-corruption.
so that we can act upon ideas, suggestions and views.
We have set out a series of commitments that In addition to the training and development we reflect these principles against which we monitor provide in each part of the business, we have a and report our performance.
number of cross-Pearson initiatives to help build the We carry out supplier audits against our skills and knowledge of our people for the future.
commitments and ensure that our commercial Building the skills base of our company also includes purchasing teams have received training on our knowing who our very best talent are and how supply chain labour standards.
they plan to make the most of their skills to reach their potential.
Details of our supplier payment policy are shown on page 30 of the Directors Report.
15 Pearson Governance and Financial Statements 2006 Business Review Continued Environment that we have taken and continue to take measures to comply with all applicable laws and governmental Pearson does not directly operate in industries where regulations in the jurisdictions where we operate so there is a potential for serious industrial pollution.
that the risk of these sanctions does not represent a Our main products are based on intellectual property.
However, our offices and distribution centres do have Principal risks and uncertainties an impact and we are committed to playing our part Our intellectual property and proprietary rights may in tackling climate change.
We set targets to reduce not be adequately protected under current laws in some our energy use and emissions.
We also work with jurisdictions and that may adversely affect our results our suppliers to help understand and reduce their and our ability to grow.
Our products largely comprise intellectual property For further information you can read about delivered through a variety of media, including our Environmental policy and practices at newspapers, books and the internet.
com environment trademark, copyright and other intellectual property Risk Management laws to establish and protect our proprietary rights in these products.
We conduct regular risk reviews to identify risk factors which may affect our business and financial We cannot be sure that our proprietary rights will performance.
Our internal audit function reviews not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented.
these risks with each business, agreeing measures and Our intellectual property rights in countries such controls to mitigate these risks wherever possible.
It is as the US and UK, jurisdictions covering the largest not possible to identify every risk that could affect proportion of our operations, are well established.
our businesses, similarly the actions taken to mitigate However, we also conduct business in other countries the risks described below cannot provide absolute where the extent of effective legal protection for assurance that a risk will not materialise and or intellectual property rights is uncertain, and this adversely affect our business or financial uncertainty could affect our future growth.
Our principal risks and uncertainties despite trademark and copyright protection, thirdare outlined on the following pages.
parties may copy, infringe or otherwise profit from our proprietary rights without our authorisation.
Government regulation The manufacture of certain of our products in These unauthorised activities may be more easily various markets is subject to governmental regulation facilitated by the internet.
The lack of internetrelating to the discharge of materials into the specific legislation relating to trademark and environment.
Our operations are also subject to the copyright protection creates an additional challenge risks and uncertainties attendant to doing business for us in protecting our proprietary rights relating in numerous countries.
Some of the countries in to our online business processes and other digital which we conduct these operations maintain controls technology rights.
The loss or diminution in value of on the repatriation of earnings and capital and these proprietary rights or our intellectual property restrict the means available to us for hedging could have a material adverse effect on our business potential currency fluctuation risks.
The operations and financial performance.
In that regard, Penguin that are affected by these controls, however, are not Group USA Inc. and Pearson Education have joined material to us.
Accordingly, these controls have not three other major US publishers in a suit brought under the auspices of the Association of American significantly affected our international operations.
Publishers to challenge Googles plans to copy the full Regulatory authorities may have enforcement powers text of all books ever published without permission that could have an impact on us.
We believe, however, 16 Pearson Governance and Financial Statements 2006 from the publishers or authors.
This lawsuit seeks to Education remains a priority across the US political demarcate the extent to which search engines, other spectrum.
Our customer relationship teams have internet operators and libraries may rely on the fairdetailed knowledge of each state market.
We are use doctrine to copy content without authorisation investing in new and innovative ways to expand from the copyright proprietors, and may give and combine our product and services to provide publishers more control over online users of their a superior customer offering than our competitors, intellectual property.
If the lawsuit is unsuccessful, thereby reducing our reliance on any particular publishers and authors may be unable to control funding stream in the US market.
copying of their content for purposes of online Our newspaper businesses may be adversely affected by searching, which could have an adverse impact on our reductions in advertising revenues and or circulation business and financial performance.
either because of competing news information We seek to mitigate this type of risk through distribution channels, particularly online and digital general vigilance, co-operation with other publishers formats, or due to weak general economic conditions.
and trade associations, as well as recourse to law Changes in consumer purchasing habits, as readers as necessary.
look to alternative sources and or providers of Our US educational textbook and testing businesses information, such as the internet and other digital may be adversely affected by changes in state formats, may change the way we distribute our educational funding resulting from either general content.
We might see a decline in print circulation in economic conditions, changes in government our more mature markets as readership habits change educational funding, programmes and legislation and readers migrate online, although we see further both at the federal and state level, and or changes opportunities for growth in our less mature markets in the state procurement process.
If the migration of readers to new digital formats occurs more quickly than we expect, The results and growth of our US educational this is likely to affect print advertising spend by our textbook and testing business is dependent on the customers, adversely affecting our profitability.
level of US and state educational funding, which in turn is dependent on the robustness of state finances Our newspaper businesses are highly geared and and the level of funding allocated to educational remain dependent on advertising revenue: relatively programmes.
Federal and or state legislative changes small changes in revenue, positive or negative, have can also affect the funding available for educational a disproportionate affect on profitability.
We are expenditure, e. g. the No Child Left Behind Act.
beginning to see an increase in advertising revenues compared to prior years, however any downturn in Similarly changes in the state procurement process corporate and financial advertising spend would for textbooks, learning material and student tests, negatively impact our results.
particularly in the adoptions market can also affect our markets.
For example, changes in curricula, The diversification of the FT Group into other delays in the timing of adoptions and changes business models and revenue streams, e. g. in the student testing process can all affect these subscription based businesses, conferences and its programmes and therefore the size of our market global reach, goes some way to offsetting reliance on in any given year.
newspaper advertising, particularly in the UK.
There are multiple competing demands for educational funds and there is no guarantee that states will fund new textbooks or testing programmes, or that we will win this business.
17 Pearson Governance and Financial Statements 2006 Business Review Continued A control breakdown in our school testing businesses deliver on our contractual commitments, we also could result in financial loss and reputational damage.
seek to develop and maintain good relationships with our customers, whether they be commercial or There are inherent risks associated with our school governmental.
We also look to diversify our portfolio testing businesses, both in the US and UK.
to minimise reliance on any single contract.
A breakdown in our testing and assessment products and processes could lead to a mis-grading of student We operate in a highly competitive environment that is subject to rapid change and we must continue to invest tests and or late delivery of test results to students and adapt to remain competitive.
In either event we may be subject to legal claims, penalty charges under our contracts, Our education, business information and book non-renewal of contracts and or the suspension or publishing businesses operate in highly competitive withdrawal of our accreditation to conduct tests.
These markets constantly change in also possible that such events would result in adverse response to competition, technological innovations publicity, which may affect our ability to retain and other factors.
To remain competitive we continue existing contracts and or obtain new customers.
to invest in our authors, products, services and people.
There is no guarantee that these investments Our robust testing procedures and controls, will generate the anticipated returns or protect us combined with our investment in technology, from being placed at a competitive disadvantage with project management and skills development of our respect to scale, resources and our ability to develop people minimise the risk of a breakdown in our and exploit opportunities.
Specific competitive threats we face at Our professional services and school testing businesses present include: involve complex contractual relationships with both government agencies and commercial customers for Students seeking cheaper sources of content, the provision of various testing services.
Our financial e. g. online, used books or re-imported textbooks.
results, growth prospects and or reputation may be To counter this trend we introduced our own adversely affected if these contracts and relationships digital text book programme called SafariX and are not managed.
are providing students with a greater choice and customisation of our products.
These businesses are characterised by multi-million pound contracts spread over several years.
As in any Competition from major publishers and other contracting business, there are inherent risks educational material and service providers in our associated with the bidding process, start-up, US educational textbook and testing businesses.
operational performance and contract compliance Penguin: authors advances in consumer publishing.
including penalty clauses which could adversely We compete with other publishing businesses affect our financial performance and or reputation.
to purchase the rights to author manuscripts.
Several of these businesses are dependent on either Our competitors may bid to a level at which we single or a small number of large contracts.
Failure to could not generate a sufficient return on our retain these contracts at the end of the contract term investment, and so, typically, we would not would adversely impact our future revenue growth.
At Edexcel, our UK Examination board and testing People: the investments we make in our employees, business, any change in UK Government policy to combined with our employment policies and exam marking and student testing could have a practices, we believe are critical factors enabling us significant impact on our present business model.
to recruit and retain the very best people in our In addition to the internal business procedures business sectors.
However, some of our markets are and controls implemented to ensure we successfully 18 Pearson Governance and Financial Statements 2006 presently undergoing radical restructuring with e-commerce, enterprise resource planning system several of our competitors up for sale, particularly implementations and upgrades.
The failure to recruit in the Education sector.
New owners, particularly and retain staff with relevant skills may constrain our private equity, may try to recruit our key talent as ability to grow as we combine traditional publishing part of this industry restructuring.
products with online and service offerings.
At Penguin, changes in product distribution We mitigate these IT risks by employing project channels, increased book returns and or customer management techniques to manage new software bankruptcy may restrict our ability to grow and developments and or system implementations and affect our profitability.
have implemented an array of security measures to protect our IT assets from attack.
New distribution channels, e. g. digital format, the internet, used books, combined with the Operational disruption to our business caused by a concentration of retailer power pose multiple threats major disaster and or external threat such as Avian Flu, and opportunities to our traditional consumer restricting our ability to supply products and services to publishing models, potentially impacting both sales our customers.
Across all our businesses we manage complex Penguins financial performance can also be operational and logistical arrangements including negatively affected if book return rates increase above distribution centres, third-party print sites, data historical average levels.
Similarly, the bankruptcy centres and large office facilities.
Failure to recover of a major retail customer would disrupt short-term from a major disaster, e. g. fire, flood etc, at a key product supply to the market as well as result in a facility or the disruption of supply from a key large debt write off.
third-party vendor could restrict our ability to service our customers.
Similarly external threats, We develop new distribution channels wherever such as Avian Flu, terrorist attacks, strikes etc, could possible by adapting our product offering and all affect our business and employees, disrupting our investing in new formats.
We take steps to challenge daily business activities.
To minimise returns we are careful about how we supply orders, taking We have developed business continuity arrangements, account of expected sell through.
The application including IT disaster recovery plans, to minimise any of strict credit control policies is used to monitor business disruption in the event of a major disaster.
However, despite regular updates and testing of these plans there is no guarantee that our financial We operate in markets which are dependent performance will not be adversely affected in the on Information Technology systems and event of a major disaster and or external threat to our technological change.
Insurance coverage may minimise any losses All our businesses, to a greater or lesser extent, in certain circumstances.
We either provide software and or internet services to our customers or we use complex information technology systems and products to support our business activities, particularly in business information publishing, back-office processing and infrastructure.
We face several technological risks associated with software product development and service delivery in our educational businesses, information technology security including virus and hacker attacks, 19 Pearson Governance and Financial Statements 2006 Business Review Continued Investment returns outside our traditional core US amounting to 100m will be made by the company in and UK markets may be lower than anticipated.
We review these arrangements every three years and are confident that the pension funding plans are To minimise dependence on our core markets, sufficient to meet future liabilities without unduly particularly the US, we are seeking growth affecting the development of the company.
opportunities outside these markets, building on our existing substantial international presence.
Social, environmental and ethical risk Certain markets we may target for growth are We consider social, environmental and ethical SEE inherently more risky than our traditional markets.
risks no differently to the way we manage any other Political, economic, currency and corporate business risk.
Our 2006 risk assessments did not governance risks including fraud as well as identify any significant under-managed SEE risks, unmanaged expansion are all factors which could nor have any of our most important SEE risks, many limit our returns on investments made in these concerned with reputational risk, changed year on non-traditional markets.
These are: We draw on our experience of developing businesses Journalistic author integrity: outside our core markets and our existing international Ethical business behaviour: infrastructure to manage specific country risks.
The diversification of our international portfolio, and Compliance with UN Global Compact principles on relative size of emerging markets in relation to the labour standards, human rights, environment and group, further minimises the effect any one territory anti-corruption: could have on the overall group results.
Environmental impact: Our reported earnings and cash flows may be People: adversely affected by changes in our pension costs and funding requirements.
We operate a number of pension plans throughout Our risk reporting systems together with our the world, the principal ones being in the UK and US.
approach to managing the key SEE risks above The major plans are self-administered with the plans are described in Our Business and Society, assets held independently of the Group.
Regular the Pearson corporate responsibility report.
valuations, conducted by independent qualified The web link is available at actuaries, are used to determine pension costs and www.
com community csr report2006 funding requirements.
Changes in our tax position can significantly affect our It is our policy to ensure that each pension plan is reported earnings and cash flows.
adequately funded, over time, to meet its ongoing and There are several risk factors which may affect our future liabilities.
Our earnings and cash flows may be reported tax rate and or level of tax payments in the adversely affected by the need to provide additional future.
The most important are as follows: funding to eliminate pension fund deficits in our defined benefit plans.
Our greatest exposure Changes in corporate tax rates and or other relates to our UK defined benefit pension plan.
relevant tax laws in the UK and or the US could Pension fund deficits have may arise because of have a material impact on our future reported tax inadequate investment returns, increased member rate and or our future tax payments.
life expectancy, changes in actuarial assumptions and A material shortfall in profits of our US businesses changes in pension regulations, including accounting below the level projected in our strategic plans rules and minimum funding requirements.
would require us to reconsider the amount of the The latest valuation of our UK defined benefit deferred tax asset relating to US net operating losses pension plan has been completed and future funding in our balance sheet 126m at 31 December 2006. arrangements have been agreed between the company This could lead to a material increase in the and the pension fund Trustee.
Additional payments reported tax rate.
20 Pearson Governance and Financial Statements 2006 We have internal tax professionals in the UK and US The Group borrows principally in US dollars, euros who review all significant arrangements around the and sterling, at both floating and fixed rates of world and respond to changes in tax legislation.
interest, using derivative financial instruments They work closely with local management and derivatives, where appropriate, to generate the external tax advisers.
desired effective currency profile and interest rate basis.
The derivatives used for this purpose are We generate a substantial proportion of our revenue principally rate swaps, rate caps and collars, currency in foreign currencies, particularly the US dollar, and rate swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts.
foreign exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our earnings and the strength of our balance sheet.
The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are interest rate risk, liquidity and As with any international business our earnings can refinancing risk, counterparty risk and foreign be materially affected by exchange rate movements.
These risks are managed by the chief We are particularly exposed to movements in the US financial officer under policies approved by the board, dollar to sterling exchange rate as approximately 65% which are summarised below.
All the treasury policies of our revenue is generated in US dollars.
We estimate remained unchanged throughout 2006.
As described that if 2005 average rates had prevailed in 2006, in the section below, in February 2007 the board sales for 2006 would have been 48m or 1% higher.
approved a change in a definition used in the This is predominantly a currency translation risk currency of debt policy.
The audit committee and a i. e. non-cash flow item, and not a trading risk group of external treasury advisers, receives reports i. e. cash flow item as our currency trading flows are on the Groups treasury activities, policies and relatively limited.
The treasury department is not a profit centre and its activities are subject to regular Pearson generates about two-thirds of its sales in the internal audit.
US and each 5 change in the average :$ exchange rate for the full year which in 2006 was 1:$1.84 Interest rate risk would have an impact of 1p on adjusted earnings The Groups exposure to interest rate fluctuations on per share.
its borrowings is managed by borrowing on a fixed rate basis and by entering into rate swaps, rate caps We estimate that a 5 change in the closing exchange and forward rate agreements.
The Groups policy rate between the US dollar and sterling in any objective has continued to be to set a target year could affect our reported adjusted earnings proportion of its forecast borrowings taken at the per share by 1p and shareholders funds by year end, with cash netted against floating rate debt approximately 85m.
to be hedged i. e. fixed or capped over the next The Groups policy on managing currency risk is four years, subject to a maximum of 65% and a described on page 23. minimum that starts at 40% and falls by 10% at each year end.
At the end of 2006 the hedging ratio was Financial risk approximately 49%.
A simultaneous 1% change on This section explains the Groups approach to the 1 January in the Groups variable interest rates in management of financial risk.
each of US dollar, euro and sterling, taking into Treasury policy account forecast seasonal debt, would have a 7m The Group holds financial instruments for two effect on profit before tax.
principal purposes: to finance its operations and to manage the interest rate and currency risks arising from its operations and its sources of finance.
The Group finances its operations by a mixture of cash flows from operations, short-term borrowings from banks and commercial paper markets, and longer term loans from banks and capital markets.
21 Pearson Governance and Financial Statements 2006 Business Review Continued Use of interest rate derivatives The Groups policy is to strive to maintain a rating of The policy in the section above creates a group of BBB Baa1 over the long term.
The Group will also derivatives, under which the Group is a payer of fixed continue to use internally a range of ratios to monitor rates and a receiver of floating rates.
The Group also and manage its finances.
These include interest cover, aims to avoid undue exposure to a single interest rate net debt to operating profit and cash flow to debt setting.
Reflecting this, it swaps its fixed rate bond measures.
The Group also maintains undrawn issues to floating rate at their launch.
These create a committed borrowing facilities.
During the year the second group of derivatives, under which the Group Group renegotiated its revolving credit facility which is a receiver of fixed rates and a payer of floating rates.
increased the amount and extended the maturity date.
At the end of 2006 the committed facilities The Groups accounting objective in its use of interest amounted to 894m and their weighted average rate derivatives is to minimise the impact on the maturity was 4.5 years.
income statement of changes in the mark-to-market value of its derivative portfolio as a whole.
It uses Net borrowings fixed and floating rate stated after the duration calculations to estimate the sensitivity of the impact of rate derivatives: derivatives to movements in market rates.
The Group All figures millions 2006 2005 also identifies which derivatives are eligible for fair Fixed rate 514 549 value hedge accounting which reduces sharply the income statement impact of changes in the market Floating rate 545 447 value of a derivative.
The Group then divides the Total 1,059 996 total portfolio between hedge-accounted and pooled Gross borrowings: segments, so that the expected movement on the pooled segment is minimal.
All figures millions 2006 2005 Liquidity and refinancing risk Bank debt 177 105 The Groups objective is to secure continuity of Bonds 1,566 1,854 funding at a reasonable cost.
To do this it seeks to Total 1,743 1,959 arrange committed funding for a variety of maturities from a diversity of sources.
The Groups policy Gross borrowings by currency: objective has been that the weighted average maturity Currency of its core gross borrowings treating short-term As reported derivatives Combined advances as having the final maturity of the facilities All figures millions 2006 2006 2006 2005 available to refinance them should be between three US dollar 966 287 1,253 1,455 and ten years.
At the end of 2006 the average maturity Sterling 356 150 206 207 of gross borrowings was 4.5 years and non-banks provided 1,566m 90% of these borrowings down Euro 421 137 284 297 from five years and 95% respectively at the beginning Total 1,743 1,743 1,959 of the year.
Counterparty risk The Group believes that ready access to different The Groups risk of loss on deposits or derivative funding markets also helps to reduce its liquidity risk, contracts with individual banks is managed in part and that published credit ratings and published through the use of counterparty limits.
These limits, financial policies improve such access.
All of the which take published credit limits among other Groups credit ratings remained unchanged during things into account, are approved by the chief the year.
The long-term ratings are Baa1 from financial officer within guidelines approved by the Moodys and BBB from Standard & Poors, and the board.
In addition, prior to their maturity short-term ratings are P2 and A2 respectively.
22 Pearson Governance and Financial Statements 2006 in February 2007, for a currency rate swap that account the effect of cross currency swaps were: transformed a major part of the 6.125% Euro US dollar 979m, euro 158m and sterling 30m.
Bonds due 2007 into a US dollar liability, the Group The euro-denominated bonds mature in 2007 and entered into a mark-to-market agreement which the net debt profile will then more closely match the significantly reduced the counterparty risk of that currency profile of group operating profit before rate swap transaction.
Currency risk Use of currency debt and derivatives Although the Group is based in the UK, it has its The Group uses both currency denominated debt and most significant investment in overseas operations.
derivative instruments to implement the above policy.
The most significant currency for the Group Its intention is that gains losses on the derivatives and is the US dollar.
The Groups policy on routine debt offset the losses gains on the foreign currency transactional conversions between currencies assets and income.
Each quarter the value of hedging for example, the collection of receivables, and the instruments is monitored against the assets in the settlement of payables or interest remains that these relevant currency and, where practical, a decision should be completed at the relevant spot exchange is made whether to treat the debt or derivative as a rate.
The majority of our operations are domestic net investment hedge permitting foreign exchange within their country of operation.
No unremitted movements on it to be taken to reserves for the profits are hedged with foreign exchange contracts, purposes of IAS 39. as the company judges it inappropriate to hedge non-cash flow translational exposure with cash flow instruments.
However, the Group does seek to create a natural hedge of this exposure through its policy of aligning approximately the currency composition of its core net borrowings with its forecast operating Robin Freestone, Chief financial officer profit from February 2007 the policy was amended slightly to align core net borrowings with forecast operating profit before depreciation and amortisation.
This policy aims to dampen the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates on consolidated interest cover and earnings.
The policy above applies only to currencies that account for more than 15% of Group operating profit before depreciation and amortisation, which currently is only the US dollar.
However, the Group still borrows small amounts in other currencies, typically for seasonal working capital needs.
In addition, the Group currently expect to hold legacy borrowings in euro and sterling to their maturity dates: our policy does not require existing currency debt to be terminated to match declines in that currencys share of Group operating profit before depreciation and amortisation.
Included within year end net debt, the net borrowings cash in the three principal currencies above taking into 23 Pearson Governance and Financial Statements 2006
