BUSINESS REVIEW Since privatisation in 1989, the company has successfully delivered OVERVIEW AND STRATEGY the largest capital programme per capita of any of the privatised PENNON GROUP water and sewerage companies, with a particular focus on improving coastal waste water treatment and disposal.
The region currently has Pennon Group operates and invests in the areas of water and 143 EU designated bathing waters, almost one third of the total in sewerage services and waste management.
It has assets of England and Wales.
2.7 billion and currently employs around 3,000 people.
It has two main subsidiaries South West Water Limited South West South West Water expects to create value through delivering the Water and Viridor Waste Limited Viridor Waste.
regulatory contract agreed with the Office of Water Services subsumed into the Water Services Regulatory Authority from 1 April The Companys Mission Statement is to be a pre-eminent operator 2006 but which continues to be known as Ofwat, the size and in the business areas of water and sewerage services and waste content of which is reviewed at five-yearly intervals.
In these main business areas and for all future determining outputs, Ofwat sets prices, inter-alia, to enable business developments, to ensure the hallmark of quality, efficiency efficient companies to earn a reasonable rate of return on their and reliability which will help to meet the three key goals of: assets.
In the K4 Determination, which covers the period from April 2005 to March 2010, Ofwat assumed that the equity cost of capital Satisfying customers for all companies is 7.7% real after tax with an overall weighted Enhancing the environment average cost of capital of 5.1% real after tax.
Ofwats Determination Adding value for shareholders, employees and the allows for further investment by South West Water to improve the community quality of water and sewerage services.
This is expected to result in the companys Regulatory Capital Value increasing from around 1.95 The Boards priority, pursuant to this Mission Statement, is the billion in March 2005 to circa 2.6 billion in March 2010, thereby creation of shareholder value through its strategic focus on water enlarging the base on which the return is calculated.
and sewerage services and waste management.
Additional value may be created where South West Water Certain terms used throughout this Business Review, including how outperforms Ofwats assumptions by, for example, delivering forward looking statements are to be interpreted, are explained in services at lower operating and or capital costs than Ofwat assumed, the Interpretation Section on page 26 and the Glossary on page 27. and or financing the investment programme and operations at lower cost than Ofwat assumed.
SOUTH WEST WATER South West Water is the licensed water and sewerage service provider for Devon, Cornwall and parts of Dorset and Somerset.
It serves a region of nearly 10,300 square kilometres with 1.6 million residents and around eight million annual visitors.
It supplies around 450 million litres of treated water per day through 15,000 kilometres of water mains and disposes of around 250 million litres of waste water each day via 9,000 kilometres of public sewers.
The asset base of South West Water comprises: Distribution mains 15,000 kms Sewers 9,000 kms Impounding reservoirs 16 Water treatment works 39 Waste water treatment works 624 including works with ultra violet treatment 52 Combined sewer overflows 1,064 8 VIRIDOR WASTE Viridor Waste is a leading provider of essential waste treatment, Viridor Wastes main UK operations Landfill sites - operational recycling and disposal services in the UK.
It has core competencies as at 31 March 2006 Landfill sites - with planning in landfill disposal, recycling and generation of electricity from Power generation plants landfill gas.
The company has a waste collection fleet focusing primarily on the industrial and commercial market and also operates Glass recycling plants materials recycling facilities, waste transfer stations, treatment Transport depots plants, household waste recycling civic amenity sites and Transfer stations composting facilities in a number of regions in the UK.
Incineration plant MRF plants The main operations of Viridor Waste as at 31 March 2006 Glass recycling depots comprise: Waste treatment plants Composting sites Landfill sites operational 22 Civic amenity sites Landfill sites non-operational with planning 3 Power generation plants 19 Transport depots 24 Collection vehicles 340 Waste transfer stations 20 Incineration plant 1 Materials recycling facilities MRF 13 Glass recycling plants 2 HQ Glass recycling depots 6 Waste treatment plants 6 Composting sites 6 Household waste recycling civic amenity sites 43 Viridor Wastes landfill market consists of municipal, commercial and industrial wastes along with certain other special types of waste.
Landfill is currently the major final disposal route for these wastes.
Viridor Wastes strategy is to add value by: As a result of the measures taken by the Government to encourage capitalising on its strong position in landfill waste disposal recycling and comply with the requirements of the EU Landfill Directive, the amount of biodegradable municipal waste in the UK as exploiting opportunities in landfill gas power generation in line a whole going to landfill can be expected to decline.
Municipal waste with the Governments target of increasing the proportion of is around one third of Viridor Wastes landfill market.
However, electricity generated from renewable sources according to the Environment Agencys EA most recent estimates, pursuing profitable opportunities arising from the Governments there remains the equivalent of only around six years overall developing waste strategy including PFI PPP contracts and consented landfill capacity in the UK as a whole and new planning integrated waste management contracts.
permissions are difficult to achieve, particularly for green-field sites.
In view of the above, the Directors believe that consented landfill void is an increasingly valuable asset.
9 BUSINESS REVIEW Viridor Waste is one of the largest landfill site operators in the UK DIVIDEND POLICY AND SHAREHOLDER RETURNS with a total consented landfill capacity of approximately 87 million cubic metres at 31 March 2006.
The company is at present filling this The Group is committed to a progressive dividend policy.
at a rate of approximately 5 million cubic metres per annum which In December 2005, Pennon announced its decision to move South results in an average remaining life of 17 years at current rates of fill West Water to a more highly-geared structure to enhance the significantly longer than of the industry as a whole.
This capacity Groups capital efficiency.
As a consequence of this, following is located as shown on the map on the previous page.
shareholder approval at an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Gas produced from decomposing waste on landfill sites is Company in February 2006, a capital return was made to increasingly used to generate electricity.
It is a form of renewable shareholders by way of a B Share Scheme of circa 145 million energy and now represents around 30% of the UKs total renewable equivalent to 110p per share, with an associated share capital energy generation.
The Governments strategy is to increase the consolidation.
In addition to this, a share buy back of 55 million is percentage of electricity generated from renewable sources from the being progressed.
current figure of around 4% to a target of 10% in 2010 and 15% in The Board also announced its intention to step-up both the interim 2015, with an aspiration of 20% in 2020.
Historically, renewable and full year Group dividend by 20% per share after the share energy projects were supported by the Government through the non capital consolidation and its policy to grow it by 3% per annum in fossil fuel obligation NFFO scheme.
Fixed price RPI indexed real terms thereafter until 2009 10. contracts with terms of up to 15 years were awarded to the most competitive renewable projects in five tranches of bidding.
In April 2002, the NFFO regime was replaced by the renewable obligation SOUTH WEST WATER REGULATORY & certificates ROCs regime.
The overall price for electricity supplied COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT under ROCs is currently higher than that achieved under the most recent NFFO scheme.
This, together with acquisitions, has enabled Viridor Waste to increase its total generation capacity to a current APPOINTMENTS 61MW at 31 March 2006, compared with 28MW in March 2002.
In 1989, the Government appointed companies appointees to To take advantage of opportunities presented by the Governments provide water and waste water services the Appointments.
developing waste strategy, Viridor Waste is pursuing composting, Economic regulation pursuant to the Appointments is the energy from waste incineration,  treatment responsibility of Ofwat.
MBT, civic amenity or household waste recycling sites HWRS The Appointments impose conditions which Ofwat enforces, along management and other recycling opportunities.
These may be with the appointees principal duties under the Water Industry Act.
combined in integrated waste management contracts.
An Appointment may be terminated on 25 years notice by the In pursuing its strategy, Viridor Waste seeks to grow its waste Secretary of State, with more immediate revocation in certain management business, both organically and through acquisition.
It specified circumstances including, for example, failure to comply has continued to be an active participant in the consolidation of the with an enforcement order made by Ofwat.
UK waste market to date and, since October 2001, has made nine The water industry is also subject to Government direction and acquisitions in the waste sector for an aggregate consideration of legislation in relation to investment requirements and social policy approximately 150 million in the period to 31 March 2006.
They for example the protection of vulnerable customers.
From a have been integrated into the Viridor Waste group.
In May 2006, customer interest perspective, water industry activities are also Viridor Waste acquired Wyvern Waste Services Limited, details of reviewed by the Consumer Council for Water, a separate statutory which are set out in the Chief Executives Overview.
body which has replaced WaterVoice, which was part of Ofwat.
As a result of this focused strategy, Viridor Wastes revenue including landfill tax has grown from 106.1 million to 298.9 million over the period 2001 to 2006.
Its operating profit before amortisation of goodwill and intangibles has increased from 13.1 million to 35.9 million, a compound annual growth rate of 22.3%.
This has been the result of organic growth of the underlying business of around 11% per annum and the beneficial impact of recent acquisitions.
10 PRICE CAP REGULATION The K factors for the period 2005-2010 for South West Water were determined by Ofwat in its Final K4 Determination in December 2004 Ofwat regulates water and waste water charges by determining the and are shown below: maximum increase in charges which a company can impose in any year.
The water regulator conducts a Periodic Review and sets price limits every five years.
Prices are set by reference to inflation as Ofwat Final measured by the Retail Price Index RPI plus an adjustment factor Determination known as K which is specific for each company and which can vary Year K factor % for each year of the Review period.
The size of a companys K factor 2005 06 12.5 which can be positive, negative or zero reflects the scale of its 2006 07 9.8 capital investment programme, the cost of capital determined by the water regulator and its operational and environmental obligations 2007 08 9.8 offset by assumed efficiency improvements required of the company.
2008 09 1.7 Ofwat instituted a system of comparative competition which compares South West Waters performance on a wide range of 2009 10 1.4 parameters, including efficiency, customer service, and Average 6.9 environmental performance.
Operating and capital cost comparisons are used by Ofwat to determine the level of efficiency improvement which might be achieved at each Periodic Review.
The K4 Determination provides for total capital expenditure of 762 Companies are incentivised to be efficient both in terms of their operating costs and in the implementation of their capital million 2002 03 prices over the five year period.
The price limits expenditure programmes.
The benefit of any efficiency savings are intended to enable South West Water to: achieved through effective management in excess of those assumed Continue to maintain a safe, reliable water supply to customers by the water regulator is retained by the companies for a period and effective treatment and disposal of sewage, including generally of five years, after which time the benefit is passed to increasing activity to maintain its pipes, sewers and sewage customers.
The cost of any underperformance due to poor treatment works management is borne by the companies.
Companies are also Implement new odour control measures at priority sites incentivised to provide a high quality service and penalised, if they provide a poor quality service, by means of an adjustment to the K Meet the demands of new and existing customers for a reliable factor at the subsequent Periodic Review.
water supply and sewerage service Install 113,000 optional domestic customer water meters by Unexpected costs or savings arising from changes in certain 2009 10 regulatory assumptions or legal requirements during a Periodic Deliver required drinking water and environmental quality Review period are recorded by South West Water and may, in certain improvements including: circumstances agreed by Ofwat, be logged up or down, with prices adjusted at the next Periodic Review to compensate for the renovation of more than 3,200kms of water distribution mains unexpected change.
In addition, in certain circumstances, where the improvements at 14 water treatment works change is material, the company can request, and Ofwat can phosphorous removal at nine sewage treatment works instigate, a re-setting of its price limits K factors during the fivework to address 49 unsatisfactory intermittent effluent year period, known as an Interim Determination of K IDoK.
discharges Resolve or mitigate problems identified in the companys plan where overloaded sewers cause internal flooding Maintain access to capital markets to finance delivery of these outputs at a reasonable cost.
In setting price limits for South West Water, Ofwat assumed the following efficiency improvements: Average annual operating efficiency improvements of 2.5% water and 2.0% sewerage Capital maintenance efficiency improvements of 5.0% water and 8.7% sewerage Capital enhancement efficiency improvements of 5.0% water and 16.4% sewerage.
11 BUSINESS REVIEW ENVIRONMENT QUALITY REGULATION Municipal waste accounts for around one third of Viridor Wastes landfill market.
The water industry in the UK is subject to substantial domestic and European Union EU regulation, placing significant statutory The alternatives to landfill sites for final waste disposal in the UK are obligations on South West Water with regard to, amongst other currently limited.
In order to meet the requirements of the Landfill things, the quality of treated water.
Examples of relevant EU Directive, local authorities have been set statutory targets by the directives include the Drinking Water Directive, the Bathing Water Government for the recycling of household waste and must also Directive and the Urban Waste Water Treatment Directive.
The Water implement strategies for the diversion of biodegradable municipal Framework Directive was incorporated in 2003 into UK law and is waste from landfill.
intended to rationalise EU water legislation providing a framework Each waste disposal authority has been allocated an allowance of for the protection of and improvement in the quality of water the amount of biodegradable waste it may dispose of to landfill for resources together with the promotion of sustainable water the years 2005 to 2020.
These allowances are designed to ensure consumption.
To comply with the Water Framework Directive, that the UK as a whole achieves the requirements of the EU Landfill member states will have to achieve the challenging target of good Directive.
Subject to some constraints, local authorities can carry status for groundwater and river water, as well as for estuarine and forward or trade allowances under the Landfill Allowance Trading coastal water by the end of 2015.
Any authority exceeding its allocation Environmental regulation for water and waste water in England is without such an allowance faces a penalty of 150 per tonne in the responsibility of the Secretary of State for Environment, Food addition to the cost of disposing of the waste.
This is expected to and Rural Affairs, together with, among others: result in the introduction of alternative disposal processes at higher cost than current routes.
the Environment Agency EA which is responsible for the The Government introduced landfill tax as a further incentive to licensing of water abstraction and the regulation of discharges divert waste from landfill sites.
Landfill tax applies to all waste to controlled waters, including discharges from waste water disposed at a licensed landfill site, unless the waste is specifically treatment works exempt, such as soil from historically contaminated sites.
Landfill tax is chargeable by weight.
For inert waste, landfill tax is the Drinking Water Inspectorate DWI which sets and enforces chargeable at 2 per tonne.
A standard rate of 21 per tonne drinking water quality standards.
currently applies to all other taxable waste which is due to rise by at least 3 per tonne per annum in the next few years, to reach a COMPETITION medium to long term rate of 35 per tonne.
As the licensed undertaker in Devon, Cornwall and small parts of Dorset and Somerset, South West Water has no direct competition for the provision of water and sewerage services to the vast majority of its customers.
A new regime is in place whereby customers using more than 50 megalitres Ml per year can contract with alternative suppliers for water supply.
South West Water has only 36 customers in this category, whose aggregate water charges account for less than 2% of its total turnover.
During the year, South West Water submitted indicative access prices and draft agreements to Ofwat pursuant to the new regime.
VIRIDOR WASTE REGULATORY & COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT The UK is required under the EU Landfill Directive to reduce the amount of biodegradable municipal waste going to landfill sites as follows: to 75% of 1995 level by 2010 to 50% of 1995 level by 2013 to 35% of 1995 level by 2020 12 PLANNING FOR LANDFILL SITES AND WASTE AND RECYCLING In May 2006, Viridor Waste signed a 25 year PPP with Somerset INFRASTRUCTURE County Council and at the same time acquired Somersets Local Authority Waste Disposal Company LAWDC, Wyvern Waste Services All waste management facilities, including the development of new Limited.
landfill sites and the expansion of existing landfill sites, are subject to planning permission from the relevant local authority.
Landfill Viridor Waste recognises that there is a range of risks associated sites and hazardous waste facilities also require a Pollution, with entering into such contracts, which are often for a 25-year Prevention and Control PPC permit from the EA.
However, subject to a careful assessment of the risks on a contract by contract basis, the company will continue to seek to Viridor Waste believes that good environmental management is secure such contracts.
important in winning future planning consent.
It has achieved ISO 14001 Environmental Management Systems accreditation at all of WASTE REGULATION ENVIRONMENT its key sites.
EU directives and related UK legislation, as well as planning and Planning applications are subject to rigorous assessment by local licensing, are referred to above.
authorities who will consider them against the backdrop of policies The EA and Scottish Environment Protection Agency SEPA monitor contained within waste local plans that have been compiled for their performance against permit conditions and general environmental areas.
Applications have to address a wide range of issues, and the law.
Breaches are subject to prosecutions.
The EA and SEPA can also EA is a statutory consultee in this process.
require the operator to undertake upgrades to ensure future compliance and, where a pollution incident has occurred, require INTEGRATED MUNICIPAL WASTE MANAGEMENT CONTRACTS clean-up action to be undertaken.
AND THE ROLE OF PRIVATE FINANCE INITIATIVES PFIs OR PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS PPPs Waste facilities are also subject to the same regulations as other industries, including health and safety, control of substances To assist in meeting their landfill diversion targets, local authorities hazardous to health and the Working Time Directive.
In addition, are seeking to let integrated waste management contracts covering the transport of waste is subject to specific controls.
a range of activities which often include household waste recycling sites HWRS : composting: recycling and recovery: waste transfer and bulk transport: and final disposal both incineration and landfill.
In a number of instances, these will be financed under the CUSTOMER SUPPLIER RELATIONSHIPS PFI regime.
The Group recognises that maintaining long term relationships with Under the PFI regime local authorities apply to the Government for customers and suppliers is key to achieving its strategic objectives.
funding for capital projects which fall within the eligibility criteria.
Further details of supplier relationships are set out in the suppliers Successful applicants receive cash funds known as PFI credits and contractors section of this Business Review on page 22. which do not have to be repaid and can be used by the local authority to fund a proportion of the capital and operating SOUTH WEST WATER expenditures needed for the project.
No single customer accounts for more than 1% of turnover.
No Considerable investment potentially as high as 30 billion by 2020, supplier revenue accounts for more than 5.0% of turnover and as estimated by the Institution of Civil Engineers is required by the South West Water sources all its purchases from competitive markets UK to meet municipal waste landfill diversion targets.
with the exception of the purchase of magnetite for use at a water treatment works.
Action is being taken to change this treatment Viridor Waste secured and began servicing a 25-year recycling and process.
waste transfer PFI contract for West Sussex County Council in April 2004.
The contract, designed to deliver a 45% recycling rate by VIRIDOR WASTE 2015, involves the provision of 14 new or improved recycling and waste handling facilities and is supported by 25m of PFI credits.
Local authorities are the largest single customer group accounting in total for 30% of turnover.
No individual authority accounts for In May 2006, a joint venture between Viridor Waste and John Laing more than 4%.
Viridor Wastes ROC contracts account for 5% of Plc was chosen as one of two parties shortlisted to submit Best and turnover.
Final Offers BAFOs for the Greater Manchester waste services PFI.
No supplier accounts for more than 1% of Viridor Wastes turnover.
Councils may also choose to let long term contracts under the PPP The company sources from competitive markets.
From the waste management contractors point of view, the nature of the contract is very similar whether it is a PFI or a PPP.
13 BUSINESS REVIEW KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS KPIs Key Performance Indicators KPIs used by the Directors to assess performance against their stated objectives are as follows: SOUTH WEST WATER Overall Performance Assessment Growth in Regulatory Capital Value The Overall Performance Assessment OPA index was devised by Ofwat as a comparative tool to measure companies performance.
Regulatory Capital Value RCV is the financial base on which Ofwat The OPA is based on performance in areas such as customer service allows a rate of return and sets prices at the Periodic Review.
The and complaint handling, billing, debt collection, asset opening RCV is adjusted for projected capital and infrastructure serviceability, environmental compliance and quality of drinking renewals expenditure, grants and contributions, infrastructure water delivered.
renewals charge and current cost depreciation, together with the efficiency outperformance from the previous regulatory period.
Data is collated for 12 month periods, part calendar year and part Ofwat then projects each component for each year of the Review financial year.
The final OPA assessment is published as part of period.
The RCV is adjusted annually for Retail Price Index Ofwats Annual Report on Levels of Service for the Water Industry in movements.
At the following price review, the RCV is restated for England and Wales, usually in the autumn.
outputs under-delivered, the logging-up of new obligations and the Improvements within Ofwats OPA index have been sustained as effect of construction price inflation on capital and infrastructure capital expenditure, previously constrained whilst the coastal cleanexpenditure.
A full explanation is given in the Ofwat letter to up was delivered, has now been directed to address other areas.
Regulatory Directors RD08 06, which is available on the Ofwat website www.
uk Overall Performance Assessment Scores The RCV at 31 March 2006 amounted to 2.1 billion.
400 Projected Regulatory Capital Value 350 2700 300 2500 250 2300 0 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2100 Financial year ending 31 March 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Drinking water compliance Financial year ending 31 March During 2005, South West Water further improved its overall high Projected RCVs up to 2009 10 are based upon Ofwats projections set level of compliance with the drinking water quality regulations with out in Future Water and Sewerage Charges 2005-10 published in 99.96% of its regulatory tests meeting the required standards.
December 2004, adjusted by South West Waters estimates of RPI indexation.
Overall Water Quality Compliance 100 The growth in RCV adds directly to shareholder value as a higher value and therefore return is attributed to South West Waters asset 99.5 base by the Regulator.
99 Operating profit 98.5 South West Water achieved an operating profit before exceptional items of 141.5 million in 2005 06, up 19.3 million on 2004 05.
0 For the five year period 2002 to 2006, operating profit was as follows: 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 Calendar years Year ended 31 March 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 m m m m m 107.0 111.5 118.9 122.2 141.5 UK GAAP 14 million OPA points % compliance VIRIDOR WASTE Return on equity investment Operating profit and profit before taxation PBT Return on equity investment is calculated as profit before taxation Operating profit before intangibles amortisation and PBT are key expressed as a percentage of Pennon Groups equity investment in measures of Viridor Wastes performance and are set out in the table Viridor Waste 207 million at 31 March 2006.
This is also set out in below for the six year period 2001 to 2006. the table below.
The table also sets out the Compound Annual Growth Rate CAGR of these measures which is the rate of growth between 2001 and 2006 expressed as a single average figure over the period.
Year ended 31 March 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 CAGR m m m m m m 2001 06 Operating profit before intangibles amortisation 13.1 15.2 19.1 22.7 30.0 35.9 22.3% Profit before taxation 11.7 13.5 14.2 14.7 20.1 21.9 13.4% Return on equity investment after corporate overheads 6.1% 7.1% 7.4% 7.5% 10.3% 10.6% UK GAAP Consented landfill void Landfill gas electricity generation capacity As at 31 March 2006, Viridor Waste had an assessed consented void Electricity generated is sold to electricity suppliers, usually under capacity of 87 million cubic metres.
This can be reconciled to the NFFO contracts or under short-term contracts with ROCs.
disclosed consented void capacity in last years Annual Report, as As at 31 March 2006, Viridor Waste had 61MW of generating follows: capacity, an increase of 9MW over the year.
million cubic metres Power Generation Capacity As at 31 March 2005 80 60 Planning gains net 1 50 Acquisition 11 40 Used in the period 5 30 As at 31 March 2006 87 20 0 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Consented Landfill Void Financial year ending 31 March 90 85 80 75 70 0 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Financial year ending 31 March 15 million cubic metres MW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Occupational health and safety are key elements of South West Waters risk management philosophy process.
Following privatisation, the company set out to build an occupational health and safety culture In accordance with its Mission Statement as set out on page 8, the throughout its supply chain in partnership with stakeholders including Pennon Group endeavours to achieve the appropriate balance between trade unions, regulators, other water companies and construction all its stakeholders, the environment and the needs of the Group.
South West Waters reportable accident rate was 12.56 The Groups social and ethical policy covers the key areas of finance, accidents per 1,000 employees in the calendar year 2005, a slight employees, customers and suppliers, community, management increase on 12.0 per 1,000 employees in 2004.
Whilst the significant responsibility and communications.
reduction achieved in recent years has largely been maintained, the A key objective of the Group is to uphold its reputation for integrity company continues to pursue initiatives to improve the health and and fair dealing, which it considers is essential to the long-term safety of all its employees.
well-being of the Group and its key stakeholders.
A similar business-focused approach is now underway to reduce workThe Group also has a Whistleblowing policy which supports its related ill health.
Although the company acknowledges that further approach to ethical employment practices by encouraging work is required to improve health at work, at a major health conference employees to raise, in accordance with a formalised procedure, hosted by the TUC during the year, South West Water was the only concerns which relate to potential unlawful conduct, financial private sector organisation to be cited by the Minister of Health and malpractice, dangers to the public or damage to the environment.
Safety as effectively integrating ethical, commercial and statutory This policy is reviewed regularly.
The Group improved its overall score in the Business in the Through the Chief Executives chairmanship of the Health and Safety Communitys Environmental Index 2005 to 92.97% and was ranked Group of Water UK, South West Water continues to lead Clear Water 32nd out of 145 entrants.
2010, a 10 year occupational health programme for the water industry.
Independently verified data gathered across the industry has identified The Group is a constituent member of the FTSE4Good Index which the industrys greatest work-related challenges as stress and musculorecognises the Companys fulfilment of the Indexs criteria for skeletal disorders.
An essential aspect of South West Waters activities with regard to the safety, health, welfare and well-being of its own workers is the extensive provision of training in skills acquisition and health and safety, thus ENVIRONMENT ensuring that employees have the knowledge and expertise to undertake INDEX 2005 FTSE4Good their jobs in a well-motivated and productive manner.
Viridor Waste EMPLOYEES Viridor Waste is pursuing a number of occupational health and safety The Directors believe that the success of the strategies set out at the initiatives.
It currently has seven sites accredited to the ISO18001 beginning of this Business Review depend inter-alia on the businesses international health and safety standard and is planning to extend this ability to attract and retain appropriately qualified and motivated across further sites.
All other sites are covered by the companys employees, provide them with a safe working environment and give environmental management system most accredited to ISO14001, them the necessary training and development to fulfil their roles.
which is the vehicle for delivering health and safety standards and procedures.
South West Water In 2005, South West Water undertook a major internal reorganisation Viridor Wastes reportable accident rate per 1,000 employees was 18.1 including the establishment of a new asset management function, in 2005 06 13.2 in 2004 05.
Whilst this accident rate still compares which is enabling a more efficient approach to its asset investment and favourably with the industry as a whole, it is recognised that an providing improved performance information about the companys increasing focus on health and safety improvement and performance is assets.
The reorganisation enabled the company to release a number of necessary.
The company has recruited additional health and safety employees on early retirement or voluntary severance terms to assist professionals during the year and continues to raise the level of training with meeting the demanding efficiency targets arising from the K4 and support available to its staff.
A second major project is currently underway to improve the service to customers in relation to the companys day to THE ENVIRONMENT day operational activities and to reduce operational costs.
This will The Directors believe that sound environmental performance is involve the establishment of a new Service Centre in Exeter in 2006, critical to the success of both South West Water and Viridor Waste.
which will ultimately both manage the customer interface and plan the The Group has a long established environmental policy, as set out in activities of field staff who are directly responsible for handling its annual Corporate Responsibility Report which is available on the customer issues.
co. uk CR 16 Both businesses must comply with the high standards set by the EA to INCIDENTS AND PROSECUTIONS minimise their impact on the environment and are responsible for the Both South West Water and Viridor Waste endeavour to manage their treatment and disposal of societys waste in a carefully controlled and operational activities to minimise the occurrence and impact of any highly engineered manner.
The businesses acknowledge the importance incidents that occur at operational sites.
of environmental sustainability and have taken measures to ensure that their operations enhance the environment whenever possible and South West Water minimise any adverse impact.
The number of incidents classified by the EA as Category Two The Group is a major generator of renewable energy which supports significant pollution incidents in 2005 06 was six, of which only the Governments objective to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
In three were determined as non-compliant with discharges consents, 2005 06, the Group generated 437GWh, which was the equivalent of compared with three also determined as non-compliant in 2004 05.
152% of the Groups total energy consumption.
During the year, the company was convicted on two occasions for environmental offences and fined a total of 6,000, compared with South West Water 12 convictions and 51,200 in fines in 2004 05.
The company has strategies in place to reduce incidents which may lead to The percentage population served by sanitary compliant waste water prosecutions.
treatment works improved to 99.41% 99.16% in 2004.
In January 2006, an incident occurred in part of the Exeter water This high level of compliance is a major contributor to the region having distribution network when diesel fuel entered the supply.
To protect a significant proportion of the finest bathing waters, beaches and rivers customers a Do Not Drink notice was issued for a four day period.
In 2005, 99% of the regions 143 bathing waters achieved EU mandatory standards 98% in 2004 and 89% achieved the more Viridor Waste stringent guideline standards 81% in 2004.
In September 2005, Viridor Waste pleaded guilty to one charge of South West Waters region also has the highest percentage length of contravening Section 34 of the Environmental Protection Act a high quality rivers in England.
littering offence from March 2004 at the Parkwood landfill site in Sheffield.
The company was fined 2,000 plus costs.
As a result of Viridor Waste this incident, the company undertook a full review of operations at the site and has implemented a series of actions to prevent a The most significant positive environmental impacts of Viridor Wastes recurrence.
operations arise from the safe and efficient disposal of societys waste materials, increased resource and energy efficiency from its recycling SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY ISSUES and recovery operations, the generation of renewable energy from The Group is committed to supporting the communities in which it non-fossil fuels and the restoration of despoiled landscapes such as operates.
It does this by carefully targeted sponsorship and disused mineral workings through the controlled deposit of waste charitable donations to social and community groups, further details materials.
Significant negative impacts include transportation and of which can be found in the Groups Corporate Responsibility Report.
associated emissions, methane production where not harnessed for energy generation or flared, leachate production and potential local impacts such as dust, noise, litter and odour.
RESOURCES Viridor Waste developed its own Environmental Management System EMS in the early 1990s recognising the growing importance of SOUTH WEST WATER measuring and monitoring the environmental impact of its operations.
Human resources This has allowed targets to be set and achieved to maximise positive environmental impacts and reduce negative impacts, resulting in South West Water has a skilled management team and utilises continuous improvement in environmental performance.
remuneration and incentive policies which are focused on financial Viridor Waste was the first UK waste company to achieve ISO 14001 and operational targets.
It has invested significant sums to ensure accreditation across all major operational sites and has 42 accredited that its staff have the experience and competencies to undertake centres covering 107 operational facilities as at 31 March 2006.
For example, NVQ training is provided to operators and also played a leading role in developing and reporting against the craftsmen to ensure that basic skills are in place and health and environmental performance indicators for the waste industry as safety requirements met.
A range of training opportunities including promoted by the Green Alliance.
assistance to obtain professional qualifications is offered to officebased staff and managers are encouraged to widen their knowledge The amount of waste recycled by the company increased over the year and skills through participation in company-wide programmes as to 951,155 tonnes 780,129 tonnes in 2004 05, a 22% increase.
well as bespoke external courses.
All training activity is undertaken under the Investor in People IIP standard and is closely aligned with business requirements.
17 BUSINESS REVIEW Staff turnover is below the national average.
Job satisfaction is Industry reputation and expertise supported by encouraging role changes wherever possible around Viridor Waste is an active member of the Environmental Services the company to help employees gain a broad experience of business Association, the leading trade body, and other relevant industry activities.
The company has introduced a number of Family Friendly organisations such as the Chartered Institution of Wastes policies to ensure that a proper balance is maintained between work Management and the Renewable Power Association.
Senior staff are and home life.
Regular benchmarking of salary levels is carried out also involved in leading positions on industry committees providing to maintain the companys competitive position in the job market.
Government departments with economic and technical information.
The company will be carrying out an employee survey during 2006, having last done so towards the end of 2002, and will also be Landfill and electricity generation resources seeking IIP re-accreditation during this coming year.
Details of these resources are set out on page 15.
Water resources In 2005 06, South West Water abstracted 175,890 Ml of raw water RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES from its 61 licensed abstraction locations which have a total annual licensed volume of 384,466 Ml.
The abstraction locations are either RISK FACTORS RELATING TO THE GROUP reservoirs, rivers or groundwater aquifers.
This raw water is treated to a high standard before being put into supply for customers use.
It may not be possible to continue to sustain the same level of earnings and growth of the Group as in the past The company continues to invest in its distribution network and has consistently met its Ofwat leakage target of 84 Ml d. There is a risk to shareholder value if the Group is not able to continue to grow its key businesses and produce sustainable South West Water prepares and updates its Water Resources Plan earnings growth.
This is dependent upon the correct strategies every five years for a range of climate change and demand scenarios.
being pursued by strong and able management within the Group as The Plan, which is reviewed annually, indicates that no new well as on external factors.
The Group has maintained earnings and reservoirs are required to be built before the planning horizon of has successfully grown both South West Water and Viridor Waste and 2030 but investment is needed to develop the overall trunk main intends to continue to create shareholder value through its strategic infrastructure, to expand treatment capacity and to enhance certain focus on water and sewerage services and waste management.
At 26 March 2006, reservoir storage levels were 82.7% compared RISK FACTORS RELATING TO THE GROUPS WATER AND with 80.8% at 27 March 2005.
WASTE WATER BUSINESS Price controls over the turnover of the Groups regulated Systems business could adversely affect profitability The company has a range of sophisticated financial, asset The outcome of Ofwats future Price Determinations may adversely management and operational systems which are upgraded and affect South West Water for a number of reasons including an renewed as necessary to ensure reliability, efficiency and inadequate cost of capital allowance.
There is also a risk that operational effectiveness.
In addition, it has back-up and standby regulatory assumptions concerning operating expenses, required arrangements in place in the event of damage, failure or other capital expenditure and revenue forecasts may prove to be disruption.
However, South West Water has a track record of meeting Ofwats efficiency expectations in the last two Periodic VIRIDOR WASTE Review periods K2 and K3.
Human resources Failure to deliver the capital investment programme could The company employs a comprehensive range of technical and adversely affect profitability professional managerial personnel and supervisory, administrative South West Water requires significant capital expenditure for and clerical, semi-skilled and unskilled staff.
Many are vocationally additions to and replacement of plant and equipment for its water trained and have extensive operational experience.
Membership of distribution and waste water facilities and networks.
The price limits relevant trade and professional bodies is widespread and is set by Ofwat for the K4 period take into account the level of capital encouraged.
expenditure expected to be incurred and the associated funding costs.
In the event of under performance, the water regulator could intervene to re-set price limits at lower levels.
18 The company may be unable to raise sufficient funds to regulations, it is possible that new or stricter standards could be finance its functions imposed that will raise South West Waters capital and operating expenditures by requiring modifications to its assets.
It is also Historically, the Group has financed expenditure from cash flows possible that future legislation will impose constraints on existing from operations and from debt financing.
In setting price limits, the water abstractions requiring South West Water to source alternative water regulator has a duty to ensure that a company can finance its water supplies.
These costs are recoverable in part or in whole functions.
Whilst there can be no assurance that cash flows from through the regulatory process of setting appropriate future price operations will not decline or that additional debt financing or other limits.
In the event of these being significant, South West Water sources of capital would be available to meet these requirements, could apply to Ofwat for a revision of its price limits through the Groups policy is to ensure that it has committed facilities an IDoK.
available for at least 12 months anticipated net cash requirement.
Contamination to water supplies could adversely affect If South West Water is unable to secure the anticipated capital profitability efficiencies associated with the capital programme, or the programme falls behind schedule for other reasons, the profitability Water supplies may be subject to contamination, including of the Group may suffer.
The water regulator may factor such failure contamination from naturally occurring compounds and pollution into future price reviews.
In addition, the Groups ability to meet resulting from man-made sources.
In the event that one or more of regulatory and environmental performance standards could be the companys water supplies is contaminated and it is unable to adversely affected.
This could result in the potential for fines or substitute a water supply from an uncontaminated water source, or other sanctions imposed by either the water regulator or the courts, to adequately treat the contaminated water source in a costincluding ultimately the loss of South West Waters Appointment.
effective manner, there may be an adverse effect on its reputation, The company has a track record of delivering its capital programme operating results and financial position.
Some or all of these costs in accordance with regulatory requirements.
may be recoverable through future price reviews.
South West Water could also be held liable for human exposure to hazardous Failure to deliver operating cost savings implicit in the substances in its water supplies or other environmental damage.
regulatory review could adversely affect profitability The Group maintains insurance policies in relation to these risks, although there can be no assurance that all or any of the costs Operating cost savings to be achieved during the current K4 period associated with these risks would be covered or that coverage will are implicit in the regulatory review.
In line with South West Waters continue to be available in the future.
track record, the Board remains confident of delivering the assumed operating cost savings.
However, should operational performance Non-recovery of customer debt could adversely affect deteriorate, the Groups profitability could suffer and the water profitability regulator could seek to impose higher efficiency targets as part of future price reviews.
The company is responsible for the billing, cash collection and debt management activities for around 760,000 domestic and business Environmental regulations and quality standards could customers.
Since 1997 water companies are prohibited from increase the Groups costs and adversely affect profitability disconnecting domestic water supplies for non-payment.
Nonrecovery of debt is therefore a risk to the Group and may cause the Various environmental and consumer protection, health and safety Groups profitability to suffer, although allowance is made by Ofwat laws and regulations govern the companys waste water and water in the Determination for its estimate of debt deemed to be distribution businesses.
These laws and regulations establish, irrecoverable.
In addition to existing strategies, South West Water is amongst other things, quality standards for drinking water, effluent implementing new initiatives to improve and secure cash collection, treatment including sewage sludge disposal and discharges into including the use of property charging orders.
However, there can the environment which affect South West Waters operations.
In be no assurance that the the amount allowed by the water regulator addition, South West Water is required to obtain various is adequate.
Provision was made in the last Periodic Review for environmental permissions from regulatory agencies for its companies to make an application for an IDoK in the event of a operations.
South West Water endeavours to comply with all significant shortfall.
regulatory standards but cannot guarantee that it will be in total compliance at all times with these laws and regulations.
Energy cost pressures Environmental laws and regulations are complex and change Energy costs are the second highest component of South West frequently.
These laws and their enforcement have tended to Waters operating costs.
A proportion of recent increases was become more stringent over time.
Whilst South West Water has recognised and allowed for by Ofwat in the last Price Determination.
budgeted for future capital and operating expenditures to achieve compliance with current and known future changes in law and 19 BUSINESS REVIEW South West Water mitigates rising energy costs through careful Landfill sites are filled and restored on a cell by cell basis.
Final system operation, by maximising renewable energy generation and restoration, in accordance with the planning permission, and aftercare by purchasing energy in the most efficient way.
of the site takes place after site closure and the costs related to aftercare are expected to continue for around 30 years post closure.
Meter option take-up These costs are best estimates based on Viridor Wastes own extensive experience and they are updated at each stage of the capital Higher than national average water charges within the South West expenditure programme, typically every three years.
Nevertheless, Water area have encouraged many customers to change from an as with any estimate of future costs, there is a risk that circumstances unmeasured rateable value based charging system to a payment based may change which may affect the level of those costs.
on volume of water used as measured by a meter.
Properties constructed since 1989 do not have a rateable value assessment and Restoration and aftercare costs are recognised on a landfill usage are therefore charged by the volume of water used.
Most customers in basis, i. e. per tonne input.
This is derived by dividing the total properties built prior to 1989 can choose to opt for metered charges.
In expected cost by the number of tonnes expected to be input into the doing so they have an option to switch back to rateable value payment site up to its closure.
The number of tonnes expected to be input is within 12 months of meter installation.
The rate at which customers derived from the remaining void space, as estimated by external elect to switch to metered charges is estimated at each Periodic Review.
consultants, and estimated compaction rates tonnes per cubic metre.
South West Water expects that the proportion of customers charged on These are best estimates, based on current information, which are a metered basis will align with the estimates made at the last Review reviewed every year.
However, to the extent that tonnages are over or which allow for some 65% of domestic customers to pay by measured underestimated, there is a risk that the amount provided may be too charges by 2010, compared with around 53% of such customers with high or low at a particular point in time.
However, it is possible that a higher Municipal waste contracts typically last for a number of years: they proportion of customers could switch to a metered supply and this usually have price increases under formulae related to inflation as could have an adverse impact on the companys revenues.
As referred measured by the RPI in the UK and in some cases take into account to in the price cap regulation section on page 11, an IDoK may be used specific legislative or technical changes.
Prices for other types of waste to at least partially recover revenue losses if they exceed the prescribed depend more on local markets and competitive conditions.
Wastes experience over several years is that prices in general have risen at least fast enough to cover cost increases in the areas where it Other potential uncertainties and risks operates.
There is a risk that landfill prices may not rise sufficiently in A failure of the equipment operated by South West Water could lead all locations to recover recent and projected cost increases.
to the escape of water or waste water including sewage effluent and result in damage to third party property or personal injury.
In such The Governments Waste Strategy, stemming from the Landfill circumstances, South West Water may incur liability to those third Directive, may lead to a reduction in volumes of waste being parties.
South West Water could also be prosecuted by the EA or DWI disposed of via landfill.
and or be required to undertake costly upgrades.
The Governments waste strategy is currently under review and includes A water shortage due to a severe drought could reduce the water targets for diversion of municipal waste from landfill and increases in supply available to customers, which could have a material impact landfill tax as previously announced.
on the profitability of South West Water.
The company does have in place a number of schemes to maintain water resources such as Viridor Waste focuses on the disposal of municipal: industrial and pumped storage for certain reservoirs and has a number of water commercial: construction: and demolition waste.
Of this, around one conservation measures which are applied on an ongoing basis.
third 25 million tonnes of the UK total for these waste streams is municipal of which approximately two thirds is biodegradable municipal waste BMW.
These figures are based on estimates from RISK FACTORS RELATING TO THE WASTE MANAGEMENT BUSINESS DEFRA, the EA, SEPA and HM Revenue & Customs.
Increases in landfill costs may not be recovered through price Existing Government initiatives are starting to have an impact and the increases amount of municipal waste being disposed to landfill appears now to be The raising of environmental standards is leading to a gradual increase declining.
Assuming the EU Landfill Directive targets are met, the total in landfill costs in general.
Particular areas of cost increases include amount of municipal solid waste MSW which will be landfilled from site engineering which results in increased depreciation, restoration 2020 will be around 10 million tonnes per annum depending on the and aftercare costs, leachate management, landfill gas management precise interpretation of the Directive.
If there is no change in other and general site management.
Companies such as Viridor Waste, with waste streams, this would still leave a substantial landfill market landfills engineered to modern standards and which have good in 2020. environmental control systems, should incur lower than average This should be seen in the context of an EA estimate of a current increases in costs.
However, there remains a risk that rising standards consented landfill capacity UK-wide of around six years.
may generate higher treatment and disposal costs than currently assumed.
20 Viridor Waste has seen its underlying landfill volumes holding steady or Recent underlying brown energy prices have risen significantly slowly increasing, perhaps reflecting an increasing share of the landfill reflecting the general energy supply demand position in the UK and market.
However, the combined effect of the various Government worldwide.
Brown energy prices will continue to be determined by the measures may reduce the total amount of waste being landfilled in world and UK energy market and may go down as well as up.
changes in underlying energy prices will directly affect Viridor Wastes revenues when its sales contracts come up for renewal.
In general, Not all landfills may meet the standards of the Integrated Viridor Waste has sold its energy one year ahead.
Pollution Prevention and Control Directive and the Landfill Without a pricing mechanism such as ROCs as identified on page 10, Directive, or requirements may be imposed which would further investment in renewables energy generation would not impact on the economics of landfill generally be economic.
The Government has made a strong Landfills and other industrial processes in the UK are subject to a new commitment to renewables which are key to meeting the long term permitting regime pursuant to the Pollution Prevention and Control carbon reduction strategy set out in the energy white paper and the England and Wales Regulations 2000 PPC Regulations.
Existing UKs 2010 targets for carbon dioxide reductions under the Kyoto landfills opened before July 2001 operate under waste management Protocol.
Renewables are also important in minimising the UKs licences.
In future, they and landfills opened since July 2001 will increasing reliance on imported energy.
Nevertheless, there remains a require a PPC permit granted under the PPC Regulations.
The risk that the Government may change the current regime.
replacement of waste management licences with PPC permits is In its recent consultation on the ROCs regime, the Government occurring in a series of application tranches due to run through to concluded that new landfill gas schemes starting from 2009 onwards 2007.
PPC permits are expected to impose higher standards and costs will have reduced eligibility for ROCs.
It intends to consult further on in general.
At the same time, it is possible that some current landfills what this means in practice.
This will not, however, affect Viridor may fail to obtain a PPC permit and will therefore have to seek to agree Wastes existing schemes which are likely to form the vast bulk of its a closure plan with the EA or SEPA.
The net result of this is that it is expected that, after a transitional The value of ROCs is increased by the sharing of the buy-out price period, the average technical and operational standards of landfill in monies among holders of ROCs and is therefore dependent on the the UK will improve and it is possible that the number of landfills may financial strength of those suppliers who opt to pay the buy-out price.
There is a risk that the insolvency of a licensed electricity supplier could All but one of Viridor Wastes operational landfills have achieved PPC lead to a drop in the value of the ROCs which Viridor Waste sells to permits, although in some cases the company is appealing against licensed suppliers.
certain of the conditions proposed, which might have cost or other A landfill gas project must be able to collect and burn sufficient gas to implications for the landfills.
The operational landfill which has not yet produce electricity.
Ultimately, the volume of gas generated will received a PPC permit is due to close in three years time in any event.
depend on the amount and composition of the waste landfilled.
For The company is in the process of applying for PPC permits for two new example, if the amount of BMW diverted away from landfill is increased landfills and whilst it is expected that these applications will be in the future in accordance with the EU Landfill Directive obligations, successful, the EAs or SEPAs conclusions cannot be pre-judged.
the total biodegradable component of the waste going to landfill will Under both waste management licences and PPC permits, landfills affect volumes of landfill gas produced.
It is therefore possible that the require expenditure on restoration when the site is closed and gas obtained will not be available, either in the amounts or of the subsequently on aftercare maintenance, supervision, monitoring and calorific value required, to make a project cost effective.
management of gas and leachate levels long after the landfilling activities have ceased.
The EA or SEPA will only grant a full or partial Lakeside construction and technical risks PPC permit or waste management licence surrender once it is satisfied The Lakeside joint venture involves building a 400kt waste to energy that the landfill is inert and no longer poses any environmental risk.
plant at a cost of circa 160 million and operating it for 25 years.
86% There may still be a risk of liability arising from any residual of the project is funded by non-recourse bank debt which limits the contamination following the surrender of the PPC permit.
Landfill risk to Pennon Group.
The remainder is funded by the joint venture, licences or permits cannot be surrendered during the aftercare period.
of which Viridor Waste has 50% of the equity.
Pricing and other risks relating to renewable energy The plant is a modern conventional waste to energy facility.
As a result of a competitive procurement procedure it is being supplied by the Renewable energy prices under the current ROCs scheme are primarily a Japanese engineering consortium Itochu Takuma.
There are a function of the underlying brown energy price and the premium significant number of similar plants operating successfully worldwide.
achieved from the sale of ROCs.
21 BUSINESS REVIEW The plant is being supplied on a fixed price contract which was The future costs of defined benefit schemes are subject to a number drawn up with the assistance of specialist external consultants.
of factors including: Nevertheless, as with any major infrastructure project, unforeseen The returns achieved on pension fund investments circumstances may arise which may affect the construction process.
Movements in interest rates and inflation Efficiencies and output of the plant will be affected by the precise Pensioner longevity.
calorific value of the waste throughput.
The plant is well proven with robust conventional technology designed to take currently projected Insurance waste mix.
Nevertheless, if the mix of the waste changes The Group manages property and third party risks by the purchase of significantly over the next 25 years, there may be some impact on insurance policies from the insurance market.
The Groups insurance efficiencies and output.
brokers assist in sourcing appropriate insurance cover from The current planning regime may restrict the availability of insurance companies that have good credit ratings.
Main insurance future waste treatment facilities policies cover property, business interruption, public liability, environmental pollution and employers liability.
There are three Achievement of the Governments targets for waste management is tiers of insurance for most policies.
The first tier is self-insurance in critically dependent on the planning system delivering sufficient the form of a moderate deductible.
The second tier is covered by the waste treatment facilities.
Obtaining planning permission for any Groups subsidiary, Peninsula Insurance Limited, which insures the type of waste treatment facility is difficult and represents a major layer of risk between the deductible and the cover provided by challenge for the waste management industry.
The third tier of risk is placed with the external insurance market.
Viridor Waste may be unable to recruit retain adequate numbers of staff with the necessary skills Good quality staff with the required technical skills and certification RELATIONSHIPS are essential in the waste industry.
Viridor Waste recognises that there is a risk of losing staff to competitors and seeks to address this SOUTH WEST WATER by its employment policies.
Regulatory and customers OTHER GROUP RISKS South West Water views relationships with regulators, Government bodies, customer representative organisations and its customers as Pension costs may increase due to factors outside the central to its operations.
Groups control The company maintains a continuing dialogue with Ofwat, the EA The Group has defined benefit pension schemes for existing staff of and DWI and inputs into national dialogue on developing issues Pennon and South West Water, and for certain employees of Viridor through its representation at Water UK, the industry trade body.
Pennon Group set up a defined contribution scheme in July 2003 for new entrants to Viridor Waste and employees from certain It works with the Consumer Council for Water South West to ensure acquired waste companies.
Future employer costs have been that customer issues and concerns are addressed and a full mitigated from 1 April 2006 through the closure of the existing understanding of the companys activities is maintained.
In defined benefit scheme to new entrants replaced by a new scheme addition, there is a proactive policy of informing customers through with reduced benefits and an increase in employee contributions.
a customer newspaper entitled Waterlevel and through regular The last actuarial valuation of the Group defined benefit schemes press releases and media briefings.
Under International Accounting Suppliers and contractors Standard 19 Employee Benefits, the Group pension schemes had South West Waters procurement strategy is focused on the pronet liabilities after deferred tax at 31 March 2006 of 29 million active management of around 50 key and strategic suppliers who 2005 56 million.
A sound investment performance plus a 44 account for the large majority of expenditure.
Regular meetings are million prepayment of employer contributions in August 2005 have held to manage performance and to identify and deliver continuous been partially offset by an increase in liabilities due to a reduction in improvement opportunities for further reducing cost while the interest rates used to discount liabilities.
The net liabilities improving performance and service levels.
represent circa 2% of the Groups total market capitalisation as at 31 March 2006.
22 David Dupont Group Director of Finance Pennon Group Plc VIRIDOR WASTE There were three exceptional items during the year: Regulation Costs of 14.5 million for the one-off payment of 20 to each South West Water customer following the financial Landfill and many other facilities require waste management restructuring.
licences or PPC permits, issued and monitored by the EA.
Viridor Costs of 50.2 million relating to the financial restructuring Waste maintains a positive working relationship with the EA, which involved the capital return to shareholders and the proactively liaising on and managing issues at both a site-specific retirement of the 150 million 10.625% Bond due 2012. and strategic level.
7.9 million proceeds arising from a consent fee received upon Liaison groups the sale of finance leases between financial institutions.
A good neighbour policy is implemented at all facilities managed Group earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and by Viridor Waste with local liaison groups at all major sites intangibles amortisation EBITDA amounted to 279.2 million consisting of locally elected representatives of the community before exceptional items 2004 05 243.0 million including South meeting regularly to be consulted about the companys plans and West Water 213.4 million 2004 05 186.4 million and Viridor operating procedures.
Liaison groups also include representatives of Waste 66.7 million 2004 05 56.4 million.
the EA and the relevant planning authority and other key local Total Group operating costs were 470.6 million excluding stakeholders.
exceptional items 2004 05 400.5 million and included the following major categories of expenditure: FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE m ANALYSIS OF THE GROUPS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Depreciation and intangibles amortisation 104.1 International Financial Reporting Standards Manpower 79.9 All numbers in this Annual Report are published in accordance with Landfill tax 76.5 International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS with prior year figures restated.
The principal differences between UK Generally Raw materials and consumables 24.0 Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP and IFRS are shown Property costs 18.9 on pages 84 to 91 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
Transport 18.1 Power 14.6 The Groups financial results showed growth in both revenue and profit before tax and exceptional items from continuing operations.
Abstraction and discharge consent costs 7.7 Statutory operating licences and royalties 5.4 Revenue and operating profit Lease rentals plant and machinery 6.9 Revenue rose by 17.1% to 645.7 million.
South West Water revenue was 348.5 million, up 13.5% on 2004 05, principally resulting from the additional increase in tariffs approved by the water regulator.
Offsetting the above power costs was revenue from power Revenue for Viridor Waste at 298.9 million was 20.4% up on generation of 22.9 million.
The acquisitions accounted for 21.3 million of the increase and underlying business 29.3 million.
Landfill tax within Finance costs revenue increased by 19.8 million.
Net interest payable before exceptional items was 64.3 million Group operating profit before exceptional items increased by 24.2 2004 05 62.0 million, which was 2.7 times 2004 05 2.4 times million.
South West Water achieved a 141.5 million operating covered by Group operating profits.
Viridor Waste contributed Before exceptional items gross interest payable was 96.8 million 34.3 million after intangibles amortisation of 1.6 million, up and interest receivable of 32.5 million was derived from the 5.7 million on 2004 05 and representing 19.6% of the operating investment of temporarily surplus funds.
Net interest payable represents a rate of 5.1% when measured against average net debt 2004 05 5.6%.
23 BUSINESS REVIEW Profit before tax Viridor Waste Profit before tax was 110.9 million before exceptional items, m 21.9 million up on 2004 05, an increase of 24.6%.
Landfill 36 Taxation Power generation 3 The corporation tax charge for the year was 14.8 million 2004 05 7.9 million before the impact of tax relief on Collection 3 exceptional items.
The deferred tax charge for the year was Other 17 20.2 million 2004 05 15.6 million.
Under IFRS, deferred tax is accounted for without discounting as previously permitted by UK GAAP.
Other expenditure included investment in recycling facilities, including 12 million in respect of the West Sussex PFI contract.
Earnings per share In the opinion of the Directors, the current market value of land and Earnings per share before deferred tax and exceptional items buildings is not significantly different from the holding cost shown increased by 17.4% to 75.5p.
Basic earnings per share fell to 29.7p in the financial statements.
due to the net exceptional costs of 38.1 million.
Dividends and retained earnings Share capital The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 35.1p At an Extraordinary General Meeting EGM in February 2006, per share for the year ended 31 March 2006.
Together with the shareholders approved the return of cash, by way of a B Share interim dividend of 16.5p per share paid on 13 April 2006, this Scheme, of 110p for each existing issued Ordinary share held at the gives a total dividend for the year of 51.6p per share, an increase of close of business on 17 February 2006 and the consolidation of the 20.0% on the dividend for 2004 05. existing Ordinary shares on the basis of 10 new Ordinary shares for every 11 existing Ordinary shares.
Shareholder approval was also Proposed dividends of 61.0 million 2004 05 55.1 million are obtained to carry out an on-market share buy back programme of covered 1.6 times 2004 05 1.5 times by profit after tax, excluding approximately 55 million of the new Ordinary shares.
The Directors exceptional items and deferred tax.
Under IFRS, dividends are intend to progress the share buy back programme during 2006 07. recognised in the profit and loss account in the year in which they No shares had been bought back as at 31 March 2006. are paid.
B Shares with a total value of 143.5 million were created from the The retained profit of 37.8 million has been transferred to reserves.
A corresponding capital redemption reserve was created upon payment to shareholders or cancellation SUBSIDIARY COMPANY FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE of deferred shares.
Following the share capital consolidation the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year was Details of the financial performance of South West Water and Viridor 127.3 million 2004 05 126.0 million.
Waste are set out in the Chief Executives Overviews on pages 4 to 7.
The value of net assets per share at book value at 31 March 2006 GROUP INVESTMENT was 490p.
Capital expenditure by the Group on tangible fixed assets was Shareholder approval was obtained at the Annual General Meeting in 249.7 million 2004 05 181.0 million.
The major categories of July 2005 to purchase up to 10% of the Companys then existing expenditure comprised: ordinary share capital.
Renewal of the authority will be sought at the July 2006 Annual General Meeting.
South West Water CAPITAL STRUCTURE m Overall position Water mains renovation 45 With year end net debt of 1,427 million, the Group year end debt to Water treatment works 24 equity plus debt ratio was 71% 2004 05 61%.
Following the return Waste water treatment works and sludge 46 of capital through the B Share scheme, the Directors intend to Sewerage 29 progress the share buy back programme to further enhance the overall balance sheet efficiency of the Group.
24 The borrowing powers of the Directors are limited to two and a half Interest rate management times adjusted capital and reserves, as defined in the Companys Net interest costs before exceptional items of 64 million equated to Articles of Association.
At 31 March 2006, the limit was 2.1 billion.
an average interest rate of 5.1% for the Group.
South West Water's The Directors confirm that the Group can meet its short-term average interest rate equated to 4.7%.
requirements from the existing borrowing facilities without breaching covenants or other borrowing restrictions.
The Groups exposure to interest rate movements is managed by the use of interest rate derivatives.
The Board policy is that in any one South West Water year at least 50% of net debt is fixed.
Interest rate swaps are used to manage the mix of fixed and floating rates.
Relatively low interest South West Waters debt to Regulatory Capital Value RCV was circa rates have resulted in the Group fixing 67% of existing net debt up 62% at 31 March 2006 2004 05 52%, within Ofwats optimum to 31 March 2007, and 62% up to 31 March 2010.
In addition, South range of 55% 65%.
The completion of the current financial West Water has index linked 10% of its current net debt up to 2041. restructuring including the share buy back programme referred to The notional principal amounts of the interest rate swaps are used to above is expected to increase the debt to RCV of South West Water determine settlement under those swaps and are not, therefore, an on a pro forma basis to circa 65%.
These instruments are analysed in more detail in note 21 to the financial statements.
Viridor Waste Viridor Waste is funded by a combination of Pennon Group equity Refinancing risk management and debt raised by Pennon Group and direct borrowings by Viridor Refinancing risk is managed under the Group Policy that no more than Waste.
At the year end, Viridor Wastes net debt stood at 201 20% of Group net debt is permitted to mature in any financial year.
million 2004 05 131 million, equivalent to 3.0 times EBITDA 2004 05 2.3 times.
Counterparty risk management TREASURY POLICIES AND OBJECTIVES Surplus funds of the Group are usually placed in shortterm fixed interest deposits or the overnight money markets.
All deposits are with The Groups treasury function seeks to ensure that sufficient funding counterparties that have a credit rating threshold approved by the is available to meet foreseeable needs, maintains reasonable Board.
headroom for contingencies and manages interest rate risk.
It operates within policies approved by the Board and does not Counterparty risk arises from the investment of surplus funds and undertake any speculative trading activity.
from the use of derivative instruments.
The Board has agreed a policy for managing such risk, which is controlled through credit Debt profile limits, counterparty approvals, and rigorous monitoring procedures.
At 31 March 2006, loans and finance lease obligations were 1,526 CASH FLOWS million and the Group held current asset investments and cash of The net cash inflow from operations was 232 million 2004 05 99 million.
Capital expenditure cash outflow in 2005 06 was During 2005 06, the Group drew down 142 million additional 214 million, an increase of 49 million from 165 million in financing under new finance lease arrangements, 70 million 2004 05.
The net cash outflow for acquisitions was 41 million additional credit facilities from the European Investment Bank and 2004 05 29 million.
Equity dividends paid and servicing of net 57 million bilateral bank loans.
In January 2006, the 150 million debt involved a cash outflow of 140 million 2004 05 87 million.
Sterling bond, due for repayment in February 2012, was retired.
There was a 44 million outflow for the prepayment of pension contributions and 138 million for the B Share Scheme.
Pennon Group debt has a maturity of 0 35 years with an average maturity of 12 years.
The major components of debt finance are: Group net debt increased from 1,118 million at 31 March 2005 to 1,427 million at 31 March 2006.
Finance leasing 955 million Overall, the net cash outflow of the Group was 40 million EIB loans 236 million 2004 05 38 million inflow.
Bank bilateral debt 313 million 25 BUSINESS REVIEW LIQUIDITY Modelling future power generation requires consideration of a number of factors including the waste mass and composition already It is Group policy to ensure that the Group has committed loan in place and volumes of gas currently being extracted.
In addition, facilities equivalent to at least one years forecast requirements at the model requires an assessment of how the current position is all times.
This is achieved through the use of credit facilities which expected to change throughout each sites remaining life as an are utilised as required and re-financed using drawdowns for longeroperational landfill and beyond into the aftercare period.
assessment requires certain assumptions to be made including in relation to the amount of waste in the site, its biodegradable INTERNAL TRANSFERS content, the age of the waste and the likelihood of obtaining a grid connection at an economic cost.
For regulatory purposes, South West Water funding is treated as effectively ring-fenced.
Funds raised by or for South West Water are FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS used in the appointed business provision of water and sewerage services and are not available as long term funding for the rest of This Business Review contains forward looking statements regarding the Group.
the financial position, results of operations, cash flows, dividends, financing plans, business strategies, operating efficiencies, capital COVENANTS and other expenditures, competitive positions, growth opportunities, plans and objectives of management and other Pennon Group and South West Water have entered into covenants matters.
These forward looking statements, including, without with lenders.
Whilst terms vary, these typically provide for limits on limitation, those relating to the future business prospects, gearing and interest cover.
revenues, working capital, liquidity, capital needs, interest costs and income in relation to the Pennon Group and its subsidiaries, INTERPRETATION wherever they occur in this Business Review, are necessarily based on assumptions reflecting the views of Pennon Group and its subsidiary companies, as appropriate.
They involve a number of risks LANDFILL VOID SPACE AND POWER GENERATION and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially CALCULATIONS from those suggested by the forward looking statements.
Such The landfill void space figures quoted in this review in relation to forward looking statements should, therefore, be considered in light Viridor Waste are in respect of consented void only void with of relevant factors, including those set out in the section entitled planning permission for landfilling.
Risks and uncertainties on pages 18 to 22.
The void space figures are based upon Viridor Wastes most recent By Order of the Board assessment of void available to the company for waste and daily KEN WOODIER, Group General Counsel & Company Secretary cover materials.
The void figures have been assessed using presettlement levels based upon the extent of the planning consent, 22 June 2006 proposed base levels based upon the terms of the site licence permit and existing waste surfaces determined by survey.
These calculations necessarily involve an element of management judgement and are based on certain other assumptions such as the waste mix profile of a site.
However, Viridor Waste is of the opinion that its calculation methodologies are in line with convention typical in the landfill industry.
The void actually available at any one time may be different from the figures quoted.
Gas electricity generating capacity of Viridor Waste is defined by the megawatt capacity of the engines installed on landfill sites through which the gas passes to generate electricity.
26 GLOSSARY The following are descriptions of some of the terms used in this Business Review: Appointments Licences of appointments of companies by Government to provide water and waste water services BMW Biodegradable municipal waste DEFRA Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Determination or Price Determination The price limits and expenditure plans determined by Ofwat for South West Water for a five year period DWI Drinking Water Inspectorate EA Environment Agency EfW Energy from Waste GWh Gigawatt hours HWRS Household waste recycling sites IDoK Interim Determination of K IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards ISO 14001 International environmental accreditation standard K3 Periodic Review period 2000 2005 for South West Water K4 Periodic Review period 2005 2010 for South West Water LATS Landfill Allowance Trading Scheme LAWDC Local Authority Waste Disposal Company LTCS Landfill Tax Credit Scheme Ml Megalitres Ml d Megalitres per day MSW Municipal solid waste MW Megawatts MWh Megawatt hours NFFO Non fossil fuel obligation Ofwat or water regulator Water Services Regulatory Authority OPA Ofwat Overall Performance Assessment system PFI Private finance initiative PPC Pollution, Prevention and Control PPP Public Private Partnership Periodic Review The process of determining the price limits and expenditure plans of South West Water for the next five-year regulatory period RCV Regulatory capital value RPI The UK Governments Retail Price Index ROCs Renewable obligation certificates SEPA Scottish Environment Protection Agency UK GAAP United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 27
