| | 10 ANNUAL REPORT 2006 BUSINESS REVIEW: AFRICA Soaps and detergents Health and beauty Electrical goods The soaps and detergents portfolio This unit has a variety of strong local This unit sells electrical goods forms the backbone of the African brands which includes haircare and manufactured with our Chinese partner business and includes laundry and toilet skincare products, medicated rubs and Haier such as fridges, freezers and air soap and bulk and branded detergents.
Pan-regional conditioning units sold under the brand development of these brands is name Haier Thermocool.
Expansion of bringing benets to the African region the product range has begun with the as a whole.
launch of televisions and DVD players.
With over 100 years experience of trading in Africa we are proud of the knowledge of local markets and consumers we have developed, which has resulted in a strong portfolio of local brands.
Our passion to grow these brands and develop innovative products in response to local needs has delivered success in the emerging markets of Africa.
| | BUSINESS REVIEW: AFRICA ANNUAL REPORT 2006 11 Distribution One of our key strengths in Africa is our extensive network of depots and factories in Nigeria.
In order to ensure that the Group maintains and develops this strength, distribution has been placed in its own business unit.
Food and nutrition The food and nutrition unit, which manufactures milk products with our joint venture partner Glanbia Plc in the newly commissioned factory, has been a significant success story for the Group in the year.
| | 12 ANNUAL REPORT 2006 BUSINESS REVIEW: AFRICA Premier Performance in Nigeria has been strong with both revenue Premier toilet soap is a mild and gentle and profitability up on the previous year.
The division of the soap suitable for the whole family.
It works hard to leave your skin fresh and business into separate business units, carried out during 2005, clean, and is available in West Africa.
has proved very successful in its first full year of operation, with increased focus brought to each of the following areas: Soaps and detergents Health and beauty Electrical goods HPZ Milk and nutrition Nutricima Distribution Strong brand renovation across the core PZ Cussons and Glanbia are pleased to portfolios of soaps, detergents, health announce agreement to further investment and beauty resulted in improved revenue in their joint venture with an expansion and profitability despite higher costs and of the current milk factory to provide increased competition.
Plans to invest in the development of further nutritional products Growth in sales of fridges, freezers and are at an advanced stage.
Work to extend air conditioners continued with significant the current factory will commence later increases in both revenue and profitability this year, with completion expected in compared to the prior year.
The Groups share of this cost growth is expected from the expansion of will be approximately 5 million.
current distribution and the introduction of further electrical products to the range.
The Nigerian currency has remained steady against the dollar during the year as a The highlight of the year was the result of continued political and economic successful completion of the milk factory stability, although the weakness of the which was constructed ahead of dollar against sterling in the second half has schedule in conjunction with Glanbia Plc, negatively impacted results in that period.
with sales of milk in the year exceeding expectations.
Sales of both powdered milk The Nigerian business concluded a rights and evaporated milk have been made issue in the year resulting in further under the brand name Nunu and have investment from the UK of circa 20 million been very well received in the market.
which took the Groups holding to approximately 61%.
| | BUSINESS REVIEW: AFRICA ANNUAL REPORT 2006 13 Robb Haier Thermocool Nunu Robb mentholated rub is a decongestant, Powdered and evaporated milk products Electrical goods such as fridges, giving rapid relief to muscular aches and are manufactured with our joint venture freezers, televisions and air conditioning pains, and is available in West Africa.
partner Glanbia Plc, and are available units manufactured with our Chinese throughout Nigeria.
joint venture partner Haier are sold under the Haier Thermocool brand throughout Nigeria.
Funds raised are being used for the capital investment programme which is focused on four key areas: Expansion of production capacities Improvements to factory infrastructures Distribution Installation of gas power generation capability Our extensive network of depots in Nigeria allows us to respond rapidly to Investment in nationwide depot network market demand.
This investment not only provides a sound capital investment platform for the future but also compliments the continuing margin improvement programme to counter ongoing cost increases.
Revenue and profitability in Ghana and Kenya are ahead of last year as a result of both growth and margin improvement.
African brands are being pan-regionalised to leverage the strength of the brands and to maximise efficiencies, with haircare being selected as the first such pan-regional project.
