| | 18 ANNUAL REPORT 2006 BUSINESS REVIEW: EUROPE Personal care and soap Household and detergents Within this category are household This product category includes leading brands including products such concentrated dishwash, detergent as shower gels, bath foams and soap.
The There has been significant activity in the Groups strategy to grow its brands year to relaunch brands and repackage has been evidenced in the year by the products to satisfy the needs of local introduction of new variants and consumers, and also to maintain and improvements to product formulations.
Our desire to grow our leading brands has resulted in significant activity in brand renovation, with product relaunches and the introduction of innovative new variants in the competitive European market.
| | BUSINESS REVIEW: EUROPE ANNUAL REPORT 2006 19 Food and nutrition This product category consists of edible oils and spreads.
Our continuous product review has seen new products launched in the year along with a small brand acquisition, demonstrating our commitment to create products suited to local needs and tastes.
Haircare This category includes quality haircare products from shampoos and conditioners through to styling products.
Products within this range have been subject to our continuous review of distribution methods this year, which will provide benefit to our local markets next year.
| | 20 ANNUAL REPORT 2006 BUSINESS REVIEW: EUROPE In the UK, whilst the market remains competitive with continued pressure on selling prices, additional investment in brand development resulted in good performance.
The Imperial Leather shower range was relaunched with exciting new fragrances and supported by a nationwide media campaign.
The Original Source brand, purchased in 2002, has been completely renovated with distinctive packaging and has been favourably received by the consumer.
The Carex range continues to be strong with the bathroom variants, launched last year, performing well.
A decision was taken earlier this year to expand the distribution of the Charles Worthington brand into the nationwide trade.
The supply into all key retailers has now begun with significant in-store displays being rolled out over the coming months.
Initial feedback from both the trade and the consumer is very favourable.
Imperial Leather shower gel The Nottingham factory has now closed This luxurious shower gel contains a ahead of schedule and all bar soap is being special balance of cleansers and skin conditioners with refreshing fragrances supplied from the newly constructed to leave your skin feeling clean and cared for.
Thailand factory which is operating to plan.
| | BUSINESS REVIEW: EUROPE ANNUAL REPORT 2006 21 E Minerva Charles Worthington E is a range of high quality, good value An olive oil with a delicate avour, golden The Charles Worthington haircare range detergent powders and fabric green colour and the aroma of freshly offers a number of products to provide conditioners available in Poland.
picked olives, manufactured in Greece the solution for every haircare need.
A conditional contract for the sale of the Russian market.
The cost base of the the Nottingham site has now been domestic operation has been considerably signed with completion expected within reduced through closure of the liquids and two years.
creams factory in Warsaw, which was sold prior to the year-end, and through The Group is planning construction of a overhead reduction at the head ofce.
new, purpose built liquids factory to provide additional capacity to meet the long-term Whilst the Polish market remains extremely supply needs of our growing UK business.
competitive, successful brand renovation The new factory will be located close of the E detergent and Luksja soap ranges to the current site in North Manchester has resulted in improved margins.
which will close when production fully transfers across to the new site in 2008.
Both revenue and margins in Greece Net costs of the project are estimated have improved in the year.
The portfolio of at 15 million over the next two years, products has been expanded with the which should be funded by the proceeds launch of Minerva Benecol margarine and from the UK factory sites in Nottingham the purchase of a small local pomace and Manchester.
The core Minerva olive oil range will also be relaunched later in the year.
The restructuring programme for the business in Poland, announced last year, has been successfully completed with losses of the unit now eliminated following the withdrawal of a direct presence in
