| | 14 ANNUAL REPORT 2006 BUSINESS REVIEW: ASIA Asia.
A key feature of our Asian region is our first-class distribution network in emerging markets, which enables us to deliver our strong brand ranges efficiently across these territories.
Babycare The region has a number of products falling within this category such as soaps, lotions, shampoos, talcum powder and rubs.
These products are distributed under strong local brands, which are in category leading positions in their marketplaces, demonstrating the effectiveness of the Groups strategy of developing leading local brands to suit the needs of local consumers.
| | BUSINESS REVIEW: ASIA ANNUAL REPORT 2006 15 Household and detergents Personal care and soap This region has a diverse range of Products falling within this category products falling within this category.
include soaps, deodorants, body washes, Examples include detergents, manual talcum powders and colognes.
The dishwash products and automatic diverse product range is distributed to dishwash products.
Strong brand the vast Asian market through our first renovation in the year has been driven class distribution networks in Indonesia, by our inherent knowledge of the Thailand and Australia.
local markets in which we operate.
Group sourcing centre The new world class manufacturing facility in Thailand will help service the bar soap requirements of our UK and Australian markets, following the strategic closure of our Nottingham plant in the year.
| | 16 ANNUAL REPORT 2006 BUSINESS REVIEW: ASIA Cussons Baby Radiant Imperial Leather Cussons Baby is a comprehensive range Radiants power-packed laundry The global Imperial Leather brand, of products which gently care for and detergent granules lift out the toughest which is associated with personal wash protect your baby whilst offering excellent dirt and stains for brilliant whites products, has a high prole in Asia value for money.
and unbeatable colours, and are sold through sales of bar soap.
Australia continues to contribute signicantly to the Group with excellent innovation across its product portfolio of detergent, dishwash and personal care brands.
Radiant has maintained its position as a top two brand in the laundry category through creative technical developments such as adding UV protection to its formulation.
| | BUSINESS REVIEW: ASIA ANNUAL REPORT 2006 17 Morning Fresh continues to be a profitability were maintained at last significant brand in both the automatic years level due to consumer loyalty to the and manual dishwash market.
The product portfolio, and in particular the companys total dishwash share has grown baby range where Cussons Baby continues with the acquisition of the Trix manual to hold the number one position in terms dishwash brand in May 2005. of market share.
A significant margin improvement programme was rolled out The integration of this brand into the during the year to counter the effects business is progressing to plan with all of both competition and cost increases.
Whilst profitability of the total Australia In the other Asian units, Thailand, business improved year on year, raw Malaysia and the Middle East, revenue material and freight cost increases and profitability were maintained at last impacted on the business performance.
Consumer disposable income in Indonesia declined during the year as a result of significant increases in the price of oil following the withdrawal of government subsidies.
Despite this, revenue and Thai factory The new Thai soap factory has opened in the year on schedule, and is a key link in our global supply chain.
