RECKITT 01-22:RECKITT 01-22 16 3 07 10:14 Page 4 Business Review 2006 This review for the financial year ending These leading positions include: The Company is also the No.
2 worldwide 31 December 2006 conforms to the in Shoe Care with such brands as Cherry Blossom Fabric Care Business Review required under the and Nugget.
Vanish plus Spray n Wash and Resolve Companies Act 1985.
It should be read in North America is the worlds No.
1 brand Health & Personal Care in conjunction with the rest of this annual in Fabric Treatment stain treatment on fabrics, The Health & Personal Care category incorporates report, the Companys Sustainability Report carpets and upholstery.
depilatory, Antiseptic personal care products and the Companys website and teenage anti-acne treatments, local positions www.
Woolite Garment Care is the worlds No.
1 in Denture Care and the Companys position brand in its category although the Company NATURE, OBJECTIVES in OTC medicines including categories such overall is No.
AND STRATEGIES OF THE BUSINESS as analgesics, cough cold sore throat and Reckitt Benckiser is one of the worlds leadingCalgon Water Softener is the market leader Gastro-Intestinal which are major focuses for manufacturers and marketers of branded by a substantial margin in its category.
the Company, plus more localised categories products in household cleaning and health such as medicated skincare.
The Company also has a number of local market & personal care, selling a comprehensive range positions in Laundry Detergents and FabricVeet is the Companys brand of depilatory, through over 60 operating companies into Softeners for example in Spain, Italy, certain chemical and wax treatments for removal around 180 countries.
Approximately 70% East European markets and Korea.
The brand is comfortably of net revenues in 2006 were generated by Company also has a small private label business, No.
1 in the global depilatory category.
brands that are either market leader or ranked the majority of which provides Laundry Detergent second in their markets.
The Companys principalDettol is the Companys brand of topical to major multi-national retailers in Europe.
product categories and brands are listed on Antiseptic and Antiseptic personal care.
pages 10 and 11 of the Shareholders Review.
Surface Care Dettol is the No.
1 brand in the majority The Company is the world leader in of markets where present.
Reckitt Benckisers vision is to deliver better disinfectant sprays and cleaners with Lysol in consumer solutions in household cleaning andClearasil is the Companys brand of teenage North America and the Surface Care products health & personal care for the ultimate purpose anti-acne treatment.
The brand is the in the Dettol range outside North America.
Cillit Easy-Off Bang is a newly developed The strategy of the business is described in detailNurofen is the Companys major analgesic franchise in powerful multi-purpose cleaners.
in the Chief Executives Review.
In summary it is to: brand, a leading ibuprofen-based brand The strength of Lysol, Dettol, Cillit Easy-Off in Europe and selected developing markets.
Generate above industry average net revenue Bang and a number of local brands makes The Company also owns Disprin, a leading growth through focus on strong brands the Company the global leader in multibrand of asprin-based analgesic in selected in high growth categories, by innovation purpose cleaners.
and by geographical expansion Harpic and Lysol are the Companys two In cough cold flu sore throat, the Company Convert this growth into higher profit and brands in the lavatory cleaning category, owns Strepsils, the world No.
1 in medicated cash flow through margin expansion mainly jointly No.
sore throat, and Lemsip, a leading local brand as a result of cost optimisation programmes The Company also has a number of local brands of cold flu treatment in the UK and selected and mix management.
in this category in the areas of furniture, floor other markets.
THE COMPANYS BRAND PORTFOLIO and other polishes and cleaners.
In Gastro-Intestinal, the Company has AND MARKET POSITION Dishwashing Gaviscon, the No.
1 upper GI treatment The Company benefits from many very strong The Company is the world leader in automatic in the UK and selected European and market positions for its brand portfolio.
dishwashing products with a share of market Developing Markets.
Excluding laundry detergent and Fabric of over 40%.
The Company has some small, Softener the Company is the world market Other local positions in the declining manual leader in household cleaning products and The Company also has two non-strategic dishwashing products market.
has leading positions in selected health & businesses, Food and BBG.
These positions deriveFinish Calgonit are the Companys brands Food.
The Company owns a largely North from the strength of the Companys leading in Europe and Developing Markets in American Food business, the principal brands brands, described as Power Brands, which automatic dishwashing.
of which are Frenchs mustard, the No.
1 are the flagship brands in the Companys five Electrasol Jet Dry are the Companys brands mustard, and Franks Red Hot Sauce, major categories and on which the Company in North America, where they hold a No.
2 hot sauce in North America.
focuses the majority of its efforts and position in the market.
The Company also has other BBG.
The Buprenorphine Business Group brands and market positions that are less Home Care is responsible for the development of the of a strategic focus but which play a role Home Care consists of Air Care, Pest Control Companys Subutex and Suboxone as scale builders in local markets.
Both products are forms of Buprenorphine for treatment Air Wick is the Companys Air Care brand, of opiate dependence.
2 in the global Pest Control category due to the strength of Mortein, the Companys international brand, supported by local brand franchises like d-Con in North America.
4 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 RECKITT 01-22:RECKITT 01-22 7 3 07 02:07 Page 5 THE INDUSTRY, MARKET AND Technological change and product improvement The geographical structure is in three Areas that COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT can therefore be a key determinant of the are responsible for local execution of marketing The household cleaning and health & personal Companys success.
Reckitt Benckisers success and sales programmes: care industry is characterised by steady growth in introducing new and improved products Europe.
The Area covers the regions in demand with little variation due to macrostems from its heavy focus on developing of Northern Europe UK, Ireland, Scandinavia, economic factors, particularly in developed a pipeline of product innovation.
The Company Central Europe Germany, Netherlands, markets.
Some developing markets exhibit more maintains a large category development Austria, Switzerland, Western Europe volatile demand in reaction to macro-economic organisation, including market and consumer France, Belgium, Southern Europe Italy, factors.
The principal drivers of market growth research, R&D and marketing sales best practice, Greece, South Western Europe Spain, in all markets are the rate of household to fuel this pipeline and share category success Portugal and export business and Eastern formation and growth in the level of disposable factors and learning.
The Company invests over Europe Poland, Hungary, Czech income, combined with demand for new 84m a year in R&D.
While the Company Republic Slovakia Romania, Adriatics, products that offer improved performance believes R&D to be a key contributor to Russia CIS, Turkey.
innovative new products, it does not believe it to be the dominant performance indicator North America & Australia.
The Area covers The industry is intensely competitive, with for innovation success.
The Companys success the markets of North America USA, Canada a comparatively small number of major multiis demonstrated by the fact that almost 40% and Australia and New Zealand.
national competitors accounting for a large of its net revenues come from products launched proportion of total global demand.
The CompanyDeveloping Markets covers the regions over the last three years.
competes with numerous, well-established, of Latin America Brazil, Mexico, Argentina local, regional, national and international INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS and smaller markets, Africa Middle East companies, some of which are very large and AND REGULATORY POSITION South Africa, Middle East, Pakistan, East aggressively establish and defend their products, The household and health & personal care Africa, West Africa, South Asia India, market shares and brands.
Principal competitors industry is heavily regulated by, inter alia, the Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Indonesia and East include FMCG companies like Procter & Gamble, European Union, the United States government Asia Korea, Hong Kong China Taiwan, Colgate Palmolive, Clorox, S. C. Johnson, Henkel, and individual country governments elsewhere.
Unilever, and such pharmaceutical companies as Ingredients, manufacturing standards, labour The Supply function is responsible for all GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson & Johnson, Novartis standards, product safety, marketing and procurement raw and packaging materials and and Bayer, plus a number of strong local advertising claims are all subject to detailed services, production and logistics globally, and industry players.
is directly responsible for the operation of the The Company competes, particularly in strongly Reckitt Benckiser has operating companies Companys 43 production facilities worldwide.
branded segments, through its focus on its in some 60 countries and has sales in up Approximately 80% of manufacturing leading position in higher growth categories to 180 countries worldwide.
At present, and supply is through these 43 sites around where it is typically the market leader or a close over 75% of the Companys net revenues derive the world, with facilities located in Europe follower, its ability to introduce new products from Europe, North America and Australia New 17 facilities, North America 6 facilities, whether improved or newly developed Zealand with the remainder coming from mostly Australia New Zealand 1 facility and the supported by a rising and substantial level semi-established or developing economies.
remaining facilities spread across Asia 10, of marketing, particularly media, investment.
The Company is expanding its operations Latin America 4 and Africa Middle East 5.
Much industry competition focuses on in these semi-established and developing These include a small number of facilities competing claims for product performance economies, which may bring increased risks in higher risk labour and social environments rather than price or terms.
For this reason, failure from greater economic volatility, additional in Asia and Latin America.
to introduce new products and gain acceptance governmental burden and regulation, Information Services is responsible for the thereof may significantly impact the Companys political instability, and local labour conditions.
Companys global systems infrastructure operating results.
The Company also encounters However this is not the case with all developing and global systems, including the Companys challenges to its leadership positions in markets, markets many of which offer higher economic chosen Enterprise Resource Planning ERP the defence against which requires significant growth potential.
system and its associated programmes.
marketing expenditure and promotional activity.
The Company structures its business through The Company has a comprehensive set of The Companys products also compete for a matrix of a centralised Category Development policies and procedures designed to enforce consumers with private label products sold organisation, Global Sales organisation, Supply and protect its reputation and govern its by major retail companies.
Private label organisation and support functions finance, business methods and practices.
These cover, penetration has continued to grow globally human resources, information services inter alia, a comprehensive Code of Business in recent years.
The Company competes with combined with three Area organisations, Conduct, an Environmental Policy, a Global private label primarily by focusing on delivering Europe, North America & Australia, Manufacturing Standard, and a policy on innovative new products with real consumer and Developing Markets.
Internal controls on issues benefits, which private label typically does The central Category Development function, of environmental, social, governance and not focus on, and by consistent marketing where appropriate supported by Global Sales, reputational risk are further outlined on investment to communicate the benefits of is responsible for Power Brand strategies, page 14 of this report.
its brands direct to consumers, where private brand equity programmes and best practices, label is not advertised.
new product development, including R&D, consumer and market research, for implementation by the Area organisation.
Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 5 RECKITT 01-22:RECKITT 01-22 7 3 07 02:07 Page 6 Business Review 2006 continued RESOURCES postings both in countries and in the Companys The Companys customer base is diffuse with no The major resources required by the business central functions.
Succession planning is a single customer accounting for more than 10% are an adequate supply of the raw and critical management discipline and is reviewed of net revenues, and the top 10 customers only packaging materials consumed by the at least annually at the full Board and the accounting for between a quarter and a third Companys products, and the necessary funds Executive Committee.
These customers are for developing new products and reinvestment becoming more concentrated and more multiThe Company closely monitors and tracks in advertising and promoting those brands.
national, increasing demands on the Companys its Top 400 international managers T400, the The other principal resource is management.
In addition, many retailers core management team of the business.
This is compete with the Companys products with The Company considers that its primary raw a diverse group, consisting of 53 nationalities, their own private label offerings.
The Company materials, such as bulk chemicals including and over half of the T400 group is working maintains its relationship with its principal retail a number of petrochemicals, plastics, pulp, in a country that is not their original domicile, customers through the efforts of its dedicated metal cans etc.
are in more than adequate consistent with the Companys policy to develop sales force, including key account directors, supply globally.
The costs of these items a multi-national management team.
Turnover and its global sales organisation specifically fluctuate from time to time but not at levels within this T400 group in 2006 was 9.2% which set up to manage its interface with the growth that seriously impinge on the ability of the the Company considers satisfactory given the of international retailers.
Company to supply its products or generate need to retain high-quality management offset margin.
The Company is profitable, and cash by the benefits of refreshing the team with new The Company has many suppliers.
The suppliers generative, even after reinvesting in marketing, talent.
2006 saw a relatively high rate of activity are predominantly international chemical and specifically media, at levels well above the in terms of promotions, moves and recruitment packaging companies.
The Company sources industry average.
The Company therefore to the T400 group due to the integration of BHI most of its supplies through its global believes that its ability to reinvest in supporting and associated reorganisation.
As a result, the purchasing function, which acts as its primary and building its brands is a significant levels of promotions, moves within the T400 interface with its suppliers.
and new recruitment ran at levels higher than The principal risk factors that may be considered in recent years around 40 of each.
However Supply constraints do exist in the Companys in relation to the Company are, in the opinion the Company ended the year with a historically supply chain from time to time.
These normally of the Directors: low level of vacancies within the T400 group arise due to unexpected demand for new between 15 and 20, or less than 5% of the Market risks products or to the time delay involved in measured group.
Demand for the Companys products may stepping up production of new items to be adversely affected by changes in consumer the levels required to supply many millions There is a comprehensive set of policies preferences of units internationally.
governing employment and employees to ensure that the Company remains an attractiveCustomers, mainly large retailers, may decide The Companys supply chain is deliberately employer.
The Group is committed to the to fide-list the Companys brands, or not relatively well spread in terms of geography principle of equal opportunity in employment: participate in the active promotion of the and technology such that the reliance on any no applicant or employee receives less brands through in-store programmes one facility is minimised.
However there are favourable treatment on the grounds of a number of facilities that remain critical to Competition may reduce the Companys nationality, age, gender, religion or disability.
the Companys supply chain, particularly those at market shares and margins It is essential to the continued improvement in Ladenburg Germany, Nowy Dwor Poland and efficiency and productivity that each employeeThe expiry of the Companys exclusive licence Sao Paolo Brazil, and where major interruption understands the Companys strategies, policies for Suboxone in the United States in 2009 to normal working could involve disruption to and procedures.
Open and regular communication with the possibility that the Company will not supply.
The Companys suppliers are similarly with employees at all levels is an essential part develop new forms that offer new intellectual deliberately well spread in terms of geography of the management process.
A continuing protection beyond 2009 see additional and supplied items but there are nonetheless programme of training and development disclosures below some risks to continuity of supply arising from reinforces the Companys commitment to some specialised suppliers both of raw materialsCompetition from private label and unbranded employee involvement.
The Board encourages and of third party manufactured items.
Specifically, generic employees to become shareholders and to competition may erode Subutexs business The supply of strong management for the participate in the Companys employee share in Europe.
Company remains more than adequate.
is attributable to the Companys culture and Operational risks The Company relies on its brand names and to its highly performance-oriented remunerationThe Companys new product pipeline may intellectual property.
All of the Companys system which is based on paying for excellent not generate consumer-relevant innovation brand names are protected by nationally performance.
The Company believes that its and improvement to fuel growth and build or internationally registered trademarks.
ability to attract and retain the excellent market shares The Company also maintains patents or other management it needs to continue its success protection for its significant product formulationKey management may leave or management depends critically on this system.
The Company turnover may significantly increase The Company trains and develops its aggressively monitors these protections Information technology systems may be management pipeline, through formal training and pursues any apparent infringements.
disrupted or may fail, despite the Companys programmes, and through a deliberate policy of RELATIONSHIPS AND PRINCIPAL RISKS disaster recovery processes, interfering with training on the job.
The Company has 12 formal The Companys critical external relationships the Companys ability to conduct its business training modules for middle management and are with its major customers, typically the large Top 400 managers.
During 2006 the CompanyRegulatory decisions and changes in the legal grocery, mass market, multiple retailers, and its ran 52 courses on these modules, training over and regulatory environment could increase suppliers of raw and packaging materials and 900 people.
Management is international, and costs or liabilities or limit business activities finished goods.
is trained through rotation in international 6 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 RECKITT 01-22:RECKITT 01-22 7 3 07 02:07 Page 7 Operating results may be affected by Additional information on BBG Net interest charges were 36m 2005 36m increased costs or shortages of raw materials, A small but rapidly growing part of Reckitt income due to the interest cost of the debt that labour or by disruption to production facilities Benckisers healthcare business is the financed the BHI acquisition.
The tax rate is 23% or operating centres prescription business of BBG which principally 2005 24% benefiting from one-off tax releases markets two products: Subutex and Suboxone.
Unfavourable economic or business conditions Both products are forms of Buprenorphine for may adversely affect or disrupt operations Reported net income for the year to date was treatment of opiate dependence.
Suboxone is in countries in which the Company operates 1% 2% constant higher at 674m.
Reported a more advanced form compared to Subutex, diluted EPS was 91.8 pence per share, The Company may not be able to protect as it has substantially better protection against an increase of 2%.
abuse by the opioid-dependent population.
Subutex is principally marketed in Europe by Adjusted net income for the year to date Environmental, social and governance risks Schering Plough Corporation Kenilworth, New increased 17% 19% constant to 786m.
Another group of risks concern the reputation Jersey to whom it is licensed, while Suboxone Adjusted diluted EPS increased by 19% to 107.1 of the Company and its brands, but are reduced is sold by Reckitt Benckiser directly in the USA pence per share with the growth rate benefiting by the fact that the Company and its brands and Australia.
Suboxone has recently received from the ongoing share buy back programme are not necessarily connected in the mind marketing approval from the European by two percentage points.
Commission for treatment in the 25 states GEOGRAPHIC ANALYSIS AT CONSTANT Risks from the perspective of Environmental, of the European Union, Norway and Iceland.
EXCHANGE FOR CONTINUING OPERATIONS social and governance ESG are discussed in Since 2002, the BBG business has grown from Europe 53% of net revenues the Report of the Directors on pages 14-15. a very small proportion to represent 3% of Full year net revenues grew by 23% to 2,624m.
These should be read in conjunction with the the total Company net revenues and a higher Underlying growth was 6%.
Key growth drivers Companys Sustainability Report available proportion of operating profits.
of the underlying business were Vanish, Air on the Companys website which addresses Wick, Cillit Bang and Finish Calgonit.
In Fabric the Companys exposures to a number Net revenues for BBG were as follows: Care, the increase came due to the success of of reputation-affecting issues and how 2004 % change 2005 % change 2006 % change Vanish Oxi Action Crystal White, Vanish Oxi the Company is addressing such risks, m @ const FX m @ const FX m @ const FX Action Multi and growth in Laundry Detergents.
and which is independently verified.
89 32% 121 35% 156 30% In Surface Care, the key driver was Cillit Bang In summary, the principal ESG risks identified Stain & Drain.
In Automatic Dishwashing, by the Company are: As with all prescription drugs, the intellectual Finish Calgonit grew helped by the launch property protection of this business has a finite of Finish Calgonit 5in1 and Finish Calgonit Industry Sector Product & Consumer Safety term unless replaced with new treatments Quantum.
In Home Care, Air Wick grew due to Risks.
The Household products and Health or forms.
Therefore, the revenue and income further success for Air Wick Freshmatic and the & Personal Care sectors have a number of of this business may not be sustained going launch of Air Wick Xpress electricals.
In Health & product and ingredient issues relating to forward unless replaced with new treatments Personal Care, Veet Depilatories grew following concerns voiced over the long-term effects or forms on which the Company is actively the launch of the new In Shower cream and of household chemicals and OTC drug working.
Reckitt Benckiser has market exclusivity new Eternally Smooth Wax Strips.
ingredients on human health and the for Suboxone in the United States, until the environment Operating margins adjusted were 10bps ahead end of 2009.
The recent approval for Suboxone of last year at 23.6% due to higher gross Supply Chain Risks.
Most product and raw in Europe will result in a ten-year market margins due to cost optimisation and favourable material supply chains present a number of exclusivity.
At the same time, the Company mix offset by higher marketing investment potential reputational risks relating to: labour is engaged in developing potential new in new products.
This resulted in a 24% increase standards: health, safety and environmental treatments with third parties that would have in adjusted operating profits to 618m.
standards: raw material sourcing: and the either patent protection or market exclusivity social, ethical and environmental performance in similar areas to where it is active today.
North America & Australia 29% of net of third party manufacturers and suppliers revenues PERFORMANCE OF THE BUSINESS IN 2006 Full year net revenues increased 12% Product Quality & Safety Risks.
Failures in Net revenues grew by 18% 18% constant to 1,421m.
product quality controls could potentially to 4,922m.
The underlying business grew by Key growth drivers were Air Wick, Lysol, Easylead to damage to the reputation of and 6% 7% constant to 4,428m.
BHI contributed Off Bang and Suboxone.
In Surface Care, the trust in the Companys brands.
net revenues of 494m for the 11 months key drivers were Lysol wipes and the roll-out of ownership.
The Company has a full set of policies, building of Easy-Off Bang Degreaser and Stain & Drain.
on its central Code of Business Conduct, that Adjusted operating profit increased 26% In Home Care, Air Wick grew due to Air Wick address all aspects of the Companys ESG 27% constant to 1,059m.
Gross margins Freshmatic and Air Wick electrical oils in part behaviour.
The Code itself is the subject of an were 180bps ahead of last year at 56.7% due due to the launch of Air Wick Xpress.
In Health annual review and certification process.
The to the higher gross margins on the BHI business and Personal Care, Suboxone prescription drug Board holds an annual review of ESG issues.
and the benefit of price increases and cost continued its expansion.
Food saw growth from optimisation on the base business.
Marketing Frenchs and Franks Red Hot in retail offset Financial risks investment increased broadly in line with net by lost contracts in food service channels.
The Companys policies and procedures on the revenue growth, with media investment management of financial risk are explained in Adjusted operating margins were 310bps increasing by 18% at 11.9% of net revenues detail below.
The Company has a number of risk higher at 24.2% due to gross margin expansion and further increases in other consumer exposures in relation to tax, treasury, financial from better mix, excellent cost optimisation marketing.
Adjusted operating margins controls and reporting that are actively managed savings and price increases in 2005 and 2006, increased by 140bps to 21.5% due to the through the Companys financial manual of resulting in adjusted operating profits increasing gross margin expansion.
policies and procedures, through regular reviews 30% to 344m.
and controls, and through regular auditing, Restructuring charges in the year were 149m.
Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 7 RECKITT 01-22:RECKITT 01-22 7 3 07 02:07 Page 8 Business Review 2006 continued Developing markets 18% of net revenues Surface Care.
Net revenues grew 5% to FINANCIAL REVIEW Full year net revenues grew 15% to 877m.
The major category growth driver was Basis of preparation Underlying growth was 10%.
Key growth the roll-out of Cillit Easy-Off Bang Stain & Drain.
The results include BHI from 1 February 2006, drivers were Dettol, Vanish, Easy-Off Bang and Disinfectant cleaners also grew due to the date of acquisition.
In Fabric Treatment the increase was Lysol Dettol multi-purpose cleaners and Lysol the term adjusted excludes the impact of the a result of Vanish Oxi Action Wow and the rollwipes.
Harpic lavatory care growth came from restructuring charge, and the term underlying out of the brand into further markets.
In Surface the roll-out of Harpic 2in1 Max in-bowl gadget, represents the results excluding restructuring Care, the increase came from the roll-out of the launch of Harpic Power Plus and from strong and on a like-for-like basis ie excluding BHI.
Easy-Off Bang and further growth for Harpic.
Movements of exchange In Health & Personal Care, the Dettol personal Dishwashing.
Net revenues grew 3% to rates relative to sterling affect actual results care range performed strongly benefiting from 591m.
The Companys market share remained as reported.
The constant exchange rate basis higher investment and the launch of Dettol strong in Europe and worldwide helped by adjusts comparatives to exclude such Active Soap.
the launch of Finish Calgonit 5in1 and movements and show the underlying growth.
Adjusted operating margins expanded 220bps Finish Calgonit Quantum.
The charge of 149m in the full to 11.1%, due to strong gross margin expansion was somewhat held back due to higher year covers the necessary reorganisation postas a result of favourable mix, price increases promotional investment.
acquisition of BHI in order to integrate the and cost optimisation, resulting in adjusted Home Care.
Net revenues grew 11% to 692m business into Reckitt Benckiser, plus some further operating profits increasing by 45% to 97m.
with strong growth for Air Care.
Air Care restructuring of manufacturing configuration BHI integration update benefited from the continuing success of Air Wick in the enlarged company.
The integration of the former BHI business Freshmatic and Air Wick electricals, the latter Net interest.
The net interest charge of 36m is essentially complete.
Physical, commercial in part due the launch of Air Wick Xpress 2005 income 36m was due to interest on and systems integration is all complete.
The electricals with boost button for extra freshness.
the capital cost of the BHI acquisition 1,893m manufacturing reconfiguration programme is Mortein Pest Control was modestly ahead of last offset by strong cash generation over the past ongoing and is in line with plan.
year due to a different promotional phasing but year reducing the net debt.
growth improved in H2 driven by the introduction For full year 2006 January to December, BHI of Mortein Instant Kill aerosol and Mortein Tax.
The tax rate for the period was 23% after total net revenues were 3% higher than in 2005 Liquid Vaporizer low cost electrical.
non-recurring credits of 19m 2005 16m on a like-for-like basis, with strong growth relating to the recent resolution of long particularly for Strepsils and Nurofen.
For the Health & Personal Care.
Net revenues grew outstanding tax enquiries.
The tax charge of period of ownership, from 1 February 2006, 88% to 1,234m with underlying growth of 200m 2005 207m is split between United BHI had net revenues of 494m which was 13%.
Dettol Antiseptics benefited from higher Kingdom tax of 6m 2005 22m and overseas 1% ahead of the equivalent period last year.
investment and new additions to the personal tax of 194m 2005 185m.
care range, notably Dettol Active Soap.
Veet Cost synergies for the year were 39m, higher Depilatories benefited in particular from the Net working capital.
defined as inventories, than the initial target of 30m due to earlier launch of Veet In Shower cream and new short-term receivables and short-term liabilities, achievement of the integration.
These are part Eternally Smooth Veet Wax Strips with specific excluding borrowings and provisions further of the full cost-savings programme which is skin type ingredients.
Gaviscon grew in Europe decreased during the year by 112m to minus expected to deliver 80m, rather than the initial and due to new market launches in Developing 728m.
BHI net working capital reduced 55m target of 75m, by the end of 2008.
Markets while Lemsip was down due to a weak in the period since consolidation on 1 February The reduction in net working capital associated flu season.
Prescription drug Suboxone 2006 compared to a full year target reduction with the BHI acquisition was 55m compared to continued its substantial expansion in North of 50m.
an initial target for the year of 50m.
The BHI core brands were ahead of Cash flow.
Operating cash flow increased remains to reduce net working capital associated 2005 on a like-for-like basis.
to 1,017m, due to higher operating profit and with BHI by 130m by the end of 2008.
The prescription business of BBG, which further improvement from net working capital Restructuring charges markets two products, Subutex and Suboxone, in the base business and BHI.
Restructuring charges were 149m compared contributed net revenues of 156m in the full Net cash flow from operations increased to to an initial estimate of 150m.
Charges mainly year 2006 2005 121m, an increase of 30% due 953m.
Net interest paid was 30m 2005 34m relate to contract termination and headcount to strong growth of Suboxone in North America.
received while tax payments increased by 24m.
reduction in commercial operations and HQ Excluding BBG and BHI, the underlying growth functions plus write-offs related to redundant in Health & Personal Care in 2006 was 9%.
Capital expenditure was slightly higher than systems, together with the implementation prior year at 88m 2005 78m.
Net revenues were 1% ahead of last of the manufacturing reconfiguration disposals of fixed assets were 19m 2005 17m.
year at 194m with good retail performance programme in the enlarged Company.
particularly on Frenchs and Franks Red Hot Net debt at the year end was 660m 2005 CATEGORY REVIEW AT CONSTANT offset by contract losses in the food service funds of 887m.
The movement is principally EXCHANGE RATES channel.
Profits improved 4% to 49m, resulting the result of the requirement to fund the Fabric Care.
Net revenues grew 8% to in an operating margin of 25.3% 120bps.
acquisition on 31 January 2006 of BHI, offset 1,194m.
Vanish Oxi Action grew strongly due by strong cash flow.
to Vanish Oxi Action Crystal White, Vanish Oxi Balance sheet.
At the end of 2006, the Group Action Multi in Europe and the roll-out of Vanish had shareholders funds of 1,866m 2005 in new markets.
Woolite grew behind the 1,856m, an increase of 0.5%.
Net debt introduction of Woolite Color.
Calgon grew was 660m 2005 funds of 887m and total as a result of new advertising copy.
Laundry capital employed in the business was 2,526m Detergent net revenues recovered from a low 2005 969m.
8 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 RECKITT 01-22:RECKITT 01-22 7 3 07 02:07 Page 9 This finances non-current assets of 4,421m Foreign exchange risk Credit risk 2005 2,343m of which 425m 2005 485m a Translation risk The Group has no significant concentrations is tangible fixed assets, the remainder being The Group publishes its financial statements of credit risk.
Financial institution counterparties intangible assets, goodwill, deferred tax and in sterling but conducts business in many are subject to approval under the Groups other receivables.
The Company maintains foreign currencies.
As a result, it is subject to counterparty risk policy and such approval negative net working capital of 728m 2005 foreign currency exchange risk due to the effects is limited to financial institutions with a BBB 616m, has current provisions of 47m 2005 that exchange rate movements have on the rating or better.
The amount of exposure to 4m and has long-term liabilities other than translation of the results and the underlying any individual counterparty is subject to a limit borrowings of 1,120m 2005 754m.
net assets of its foreign subsidiaries.
defined within the counterparty risk policy, which is reassessed annually by the Board.
The Companys financial ratios remain strong.
The Groups policy is to align interest costs Return on shareholders funds net income and operating profit of its major currencies The Groups own credit ratings at the end divided by total shareholders funds was 36.1% in order to provide some protection against the of 2006 were as follows: 2005 36.0% on a reported basis or 42.1% translation exposure on foreign currency profits Long-term Short-term on an adjusted basis.
The Group may undertake borrowings Moodys A1 P-1 and other hedging methods in the currencies of Dividends Standard & Poors A A-1 the countries where most of its assets are located.
The Board of Directors recommend a final dividend of 25 pence per share, an increase As at 31 December 2006, 9% 92% of the Liquidity risk of 19%, to give a full year dividend of 45.5 Groups financial liabilities were in currencies The Company has bilateral credit facilities with pence per share, an overall increase of 17%.
other than sterling, including 6% 77% being high-quality international banks.
All of these The dividend, if approved by shareholders at the denominated in US dollars.
All the Groups major facilities have similar or equivalent terms and AGM on 3 May 2007, will be paid on 31 May currency net assets exceeded the borrowings conditions, and have a financial covenant, which to shareholders on the register on 2 March.
in the corresponding individual currencies.
is not expected to restrict the Groups future The ex dividend date will be 28 February 2007. operations.
At the end of 2006, the Group had, b Transaction risk in addition to its long-term debt of 11m Share buy back It is the Groups policy to monitor and only where 80m, committed borrowing facilities totalling During 2006, the Group purchased 13.9m appropriate hedge its foreign currency transaction 1,225m 2,250m, all exceeded 12 months shares for cancellation at a cost of 300m exposure.
These transaction exposures arise maturity.
Of the total facilities at the year end, as part of its ongoing share buy back programme.
mainly from foreign currency receipts and 1m 1m was utilised.
The committed payments for goods and services and from the The Company has confirmed its intention to borrowing facilities, together with available remittances of foreign currency dividends and repurchase a further 300m of its own shares uncommitted facilities and central cash and loans.
The local business units enter into forward during 2007. investments, are considered sufficient to meet foreign exchange contracts with the GTC the Groups projected cash requirements.
Financial risk management to manage these exposures where practical and The Groups multi-national operations expose allowed by local regulations.
The GTC matches Funds over and above those required for shortit to a variety of financial risks that include the the Group exposures, and hedges the net term working capital purposes by the overseas effects of changes in foreign currency exchange position where possible, using spot and forward businesses are generally remitted to the rates, credit risks, liquidity and interest rates.
The Group uses the The Group has in place a risk management remittances to settle obligations, repay Interest rate risk programme that seeks to limit the adverse borrowings, or, in the event of a surplus, The Group has both interest-bearing assets effects on the financial performance of the invest in short-term instruments issued by and interest-bearing liabilities.
The Group Group by using foreign currency financial institutions with a BBB rating or better.
manages its interest expense rate exposure instruments, including debt, and other using a mixture of fixed-rate and floating rate instruments, to fix interest rates.
At the end of 2006, the Group The Groups financing and financial risk had 7% 85% of financial liabilities at fixed management activities are centralised into the rates.
The Group manages its interest rate Group Treasury Centre GTC to achieve benefits exposure on its gross financial assets by using of scale and control.
The GTC is not a profit a combination of fixed rate term deposits centre, but adds value to the business and forward rate agreements.
operations by managing financial exposures of the Group centrally in a manner consistent with underlying business risks.
The GTC manages only those risks and flows generated by the underlying commercial operations and speculative transactions are not undertaken.
The Board of Directors reviews and agrees policies, guidelines and authority levels for all areas of treasury activity and individually approves significant activities.
The GTC operates under close control of the Chief Financial Officer and is subject to periodic independent reviews and audits, both internal and external.
Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 9 RECKITT 01-22:RECKITT 01-22 7 3 07 02:07 Page 10 Business Review 2006 continued KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The Board and the Executive Committee have identified a number of Key Performance Indicators KPIs that are most relevant to the Company and are used to measure performance.
KPI 2005 2006 Comments Net Revenue growth 6% 7% Measures the increase in sales of the Company % like-for-like growth of net revenues at constant exchange Power Brands 57% 58% Measures the growth and importance of the % of net revenue from top 18 brands Companys flagship brands Gross Margin % 54.9% 56.7% Measures the resources available for reinvestment gross profit as % of net revenues or profit growth Media Investment 11.9% 11.9% Measures the rate of reinvestment in the media investment as % of net revenues Companys brands Operating Margin % 20.1% 21.5% Measures the profitability of the Company Operating profit as % of net revenues EPS fully diluted 90.0p 107.1p Measures the increase in profit per share of the Company % change in EPS fully diluted 17% 19% Net Cash Flow m 758m 953m Measures how the Company converts its profits into cash See page 30 26% Net Working Capital Ratio -616m -728m Measures the ability of the Company to finance NWC defined as inventories, short-term receivables and its expansion and release cash from working capital short-term liabilities excluding borrowings and provisions as % of net revenue -14.7% -14.8% Management Turnover 14.3% 9.2% % of T400 management that has left the Company % of Net Revenues in No.
1 73% 76% Measures the health of the Companys or No.
2 Brand Positions brand market positions Adjusted to exclude the impact of the restructuring charge.
COMPANY PROSPECTS With the benefit of the strong momentum The Company believes it is well positioned from Quarter 4 2006, the Companys 2007 to continue to deliver on its strategic objective targets are for net revenue growth of at of profitable growth.
least 6% base 4,922m and net income percentage growth in the low double digits, For the medium-term outlook, the Company both at constant exchange base 786m, targets to deliver above industry average growth excluding restructuring costs.
in net revenues, converted into interesting growth in earnings, with increasing capital Cautionary note concerning forwardefficiency.
The Company has confidence in looking statements its ability to continue to generate strong cash This document contains statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of Reckitt Benckiser flow and to return substantial cash to and certain of the plans and objectives of the Company with shareholders annually.
These forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the United The unknown factor is the ability of the States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In particular, all statements that express forecasts, expectations Company to enhance its prospects through and projections with respect to future matters, including trends mergers and acquisitions.
The industries in in results of operations, margins, growth rates, overall market trends, the impact of interest or exchange rates, the availability which it competes are already characterised of financing to the Company, anticipated cost savings or by high levels of concentration, resulting in synergies and the completion of strategic transactions are forward-looking statements.
By their nature, forward-looking very infrequent opportunities to buy worthwhile statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate assets or businesses.
The Company is of the to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the belief that add-on acquisitions, geographically future.
There are a number of factors, discussed in this report, that could cause actual results and developments to differ and by product category, could enhance the materially from those expressed or implied by these forwardbusiness, but is not in a position to forecast looking statements, including many factors outside Reckitt Benckisers control.
Past performance cannot be relied upon if and when such acquisitions might occur.
as a guide to future performance.
The Company retains substantial resources to fund such acquisitions and believes it has the management capability to absorb, integrate and manage such acquisitions within its existing structure.
10 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006
