2006 was one of the most challenging years in Rexams recent history.
We faced a significant and unprecedented rise in input costs but the initiative and resolute and swift action of the executive team and our employees to mitigate these external forces enabled us to produce a good performance in difficult circumstances.
I would like to extend my thanks to everyone for their efforts and contribution.
Rolf Brjesson, Chairman A resilient performance in challenging conditions During 2006 we continued to deliver on our strategy, the increase in capital expenditure in projects which are reporting strong top line growth: significant gains in beverage expected to position the business to capture future growth.
can market share: key acquisitions in emerging and growth Full details of the Groups 2006 performance, including the markets: investment in growth projects as well as further statutory results, can be found in the Business Review on operational efficiencies.
The top line growth was not matched pages 12 to 37. by our profits which were held back by the unprecedented rise in aluminium and energy costs, reduced prices on some Packaging in focus of our US beverage can volumes and the weaker performance During the year packaging has come increasingly under the of one of our Plastic Packaging divisions.
spotlight in terms of environmental sustainability.
The Stern Review on the economics of climate change, released in the In overall terms, sales from ongoing operations were up by UK in October 2006, ignited the debate, with packaging 17% and underlying operating profit, which excludes and the role of packaging inevitably drawn in.
We increased underlying earnings per share by 3% and free cash flow generation at 173m Packaging is what gets the beverage from the filler into your was again good although lower than last year mainly due to glass or the drug into your bathroom cabinet as efficiently as 10 Chairmans Statement possible and without any damage.
Packaging, contrary to Noreen Doyle joined us in March.
She sits on the boards common perception, is actually decreasing in terms of of Credit Suisse Group, Newmont Mining Corporation and weight.
For example, over the last 20 years or so, the QinetiQ and is a member of the Advisory Panel for the beverage can industry, with Rexam in the forefront, has Macquarie European Infrastructure Fund II.
Her experience reduced the average weight of a can by 30%.
The weight of as First Vice President of the European Bank for Reconstruction a typical glass container has fallen by a similar figure.
In & Development will be invaluable as we grow our business beverage cans, we have also seen the shift from steel to in emerging markets organically and through acquisition.
Aluminium is now used for some 85% of all beverage cans.
Still, packaging remains Jean-Pierre Rodier was appointed non executive director a key environmental issue and as a leading global consumer in June.
His background as former Chairman and Chief packaging company we do everything that we can to ensure Executive of Pechiney, the international aluminium and that we are manufacturing in a sustainable manner and that packaging group, adds further knowledge of the packaging the environmental profile of our products is as favourable as and aluminium industries.
As long term shareholder value is our primary aim, sustainability is necessarily at the heart of what we do.
As In December, we welcomed Wolfgang Meusburger.
He you will see in the Business Review on pages 27 to 31, we has many years experience of fast moving consumer goods consider not just our own impact but take into account the industries, working in senior positions for international whole supply chain, including energy use, transport and companies such as Mars Group, Unilever and Schller product wastage, to encourage sustainable development and Holding, and was the CEO of Tchibo GmbH, the food reduce fossil fuel use.
Changes to the Board At the next AGM, David Tucker will retire from the Board During the year there were a number of changes to the after ten years as a non executive director.
In September, we announced that Leslie Van fide Walle take this opportunity to thank him for his contribution to the was to succeed Lars Emilson as Chief Executive Officer.
He transformation of this Company.
His expert knowledge has became a director in January this year and took over as been a great support for all the Board and we wish him all Chief Executive Officer on 1 February when Lars retired from the best for the future.
Dividends It has been my privilege to have worked closely with Lars for The Board has recommended a final dividend of 11.1p per the last 20 years.
His natural leadership qualities, strategic ordinary share.
Together with the interim dividend of 7.9p thinking and depth of industry knowledge have all been key this represents an increase of 5% on last year.
Subject to to Rexams success these recent years.
On behalf of the Board approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting I would like to thank him for the tremendous contribution he on 3 May 2007, the dividend will be paid on 6 June 2007 has made to Rexam and wish him all the best for the future.
to holders of ordinary shares registered on 11 May 2007.
Leslie joined us from the Royal Dutch Shell Group where he Summary and outlook was Executive Vice President of Global Retail.
He joined After many years of sustained profit growth, external forces Shell in 2000, prior to which he was the Chief Executive of conspired to create a challenging 2006 for us, but swift and United Biscuits plc for whom he worked for six years.
He is decisive management action enabled us to deliver a resilient also a non executive director of Aegis Group plc.
of his biography can be found on page 39.
We are naturally delighted to have secured the services of Leslie, a truly In 2007 we will deliver price increases, a more favourable globally minded leader.
He has experience in beverage and product mix in Beverage Cans and good organic profit food retail and this, along with his international business to growth in Plastic Packaging.
However, the pressure of the business background, will be of great value to us as we continuing high aluminium and other input costs, together continue to pursue our strategy for growth and leadership in with a weaker US dollar, are likely to counteract any progress our industry.
in 2007, with the impact of the input costs expected to be most severe in the earlier part of the year.
At the start of the year, the senior independent director and deputy chairman of the Board, Christopher Clark, stepped 2007 will be a year of significant capital investment by the down to pursue other commitments.
Carl Symon, who has Group for the medium and long term in facilities, processes been on the Board since 2003, replaced him as senior and talent to underpin the platform for our next chapter of independent director.
profitable growth, and we expect to see material benefits from these investments starting in 2008.
We also strengthened the Board with three new independent non executive directors whose wide ranging experience and international outlook will be great assets to the Board and our Group as we focus our efforts on being a market driven, innovative company and execute our strategy for growth.
Rolf Brjesson, Chairman 20 February 2007 11 Leslie Van fide Walle, Chief Executive officer from 1 February 2007 Business Review This section looks at how we performed during 2006 and examines the principal drivers of our performance both today and for the future.
The nature of our business and our aims and strategy are set out on pages 2 to 7.
This part of the Annual Report also contains a section on the resources available to us and how we manage them page 18 : the characteristics of the markets in which we operate page 19 : the principal risks and uncertainties that may affect our long term value or prospects page 22 : the main relationships with stakeholders that are likely to inuence our Company and its value page 25 and how we are performing in terms of Corporate Responsibility page 27.
12 Business Review greater long term volumes and value but at lower margins.
whilst we remain optimistic for the longer term, we believe As a result, underlying operating profit fell from 313m to that growth is likely to be hampered by structural factors such 292m.
As we renegotiate pricing and begin to see higher as a lack of machines that accept containers for recycling.
volumes benefit our efficiency, we expect the margin to improve but this is more likely in the medium rather than short term.
We started the construction of a new can making plant close to Red Bulls contract filling partner in Austria which will Aluminium is by far the largest raw material cost for the come on line towards the end of 2007.
We have been Group with a total annual spend currently in the order of partners with Red Bull since its inception and this project will 1.2bn.
Whilst 35% of this amount is the conversion cost of further cement our relationship with the worlds No.
1 energy the metal, the remainder arises from the aluminium material drink producer.
The average spot price for this commodity, which is based in US dollars, rose by around 40% in 2006.
In the In Russia, which continues to show good growth, we are Americas, changes in aluminium cost are largely passed adding slim can capability as well as installing a new line through to our customers: Rexam is therefore only affected by at our Naro Fominsk facility.
The line will be used to make a the changes in the cost of aluminium in terms of margin.
In new one litre can which will help one of our main customers Europe, we currently purchase approximately 250k tonnes of meet the growing market demand for larger container sizes aluminium per annum.
At the beginning of 2007, 50% was for beer with a package that is appropriate to its brand either hedged or based on a similar pass through agreement positioning.
We also announced that we are investing in a with the customers, leaving the remaining 50% exposed to second can plant located in the Urals, which is expected to spot prices for the balance of the year.
The aluminium price remains high as we go into 2007.
We Our Egyptian beverage can plant, acquired in early 2006, are less hedged than we have been in the past, and in 2006 has settled in well and the results of our focus on efficiency we renegotiated a metal supply contract in the US which and spoilage reduction are already having a positive effect reduced our cost of metal for that year by 14m.
We have in the shape of increased output.
We are now in the process successfully renegotiated prices in Europe with those customers of building a second line to meet demand in this growing whose contracts were due for renewal to reflect the higher market.
We also gained a foothold as the first beverage can aluminium price in the pricing structure.
Currently, we are maker in the emerging Indian market following the formation expecting a reduction in metal spot prices as we progress of a joint venture with Hindustan Tin Works, a quoted Indian through 2007. industrial company.
The North American market which includes Mexico grew Plastic Packaging for the first time in many years finishing the year 2% ahead 2006 2005 of 2005 as the main soft drinks customers looked to cans Sales m 720 471 to gain volume.
Our own volumes advanced 7% primarily Underlying operating profit m 82 57 owing to a long term contract with one of our main Return on sales % 11.4 12.1 customers.
The focus on 12oz cans to maximise efficiencies afforded by the new contract meant that the growth of non Plastic Packaging sales were 53% up on last year, with standard, higher margin cans in our mix was less than last existing businesses contributing 5%, acquisitions 50% and year.
We remain the leader in 24oz cans and are committed reduced 2% by currency.
Underlying profit grew through to non standard sizes as witnessed by the conversion of four a combination of organic profit growth of 14% and further lines to these types of can to take advantage of acquisitions, which contributed 30%.
premium growth in the future.
Although the majority of the Plastic Packaging businesses In Brazil, we also saw good market development with the performed well, with pharmaceutical packaging, the recently market growing 11% and our volumes in line with this.
There acquired dispensing systems business and high barrier food was also good growth in non standard can sizes.
We have containers recording a good year, the overall performance recommissioned our can making factory in Jacarei, mothballed was held back by weakness in our Make Up division owing in 2004, converting it to specialty sizes to ensure that we to a combination of cancelled product launches and market lead that growth.
We inaugurated a new plant in Cuiab to overcapacity.
Action has been taken to reduce the Make Up capture the growth in this vibrant region of Brazil and started cost structure in line with expected volumes and has included the building of an additional can end plant in Manaus, in the plant closures, streamlining of resources and downsizing, Amazon region, which will help consolidate our end predominantly in South East Asia but also in Europe.
The overall profit margin fell in the ongoing business primarily In Europe, market growth was very buoyant, fuelled by as a result of the weakness in the Make Up division but we continued growth in energy drinks, the FIFA World Cup and believe there is scope to improve margins further over time.
a prolonged period of summer weather stretching well into the autumn.
Our beverage can volume grew around 10%, We continue to pursue our strategy for growth in Plastic in line with the market, benefiting from strong energy drinks Packaging, consolidating attractive segments with technically growth.
However, the return of the can in Germany has not advanced products and significant intellectual property been as quick as predicted by independent bodies and, barriers, focusing on innovation and adding complementary 15 Business Review products and technologies.
In 2006, we delivered on this strategy acquiring Airspray, the world leader in non aerosol foam pumps, and the Chinese beauty packaging business of FangXin Limited, thereby enhancing our capability to serve our customers as one of the major players in the global rigid plastic packaging industry.
Operational excellence is a key focus and the business is adopting proven methodologies for best practice sharing from beverage can colleagues and applying them to its own technologies and processes.
With 45 sites around the world and an approach increasingly taking advantage of well embedded Lean Enterprise methodologies, there is significant potential to generate improved profit margins within Plastic Packaging.
We successfully managed to recover the majority of resin and energy price increases through price and cost The challenge was to design an airtight pack in order to protect and preserve the long wearing isododecane based formula in Niveas new Extreme Stay efficiencies.
The benefits from synergies arising from Pen.
Rexams expertise in airtight pack solutions produced a case, whose acquisitions and increased operational efficiency should airtight capability is guaranteed by the self jointing assembly of cap and base.
enable us to make further progress.
Glass 2006 2005 Sales m 437 405 Underlying operating profit m 36 36 Return on sales % 8.2 8.9 After several years of decline and uncertainty, the European market for glass containers stabilised in 2006.
Sales increased by almost 8% through a combination of price increases, higher volumes and mix improvements.
All sites contributed to the upswing: Poland continued its long term positive trend: Scandinavia and the Netherlands both grew after a number of years of stagnation and Germany reversed a period of decline with the strongest growth figures of all.
Rexam has launched an airless lotion dispenser, whose innovative closure The unprecedented rise in energy costs, however, proved a TM device allows for unmatched cleanliness and neutrality.
The Rexam Prodigio will be produced in 2007. formidable obstacle to progress.
The increase in sales and managements decisive action to increase efficiency and reduce costs fully offset the effect of the rise in costs and underlying operating profit was maintained at 36m.
With capacity in the glass market more in line with demand than at any time in recent history, we continue to focus keenly on further price increases and cost efficiencies exploiting valuable synergies through the exchange of operational excellence across our sites in Europe.
Acquiring for growth Acquisitions are one of the linch pins of our strategy for growth.
We maintain a disciplined approach and our track record in recent years is reflected in a strong return on invested capital 15%.
Recent acquisitions have been funded by our cash flow.
We employ strict acquisition criteria, including stringent hurdle rates, return on capital and other financial measures, to ensure that we are securing the best returns for our shareholders.
Our focus is on emerging markets such as South America, Russia, India, the Middle East and China, and on faster growing segments of the consumer packaging industry such Rexam has developed the first stackable glass wine bottles.
This imaginative as rigid plastic packaging.
During 2006 we added to both innovative design eliminates the need for wine racks and also enables retailers to optimise storage space.
Beverage Cans and Plastic Packaging.
16 Business Review In Beverage Cans, we acquired the Egyptian Can Making Resources Company Ecanco, the sole beverage can maker in Egypt, Our resources comprise physical assets in the form of for 58m.
The acquisition gives us a leading position in facilities and machinery, the operational teams to run and beverage cans in Egypt and North Africa and provides a manage these and the sales and marketing people to build base to develop these and other growing markets in the long term and robust relationships with our customers and Middle East.
We also formed a joint venture with the suppliers and other key stakeholders.
Hindustan Tin Works, a quoted Indian company, to make beverage cans in India.
The plant, close to Mumbai, is the We invest on average in the region of 100m each year to first of its kind in India.
ensure that we maintain safety and reliability and keep these physical assets at peak efficiency.
The deployment of Lean In Plastic Packaging, as mentioned above, we acquired Enterprise and Six Sigma methodologies and processes Airspray and FangXin for 106m and 35m respectively.
provide us with a framework for continuous improvement We also took the first steps to establish ourselves in the Indian through which our businesses can achieve best in class plastic packaging market with the acquisition of a plastic quality, cost and delivery results.
The tangible benefits are pharmaceutical packaging company, True Pack, in measured year on year and can be seen in the cost savings Bangalore.
Six Sigma and Lean Enterprise are not the only initiatives: better supply chain management, increased Investing for growth automation and more efficient processes all contribute to During the year, we initiated an unprecedented amount of reducing our costs.
growth capital expenditure which we expect to deliver significant returns in 2008 and beyond.
Our manufacturing operations purchase raw materials, machinery and equipment to make the beverage cans, In Beverage Cans, we continued to invest in new lines for the plastic packaging and glass containers from largely the same growing product segment of non standard beverage cans in group of suppliers as our competitors.
It is our employees all our three main markets, US, Europe and South America.
ability to extract the most out of these assets in the most In North America, for example, non standard sizes now efficient manner that largely help determine the success of account for 12% of our volumes.
Naturally they are supported by a sales and marketing organisation whose aim is to build strong and During the year we opened a new greenfield beverage can lasting relationships with our customers through the highest plant in Brazil and announced the building of a new can end levels of service.
We also announced that we would be building two new plants in Europe - one in Austria to satisfy the continued Developing our people is therefore key.
For our leaders demand for energy drinks, and the other in the Urals, Russia, and managers, we have our own group wide career and to serve growing local requirements.
We are adding a new leadership development programme which covers the full line to our current plant in Russia for new one litre cans to spectrum from graduates to senior managers.
This not only meet the demand for larger beer containers and extending provides our people with clear career paths but also enables our capability into slim cans.
We are also adding a further us to identify individual development needs and business skill line in Egypt.
requirements to ensure that we have the quality of people and the market know how to serve our customers.
The We have invested in plastic packaging plants in Poland and programmes also prepare leaders for the changing role the UK and have approved a new purpose built Dispensing within their business, fostering openness and collaboration Systems facility in France which will replace two of our across our businesses.
Each of our operations has tailored engineering development Whilst these and other projects entail capital expenditure in programmes designed to meet the needs of the individual 2006 and 2007 that is above our historic levels, we expect businesses, their people and their customers.
to see significant benefits coming through in 2008.
Financial resources Upgrading our portfolio Our financial position, including the availability of equity and Part of our strategy is also to ensure that we are in the borrowing facilities, is also a key resource.
We continue to markets that offer our shareholders the best returns.
ensure that our strategic aspirations are underpinned by a Accordingly during 2006, we divested our non barrier thin solid financial profile and a secure funding platform that wall plastics operations in the UK and Scandinavia for gives us access to debt at competitive rates.
Both were relatively low margin businesses where we quality is monitored on an ongoing basis by the leading had little chance of building a sizeable regional or global independent rating agencies, Moodys and Standard & Poors, presence.
We also announced that we had started the both of whom assign an investment grade rating to Rexam.
process to sell our plastic bottle business, Rexam Petainer, which is based in Scandinavia and the Czech Republic, Our funding platform is spread between a committed debt and this disposal process is still ongoing.
facility in the bank market maturing in 2010 and the issuance of a range of bonds with maturities between 2007 and 2013.
This spread of debt sources and maturities gives us good protection against changing credit markets and 18 Business Review Beverage packaging per capita vs. ensures that we are never faced with refinancing all of our GDP per capita debt requirements at one time.
We choose to borrow in a range of different currencies which limits our exposure to 800 any one currency and also acts as a natural hedge to our 700 USA overseas assets denominated in those currencies.
We further Spain 600 reduce our risk through borrowing a proportion of our debt Germany at fixed rates of interest to ensure that our cost of funding is 500 Denmark Japan partially protected against volatility in interest rates.
400 UK France 300 Market and industry characteristics Greece Consumer packaging is a huge, global market worth some 200 Argentina US$388bn according to PIRA.
In spite of a challenging Brazil 100 Russia year for the packaging industry, brought on largely by China unprecedented rises in input costs, consumer packaging 10 20 30 40 remains a vibrant and growing industry.
GDP per capita 000 US$ Growth in population and GDP per capita has a significant impact on Long term consumer packaging market growth is in the region packaging demand shown here specically in the correlation between of 3% to 5% as a whole, although individual segments and GDP per capita and number of beverage packages per capita.
regions may display higher growth rates.
Beverage and food packaging account for more than two thirds of the total market whilst the other areas of interest to Rexam, for example packaging for pharmaceuticals and beauty personal care products, account for more than 10%.
Global consumer packaging by end use Consumer packaging is regarded as relatively insensitive to economic cycles as people tend to consume the same amount Other 20% Food 52% of food and beverages in good times as in bad.
Consumers Pharma 5% may choose another product, but it still has to be packaged.
There are a number of other factors linked to social and Beauty 5% demographic trends which also have a significant bearing on packaging demand.
Population growth and GDP per capita Beverage 18% also have a significant influence on demand, as does the ageing of the global population.
Source: PIRA and Rexam estimates A number of key social trends have been identified that are having a major impact on developments in packaging.
These include the trend towards smaller households and the accompanying rise in demand for smaller pack sizes, rising Global consumer packaging growth health awareness among consumers, and the increasing requirement for convenience.
The issue of convenience will Food perhaps have the greatest impact upon the industry, Beverage encouraging innovation in packaging as consumers seek Beauty out efficient alternatives to more traditional packaging to Pharma cope with the pressures of modern day life.
Other Other key trends include customers heightened requirements 012 345678 for brand differentiation in increasingly competitive retail % Growth rates 2005-2009 Source: PIRA and Rexam estimates environments, more awareness of environmental issues and the new regulatory requirements on packaging recycling.
Typical operating margins for the consumer packaging Global geographic consumer packaging growth industry are currently around 10%.
Whilst the recent rises in raw material and energy prices have affected our margins in Europe the short term, there is no indication that margins will change significantly in the future.
Where we can, we adjust selling North America prices to the customer to reflect changes in input costs and South America whilst this pattern of trading is likely to continue, rapid rises in these type of costs, such as those experienced in 2006, Rest of world will inevitably have short term impact on profits.
012 3456789 % Growth rates 2005-2009 Source: PIRA The following section examines more specifically the characteristics of the markets in which Rexam operates.
Packaging Industry Research Association 19 Number of beverage packages per capita Business Review Beverage cans Beverage cans are a popular form of beverage packaging.
Consumers appreciate the fact that cans are lightweight, easy to chill and that they keep the contents carbonated.
Beverage producers favour them because they are quick and efficient to fill, are easy to transport and maintain product integrity.
They also provide optimum exposure for the brand and are effective in moving volume especially in multi pack formats.
For retailers, cans are easy to handle and make effective use of space on supermarket shelves.
Added to all this, aluminium cans are fully recyclable: in fact, they are the most recycled type of beverage packaging.
Beverage can making is a capital intensive business where Another first for Rexam an innovative invisible dip tube left compared with profit is dependent on the high utilisation of installed plant a conventional dip tube solution.
The light refraction index properties of this capacity.
We work continually to achieve and maintain new age tube make it virtually undetectable when in contact with fragrance: combining functionality with beauty.
high levels of utilisation within our facilities and therefore endeavour to operate with minimal spare capacity in our plants.
The beverage can industry is a well consolidated, global industry where Rexam is the leading player.
We operate predominantly in the US, South America and Europe.
There are four players in the US and three significant ones in South America and Europe.
Our market share in these regions is 24%, 65% and 45% respectively.
The overall global beverage can market, which is made up of largely standard 12oz 33cl cans, is growing at a rate of some 5% pa. Growth in non standard sizes, such as those for energy drinks or larger cans for beers or iced teas is significantly faster but from a lower base.
Europe, which in our business includes Russia, produces in the region of 45bn beverage cans per year and is growing at a rate of 4% to 5% pa.
In 2006, the market grew 10% with the main growth regions being the Nordic countries, Spain, Eastern Europe and Russia.
North America is the worlds largest market for beverage cans with annual volumes of some 112bn cans.
It is a mature market dominated at present by 12oz cans.
In 2006, market InBev has partnered with Rexam to launch two new beers.
Becks Level 7, an growth was 2% fuelled by a 20% increase in specialty sizes, energy beer with guarana and caffeine, and Becks Chilled Orange with a led by a more than 70% rise in energy drinks whose taste of orange and kumquat.
Both are offered in novel transparent UV int bottles, designed for maximum visual impact.
packaging of choice is the can.
Today specialty cans account for some 12% of the total US market for beverage cans.
Brazil is the third largest beverage can market in the world with annual consumption of around 11bn cans.
Improvement in economic conditions has underpinned a market growth of around 6% pa in recent years.
In 2006 the market grew by 11% driven by continued growth of the economy and the fact that cans are more readily available to customers now that Rexam has establshed operations in locations away from the heartland to new growth areas.
In China, the market is developing at an average rate of 5%.
Our presence in the region enables us to keep close track of this and surrounding markets.
In 2006 we acquired a plant in Egypt which serves the North African and Middle Eastern markets, a 6bn can market with annual consumption growing Rexam has pioneered production of a new blister pack spray sampler.
The Rexam trial pack allows 40 sprays sufficient to get consumers to fall in love at 10% underpinned by growing economies, further with the product.
This new innovation has been used successfully by Elizabeth urbanisation and substitution of returnable bottle systems with Arden for the Curious Britney Spears fragrance.
20 Securing manufacturing excellence These frameworks were well established in the more A platform of manufacturing and operational excellence is homogenous beverage can and glass businesses.
The recent critical to our strategy for profitable growth.
It is what our restructuring of the Plastic Packaging operations into one customers need and want.
Importantly, efficiency savings strategic sector has enabled us now to better leverage continue to make a significant contribution to our profits each synergies across our 45 Plastic Packaging locations globally.
We continue to raise the bar with Lean Enterprise and Six Sigma based projects to drive out cost and enhance The setting up of formal programmes and processes enables quality.
We have established frameworks across our us to systematically reduce costs and improve efficiencies in businesses for sharing of best practice.
our global injection moulding operations.
In this way, we ensure that everything that we do contributes to delivering value to our customers.
21 Business Review Plastic Packaging Risks and uncertainties and how we manage them Plastic is a popular and common material for packaging.
Risk is a part of doing business.
Our challenge is to identify Customers choose plastic because it has good barrier the relevant ones and to develop and monitor appropriate properties, it is highly customisable and easy to use.
It is controls to address them.
lightweight, durable, safe and unbreakable and offers wide decorative and shaping possibilities.
The Rexam Board has overall responsibility for risk management which it manages through its Audit and Finance Plastic packaging represents a large and diversified market Committees.
Please refer to page 48 Internal Control in the estimated to be worth some US$152bn on a global basis.
Rexam has a well defined Rexam concentrates predominantly on rigid plastic packaging and established process to identify and manage risks.
The which accounts for US$93bn of that total market value.
Within process is monitored and refined on an ongoing basis to rigid plastics we focus on packaging for beauty and personal ensure that the risks are being properly managed and that care products, pharmaceuticals, food and household products.
we are taking into account changes year on year.
For These segments are technologically advanced and have example, as Rexam continues to pursue its strategy to grow significant intellectual property barriers.
its presence in emerging markets, a greater proportion of revenue and profit will be generated in potentially higher risk The rigid plastic packaging market is characterised by a high countries.
Beverage Cans is building new plants in Russia degree of fragmentation where the top ten manufacturers and Brazil, has acquired a plant in Egypt and entered into have 17% of the market.
Overall it is growing at more than a joint venture in India.
Plastic Packaging has made new 6%, the fastest growing segment within plastic packaging.
acquisitions in China and India.
The higher growth potential comes with greater risks in terms of political and economic Within rigid plastics, the various segments display different stability, compared with the more established and mature growth rates.
The demand for rigid pharmaceutical packaging economies of North America and western Europe.
These is expected to grow at 7% pa although the demand for some risks are always assessed when considering investment products such as dry powder inhalation devices is expected opportunities and setting financial policies and procedures.
to experience double digit growth.
Industry estimates put growth in the global beauty and personal care packaging Rexams main risks and mitigating factors are set out below.
market in the foreseeable future at around 4% pa, whilst the Whilst no significant new risks have been identified in the plastic closures market will grow at more than 4% pa with year, a number of existing risks have had a direct impact closures for sports beverages expected to grow at a low on the operations during 2006 and will continue to do so in double digit rate.
These relate principally to the significant increases in input prices namely aluminium, energy and resins.
With a mixture of standard and highly customised products, the plastic packaging market shows a high degree of both National political and economic stability product and process innovation.
This trend is likely to Rexam is a global company operating in countries and continue.
regions with very different economic and political conditions and sensitivities.
Our operations and earnings may therefore Glass be adversely affected by political or economic instability and Glass is an important packaging material because it unrest including financial crisis, civil unrest, wars, international continues to be the material of choice for premium products.
conflicts, greater and tighter government regulation on cross Glass tends to become an inherent part of a customers border trading, production, pricing and the environmental brand values and provides unique potential to create regulation.
We remain vigilant to these risks.
We take distinctive, memorable packaging, which adds value and external advice on such matters and consider the risks when differentiation.
The number of instantly recognisable glass determining whether or not to do business in countries or containers stretches from the Absolut vodka bottle to the regions which are recognised as unstable.
Changes in the cost and availability of direct materials Furthermore, glass is hygienic and transparent.
With glass, Steep and prolonged rises in input prices may have a consumers can see what they are getting and because it can material impact on our results.
These rises could change the be refilled or recycled, in using glass consumers also feel that demand for our products as customers adjust their packaging they are contributing to a better environment.
mix and the materials they use.
Aluminium is by far our most significant raw material cost.
In the US, we are largely Rexam is a European glass manufacturer.
Its operations unaffected by short term fluctuations in the aluminium price are focused on northern Europe, a market worth `1.7bn since costs are agreed directly between customers and annually, where it has a leading market share of 31%.
We charge our customers on a pass glass industry is currently experiencing its most favourable through basis.
Whilst these commercial arrangements are operating environment for a decade, notwithstanding high agreed with customers and suppliers and are intended to energy costs.
Capacity and demand are in balance and the protect us from price risk, changes could occur in the market is expected to continue to grow moderately.
The commercial arrangements which expose Rexam to risk.
market is expected to grow at a higher rate in a number of In Europe, we generally buy aluminium on behalf of our product segments, such as food, beer and spirits, particularly customers.
To mitigate the risk, we hedge some, but not for export markets.
necessarily all, of the aluminium cost and associated currency requirements.
22 Business Review euros and US dollars.
Additional smaller private issues of through our own and external business intelligence services.
MTNs have been made, mostly at floating rates, to fit into our It is clear that consumers will still need and want beverages funding profile.
This has enabled us to continue to manage of some kind.
New categories of drink would most likely the fixed to floating rate proportion of borrowings and the replace any void, and beverage cans are inherently an duration of the fixed rate borrowings independently of the important part of a customers pack mix.
The rise of the sourcing of funding.
In line with this policy, we offered to energy drink segment and, more recently, nutritional drinks exchange`425m of our existing `550m MTNs, due in and iced teas are examples of new categories.
March 2007, for a new issue of MTNs with a longer maturity date.
Further details of the Groups financial risk management Supply of faulty or contaminated products and derivative and non derivative financial instruments are Rexams reputation as a business partner relies heavily on set out in notes 23 and 24 to the consolidated financial its ability to supply quality products on time and in full.
consequences of not being able to do so, owing to accidental or malicious raw material contamination or due to supply Tax risk chain contamination caused by human error or equipment As a Group we seek to plan and manage our tax affairs failure, could be severe.
Such consequences might include efficiently in the jurisdictions in which we operate.
In doing adverse effects on consumer health, loss of market share, so we aim to act in compliance with relevant laws and financial costs and loss of turnover.
As part of our disclosure requirements.
Tax planning will complement and Environment, Health and Safety policy and our Lean be based around the needs of our operating businesses.
Enterprise framework we have strict control measures In an increasingly complex international tax environment, and systems in place to ensure the safety and quality of a degree of uncertainty is inevitable in estimating our tax our products are maintained.
We exercise our judgement in assessing the required level of provision for tax risk and allocate resources Financial risk appropriately to protect our position.
Rexams financial risk management is based upon sound economic objectives and good corporate practice.
Our main Relationships financial risks are related to the availability of funds to meet As a global consumer packaging company, we build our businesses needs and movements in interest and currency relationships with many stakeholders from customers and exchange rates as well as commodity costs.
Derivative and employees to suppliers and people in the communities in other financial instruments are used to manage exposures which we operate.
under conditions laid down by the Rexam Board and monitored by its Finance Committee.
Customers Looking first at our customers, the vast majority of our sales Hedging activities are used to mitigate the following risks: are made to large international consumer products commodity price and currency transaction risks for companies who are growing their businesses on a global commodities: fair value and cash flow interest rate risks basis.
They are invariably world class organisations requiring associated with our borrowings and currency translation of consistency of service and quality to support their geographic net assets and transactions in overseas subsidiaries.
As their industries continue to consolidate and expand they are becoming more global.
Rexam does not use derivative financial instruments for At the same time, they are concentrating their supplier base purposes other than for hedging its exposures.
Accounting and looking to align themselves with global partners who standard IAS39 was adopted on 1 January 2005, resulting understand the scale and nature of their business, and who in the recognition at fair value of all derivative financial can supply their needs on a local level.
instruments previously held off balance sheet under UK GAAP.
To avoid income statement volatility, and where such Employees benefits outweigh the costs of compliance, we have We have just over 24,000 employees in more than 20 designated many of our economic hedges as hedging countries around the world.
In the communities where instruments under IAS39.
However, for certain effective we operate we realise that we play an important role in economic hedging relationships such hedge accounting providing employment and contributing to society.
As treatment is not permitted under IFRS.
Where hedge mentioned under Resources on page 18, providing accounting is not achieved, fair value movements on employees with a safe, fair and stimulating place to derivatives are recorded in the consolidated income work is core to our business.
statement, which could give rise to earnings volatility.
The Rexam vision - to be the leading global consumer Our policy is to maintain a range of maturity dates for packaging company - gives our employees a direction for the borrowings, and to refinance them at the appropriate future and a clear sense of purpose.
Leading covers many time so as to reduce refinancing risk.
The issue of longer areas: service, innovation, market share, reach and term borrowings through the Medium Term Note MTN efficiency.
It means being the best, and as a result of being programme is a key element of the debt and financial risk the best, to be the most profitable company in our business.
Leading also addresses how we treat each other.
We want to lead in creating a rewarding environment for our people.
Fixed rate MTNs, in sterling and euros, were issued in 2002 and, simultaneous to issue, were swapped into floating rate 25 Business Review we developed this programme further with a focus on high Our operations produce a range of air emissions including impact and high risk suppliers.
At the beginning of 2005 we carbon dioxide, particulates, nitrous oxide and volatile re-evaluated all our existing CR initiatives.
This resulted in a organic compounds.
We measure our performance using more extensive CR programme and a realisation that additional a series of indicators based on industry and stakeholder tools and training would be required to roll this out.
We collect environmental data from all our Responsible Sourcing Programme provides our employees manufacturing sites using the proprietary global web enabled with the appropriate information and tools to enable them to Rexam Audit System RAS which is then collated to highlight take informed decisions on the issues associated with each any areas for improvement and support and to identify best of our purchases and to engage suppliers in the appropriate practice for sharing throughout the Group.
The programme and tools are web based and largely self informing, which means The data covers the period June to June, rather than a it is possible to roll them out globally to employees without calender year: 2006 figures are therefore June 2005 to June the need for extensive travel or time taken away from normal 2006.
The data is normalised per tonne of production and activities for training.
Whilst there is room for improvement, grouped into our primary product types: metal aluminium we are committed to supporting global programmes and and steel, plastics and glass.
These figures become our facilitating positive social and environmental change through eco efficiency indicators.
Volumes of the above mentioned our supply chain.
emissions, measured per tonne of production, continued to fall during 2006.
Corporate Responsibility As one of the worlds leading consumer packaging For 2007, the RAS is being modified to improve our collection companies, we acknowledge our responsibilities towards the of near miss data and to allow cross referencing of all incident environment and society as a whole.
We are committed to types and causes and the corresponding audit scores and managing and reporting our impacts on the societies in recommendations.
which we operate and are continually striving to improve and develop our Corporate Responsibility CR policies and Each plant has its own measurable targets.
with our overall corporate requirements, form the basis of our Group targets.
This bottom up top down approach to target Our approach to CR is risk based and we strive to integrate setting helps to ensure consistency between our corporate practical solutions into our core management procedures.
and operational goals and best practice identification.
We realise that sustainable development is an ongoing journey and we adopt a programme of continuous The Group targets are: improvement to manage it, seeking innovative ways to improve technology and management systems and ensuring No uncontrolled or abnormal environmental releases our decisions take account of the long term impacts.
No fines imposed or actions taken against the Group To implement at all our plants by the end of 2007 an Our CR programme addresses four clear areas: Environmental Management System EMS based on the requirements of the International Environmental Environment our environmental impacts and what we Management System standard, ISO 14001 do to manage them To work with our principal suppliers to understand and Our People workplace environment, safety and human help reduce environmental impacts rights for employees and stakeholders The Community what we do to support the well being During 2006, there were no material uncontrolled of the communities around our plants environmental releases, although there were a number of Governance our business procedures, code of conduct minor reported incidents of oil and acid spillages which were and supply chain management quickly remedied.
In 2005, the Make Up plant in Annecy, France, discovered a leak in the underground system for a Each of these is dealt with below.
For more detailed solvent used for cleaning metal parts, trichloroethylene TCE.
information, refer to the CR section in our website, Methods of extraction have been piloted during 2006 and www.
we will move into the industrial extraction phase once targets for groundwater and soil concentration of TCE have been Environment established by local authorities.
The TCE leakage has been Rexam has had a formal environmental policy in place since contained and does not present any immediate danger to the 1991.
The policy is set and implemented by our senior environment.
The remedial work is expected to take at least executives, led by the Chief Executive Officer, but ownership five years to complete.
at every level of our organisation forms the basis of the day to day management of environmental issues.
We use the ISO 14001 standard to define the overall structure and requirements of our environmental management In terms of the environment, we have three broad objectives: systems.
During 2006, we moved towards accreditation with to reduce the consumption of resources: to minimise our ISO 14001 and the majority of our sites are on target to impact on nature: and to increase product value.
meet their 2007 deadline see chart page 29 with the 27 Business Review ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certication levels exception of our beverage can operations in North America.
% 100 They are implementing the requirements of the ISO standard and running a programme that will meet Group targets in 80 2008.
Their system will be audited by external specialists when implemented.
The Plastic Packaging businesses in Asia 60 started work to achieve ISO 14001 in 2005 with a target of 40 certification by 2008.
20 Our people 0 Rexam believes that it is responsible for its employees A BAB B A welfare and for providing a safe, clean, rewarding and Metal Plastics Glass supportive environment for them to work in.
We value the The percentage of our sites certied according to ISO 14001 positive cultural and background differences that our people A and OHSAS 18001 B at the end of 2006. bring and we aim to harness this potential for innovation in our business, processes, products and performance.
Resource consumption Raw material tonnes tonnes of production Motivation, engagement, recognition and development are 2.0 important factors, along with the right of everyone to work in an environment free from discrimination and bullying.
In 1.5 return, we expect our employees to demonstrate high levels of ethical behaviour and have a genuine respect for the 1.0 rights of individuals.
0.5 As part of our safety culture, each business reports details of all health and safety incidents directly online.
The incidents 0 04 05 06 04 05 06 04 05 06 are then collated and reviewed and programmes are put in Metal Plastics Glass place to redress the related risks.
The total number of days lost per year has continued to reduce.
In 2006 our average Lost Time Accident Rate was 2.2 compared with 2.5 in 2005 Lost time accident rate having reduced from 14.3 in 2002.
The severity of injuries Lost time accident rate per 100 employees per year measured by the number of days away and or restricted 10 Industry rate Industry rate time has dropped by 74% in the period since 2002.
Our Industry rate 8 lost time accident rate includes restricted work days in the calculations.
This is a more precise method than the one used 6 in our industry and by regulatory bodies such as the HSE 4 and OSHA.
2 The general accident rate for all our operations continues to 0 trend downwards.
Reporting has improved significantly over 05 06 05 06 05 06 the last 12 months and first aid to lost time ratios at most Metal Plastics Glass plants are in line with our expectations 6:1.
All operations The industry rate is based on the US Labor Statistics Data 2004 have introduced proactive indicators as performance and 2005.
Rexam adopts a more stringent measurement of measurements.
the lost time accident rate than the rest of the industry.
The Rexam denition includes lost and restricted time covering one shift.
In 2006 we initiated a diversity and inclusiveness D&I programme in conjunction with our annual leadership conference.
To launch the programme we held a number Energy consumption of workshops with our senior management to highlight the Energy Kwh tonne of production business case for D&I and the way we intend to develop 16,000 and operate our business in a manner that will help us build a more diverse and inclusive culture a precondition if we 12,000 are to achieve our aim of becoming a more market driven 8,000 company.
We realise that D&I is not something that can be managed by simply mandating a process: we are looking 4,000 at every level of our organisation across all our businesses around the world and setting a common goal of behaviour to 0 encourage our employees to act ethically, fairly and with an 04 05 06 04 05 06 04 05 06 open mind to all those they come into contact with.
We have Metal Plastics Glass taken a number of steps during the year including workshops The reduction in the Plastics energy consumption is mainly and developing appropriate plans down to country level attributable to 2005 acquisitions which use higher cavitation where needed.
moulding machines and therefore have a greater output but at a constant energy input.
In 2006, we also divested a number of energy intensive blow moulding operations.
29 A helping hand Rexam actively contributes to the life and well being of the communities who are in need of aid.
This is because when local communities in which it operates.
Employees regularly they reach or exceed their performance targets, these donate time and money to improve conditions of those translate into cash donations to charities chosen by the around them.
In Rexam Beverage Can South America, as each and The Good Day programme, as it is called, not only helps every employee strives to continually improve operational people in need but also helps us to improve our processes performance, they benefit directly many people in their as we aim for world class manufacturing excellence.
31 Business Review Group financial performance The discussion of the results set out in the sections Group The financial review of our results is based on what we term financial performance, Underlying total net finance cost the underlying business performance, as shown in the first and Tax is based on the first column of the above table, column of the tables below, which adjusts for exceptional Underlying business performance.
We feel that the underlying figures aid comparison underlying business performance is set out below.
of the Groups financial performance.
2005 2006 restated Change Underlying m m % business Exceptional Total Ongoing operations 3,647 3,111 17 performance items statutory Disposals 91 126 m m m 2006: Sales 3,738 3,237 Sales 3,738 - 3,738 Ongoing operations 410 406 1 Operating profit 415 1 414 Share of associates profit after tax 18 9 Disposals 5 3 Total net finance cost 113 3 116 Underlying operating profit 415 409 1 Share of associates profit after tax 1 3 profit before tax 303 4 307 profit after tax 228 5 223 Underlying total net finance cost 113 105 Underlying profit before tax 303 307 -1 Underlying profit after tax 228 218 5 Basic earnings per share p 39.7 Underlying earnings per share p 40.6 Interim dividend per share p 7.9 Underlying earnings per share p 40.6 39.5 3 Proposed final dividend per share p 11.1 Sales and underlying operating profit benefited from acquisitions completed in 2005 and 2006, predominantly in Plastic 2005 - restated: Packaging, offset by currency fluctuations.
The challenges set by ongoing high raw material and energy costs have Sales 3,237 - 3,237 been mitigated by the continued focus on cost and efficiency Operating profit 409 11 420 savings together with significant organic sales growth.
Share of associates profit after tax 3 4 7 Total net finance cost 105 9 96 Pursuant to the Groups strategy of focusing on higher margin profit before tax 307 24 331 and faster growing markets, a number of businesses have profit after tax 218 5 223 either been sold or made available for sale and these are shown as Disposals.
The completed transactions include Basic earnings per share p 40.4 the non barrier thin wall plastic packaging business in 2006 Underlying earnings per share p 39.5 and the UK glass business in 2005.
The Petainer refillable Interim and final dividends bottle business is currently being marketed for disposal and per share p 18.12 discussions are being held with potential acquirers.
Underlying business performance is the primary performance The following tables, showing sales and underlying operating measure used by management who believe that the exclusion profit, compare on a consistent basis the ongoing operations.
of exceptional items aids comparison of underlying performance.
Exceptional items include the gains and losses This basis excludes disposals but includes 2005 acquisitions on disposal of businesses, the restructuring and integration of as if acquired on 1 January 2005, by adding their prebusinesses, major asset impairments and disposals, significant acquisition results shown as Acquisitions 2005.
It also litigation claims, the subsequent recognition of acquired highlights currency fluctuations arising on translation.
deferred tax assets, the amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets, non hedge accounted fair value movements on nancing derivatives and significant gains arising on reduction of retiree medical and pension liabilities.
Comprises net interest expense and retirement benefit obligations net finance cost.
Subject to approval at AGM 2007 and payable on 6 June 2007.
32 Business Review Analysis of the change in operating profit: Analysis of sales movement Beverage Plastic Total Cans Packaging Glass Beverage Plastic m m m m Total Cans Packaging Glass m m m m Sales reported 2005 3,237 Price changes 52 40 2 10 Disposals 2005 126 Cost changes 165 128 11 26 Ongoing operations 2005 reported 2006 3,111 2,235 471 405 Price and cost changes 113 88 9 16 Acquisitions 2005 203 - 203 - Volume mix changes 64 49 3 12 Currency uctuations 30 18 11 1 efficiency and other savings 32 14 14 4 Ongoing operations 2005 Change in operating profit 17 25 8 - pro forma basis 3,284 2,217 663 404 Acquisitions 2006 59 25 34 - The reduction in underlying operating profit, after allowing Organic sales growth 304 248 23 33 for the impact of acquisitions, disposals and currency, was Ongoing operations 17m 4% which reflects the challenging environment for the reported 2006 3,647 2,490 720 437 recovery of increased input costs.
Disposals 2006 91 Sales reported 2006 3,738 Within Beverage Cans, price surcharges and a profit of 14m realised on renegotiation of a metal supply contract in The reported increase in sales from ongoing operations was the US were unable to offset the rapid escalation in aluminium 536m or 17%, which includes the impact of acquisitions prices, particularly in the second half of 2006.
The US made in 2005 and 2006 offset by currency movements.
Beverage Can business secured additional significant volumes through a contract announced in October 2006.
However, Organic sales growth, which excludes the impact of acquisitions, as expected, this contract is having an impact on margins.
disposals and currency, was 304m, an increase of 9%.
The continuing demand for energy drinks and non standard A significant portion of this growth arose in Beverage Cans, can sizes provides encouragement for future growth 248m 8%, of which 69m can be attributed to the reinforced by a firm commitment to realise cost savings recovery of aluminium cost increases and 179m to other across the business.
price changes, volume and mix gains.
Plastic Packaging benefited from stronger volumes across most of its divisions The Plastic Packaging operation reported a 12% improvement albeit against a competitive sales price background.
Glass, in underlying profit based on a strong performance from operating in a market where capacity was in balance with the high barrier food plastics business and the successful demand, was able to achieve good price increases and integration of the 2005 acquisitions.
The Make Up business volume gains.
is operating in a difficult market and it has undertaken a number of initiatives to address the cost base, discussed under Exceptional items.
Cost and synergy savings together Analysis of underlying operating profit movement with volume improvements covered the rise in resin, energy Beverage Plastic Total Cans Packaging Glass and other input costs.
m m m m Underlying operating profit Although the Glass operation reported flat year on year 409 reported 2005 underlying profit, this masks a considerable achievement as Disposals 2005 3 the business was faced with a substantial increase in energy Ongoing operations 2005 related costs amounting to 19m.
These were fully offset by reported 2006 406 313 57 36 a combination of price increases, volume gains and Acquisitions 2005 11 - 11 - efficiency savings.
Currency uctuations 3 3 - - Ongoing operations 2005 pro forma basis 414 310 68 36 Exchange rates The exchange rates used to translate the profit and loss Acquisitions 2006 13 7 6 - account and balance sheet are set out in note 1 to the Change in operating profit 17 25 8 - consolidated financial statements.
Ongoing operations reported 2006 410 292 82 36 Disposals 2006 5 Income statement Underlying operating profit The US dollar and the euro are the principal currencies that reported 2006 415 impact our results.
During the year both currencies weakened against sterling.
The net effect of currency translation caused sales and underlying operating profit to be reduced by 30m and 3m respectively.
The effect on aluminium purchasing, which is priced in US dollars, for products sold in Europe, was more pronounced in the second half of 2006.
33 Business Review The movement in exchange rates had the following impact During the year the Group introduced revisions to its on the translation into sterling for reported sales, underlying obligations in respect of retiree medical benefits and defined operating profit and underlying profit before tax in 2006: benefit pensions for certain employees in the US which reduced liabilities by 39m and 15m respectively.
The Underlying Underlying Group is seeking to extend these revisions to other employees, operating profit which, if successful, would generate a further significant Sales profit before tax reduction in liabilities.
There was a further reduction of m m m 3m in UK defined benefit pensions liabilities arising on US dollar 26 3 2 the disposal of businesses.
The total reduction in liabilities Euro 7 1 1 attributable to these changes, after tax, was 37m, which Other currencies 311 has been recorded within exceptional items.
Total 30 3 2 Cash payments to defined benefit pension plans increased Balance sheet as a result of a higher rate of contribution to the UK scheme, Most of the Groups borrowings are denominated in US which in 2006 included 20m to reduce its deficit.
Year on year movements in exchange on current actuarial projections, it is expected that cash rates reduced net borrowings by 82m, due principally to contributions to defined benefit pension plans and retiree the US dollar where the exchange rate moved from 1:1.74 medical payments in 2007 will remain at similar levels to at December 2005 to 1:1.96 at December 2006.
Similarly, those in 2006. net equity was reduced by 95m due to the changes in exchange rates.
The total cash payments in respect of retirement benefits are as follows: 2006 2005 Retirement benefits m m A detailed analysis of retirement benefits is set out in note 25 Dened benefit pension plans 44 26 to the consolidated financial statements.
Other pension plans 4 4 Retiree medical 12 18 The analysis of the retirement benefit obligations net finance Total cash payments 60 48 cost is as follows: 2006 2005 m m Underlying total net finance cost Dened benefit pension plans: 2006 2005 Expected return on plan assets 126 125 m m Interest on plan liabilities 137 138 Net interest 90 76 11 13 Retirement benefit obligations net finance cost 23 29 Retiree medical interest on liabilities 12 16 Underlying total net finance cost 113 105 Net finance cost 23 29 The underlying total net finance cost increased by 8m Changes to the actuarial value of retirement benefits at the compared with the prior year, primarily as a result of higher balance sheet date are shown in the statement of recognised average borrowings to fund acquisitions made in late 2005 income and expense.
These changes increased shareholders and in the early part of 2006.
In addition, interest rates were funds by 107m in 2006 as follows: higher due in part to cancellation of fixed to floating interest rate swaps in March 2005 and the fact that average market interest rates for US dollar and euro borrowings were up by m m 160 basis points and 90 basis points respectively compared Dened benefit pension plans: with the prior year.
The issue of a seven year `700m Medium Plan liabilities principally higher discount rates 101 Term Note MTN in March 2006 enabled the Group to Plan assets returns higher than expected 32 refinance, in an exchange offer, a substantial portion of the `550m MTN, due to mature in March 2007, and raised Experience gains 2 additional finance at interest rates that were lower than the 135 existing MTN.
In October 2006, shareholders approved the Retiree medical: early conversion of the convertible preference shares: on an Experience gains 15 ongoing basis this will reduce interest cost by 5m per annum.
Plan liabilities higher discount rates 5 Overall, the average interest rate during the year was 6.2%, 20 the same as in the prior year.
Actuarial changes before tax 155 Tax 48 Interest cover was slightly below 5 times underlying Actuarial changes after tax 107 operating profit, which is in keeping with the Groups long term parameter to maintain its interest cover above 4 times.
Interest cover is based on underlying operating profit and underlying total net interest expense excluding convertible preference share dividends.
34 Business Review Tax Intangible assets, such as technology patents and customer The tax charge for the year was 75m 25% on profit before contracts, are required to be recognised on the acquisition of exceptional items 2005: 89m 29%.
This incorporates the businesses and amortised over their useful life.
The directors release of provisions held for specific tax exposures following consider that separate disclosure of the amortisation of such satisfactory progress of tax audits in Europe and the acquired intangibles amounting to 11m 2005: nil aids reassessment of the recoverability of certain deferred tax comparison of organic growth in underlying profit.
The rate would have been around 31% excluding these this cost, which may become more significant as the impact adjustments, reflecting the mix of territories in which Rexam of recent and future acquisitions is reflected, should be operates, partially offset by the availability of tax incentives separately disclosed within exceptional items.
In 2007 and beyond the tax charge is expected more closely to reflect the underlying position.
Following a recent appeal ruling, a provision of 8m has been made in respect of a legacy litigation claim relating to Cash tax payments in the year were 58m compared with an acquired business.
The claim had been initiated before 47m last year.
Payments in 2005 had been reduced by the Group assumed control of that business.
repayments received, following settlement of prior year tax assessments, and by the utilisation of tax losses.
It is expected Consistent with the disclosure adopted in the 2005 consolidated that the cash tax paid in future years will continue to be financial statements, the recognition of deferred tax assets on between 70% and 80% of the underlying income statement prior year acquisitions of 3m 2005: 7m has been included tax charge.
in exceptional items owing to their size and because they arise out of the transition to IFRS.
They relate to the utilisation of tax losses not recorded at the date of acquisition, which Exceptional items result in a reduction in goodwill and a charge to the income The exceptional items arising in 2006 are as follows: statement.
m US retiree medical and pension gains 53 In keeping with the strategy to concentrate the food plastics Restructuring and integration of businesses 29 operations on high margin and faster growing markets, three Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 11 non barrier thin wall plastic packaging businesses were sold, Litigation claim 8 realising a loss of 3m.
In addition, the Petainer refillable Recognition of deferred tax assets on prior bottle business was made available for sale.
year acquisitions 3 Disposal of businesses 3 The profit of 8m on the sale of land and property, following Total included in operating profit 1 the relocation of a manufacturing facility by an associate in Sale of land and property by an associate 8 Korea, has been included in exceptional items in view of its Early redemption of convertible preference shares 10 size and one off nature.
Financing derivative market value changes 7 Total exceptional items before tax 4 In October 2006, shareholders approved the early conversion Tax on exceptional items 9 into ordinary shares of the convertible preference shares.
Total exceptional items 5 Following the adoption of IFRS, the convertible preference shares had become financially inefficient: the debt element In June 2006, a change to the US retiree medical plan was was reclassified from equity to borrowings, the dividend made to coordinate prescription drug benefits payable to thereon included within interest and no tax deduction was certain retirees with cover available from the US government available on that dividend.
The enhanced conversion premium through the Medicare Part D programme.
This change of 10m, including associated costs, has been included in resulted in a gain of 38m, net of associated legal fees of exceptional items due to its size and one off nature.
In December 2006, changes were made to the US defined benefit pension plans, giving rise to a gain of 15m.
The fair value of the derivatives arising on financing activities directly relates to changes in interest rates and foreign The principal restructuring cost arose in the Plastic Packaging exchange rates.
The fair value will change as the transactions sector.
The decision to exit from the non barrier thin wall to which they relate mature, as new derivatives are transacted plastic packaging business resulted in the rationalisation of and due to the passage of time.
The fair value change on one plant and the sale of three further plants, as discussed financing derivatives for the year was a net gain of 7m below.
In response to slower demand within part of the Make 2005: 9m.
The impact of embedded derivatives and Up division, especially in the second half of 2006, action derivatives arising on trading items such as commodities was taken to reduce its cost base: in South East Asia, to and forward foreign exchange contracts is included within integrate the existing business with the newly acquired underlying operating profit.
FangXin operations: and in France, to centralise the production of more complex beauty products.
The integration programme initiated following the acquisition of Precise Technology, in December 2005, resulted in the closure of four facilities in the US.
In addition, a major restructuring of the administration support function within the European beverage can operation was completed.
