RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Ed Williams Group Managing Director BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 2006 has been another strong year with pre-tax profits more Letting rental agents than doubling to 17.7 million and revenue up 85% from New homes developers 18.2 million in 2005 to 33.6 million in 2006.
Market share Overseas homes agents offering properties outside the UK rose for the third consecutive year in the core estate agency but interested in advertising to UK-based home hunters.
and new home developments markets.
By providing the tools and marketing support to boost our Revenue Pre-tax profits members own marketing effectiveness, we help improve their accuracy in pricing properties and help them win business from vendors and landlords.
Our service therefore % % goes far beyond traditional advertising.
This is an important 85 101 part of our membership service and builds loyalty with both Revenue grew from Pre-tax profits grew our members and home hunters.
18.2m to 33.6m from 8.8m to 17.7m Keys to success This is Rightmoves first annual report as a public Rightmoves success is the result of our contribution to our company and we want to take the opportunity to explain advertisers success.
We help our advertisers by providing the dynamics of our business including the key indicators quality enquiries at a signicantly lower cost than their on which we focus.
For estate agents and letting rental agents, Rightmove also plays a key role in What we do generating new opportunities to win instructions the right to Rightmoves aim is to be the place for all UK home movers offer a property for sale or for rent on behalf of the owner.
to nd details of all properties available to buy or rent.
We Many home movers and landlords now expect that their provide an easy-to-use but sophisticated on-line property properties should appear on Rightmoves website in order search.
With the depth of information that we provide, to reach the largest market.
including photographs, brochures, location maps, virtual tours, measurements and oor plans, home hunters can Connecting more people with more property than immediately identify a preferred property and contact the anyone else advertiser by phone or email.
We are able to make the contribution that we do to our members businesses as a result of having become the Our service is directed at four key membership groups: destination for home hunters.
In a typical month in 2006, Estate agents three million people visited the website, each averaging more From continuing operations and before otation costs and share-based payments expense 06 RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Graham Zacharias Group Finance Director than one visit a week and spending around 18 minutes on 2006 saw substantial success in relation to both sales and the site during each visit.
Overall advertiser membership increased by 42% from 11,483 to 16,321.
The retention rate of over 93% was In 2006, the usage of the Rightmove.
co. uk website grew more towards the top end of our historical range of 91-94%.
co. uk was consistently majority of the estate agents and lettings agents who left among the top 10 most used UK websites by page impressions Rightmove did so because their own businesses ceased to according to Hitwise.
This generated over 14 million enquiries trade or there was a significant change in their business focus.
tracked through our systems from agents and developers.
Based on our estimate of the market of close to 25,000 The key performance indicators that we monitor together potential advertisers, this represents an increase in our with comparisons with 2005 are: customer base from 48% to 64% of the total addressable Number of page impressions in the year grew by 1.8bn UK market.
81%, up from 2.2bn 2005 to 4bn 2006 The value that our advertisers see in being a Rightmove Number of enquiries that we delivered grew by 6.7m to member also increased signicantly.
For the first time we 14.2m 2006 from 7.5m 2005, an increase of 90% charged lettings rental only agents and now have over half Number of properties displayed on Rightmove.
co. uk at of all lettings agents as members.
New members during the 31 December 2006 was 802,000, an increase of 170,000 year paid more than our existing members, continuing the 27%, from 632,000 in 2005.
Rightmove approach of seeking to reward the loyalty of long standing members.
This is in contrast to many other The UK property business is cyclical.
While our members companies in our sector who frequently offer their best deals value our enquiries, Rightmove often makes its biggest to new customers in order to win their business.
contributions at times in the cycle when enquiries in general Rightmoves cost to its members continues to represent are most scarce.
Hence enquiries generated is not an a small proportion of the total industry spend on advertising, immediate driver of success for our members and not, we a total of around 30m compared to 500m across believe, an appropriate basis for charging for our service.
Overall the average monthly spend per advertiser in 2006 rose from 157 to 192 an increase of Strong top-line growth 22%.
This increase is in the context of Rightmove increasing Rightmoves growth in profits is driven by top-line revenue its own audience of home movers by 83% visits and a growth.
This has been achieved through: much higher percentage increase in Rightmoves own Increases in the number of advertisers marketing spend to bring home hunters onto the site to Increases in the value our advertisers see from their view our advertisers properties.
We continued to invest in spending with us.
technology over the year, increasing our internet bandwidth 07 RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Clear market leadership We lead the UK market by number of 85% customers, number of users and number of properties advertised.
UK market share Source: Hitwise August 2006 08 RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 ten-fold, doubling our storage capacity, doubling the size Encouraging strong performance from our people of the support team and upgrading our systems software.
Rightmove is an organisation which thrives on strong We have also invested substantially in the new collaboration within and between teams.
Delivering our RightmovePlus infrastructure by which our members access service to our customers depends on the quality of this the membership services, information services and property collaboration between areas such as sales, marketing, data maintenance facilities we provide.
Customer service technology, product development and finance.
teams have been expanded signicantly and the level of The number of employees has grown from 216 to 261 customer service support offered to customers extended.
during the course of the year.
As all our employees have access to our internal systems, communication is fast and Driving the business forward provides opportunity for continuous sharing of information With over 16,000 property advertisers, the opportunity still and dialogue when our preferred face-to-face remains to increase our advertising base by 50%, with the communication is not possible.
largest single opportunity being amongst new home developers.
We were delighted that the otation of the Company in A range of new advertising services has been launched in March 2006 allowed us to reinforce the strong sense of the few weeks of 2007 which allows our members to boost involvement through direct participation in the financial the value they get from Rightmove.
Known as the success of the Company.
All employees received 500 worth RightmoveChoice suite of products, they allow advertisers to of free shares at oat, with the opportunity to subscribe for a differentiate themselves from their competitors and offer an further 3,000 worth.
Since the otation, an employee share enhanced service to their own clients.
These services should save scheme has been introduced with more than half of contribute to moving Rightmove forward from around 6% of employees opting in and making substantially above average the total industry spending on advertising.
We are also monthly contributions.
An executive share option scheme is making our very first footsteps into attracting a wider base of in place with options vesting over three to five years.
All the advertisers with the launch of advertising around our new above future obligations are provided for in the form of interactive map service, Aboutmyplace.
shares held in an employee benefit trust.
The particular circumstances of the government U-turn on HIPs was disappointing given the substantial investment Protecting shareholder value of effort we had made.
The actual progress that had been How the Board monitors performance achieved on the pre-selling of our proposition and the Our Board reviews performance at Board meetings and on a development of the operational and IT infrastructure had monthly basis through a monthly management report which been encouraging.
In the circumstances, we were able to features all the key performance indicators detailed in this act swiftly and decisively, followed by a rapid winding up of Report at a summary level and at the level of each of our four our activity at minimal further cost, albeit with a total abortive main customer groups.
The primary method by which risks investment of 8.3 million.
are monitored and managed is by the monthly Executive 09 RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Signings with new home developers This year we signed three major new 81% home developers: George Wimpey, increase in new David Wilson Homes and Redrow meaning home advertising we list 18 of the top 20 developers.
10 RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Management Board, which reports to the main Board on leadership in our sector through providing the best service such matters bi-annually or as the business requires.
With to our members is the strongest form of defence.
the assistance of the Audit Committee, the Board at least Second, the extent of Rightmoves exposure to the state annually reviews the effectiveness of the internal controls.
of the UK housing market is uncertain.
Almost all our revenue comes from businesses which are themselves exposed to Uncertainties, threats and risks the state of the UK residential housing market and particularly Rightmove is in a privileged position.
We have a strong, the level of transaction volumes.
Given Rightmoves relatively healthy and growing business.
Though new, the short history and the state of the housing market during that fundamentals of our business model seem well established.
period, there is little evidence of the impact on the Company The ability for a clear market leader to emerge and extend of a significant, sustained down-turn in the UK residential that position is well established in on-line property property market.
advertising in countries such as France, Germany and the Third, the rate of adoption of our new services and the US and in other classied advertising categories for example, rate at which advertising spend switches from traditional to cars and collectibles.
Nonetheless, the position of our business and, no doubt, We believe there are limited risks relating to operational similar successful businesses, has been achieved and will be failures, to financial and legal exposures, or from onerous maintained through hard work.
In particular this is through a commercial obligations or liabilities.
The business has few dedication to provide the best service to both the members tangible assets and the major intellectual assets are tied up who pay to advertise and the home hunters who choose to in the design of our website and in our brand identity, use our website.
We believe there are three main areas of uncertainty or risk to our business.
Financial review First, we face competition from traditional media Revenue in 2006 totalled 33.6 million, an increase of 85% companies seeking to defend a threatened franchise and over 2005.
94% of our revenue came from advertising seeking to offer credible on-line services.
Indeed ownership services relating to our Rightmove.
co. uk website, with the of all the other half dozen significant property sites in the UK remaining 6% from the provision of business and information now lies exclusively in the hands of traditional media services.
Revenue grew signicantly in all segments of our companies.
To date this does not appear to have changed advertising business.
the competitive landscape in relation to our own business 2006 saw two major one-off costs.
We remain vigilant in relation to developments incurred in writing off our abortive investment in producing a but continue to subscribe to the view that showing HIP platform.
We ceased to invest in this area as a result of 11 RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Premium estate agency gains Membership wins in the premium market 31% have been significant and include Savills, increase in estate Knight Frank, Hamptons, Strutt & Parker, agency membership Jackson-Stops & Staff and Lane Fox.
12 RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 the government U-turn in July 2006.
In addition, 1.6 million Taxation 2005: 1.7 million of expenses relating directly to the The Groups consolidated effective tax rate for the six otation of the Company on the London Stock Exchange months ended 31 December 2006 is 40% 31 December in March 2006 were incurred, comprising for the main part, 2005: 39%.
The difference between this and the standard fees and expenses paid to legal and financial advisers.
rate of corporation tax of 30% is mainly due to the high level These costs are gross of any non-recoverable VAT.
of expenditure on which no tax deduction is available, There was also a step increase in our normal operating notably otation costs and share-based charges.
The costs during the latter part of 2006 due to a number of income tax expense for the year is notional for the reasons factors which included: explained below.
As a consequence, the year end cash The additional costs of operating as a public company position benefited from nil corporation tax payments in the The trebling of the size of our sales force much of which year and a refund of 2005 taxes paid.
was originally done to allow us to sell our HIP service but A significant corporate tax deduction of approximately which we decided to retain in full in order to maintain close 21.1 million arose on share options exercised in the period.
relationships with our much increased membership base An element of this tax deduction was carried back to offset and to sell our new advertising products the corporation tax liability in respect of the year ended A doubling of our technology resources to speed up our 31 December 2005 with a resulting tax refund of 1.4 million ability to create and deliver new products received in July.
The remaining tax deduction will be set A decision to increase our TV advertising expenditure to against taxable profits arising for the year ended 31 December reinforce and expand our leadership position.
2006, resulting in an overall tax loss for the year.
A deferred tax asset was created for the tax loss carried forward, which These costs were substantially reected in our cost base the directors believe will crystallise in the short term.
during the second half of 2006 which at 9.4 million was The deferred tax asset of 1.2 million was recognised signicantly higher than the 6.8 million incurred in the first half.
and a notional tax charge applied for the period ended All of these increases in activity were achieved whilst 31 December 2006 in line with the requirements of IFRS 2. strengthening overall operating margins from continuing No corporation tax is due at 31 December 2006. operations and excluding otation costs and share-based payments from 48% to 52%.
Capital reconstruction Rightmove is also in the fortunate position of being able At an Extraordinary General Meeting of the shareholders held to grow revenue rapidly without placing a burden on working on 30 October 2006, it was resolved to apply to the High capital due to the predominantly subscription-based revenue Court for permission to cancel the share premium account model.
Sales growth directly drives cash generation which is and credit the balance to distributable reserves.
The Court generally collected in advance and accounts for our low approved the cancellation in November 2006 and the Company levels of bad debts.
paid an interim dividend of 1.5p on 21 December 2006.
13 RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 New service offerings A range of new advertising services RightmoveChoice has been launched to boost the value our members get from Rightmove.
This suite of products enables advertisers to differentiate themselves from their competitors.
14 RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 The costs of carrying out this exercise, amounting to which allow our members to achieve even greater marketing approximately 50,000, were expensed in 2006. effectiveness as they convert from traditional advertising media to on-line.
Share-based payment IFRS 2 We believe there are numerous opportunities to add In accordance with IFRS 2, a non-cash charge of 2.2 million additional services and offerings.
Indeed as a business 2005: nil is included in the income statement representing we are in continuous receipt of approaches from other amortisation of the value of the share options granted since businesses who wish to partner with us to access home November 2002. movers, estate agents and developers.
We will balance these opportunities and their value to our existing members Earnings per share and home hunters against projected returns on these Earnings per ordinary share is based on profit after taxation potential investments.
and on a weighted average of 122,468,206 shares in issue during the period 2005: 118,009,573.
Underlying earnings Outlook per ordinary share based on continuing operations and before The outlook for continued growth remains strong.
There otation expenses and share option charges, was 10.45p remain many agents and developers who have yet to take 2005: 5.24p.
the Rightmove service and we are making headway in all areas.
The average amount spent on Rightmove by our Current positioning against strategic goals and advertisers typically remains a small percentage of their total opportunities marketing spend.
Our new RightmoveChoice products allow Rightmove is in excellent shape in terms of it being the us to increase the value we bring agents and developers.
place on the internet that UK home hunters go to nd all Opportunities are opening up for Rightmove to widen its the property available.
From the viewpoint of advertisers, base of advertisers and extend the service we provide to Rightmove remains a small proportion of their marketing the home hunter.
spend yet delivers results that we believe typically outperform the next best alternative marketing investment.
Accordingly, our primary focus is on completing the task in hand and increasing our membership while focusing on the value for money we provide to our members.
This Ed Williams Graham Zacharias includes the focus on the introduction of new services Director Director 15
