Rotork Annual Report & Accounts 2006 BUSINESS REVIEW innovation is crucial to its leadership position in the field.
We have a Business overview Business Review large number of repeat customers around the world but the broad Rotork is the world leader in valve actuation solutions which are used geographic spread of our operations and applications means that no extensively in oil and gas, power and water and waste water one customer accounts for more than 5% of our revenue in any year.
Beyond these important industries, our products are also used in a broad range of sectors including Business strategy shipboard control, ventilation and damper control.
We are structured The objective of Rotork p. l. c. is to increase shareholder value by around three valve actuation divisions: developing its leadership position in worldwide valve actuator activities.
The Groups activities are focused on the specialist area Rotork Electric, the original and largest activity supplying high of valve automation.
Over the years Rotork has continued to build on quality, state of the art products for controlling a wide variety of its reputation as an innovator of new concepts in this field and has pipeline and industrial valves: provided users with increasing levels of functionality, performance Rotork Fluid System, which supplies heavy-duty pneumatic and and assurance.
hydraulic valve actuators for operation in emergency shut down and other critical applications, primarily for the oil and gas Recent strategy has focused on opportunities to leverage our sectors: leadership position in heavy duty electric actuation into other closely Rotork Gears, involved in the supply of gearboxes, adaptors and associated areas of valve automation.
Key programmes relate to the ancillaries for the valve industry.
development of new products and control systems, marketing initiatives, creating service revenue opportunities and driving cost Rotork supports customers across the world mainly through direct WH Whiteley reductions relating to these businesses.
The most important current operations.
We have 13 production plants internationally and multiple Chief Executive product initiative relates to the development of our range of actuators direct sales and support operations in 22 countries.
This together aimed at the process control market, which is referred to further in with an extensive network of indirect sales offices gives coverage of the R&D section.
all our customers and markets globally.
We have around 15,000 active customers in total.
Year under review Active end user markets, a world beating product portfolio and sales The key drivers for the Groups businesses relate to global and marketing organisation resulted in a particularly strong financial investment in oil and gas, water and waste water and power performance for 2006.
In a year during which many organisations in generation installations with demand being generated by new and our industry struggled with rising raw material costs and capacity expanded capacity, upgrades to existing facilities and replacements.
constraints I am pleased to report that our flexible assembly only This is often linked to projects which are aimed at improving the philosophy of manufacture, coupled with procurement initiatives, efficiency, safety and environmental performance of plants.
Valve allowed us to handle increased levels of business and kept cost actuators are critical components and their long-term reliability and increases to a minimum.
The main assembly plant in Bath performed performance is extremely important to users.
They also act as a key particularly well, not only producing a record number of electric interface between plant control systems and related hardware.
actuators but also allowing us to meet our objective of reducing lead Rotorks reputation for quality, worldwide support and technical times for much of the electric product range.
Whilst our worldwide sourcing and assembly operations act to mitigate currency risks, Rotork is still exposed to transaction as well as translation currency impacts.
In currency terms 2006 turned out to be a year of two halves, with the benefits of a strong dollar on our earnings in the first half being more than offset by the impact of a deteriorating dollar in the latter part of the year.
The impact of the level of the US dollar against sterling is high due not only to our important North American business but also our large Asian markets Active end user markets, a world beating product portfolio in countries where currencies closely follow the US dollar.
and sales and marketing organisation resulted in a particularly strong financial performance for 2006.
Decades of innovation - the fifties a synopsis by Graham Ogden Innovation has been the cornerstone of Rotorks business strategy since the company was founded in 1957 and entrepreneurial spirit and style are embedded within its corporate DNA.
The first electric actuators component with little Rotork feature, provided a were little more than an opportunity for design uniquely suitable for assemblage of motor, differentiation.
use within hazardous areas as well as facilitating gearing and rudimentary Rotork actuators were improved sealing.
Environmental sealing was amongst the first to use oil basic and as a result motor filled gearboxes at a time This early sealing success, controls were located some when the majority were still prompted the engineers of grease filled.
Our enclosure the time to integrate the distance away from the Chris Lovegrove has been with Rotork sealing expertise ensured motor control gear within the actuator in dedicated motor control centres.
Heavy duty that the oil stayed within the basic actuator housing.
for 6 years, and is one of the people cabling ran between the actuator and the harsh Adding switches to enable actuator and the motor external environment local operation of the responsible for training operators remained on the outside.
actuator transformed the control centre accompanied to build our award winning IQ actuators, The resulting improved product from a component to by lighter gauge wires bringing back limit signals lubrication provided greater a self contained system.
In a key position in our quality assurance indicating when the end of efficiency and extended addition to simplifying the programme.
In addition Chris is part of the travel had been reached.
product life and so heralded installation by reducing the maintenance free and cabling, it enabled Rotork to Where local controls were employee forum, and the health & safety sealed for life concept which take responsibility for the required at the actuator, team.
Chris really threw himself into this further wires had to be run has become one of our basic correct operation of the valve back to the motor control design philosophies.
Our and to catalogue and market photo shoot: The fifties, what an era.
In this arrangement early use of cylindrical spigot a system rather than a joints, now a distinctive component.
the actuator was just a I just love that Teddy boy stuff!
Rotork Annual Report & Accounts 2006 BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED All of our operating divisions, namely Electrics, Fluid System and Electric Actuators Business Review continued Gears, achieved increased levels of order intake, sales revenue and Order intake for the electric business was up 14.7%, sales revenue up operating profits.
Overall order intake was up 19.0%, and sales 15.0% and operating profit up 19.8%.
As a percentage of unit actuator output was up 18.2%.
The order book increased to 76.0m which is order input the principal markets for electric actuators were: oil and 19.2% up on the start of the year.
gas 40% 37% : water 19% 24% : power 32% 31% and miscellaneous Return on sales, a key performance indicator of the business, 9% 8% with the prior years figures in brackets.
There were high increased to 22.3%.
levels of investment in oil and gas facilities around the world due to the sustained high demand for crude oil, natural gas and refined Key performance indicators Cash generation The Board use a range of financial and non financial indicators to assess The focus here is on turning the operating profit made by the Group into performance within the Group and discuss these regularly as part of our cash.
This is defined as operating profit before financing and interest analysis of operations and progress towards our strategic aims.
issues adjusted to remove non operational outflows inflows such as acquisitions, major asset sale purchases, share repurchase Rotork has a philosophy of product assembly only, with sub contract programmes, dividends etc.
The last two years have seen: manufacture of components.
We prefer to focus attention on what we 06 102% regard as the high value added activities of design, marketing and 05 101% management control.
As such our approach to measuring performance 04 86% is orientated toward the development and profitability of our products, a desire for a high return on capital, and strong cash generation.
It can be seen from the statistics shown here that we have produced consistent Return on capital employed improvements in performance over the period of the review.
This is profit before tax as a percentage of capital employed.
Capital employed is defined as shareholders funds less net cash held and the The top key performance indicators used by Rotork are: pension deficit net of related deferred tax.
Sales revenue growth 06 69% Profit to sales ratio 05 54% Cash generation 04 53% Return on capital employed EPS growth Waste recycling EPS growth Earnings per share EPS reflects all aspects of the income statement Sales revenue growth including management of the Groups tax rate.
We aim to increase EPS We aim for growth in sales revenue year on year and have seen strong each year.
double digit growth for the last two years: 06 27.3% 06 05 18.2% 16.7% 05 04 19.0% 5.2% 04 8.0% Waste recycling Profit to sales ratio We have an active programme of reducing our environmental footprint This is calculated as profit before tax after financing and interest which is being rolled out across the jurisdictions in which we operate.
shown as a percentage of sales revenue.
Our overall aim is for This KPI measures the proportion of total waste produced which is continuous improvement over time, notwithstanding the impact of recycled.
We are seeing improvements in this measure which has a currency.
The current years performance and comparative is: positive environmental impact, and reduces cost in the businesses.
06 06 22.3% 46% 05 05 38% 21.0% 04 21.4% Andy Garnett, later to become sales director, set off in his Morris Minor to France and his trip led to one of the companies largest ever orders for 1000 actuators from the French Atomic Energy Authority and subsequently the establishment of Rotorks first service company in France.
Decades of innovation - the sixties By the early 1960s we had added a self contained As part of her duties as p. a. to the terminal enclosure that enabled on site installation Chief Executive and Group Finance Director without compromising the internally mounted Susie Newell is no stranger to publicity control gear.
With the terminal cover removed this and was very pleased to have the compartment was still sealed from the control gear opportunity to be involved in the photo within and the phrase double sealing was coined.
This feature rapidly became another Rotork design shoot.
I was a bit surprised principle and has now become a fide-facto standard to be asked to represent the amongst premium actuators.
swinging sixties, but it was an era that I loved, and I am With the ability to package electromechanical controls in harsh very pleased with the result.
environments now proven, their complexity increased with interlocks and special purpose controls were included on a regular basis.
At this stage most electric actuators used 3-phase induction motors to provide the motive power, the direction of rotation being determined by reversing the phase sequence of the electrical supply.
One of the most frequent causes of damage to a valve during commissioning was connecting the electrical supply with the incorrect rotation such that the actuator operated in the wrong direction when commanded to move.
This problem was eliminated when Rotork introduced a phase rotation detection device that prevented operation if the actuator was incorrectly connected to the supply.
Decades of innovation - the seventies The origins of our current non-intrusive Ian Elliot is a Sales actuators can be traced back to the 1970s Engineer for the Exeeco with the development of technology for a Actuation Products and universally adaptable actuator.
Prototype Service division based in devices were produced providing adjustable Leeds.
He has been with speed and electronic torque control with adjustment possible through the terminal the company for 29 compartment.
A counter style years starting as an switch mechanism enabled even apprentice Actuator the end of travel position limits Technician in 1978.
He to be adjusted without access sings and plays guitar in to the main enclosure.
his spare time and has been known to do a song or two at company parties.
"Ian stated ""I found the photo shoot great fun, especially the wig, one of the assistants lent me a guitar and that made me feel at ease!"
"- it was a lot more exciting than climbing round a power station boiler. """
BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED Rotork Annual Report & Accounts 2006 09. products.
In addition to upstream investment there was also an valvemakers were active in worldwide energy projects, in particular Business Review continued increase in units going into downstream facilities.
It is in these areas, Italian valvemakers had very high levels of business from the Middle i. e. refinery offsites, storage and distribution, that the majority of our East.
In addition to this there was an increase in motorisation electric actuators are used within this sector.
Particularly high levels projects on existing refineries, tank farms and other oil and gas of activity were seen in the Middle East.
The construction of new LNG installations within their domestic markets.
Liquefied Natural Gas facilities has also led to increased demand for our products in recent years.
Within the power sector, our Our new Russian company had a successful first years trading.
After a actuators are used extensively in coal, oil, combined cycle gas and slow start to the year a number of projects were won in the second half.
China and India again dominated the demand within this sector with the increase in business in India being The Americas particularly evident.
The water market, where we supply actuators for Rotork Controls Inc, which is based in Rochester, N. Y. continued to both potable and waste water treatment plants, was also active with build its successful business with sales and profits well up on the increased levels of business in the important North American and UK prior year, despite the weakening US dollar.
Again the main driver for markets.
However the total number of actuators going into this the business was its success in the municipal market.
However there market was down due to an unusually large Asian order won in 2005. was an increased level of business activity in the oil and gas market, in particular in the second half of the year.
The company put UK Operations additional resources into positioning itself for new investment in We saw a good performance from the UK market which accounted for power generation.
The improving power market has also helped our 9% of electric actuator unit input for the year up from 8% in 2005.
Milwaukee based operation, which manufactures modulating Strong demand from the water companies who were focused on actuators, to increase sales.
A new sales operation is being set up in achieving their AMP 4 targets was coupled with high levels of Brazil to complement existing sales channels.
Order input in units investment from existing coal fired power plants which required destined for the Americas was 17% 19% of the total.
The number of actuators to assist in reducing emissions and increasing the units destined for Latin America was down on the prior year.
The Far East and The Rest of the World Order intake for the electric The Bath plant, which is our main electric actuator assembly unit, A traditional strength of Rotork is its reputation in and coverage of responded to the challenge of demand levels which were well Asia and in the year under review the Far East accounted for 49% by business was up 14.7%, sales above forecast levels.
It was of considerable credit to production destination of our electric actuators against 50% in the prior year.
management and our supply chain that we were able to reduce The Group has been a beneficiary of the growth in the region which revenue up 15.0% and operating delivery times in this environment.
The year was also notable for has required very substantial infrastructure investment in power steep increases in the price of some important raw materials, such generation, oil and gas production, processing and distribution and profit up 19.8%.
There were high as aluminium, copper and zinc.
I am pleased to report that the water and waste water plants and facilities.
Business in China impact of these increases was, to a large extent, offset by savings continued to be very buoyant and even exceeded the exceptional levels of investment in oil and gas coming online during the year due to either sourcing initiatives or levels recorded in 2005.
Demand for actuators for power plant value engineering exercises.
Indications at the start of the current applications remains the dominant driver but increasingly we are facilities around the world due year are that prices of many materials are softening, which should involved in oil and gas projects throughout the country.
A major release pressure on some components.
In addition further cost milestone in the year was the opening of our new assembly plant in to the sustained high demand saving measures are planned to come on stream during 2007.
Shanghai at which we commenced production of electric actuators on for crude oil, natural gas and schedule in the third quarter of the year.
Most of our European sales companies had reported improving The Indian market is also a very important one for the Company and activity levels in late 2005, which led us to higher expectations for one in which we have well established assembly plants in Chennai 2006.
These expectations were largely met with higher sales and and Bangalore.
High levels of demand from both the power market profits being generated in most companies with particularly strong and new oil and gas investments led to large increases in both our results from Italy.
Input accounted for 13% of the total electric direct Indian business and business won through international OEMs.
actuator unit input by destination compared with 15% in 2005.
There were two different elements to their growth.
Rotork Annual Report & Accounts 2006 BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED Our other Asian companies performed well with further good Further development of the management structure of this business Business Review continued progress from our Malaysian manufacturing plant.
Elsewhere our has been completed, providing a platform for further growth.
Growth Australian business had a particularly strong performance while our was achieved in 2006 without the assistance of any dominant project.
South Africa company made a loss due to problems encountered in Instead the business focused on the large number of substantial the prior year.
The second half of the year gave encouragement that opportunities in oil and gas production and transmission particularly these issues are behind us.
The Middle East was a very active region in 2006 due to the The main plant in Lucca in Italy again performed very well.
The momentum of large oil and gas investments.
Actuators destined for division was also assisted by improved performances from the the Middle East and Africa increased to 12% from 8% of the total.
German and US production facilities.
This business relies on the sales and packaging of its products through our own centres of Service and Support excellence CoE.
We are expanding the number of these facilities, Although our actuators have a deserved reputation for reliability we mainly based upon our overseas sales and support companies.
Good have always recognised the value of having a worldwide service and first time performances were seen from Korea, Japan and Venezuela, support organisation.
in addition to enhanced growth in France, Spain, Canada and Singapore.
Only the Australian CoE had a disappointing year.
Having sold product into the field for 50 years there is a large population of actuators, some of which have been in operation for Rotork Gears Division decades.
A key strategy of the Company in recent years has been to Rotork Gears manufactures gearboxes, adaptors and other ancillary develop a more comprehensive service and through life support devices for industrial valvemakers worldwide.
Revenues from these activities have increased significantly similar dynamics as the electrics and fluid power businesses but in recent years to a point where we felt it was appropriate to bring serves a wider variety of end user industries through its valvemaker these activities under the leadership of a new Service, Projects and customers.
2006 was particularly active for our UK service operations based in Bath and Leeds.
Water and power companies We benefited from an active market and an expanding infrastructure were increasing their spend on efficiency and pollution and which allowed Gears to win some significant new business.
Order emissions control programmes, which involve the design and intake for the year was up 40.1% 20.6% while output was up 27.4% installation of actuation systems.
The figures in brackets exclude the acquisition of Omag Srl which became Rotork Gears Srl Rotork Fluid System Division after purchase at the start of the year.
Rotork Fluid System design, assemble and market heavy-duty fluid power valve actuators which are operated either pneumatically or 2006 was an important year for Gears during which we achieved a hydraulically.
The main markets served by our product ranges are oil smooth management transition following the retirement of the and gas related and unlike the electric actuators the bulk of these divisional managing director, the successful integration of the Italian products are destined for upstream applications, transmission and acquisition and the commencement of Chinese assembly of LNG plants and terminals.
These areas are benefiting from increased gearboxes in the new Shanghai plant.
Rotork Gears Srl exceeded our investment by most of the international oil and gas companies.
The expectations and had a successful year serving an active valve principal assembly plant is based in Lucca, Italy, with product also market in Italy.
It not only helped embed us in this important market, assembled in Rochester N. Y. and at Melle in Germany.
but extended our product range and capabilities especially for very large valves.
This business is closing in on its objective of accounting for 20% of total Group turnover reaching 19.6% up from 18.5% in 2005.
Order The Leeds and Dutch plants both performed well while further input was 46.1m which was up 26.2%, while output increased by progress was made in expanding the sales base in the US where a 25.3%.
Operating profit was up 46.5% which meant return on sales number of important new contracts were won.
The loss incurred at increased from 11.4% to 13.3%.
This represents good progress the Shanghai plant was due to start up costs but the benefits of this towards meeting the objective of a 15% return on sales, especially in initiative should be evident in 2007 and beyond.
During the year Gears a year in which movement of the euro dollar exchange rate reduced strengthened their engineering capability in order to develop new the profitability of goods with a euro cost sold in US dollars.
product ranges and focus on cost reduction exercises and niche RFS revenue m 40.5 32.3 23.8 04 05 06 The Rotork Fluid System business is closing in on its objective of accounting for 20% of total Group turnover reaching 19.6% up from 18.5% in 2005.
Rotork Gears benefited from an active market and an expanding infrastructure which allowed them to win some significant new business.
Decades of innovation - the eighties The early 1980s saw the move away from simple electro-mechanical controls through the introduction of low cost, low power CMOS electronics robust enough to survive the environmental extremes experienced by the typical actuator.
They brought with them the completely re-wiring the the third generation derivative opportunity to design an all controls.
The introduction of introduced this year.
purpose valve actuator diagnostic features to indicate controller that could replace the availability of the actuator Within a decade the drive the many variants that then meant that the number of for simplicity and existed and enhance valve connections between the reliability saw the protection further, whilst at control room and the actuator first generation the same time improving had increased over time.
The actuator on a chip manufacturing efficiency.
cost of these connections when Rotork coupled with the widespread introduced an Earlier features such as the availability of microprocessors Application Specific phase rotation detector were meant that by the mid-1980s Integrated Circuit enhanced so that they would serial data control was ASIC that replaced correct the phase sequence possible.
Rotork led the way a complete instead of simply preventing with the introduction of its electronic assembly operation.
Changes to the Pakscan two wire system.
This was required control strategy now advanced was this such a successful device that became a matter of flicking a communications technology it is still in use today in many few switches rather than that it is still at the heart of of Rotorks actuators.
Vanessa Li is a graduate trainee working in the UK, holding degrees from both Chinese and British Universities.
She is studying Accountancy while working in the Bath Finance department.
This was an interesting experience for me, and I wasnt quite sure about the imagery when I first saw it, but it was great fun, and the results look excellent.
Decades of innovationthe nineties In the 1990s Rotork introduced the Worlds first non-intrusive actuator.
A patented method of processing motor signals enabled the actuator torque to be calculated electronically and combined with position data derived from a magnetic encoder.
Until then actuator torque ergonomics and appearance.
Shelley Pike is part of the had been measured using The result was a distinctive design engineering team at mechanisms that needed market leading product that manual adjustment for has transformed the breadth Rotork Controls in Bath.
She calibration and to match the of functionality available to valve seating requirements.
joined Rotork at 16 as part of the apprentice training Combining this with It was becoming clear that as electronic position sensing subsea oil completions programme.
Having completed halved the mechanical became further distanced complexity of the actuator from their parent platforms her university course she now and allowed it to be adjusted there would be a need for works on the design of using a hand held infra-red electric actuation to replace device.
Recognising that the the existing hydraulic actuator communication future lay in obtaining solutions.
The characteristic diagnostic information, the of this application is that the systems and is part of the communications interface actuators need to be failsafe conceptual thinking of how was made bi-directional such that they will close the enabling data to be extracted valve in the event of an actuators will behave from the actuator and Rotork emergency.
As a solution to was awarded a further patent this problem Rotork in the 21st century.
When I covering electromagnetic engineers designed and was asked if I wanted to be data transfer to actuators.
patented a differential drive Maintenance free and sealed mechanism with a simple part of this report & for life had finally become a clutch that enabled the reality.
The IQ generation of substantial spring thrust to accounts I thought well actuators was born.
For the be held at bay with only why not and you know, I first time, in addition to its minimal electrical power.
function, the form of the Ten years on this concept is really enjoyed it.
actuator was given equal still generating interest consideration with industrial amongst companies engaged designers considering in sub-sea systems.
BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED Rotork Annual Report & Accounts 2006 13. market opportunities such as subsea gearboxes where we have seen 2006 2006 2006 2005 Business Review continued increased demand.
H1 H2 Total Total m m m m Dividends Rotork is cash generative, and aims to return funds to shareholders Operating profit as reported 22.0 23.1 45.1 36.5 where they are not required for reinvesting in the business in the Translation impact 0.4 0.8 0.4 immediately foreseeable future.
The Board aims for total dividend Transaction impact 0.6 1.0 0.4 distribution to be generally in line with increases in earnings per Operating profit at 2005 rates 21.0 24.9 45.9 36.5 share.
In recent years cash generation has been strong and it has therefore been possible to make dividend increases significantly So overall we believe that profit for the year would have been beyond increases in earnings per share.
We have referred to core approximately 0.8m higher if 2005 exchange rates had prevailed.
and additional dividend to address the concept of a growing basic The increase in operating profit, reported as 23.6%, would have annual dividend stream that could be considered supportable in the shown an increase of 25.7% at constant currency.
The biggest mover medium term as a base for future increases, and then further in the period was the US$.
The average rate for the first half of 2006 additional dividend that represents the distribution of excess cash.
was $1.80 and for the second half $1.89.
As we go into 2007, the For the current year the directors propose a final dividend of 11.65p dollar rate seems settled at a rate weaker than the second half payable on 11 May to shareholders on the register on 20 April.
This average, meaning that the currency backdrop overall is likely to be represents an increase of 17.7% over the prior year final dividend and less benign in 2007 than 2006. brings the total core dividend for 2006 to 18.15p, 14.9% increase year on year.
Furthermore, recognising the strong cash balances at the Over the last few years, our weighted average rates for translation of year end, we are proposing an additional dividend of 9.30p 8 million our two main trading currencies have been: in total to be paid on 22 June to shareholders on the register on 1 June 2007.
US dollar Euro 2002 1.52 1.58 Treasury 2003 1.66 1.44 We have seen the overall level of working capital increase as the 2004 1.83 1.46 business has grown in the year.
In relative terms our receivables 2005 1.80 1.46 management has been good and inventory management is generally 2006 1.84 1.47 improving, with the increased level of work in progress reflecting the order book at the end of the year and anticipating shipments in early Research & development 2007.
Cash generation has been very positive in the year with 102% of Work has continued through 2006 on our flagship IQ series of operating profits converted into cash.
The increased flexibility of the new series controller has enabled us to roll out updates that have both extended the Rotork is affected by movements in world currencies as can be seen functionality and at the same time facilitated yet more cost by the profile of our income streams, but our increased focus on reductions.
Further updates are planned for the coming year.
worldwide procurement, to support our historic success at worldwide The quarter turn derivative, IQT, has undergone some preliminary marketing, has enabled us to deflect some of the more punitive development to enhance its suitability for naval applications which impacts of currency swings.
The deterioration in our main non are considered a potential growth area for the product.
We are also sterling traded currencies the US dollar and the euro in the in the final stages of development of more options to qualify the second half of the year undoubtedly impacted profits as UK produced product for use within safety instrumented systems.
This latter goods became more expensive for overseas customers to buy, and development will assist our end users in meeting increased also in terms of translation of foreign earned profits into sterling.
Currently we estimate that 30% of our income streams are denominated in US dollar and dollar influenced currencies, and 30% Extensive efforts have been focused on the proprietary Pakscan in euro.
The impact of currency in the two halves, and the year as a networking system with the development of a new master station whole, can best be seen by converting the results back to constant product.
This product was launched at the end of 2006 and first currency: adjusting the 2006 results to the effective rates that we had shipments are expected in early 2007.
In addition to being compatible in 2005. with the earlier series, the integration of embedded web server Rotork is cash generative, and aims to return funds to shareholders where they are not required for reinvesting in the business immediately.
For the current year the directors propose a final dividend of 11.65p and recognising the strong cash balances at the year end, an additional dividend of 9.30p as a distribution of excess cash.
Rotork Annual Report & Accounts 2006 BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED technology will enable remote monitoring and diagnosis.
SQA and systems specialists from the Bath QA Business Review continued take place in 2007 to extend the scope of this new platform including Team, alongside key staff from other departments, visit periodically assessment of other network and wireless technology.
to guide their implementation of World Class methods and processes.
A key ingredient in this approach is establishing overseas During 2006 we have also concentrated on refining and evaluating supply chains, providing components to the local Rotork sites and proposals for the process control market.
In what is a major offering the additional benefit of cost effective component supplies to programme for the Company these concepts will be developed the Bath factory.
further with the intention of bringing a product range to market in 2008.
Additionally the Jordan product, which is aimed at positioning Environment Rotork community duty applications, was enhanced with new communication The Environment Management System EMS at the main Bath site is As we enter our 50th year since the Company was first incorporated capabilities and the development of smart actuators for specific independently verified as compliant with ISO14001:2004.
The EMS it is important to thank not only our existing employees, who have customers.
was developed to identify, manage and reduce operational impacts on been instrumental in achieving such strong growth in recent years, the environment as well as maintaining compliance with new and but to also acknowledge the huge debt Rotork has to everyone who RFS has continued to enhance and broaden its extensive product existing environmental legislation.
The Environment Agency audited has been associated with it and who has made such an impact on ranges.
During the year it introduced new high pressure technology the waste management systems and pollution prevention procedures the organisation since its inception.
When I joined Rotork over 30 to its gas pipeline products and also added new products for niche in operation at the Bath site in September 2006 and no improvements years ago from a leading British manufacturer I was immediately applications.
notes or recommendations were raised.
aware of a special culture our founder Jeremy Fry had instilled in the Company which has driven the Company to become the world leader Rotork was the winner of a prestigious 2006 Innovation and Design The achievements made and knowledge gained in developing the EMS it is today.
It is now our task to make sure that as we further develop Excellence Award, a competition for UK companies organised by at the Bath site is being used to bring all of Rotork manufacturing the business we retain the customer focus, the drive for innovation Cranfield University School of Management and Findlay Publications sites environmental systems in line with Bath.
Initial results are very and the commitment to emerging markets that have been the Ltd. in association with Scientific Generics which recognises encouraging showing an increase in waste recycled as a proportion of hallmark of our success.
The key items recycled are wood, cardboard and plastics.
Waste reduction has been improved Quality through a policy of working with suppliers to ensure only recyclable Throughout its 50 year history, Rotork has prized and cultivated its or reusable packaging materials are used in component shipments.
reputation in the market place for product quality and reliability.
Waste recycling is one of the Companys key objectives.
When Lloyds Register Quality Assurance conducted their regular surveillance visit in August 2006, they audited Rotorks UK site While exempt from the specific provisions of the WEEE and RoHS service operation against the requirements of ISO9001:2000.
This directives, Rotork is making every effort to reduce the environmental included a customer site visit and the auditor subsequently wrote in impact of its products.
Wherever possible new product components Bill Whiteley his formal visit report: The customer representative on site reported are marked with the appropriate standard EU recycling marks or Chief Executive high levels of satisfaction with the quality and reliability of Rotork labels.
Information has also been included in product handbooks 27 February 2007 actuators, and the standard of installation and maintenance services regarding the materials the units contain and any specific advice provided.
This was a very welcome confirmation of Rotorks relating to their disposal.
commitment to meeting customers expectations.
Rotork remains committed to meeting the requirements for Other external quality assurance auditors visiting the main continued inclusion in the FTSE4Good Index and is very conscious manufacturing site in Bath have also been complimentary about of the need for improved awareness of environmental issues and the Rotorks understanding and commitment to product excellence.
One need to minimise the Groups environmental impact.
Our 2006 noted that: Suppliers appear to be subject to a particularly good level of Environmental Report published on the Rotork website shows the monitoring and control.
This confirmed another key aspect of Rotorks improvements made in the Groups reporting of environmental strategy: Quality Assured component supply chains.
In that report the number of subsidiaries Quality Assurance SQA Team works closely with suppliers across reporting their environmental data increased from 7 to 29.
The next the globe, from product inception onwards, to ensure that report will include data from sites included in recent acquisitions.
components meet Rotorks stringent requirements.
Details of Rotorks global environmental performance are published in the Rotork Environmental Report on the Rotork website at As Rotork expands its global operations, great emphasis is placed on www.
the rapid transfer of knowledge and core principles to the new 15.
Decades of innovation - the noughties In 2001 Rotork launched its second generation of non-intrusive IQ actuators.
These employed system on chip technology where all functionality was integrated onto @ a single piece of silicon, with improved torque measurement and datalogging.
In 2003 this technology was successfully introduced into the quarter turn actuator, something which had been difficult to achieve with the previous generation technology.
Throughout this period language modules can be the conditions anywhere an Rotorks first 50 years has Rotork had been actively updated non-intrusively actuator is required to seen many changes as new engaged in simplifying the using web downloads.
technologies have been installation of its products, introduced.
The culture of facilitating their control and Reliability is critical to Rotork was the recipient of innovation in Rotork that has the feedback of information.
Any a Queens Award for brought us to the position of In addition to the market advance introduced must be Enterprise Innovation for world leader in actuation leading Pakscan tested rigorously under all its non-intrusive actuator, solutions is every bit as alive communications system, operating extremes from and the IQT product as we go into the next 50 a wide variety of other arctic to desert conditions development was rewarded years, as it was in the last.
industrial networks is and even whilst temporarily in 2006 with an Innovation offered.
For the latest series submersed.
Rotorks and Design Excellence of IQ actuators even the laboratory in Bath has Award for Business to control software and equipment able to simulate Business Innovation.
This is my decade really, and I relate to the imagery.
Dave Godfrey, formerly an apprentice with Rotork and apprentice of the year for the whole of the South West region in both his 2nd and 3rd years is part of the International Sales team for the Electric Actuator business, Its a great company to work for and getting involved in things like this is typical of the way Rotork involves people in the organisation at all levels.
