Business review Organic growth in lager volumes % 5 4 3 2 1 04 05 06 Malcolm Wyman, Chief Financial Officer Delivering strong performance A key characteristic of the group, which 12 months results of acquisitions and differentiates us from our competitors is investments and the last 12 months results our balanced portfolio of businesses, with of disposals.
Constant currency results have exposure to both developing and developed been determined by translating the local markets.
This has been enhanced by our currency denominated results for the year transaction with Bavaria, which established ended 31 March 2006 at the exchange a major new platform in South America.
rates for the comparable period in the Volume growth is one of the key drivers of prior year.
References to EBITA are on the groups results, together with growth in a reported basis including the impact of revenue, EBITA, and EBITA margin.
acquisitions and currency movements Performance information on our and on a pre-exceptional basis unless business results is set out in the review of otherwise stated.
operations, and the disclosures accord with the manner in which the group is managed.
Volumes SABMiller believes that the reported EBITA The chart above highlights SABMillers organic profit measures provide additional growth in lager volumes for each of the information on trends to shareholders and last three years.
It is pleasing to note that allow for greater comparability between the groups growth over the three years segments.
Segmental performance is exceeds the growth rate of the global beer reported after the specific apportionment industry.
This years results demonstrate of attributable head office service costs.
the fundamental operating strength of our business.
Our recent volume increases reflect Organic, constant currency the access that the groups businesses have comparisons to growth markets, and the benefit of share The group has made selected disclosures of gains in most of our key countries.
Total its results on an organic, constant currency beverage volumes, including carbonated basis, to analyse the effects of acquisitions soft drink CSD volumes, were up by 5% on and investments net of disposals and an organic basis, and 18% above last year changes in exchange rates on the groups on a reported basis at 221 million hectolitres.
Organic results exclude the first Lager volumes at 176 million hectolitres 21 Business review Organic constant currency group % Growth in EBITA reflects the benefits of volume and revenue increases, as well 8 as improved cost efficiency.
The group 6 has a record of improving cost efficiency 4 over time, notwithstanding increases in 2 capital investment and in sales and marketing expenses.
04 05 06 grew by 5% on an organic basis and 19% the organic growth in group revenue for Organic constant currency EBITA % on a reported basis, reflecting volume each of the last three years, with each growth and share gains in several of our years performance being shown in most important markets.
We saw particularly constant currency.
25 strong lager volume growth from Europe, Group revenue, including share of and Africa and Asia.
associates, was reported as US$17,081 20 Europe delivered another excellent million, and this represents an increase of performance in the year, with lager volumes 6% on an organic, constant currency basis 15 up by 5% on an organic basis, and this driven by the 5% growth in volumes and increase was driven principally by Poland, a 1% improvement in price mix.
This net 10 Romania and Russia.
Africa and Asia benefit of 1% from price mix improvements continued its robust volume growth, and our reflects gains in North America, Europe and 5 associate CR Snow in China maintained its South Africa, offset to an extent by adverse excellent recent performance with volumes mix impacts from Asia revenue growth at up 17% for the year on an organic basis.
In prices below the group average.
The impact 04 05 06 Africa, reported lager volume performance of currency movements during the year was 3%, with strong underlying growth in reduced reported revenue by 1%.
The Tanzania, Uganda and Mozambique whilst the transactions completed in the financial continuing devaluation of the pula negatively year in India and South America increased include the new 660 ml packs for Miller impacted lager volumes in Botswana.
reported revenue by almost 13%, and these Genuine Draft and Brutal Fruit, grew by South Africa recorded a subdued are expected to be strong revenue 45% and our share of the premium segment volume performance relative to the 4% contributors in future years.
increased to almost 80%, whilst total soft growth in each of the prior two years, drinks volumes grew by 5%.
This positive although the expansion of our premium EBITA sales volume performance, combined with brand offering improved mix.
In North EBITA is defined as operating profit before the favourable mix benefits afforded by America, Miller experienced an industry exceptional items and amortisation of the growth of our premium portfolio, pricing environment that has deteriorated intangible assets excluding software but contributed to a good increase in over the past 12 months, following includes the groups share of associates constant currency EBITA.
Within this operating profit, on a similar basis.
EBITA Since the completion of the Bavaria context, Miller maintained firmer year-ongrew 9% on an organic, constant currency transaction in South America, this business year pricing than its domestic competitors basis, and reported EBITA, which includes has performed in line with our expectations, to protect its brand equity, whilst volumes the impact of currency movements and of whilst in Central America EBITA was reduced relative to the prior year.
acquisitions, grew by 23% to US$2,941 adversely impacted by the lager volume The South America business has million.
Growth in EBITA reflects the benefits reduction referred to above.
In North performed in line with our expectations of volume and revenue increases, as well America, the decline in EBITA reflects at the time of the transaction, with lager as improved cost efficiency.
The group an industry pricing environment that has volumes for a pro forma six months to has a record of improving cost efficiency deteriorated over the past 12 months 31 March 2006 up 7.5% from the over time, notwithstanding increases in following sustained levels of discounting, comparable period, to 15.3 million capital investment and in sales and together with higher input costs.
In Central America, CSD marketing expenses.
Overall, the groups 2006 results volumes were 6% above the prior year but Europe delivered another excellent demonstrate SABMillers superior growth lager volumes continued to be adversely performance, with a double digit profile and exposure to attractive beer and impacted by last years significant increase improvement in EBITA driven by volume, soft drinks markets.
After two years of in excise tax in El Salvador.
Similarly, Africa outstanding results, we have completed and Asia delivered a double-digit increase in another 12 months of good performance Revenue EBITA, driven by volume and pricing gains with the group also continuing to access Our revenue growth reflects the groups in China, together with improvements in and develop new long-term growth success in growing volumes, together with productivity in most African countries.
positions in the global beer market.
The increases in list prices of our products, and In South Africa, lager and soft drinks chart above shows the organic increase in improvements in the mix of products sold continued their positive volume growth EBITA for each of the last three years, with such that a higher average sales price trends, despite the absence of an Easter each years performance being shown in resulted.
The adjacent chart illustrates period.
Our premium brands, which constant currency.
22 SABMiller has continued to enter new EBITA margin performance organic constant currency basis % markets to strengthen further its existing positions through additional acquisitions and investments, and these transactions 30 have contributed to an increase in reported EBITA.
During the period we purchased 25 our partners interests in Shaw Wallace 20 Breweries in India: announced our first move into Vietnam: completed our 15 agreement in Slovakia to buy into the 10 brewer, Topvar a. s. Topvar : and completed a number of minor acquisitions through our 5 Chinese associate.
Following its entry into South America in October 2005, the group has carried out further purchases of shares in Bavaria S. A. Bavaria in Colombia, and Unin fide Cerveceras Peruanas Backus y Johnston S. A.
The group has also increased its investment in Latin America by acquiring the minorities in 2005 2006 Central America.
In the UK, we launched a new operating company called Miller Brands to manage the sales, marketing and distribution of our key international premium brands in the UK market.
gains have once again improved margin.
Further details on the treatment of these The chart below illustrates how the Whilst the Africa and Asia margin has items can be found in note 4 to the financial group has changed between 2004 and improved on an organic constant currency statements.
Exceptional charges of US$15 2006, with 2006 based on a pro forma basis, the reported margin has been million incurred during the year relate to management estimate of a full calendar affected by the increasing proportion of the integration costs associated with Bavaria years EBITA contribution from Bavaria lower margin, high-growth Asia operations and further exceptional costs are expected to 31 December 2005.
We now have a within the business, which has had the to be incurred during 2007. widespread portfolio of developed and impact of reducing the aggregate margin.
In the prior period, an exceptional profit developing market operations which offer In addition, the economic downturn in of US$415 million was included within us access to two broad sources of value, Botswana and Zimbabwe has reduced operating profit.
This included a US$252 developing markets where lager volumes are overall margins.
million profit on the disposal of the groups increasing, and through consumers trading North America margin was reduced by 21% investment in Edgars Consolidated up within the beer category.
70 bps, impacted by the pricing actions in Stores Ltd Edcon, a US$104 million gain in the market place and higher commodity and relation to changes to post-retirement plans EBITA margin energy prices.
The Latin America business North America, a US$103 million profit on A key strength of the group is our ability to incorporates Central America, where our the disposal of the groups 29.4% stake in drive continued margin enhancement, and it units have been impacted by aggressive Harbin Brewery Group Limited Harbin, is pleasing to record that the groups EBITA price-based competition and excise partly offset by US$35 million of brewery margin increased once again, by 50 basis increases, and South America, which is closure costs in Italy and US$16 million of points bps from 16.4% to 16.9% on an included for the period from the date of restructuring costs in the Canary Islands.
In organic constant currency basis.
On a reported basis, addition there was a net exceptional profit Our South Africa Beverages business the groups EBITA margin at 17.2% has within the share of post-tax results of improved EBITA margin by 140 bps to been enhanced by the inclusion of Bavaria associates of US$7 million.
25.3%, reflecting volume growth in both which has an aggregate EBITA margin lager and soft drinks categories supported higher than the average for the group.
Finance costs and tax by price increases and favourable mix Net finance costs increased to US$299 benefits, as well as lower commodity prices Exceptional items million, a 109% growth on prior year finance and an ongoing focus on cost productivity.
Items that are material either by size or costs of US$143 million.
This follows an In Europe, revenue growth and productivity incidence are classified as exceptional items.
increase in net debt, primarily due to the EBITA contribution by segment % 2004 2006 North America 14 Latin America 4 North America 22 Latin America 22 Europe 19 Hotels and Gaming 3 Hotels and Gaming 3 Europe 16 Africa and Asia 16 South Africa Beverages 32 South Africa Beverages 36 Africa and Asia 13 Approximate percentages, excluding corporate and exceptional items.
Includes management estimate for Bavaria pro forma 2006 EBITA, based on the 2005 calendar year.
23 North America Central America Europe Africa Asia SA Beverages Hotels and Gaming Group Business review transaction with Bavaria.
Interest cover, basic earnings to adjusted earnings is Adjusted EPS and dividend US cents based on pre-exceptional profit before shown in note 8 to the financial statements.
interest and tax, has reduced to 9.2 times The groups profit before tax reduced Adjusted EPS from 14.2 times in the prior year.
by 4% to US$2,453 million, reflecting the Dividends per share 120 The effective tax rate, before constituent changes referred to above, 100 amortisation of intangible assets excluding particularly the exceptional profit of software and exceptional items was 33.6%, US$422 million that was included within 80 down from the prior year before a charge in profit before tax in the prior year.
60 2005 for South African secondary tax on companies STC on non-recurring dividends Dividends 40 following a restructuring of the groups The board has proposed a final dividend of 20 holdings in South Africa.
This reduction 31.0 US cents making a total of 44.0 US reflects a different geographic mix of profits cents per share for the year, an increase of 02 03 04 05 06 across the group together with benefits from 16% on prior year.
This would represent a adjustments in respect of prior years and dividend cover of 2.5 times based on 2002 to 2004 based on UK GAAP: 2005 and 2006 based on IFRS improved tax efficiencies.
adjusted diluted earnings per share, as Based on comparable adjusted EPS described above 2005: 2.6 times.
Details Currency regarding payment dates and related The results reported by the group are matters are disclosed in the directors affected by currency movements.
This facility can be financial year, whilst the South African rand extended at the groups election for a term was relatively stable against the US dollar Financial structure of a further year.
On 12 December 2005 the and ended the financial year at R6.20 to the Gross debt, comprising borrowings of the group also entered into a US$2,000 million US dollar, the weighted average rand dollar group together with the fair value of five-year syndicated revolving credit facility, rate deteriorated by 3% to R6.41 compared derivative assets or liabilities held to manage and this facility can be extended at the first with R6.22 in the prior year.
The Colombian interest rate and foreign currency risk of anniversary of signing by a year and at the peso has stayed largely level against the US borrowings, has increased to US$7,755 second anniversary for a further year subject dollar since the Bavaria transaction, ending million from US$3,353 million at 1 April to the agreement of the group and the the financial year at COP2,292 to the US 2005 as restated for the adoption of lenders.
The US$3,500 million facility was dollar, against COP2,300 at the time of the International Financial Reporting Standards reduced to US$2,400 million concurrent transaction.
Currencies in central Europe IFRS reflecting the additional debt in the with the signing of this agreement.
strengthened against the US dollar and Bavaria group as well as the funding of Our strong financial structure provides this has contributed to the improvement payments to minority shareholders as us with adequate resources to facilitate in reported results.
detailed in the balance sheet profile below.
ongoing business and with medium-term Net debt, comprising gross debt net of flexibility to assess investments in Earnings cash and cash equivalents and the loan appropriate growth opportunities, and also The group presents adjusted basic earnings participation deposit, has increased to to manage the balance sheet.
per share to exclude the impact of US$7,087 million from US$2,210 million at amortisation of intangible assets excluding 1 April 2005 restated.
The groups gearing Balance sheet profile software and other non-recurring items, presented as a ratio of debt equity has As outlined above, the group has continued which include post-tax exceptional items, increased to 52.1% from 25.2% restated to enter new markets to strengthen further in order to provide additional information on at 1 April 2005. its existing positions through additional trends to shareholders and allow further The group previously had US dollar and acquisitions and investments.
Details of comparison for the years shown in the sterling private placement notes in issue these transactions, which have significantly consolidated financial statements.
Adjusted with final maturity in 2008.
As part of the altered the balance sheet profile of the earnings increased by 22% to US$1,497 refinancing for the Bavaria transaction, group, are given in note 26 to the financial million and the weighted average number of notice was given to repay all of these notes statements.
basic shares in issue for the year was 1,372 in accordance with their terms, with Total assets increased to US$26,776 million, up from last years 1,212 million, repayment on 22 September 2005.
The million from the prior years US$15,647 reflecting mainly the issue of shares as amounts on repayment totalled US$179 million, mainly as a result of the groups partial consideration for the transaction million and 25 million US$37 million and transactions in Latin America.
There was in South America, as detailed below.
were met out of existing resources.
These also a net reduction of US$124 million in Comparable adjusted earnings per share amounts included an early redemption equity minority interests to US$554 million, increased by 11%, on the basis of 2005 penalty of US$13 million, included in largely reflecting the acquisitions of comparable figures adjusted for the interest payable, but which has been minority interests.
conversion of the convertible bond.
This treated as an adjusting item for adjusted Goodwill increased by US$5,358 million, metric is calculated as if the groups 4.25% earnings purposes.
primarily on the inclusion of provisional US$600 million convertible bond had The average loan maturity in respect goodwill of US$4,042 million arising from the converted on 1 April 2004, rather than the of the US$ fixed rate debt portfolio is 4.6 initial Bavaria transaction, the acquisition of actual conversion date of December 2004. years.
The average borrowing rate for the additional minority interests in Colombia and The groups comparable adjusted earnings total debt portfolio at 31 March 2006 was Peru which resulted in provisional goodwill per share also showed double-digit 6.9% 2005: 5.5%.
of US$942 million, the consolidation of 99% increases when measured in South African On 9 September 2005 the group of the brewing interests of the Shaw Wallace rand and sterling.
Adjusted basic earnings entered into a US$3,500 million 364-day group in the India investment resulting in per share increased by 8% on the prior year revolving credit facility for general corporate US$315 million of provisional goodwill, and to reach 109.1 US cents.
A reconciliation of purposes including financing the Bavaria the acquisitions of the remaining minority 24 interests in Bevco Central America and investments, and cash received from the the groups website, www.
v Plzensky Prazdroj a. s. Czech Republic.
sale of property, plant and equipment, Reconciliations between UK GAAP and IFRS Intangible assets acquired during the year intangible assets and investments.
for the year ended 31 March 2005 were also principally comprised brands with a value of The 34% growth in capital expenditure published on 5 July 2005 and are available US$3,480 million which were recognised as arises from increased spending over the prior on the groups website and are summarised a result of the Bavaria transaction.
year in most of our businesses, reflecting in note 30 to the Consolidated financial capacity increases including containers, statements.
Cash flow and investment highlights investment in software and on-trade In the determination and disclosure The group continued to be strongly cash investment in Europe.
In addition, the 2006 of reported sales volumes, the group generative.
Increases in cash generation total capital expenditure includes some aggregates the volumes of all consolidated reflect growth in profitability net of US$116 million in respect of South America, subsidiaries and its equity accounted movements in working capital efficiency covering the period from 12 October 2005 associates, other than associates where before interest and tax payments, and until 31 March 2006. primary responsibility for day-to-day before investment activities.
management rests with others such as Cash generated from operations Shareholder value Castel and Distell.
In these latter cases, amounted to US$3,291 million for the year The value which a company returns to its the financial results of operations are equity reflecting the business strong cash owners is best measured by total accounted, but volumes are excluded.
characteristics and the enlargement of the shareholder return TSR the combination Contract brewing volumes are excluded group.
Within this total, net cash inflow from of share price appreciation and dividends from total volumes: however turnover operating activities before working capital returned over the medium to long term.
from contract brewing is included within movement EBITDA rose to US$3,348 Recent measures of shareholder return have group turnover.
million from last years US$2,736 million.
The been impacted by volatility in equity indices.
Translation differences on non-dollar groups cash flow generation was again However, since SABMiller moved its primary assets and liabilities are recognised in the strong, with the ratio of EBITDA to revenue listing to the London Stock Exchange in statement of recognised income and both metrics excluding results of associates March 1999 the FTSE 100 has produced a expense.
It is not the groups policy to increasing by 70 basis points during the year Total Shareholder Return TSR in sterling hedge foreign currency earnings and their to 21.9% 2005: 21.2%.
Whilst net working terms of 20% to 31 March 2006, whilst the translation is made at weighted by monthly capital across the group remained negative, group has produced a TSR of 214% in turnover average rates.
there was a cash outflow from working sterling terms over the same period.
The groups activities expose it to a capital during the year, reflecting growth in variety of financial risks: market risk inventory ahead of the Easter sales period.
Accounting policies and definitions including foreign exchange risk, credit risk The principal accounting policies used by and liquidity risk.
A series of procedures and the group are shown as note 1 to the policies to manage these risks are applied Net cash generated US$m financial statements.
The group previously by the group, and these are covered in note prepared its financial statements under 21 to the financial statements.
United Kingdom Generally Accepted 3,500 Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
From 1 April 2005, SABMiller plc is required to 3,000 adopt the International Financial Reporting 2,500 Standards IFRS endorsed by the European 2,000 Union EU and accordingly all financial information is now stated under IFRS, 1,500 with the exception of IAS 32 Financial 1,000 Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation 500 and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Malcolm Wyman Recognition and Measurement, which in Chief Financial Officer 04 05 06 accordance with the exemption available in IFRS 1, the group has applied with effect from 1 April 2005, and hence has had no Free cash flow conversion remains impact on the prior period.
The application resilient despite a 34% increase in capital of IAS 32 and IAS 39 has resulted in expenditure, to US$1,032 million, and a 39% increases in total assets of US$6 million increase in tax paid with both of these and total liabilities of US$1 million, giving measures including the impact of the an increase in net assets of US$5 million, transactions in South America and India.
The impact includes These transactions have also contributed adjustments to the carrying value of to the 136% increase in net interest paid.
borrowings where there was a fair value Overall, the group achieved operating free hedge and an increase in borrowings cash flow of US$1,069 million 2005: reflecting the reclassification of interest US$1,263 million, representing net cash accruals, previously shown as creditors generated from operations less net interest under UK GAAP.
paid, taxation paid and cash paid for The accounting policies followed are the capital expenditure on property, plant and same as those published on 10 November equipment and intangible assets.
The 2005 by the group and can be found within operating free cash flow excludes dividends the Interim results for the six months ended received from associates and other 30 September 2005, which are available on 25
