Business Review Elderly Care Quality service provision remains our key focus, whilst progressing our branded service offerings to our clients.
John Murphy Group Operations Director The Groups core interest remains the provision of care services for Southern Cross Healthcare elderly people, complemented by a small but expanding specialist The largest of the branded portfolios with 466 homes and 24,027 care business.
Over the last 12 months both business streams have beds, Southern Cross provides services for clients predominantly increased capacity as acquisition and development activity has funded by local authority payers.
The facilities are in modern progressed.
purpose built homes, with the majority of beds being in single ensuite rooms.
Our Elderly Care business has recently been branded under two service offerings: Southern Cross Healthcare and Ashbourne Senior The Southern Cross branded homes are located throughout the Living.
The specialist business is branded under the Active Care United Kingdom, albeit with greater penetration in Scotland, and Partnerships identity and trades under a separate divisional the North of England.
The average home size is 55 beds and operational team.
typically of a two storey construction.
Over the last year we have sustained good levels of occupancy whilst experiencing the usual seasonality, that being a marginal increase in occupancy post-April of each year as local authorities enter a new budget year.
That gain is in part offset by a slight reduction in occupancy over winter months as mortality rates increase and commissioners of service have extended periods of vacation, thus slowing referrals.
Homes operating under the Southern Cross brand seek to cater predominantly for high dependency residents with specific nursing or social care needs.
Average length of stay for this client group is 11 months.
Average occupancy levels of 93% in our mature homes are in line with last years performance.
Group average occupancy remains stable at 91%.
Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 9 Business Review Ashbourne Senior Living Currently 72 homes with 3,974 beds have been rebranded under the Ashbourne Senior Living brand.
Recognising that a number of our clients self fund their care placement and often want additional services and perhaps a higher standard of accommodation, homes operating under this brand will in time be able to meet the demand for such.
Presently, any client except in Scotland with a net worth in excess of 21,000 has to fully fund his or her own care placement.
Given the push towards home ownership in the 1970s and 1980s combined with such a low qualifying threshold and an increasing demand for long-term care services, this will inevitably lead to more and more clients having to fund their own care.
On that basis, rather like the hotel sector, service users will price differentiate on the basis of accommodation and service standards.
Occupancy performance is in line with Group average of 91% and average fee rates are some 15% higher than those paid by local authorities.
10 Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006
