SPECTRIS 01-12 19 3 07 12:14 pm Page 3 Business review Business overview Business review contents Business overview 3 Strategy and objectives 5 Review of operations 9 Financial review 13 Principal risks and uncertainties 15 Resources 17 Corporate social responsibility 17 John OHiggins, Chief Executive Introduction a focus on providing  instrumentation, Spectris develops and markets precision instrumentation and equipment and controls for a diverse range of customer controls.
Our products and applications help customers to applications.
improve product quality and performance, improve core Although demand for measurement and control manufacturing processes, reduce downtime and wastage and instrumentation is, to some extent, dependent upon the end user reduce time to market.
Our businesses are leaders in their markets served, there are a number of general factors which drive specialised markets and work with multinational customers the industry.
Companies today compete in an environment where in a broad spread of industries, for example pulp and paper, they need to bring innovative products to market as quickly as pharmaceuticals, energy and automotive.
We have a wide range possible yet at the lowest possible unit cost.
As products become of core technologies, many of which are proprietary.
Working increasingly complex and incorporate the latest technologies, closely with customers, we apply our expertise to help them sophisticated test and measurement equipment is required to solve the production challenges they face.
support the new design and manufacturing processes, improve Our solutions and services are increasingly being applied to efficiency and reduce wastage of expensive materials.
help our customers use energy and resources more efficiently.
Reducing the time to market is key to achieving competitive This enables them to both improve their productivity and limit advantage and increasing revenue from new products.
Many the impact of their products or processes on the environment.
companies use measurement and control instrumentation in the design phase, as well as during the manufacturing process, to Market drivers shorten development cycles and bring new products to market The global automation, measurement and control industry more quickly.
This is particularly important in industries such as comprises multiple sub-sectors.
Spectris businesses participate automotive, aerospace, pharmaceuticals and life sciences, where in a number of these sub-sectors, with the unifying theme being development costs are high.
Growth in all major regions 2006 sales by end user industry 2006 sales by destination Research & development Other industries including North America environment Finished product industries Europe Semiconductor & telecoms Rest of Electronics Energy & primary the world Food & drink industries Transport Pulp & paper Energy & utilities Metals, minerals & mining Converting & processing industries Asia Pacific Web, print & packaging Machine manufacturing Pharmaceuticals & chemicals continuing businesses Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2006 3 SPECTRIS 01-12 15 3 07 22:51 Page 4 Business review continued Ensuring consistent product quality is another significant productivity during the product development process and at-line factor in the demand for measurement and control instrumentation sampling for quality assurance during the instrumentation.
With companies competing for market share, production process in batch process manufacturing industries, they cannot afford any risk to brand reputation from poor for example the semiconductor, pharmaceuticals and life sciences quality goods and product recalls.
Increasing regulation is also industries.
Several companies also provide analytical driving demand for instrumentation to monitor production instrumentation for materials testing in the metals, minerals and processes, for example in industries such as food and mining sector.
The businesses in this sector generally sell directly pharmaceuticals, where specific quality control procedures have to global end user customers and provide aftermarket services to be met.
Tougher environmental legislation requires reductions such as technical support, instrument calibration and in areas such as noise levels, emissions, and restrictions on the use replacement consumables.
The In-line Instrumentation sector comprises Beta Globalisation also represents a significant opportunity for LaserMike, Brel & Kjr Vibro, BTG, Ircon, NDC Infrared measurement and control companies as customers develop Engineering and Servomex.
These companies primarily provide manufacturing facilities in industrialising economies such as instrumentation which is used to monitor production in China, Eastern Europe and Latin America.
These facilities require continuous production processes in order to improve significant investment to ensure global standards are met.
productivity and yield and reduce costs.
Industry sectors include oil and gas, energy, petrochemicals, plastics converting, pulp and Sector overview paper, metals, and food and drink.
The businesses generally sell Spectris comprises fourteen separate operating companies which directly to global end user customers and systems integrators and are grouped into three sectors: Process Technology, In-line the majority of sales are for new and upgraded manufacturing Instrumentation and Electronic Controls.
All businesses provide aftermarket services.
The Process Technology sector comprises Brel & Kjr The Electronic Controls sector comprises HBM, Microscan Sound & Vibration, Fusion UV Systems, Malvern Instruments, and Red Lion Controls.
These companies supply controls PANalytical and Particle Measuring Systems.
These companies for production equipment to machine builders for general primarily provide laboratory instrumentation for improving manufacturing processes and to the aerospace and automotive Improving production quality China is now one of the largest tyre manufacturing and exporting countries in the world.
The rapid development of its rubber industry in recent years has resulted in increased demand for advanced process automation systems.
NDCs on-line measurement and control systems are used to control the rubber calenders producing, for example, the steel-reinforced belts used in tyres.
For major manufacturers such as Goodyear Dalian Tire Co. Ltd. and Hangzhou Sunrise Rubber Co. Ltd. benefits include a more uniform product, reduction in scrap, and savings of hundreds of thousands of dollars per year in raw material and processing costs.
These businesses generally sell to original equipment or process know-how.
We outsource manufacturing and nonmanufacturers OEMs, mostly through distributors, and sales core activities where possible in order to reduce fixed costs and tend to comprise large volumes of low average price products speed up response times.
which do not require aftermarket services.
The majority of business is repeat business as once the customer has purchased a Business model product for one machine, the same product will be specified for We organise our businesses in a way that provides the best all similar machines.
structure to deliver against our strategy, combining the benefits of a multinational group with the best aspects of entrepreneurial Strategy and objectives capability.
Our business model is based on a flat structure of semi-autonomous operating companies, whose management Strategy teams have a high degree of responsibility whilst operating within Our strategy is to focus on delivering sustainable growth in a framework of group management and control.
Central to our attractive markets via a portfolio of core businesses with marketphilosophy is a small corporate centre which sets the strategy and leading products which add value for our customers.
A key drives and monitors its implementation.
In addition to setting element of this strategy is to increase the scale and enhance the and monitoring the groups overall policies and values, the centre growth potential of this portfolio by pursuing an active but provides knowledge, advice and selective support services such as disciplined approach to bolt-on and larger stand-alone legal, tax and treasury, establishing a control framework within acquisitions.
Our businesses are strong players in specific which an entrepreneurial environment can thrive.
The businesses application areas where there are significant barriers to entry.
operate as individual units, with their own name, brand and Experienced engineers in the businesses develop solutions which management structure, enabling them both to meet their are tailored to the customers specific requirements, based on customers demands and deliver against commitments.
The key standard platforms customised through high added value benefit of this results-driven structure is that management teams applications engineering.
This understanding of our customers have local ownership and can focus on their priorities and react processes brings significant competitive advantage.
In addition, quickly to changing customer and market needs.
High calibre much of our technology is proprietary and protected by patents employees, including qualified scientists, applications engineers The Tokaido Shinkansen, or Bullet Train, Japans high-speed railway, runs through densely populated areas of Japan, where noise and vibration levels are strictly regulated.
Development of the next generation of low-noise trains is focusing on the difficult task of reducing aerodynamic noise, which is proportional to the speed of the train.
Use of Brel & Kjrs PULSE beamforming system in wind tunnel tests to detect the aerodynamic noise sources of models has enabled improvements to be made to the design of the trains nose cone to reduce noise.
Environment-friendly transport SPECTRIS 01-12 15 3 07 22:51 Page 6 Business review continued and technicians, have direct contact with users to develop Bolt-on and stand-alone acquisitions to strengthen our applications which deliver tangible benefits.
Stand-alone business portfolio are pursued actively where these make sense acquisitions must share these business characteristics and have and fit our business model.
In addition, licensing technology the management strength to operate as an autonomous unit from third parties brings further capabilities to our new within the Spectris group.
Objectives Focus on improving margins through business excellence and We operate in measurement and control markets where we can efficiency.
Actions include value pricing, optimising the business provide  solutions to customers around mix, cost competitiveness, product design for low-cost the world.
In 2006, Europe represented 43% of sales in continuing production, reducing inventory, internal process efficiency and businesses, Asia 28% and North America 24%.
Industrialising improving supply chain management.
markets in the rest of the world 5%, such as South America, Russia and the Middle East, present opportunities to increase sales Maintain the focus on cash generation, with the target of in these regions.
delivering high cash conversion of operating profit in the We aim to maintain our market-leading positions through financial year.
More efficient treasury processes have helped to a programme of investment in the research and development of reduce interest costs and exposure to currency exchange rates.
We invest around 6-7% of sales each year in R&D 6.5% in 2006.
New products and applications Key performance indicators may be developed in house, by acquiring bolt-on product lines The following key performance indicators show how we have or by collaboration and licensing agreements for proprietary progressed against our priorities.
technology in partnership with universities and other institutions.
Our primary objective is to deliver sustainable profitable 2005 2006 growth.
We are focusing on three priorities which will enable Sales growth us to achieve this objective: As reported 7% 4% At constant currencies, continuing businesses 7% 8% Maintain growth both organically and through acquisitions.
Our primary focus is on providing new products and valueReturn on sales added services, for example consultancy services, aftermarket As reported 11.2% 12.5% and consumables, to customers in established markets.
We also At constant currencies, continuing businesses 11.9% 12.9% focus on attracting new customers in industrialising markets as well as following our existing customers as they migrate Cash conversion their production facilities to new markets.
All of our businesses As reported 107% 107% are pursuing opportunities for further growth in these areas.
Reducing waste in the production line US company Conveyor Technologies designs, develops and manufactures material-handling systems for electronic assemblies and other in-line assembly applications.
The company introduced a bar code laser marking system with automatic bar code marking and placement to address the problem of lack of space and the need for more data on printed circuit boards PCBs.
Microscans scanners are used to verify, trace and log the laser-marked data matrix code embedded on the PCB at each stage of the assembly process.
Should the system detect a board that is poorly marked, it can be removed from the production line before it is populated with electronic circuitry, thus speeding up production and reducing costs.
6 Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2006 SPECTRIS 01-12 15 3 07 22:51 Page 7 Helping to generate power from renewable resources Companhia Energtica fide Minas Gerais is the largest combined power generator and distributor in Brazil, with over 50 power plants in operation, the majority of which are hydroelectric.
To ensure continuous uptime and make faster and more reliable maintenance planning decisions, the company has installed Brel & Kjr Vibros machine condition monitoring systems at a number of its hydroelectric generating stations.
The systems provide comprehensive monitoring techniques for detecting and predicting a wide range of potential failures.
This has resulted in a reduction in machine downtime and maintenance costs and improved operating procedures for the generators and turbines.
SPECTRIS 01-12 19 3 07 10:55 am Page 8 Thyssen Krupp Steel manufactures high quality carbon steel flat products for a variety of applications.
At its steelworks in Duisburg, Germany, the company has installed a new centralised production laboratory to carry out automated analysis of iron, steel and slag samples taken from each treatment point in the steelmaking process.
The new OX-2 automated laboratory, tailor-made for the company by PANalytical, features a combination of X-ray fluorescence spectroscopy and optical emission spectroscopy.
This saves handling and sample processing time compared with the previously employed manual and time-consuming gas analysis techniques, gives better limits of detection and also has the benefit of eliminating cross-contamination.
Improving efficiency in the manufacturing process SPECTRIS 01-12 15 3 07 22:51 Page 9 Review of operations Introduction All three sectors grew sales from continuing businesses.
Spectris made good progress in 2006, with sales from There was double-digit growth in sales and profits in the continuing businesses increasing by 7% to 642.6 million and Process Technology sector, partly due to strong demand from adjusted operating profit increasing by 16% to 83.2 million.
the pharmaceutical and life sciences markets.
The continuing At constant currencies, sales increased by 8%.
Margins elimination of lower-margin business moderated sales growth improved to 12.9% 2005: 11.9%, benefiting from the in the In-line Instrumentation sector, where one-off costs for increased volume, ongoing management actions to reduce restructuring also reduced profitability.
Sales and profits in the costs, and the introduction of new products.
Electronic Controls sector increased and operating margins Cost reduction programmes and active management of also improved in the second half.
The focus on service and working capital continued to deliver results, with the primary consumables continued in the Process Technology and In-line focus on reducing overheads and conserving cash.
A groupInstrumentation sectors and remains a key requirement for wide initiative to increase the proportion of components global customers.
Individual sector performance is described in purchased from lower-cost regions is progressing well, with more detail below.
many operations expected to achieve significant cost savings.
The major geographic regions showed growth during 2006.
The two businesses which had been loss-making in the prior Expansion into Asia continues, with sales from continuing year decisively returned to profitability.
Cash conversion was businesses up by 9% 11% at constant currencies.
This region again strong and average working capital as a percentage of now represents 28% of group sales, reflecting our ongoing sales reduced by 1.7 percentage points to 13.7%.
commitment and investment in this region over past years.
We made some changes to the composition of the group Sales in North America increased by 9% 10% at constant during the year, with the disposal of Arcom to Eurotech S. p. A. currencies.
Sales in Europe increased by 6% 6% at constant and the acquisitions of Spectral Dimensions Inc SDI, a currencies, led by strong growth in Germany which grew by specialist in chemical imaging for the pharmaceutical industry, 9% 10% at constant currencies.
and IPI LLC, a leader in paper coating applications.
In addition, Expenditure on research and development of 44.7 million PANalytical added a direct presence in Korea, Brazil and Mexico was maintained at prior year levels and a number of significant by acquiring its distributors in these key regions.
An agreement to new product platforms were launched during the year.
These sell Spectrum Inspection Systems was signed with Illinois Tool will enable our businesses to maintain their leading positions Works Inc. on 22 February 2007.
The disposal of a further small and grow revenues.
business in the In-line Instrumentation sector is also underway.
Increasing reliability and safety The Lyondell Bayer Maasvlakte plant, located in the port of Rotterdam, The Netherlands, is one of the largest propylene oxide styrene monomer plants in the world.
These essential intermediate chemicals are used in a variety of everyday products such as plastics, rubber and fibreglass.
To ensure safe and reliable operation of the plant, Lyondell uses an extensive network of more than 40 Servomex oxygen analysers for a variety of critical applications.
The Servomex technology delivers the reliability and accuracy required to meet the demanding process control objectives for safe and optimised operation.
Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2006 9 SPECTRIS 01-12 15 3 07 22:51 Page 10 Business review continued Sector performance Higher demand for storage devices and flat panel displays Process Technology in the semiconductor and electronics markets benefited Fusion, The Process Technology sector had an excellent year, with PANalytical and Particle Measuring Systems.
Fusions UV double-digit sales and profit growth.
Sales increased by 11% curing systems are used in the production of functionalised to 343.6 million with operating profit increasing by 40% to films which are an essential component in flat panel displays.
Operating margins improved from 10.4% to Sales of PANalyticals X-ray technologies and Particle Measuring 13.2%.
Profitability in this sector was impacted by one-off costs Systems contamination detection systems to the semiconductor of 1.9 million incurred for restructuring operations.
and electronics industries increased as customers continued to Sales into the pharmaceutical industry increased during the invest in new equipment, particularly in Asia.
year and this is now Spectris largest end user market at just Rising environmental awareness led to increased over 10% of sales.
There was strong demand for pharmaceutical opportunities for Brel & Kjr Sound & Vibration and applications for Malvern, PANalytical and Particle Measuring PANalytical, partly as a result of new legislation and directives.
Systems, particularly in Europe and North Legislation introduced to limit environmental noise, which is America.
Malverns solutions for the biotech increasingly affecting major cities, airports and roads around Sales Profit m m and nanotechnology sectors also grew the world, benefited Brel & Kjr Sound & Vibration where strongly.
The acquisition of SDI during the contracts have been received, amongst others, for noise year added near-infrared chemical imaging management systems in the cities of Madrid and Beijing and instruments to complement Malverns at airports in Taiwan.
PANalytical also benefited from existing offering to its pharmaceutical developments in this area, providing X-ray instrumentation customers.
The acquisition has been to measure hazardous substances such as cadmium and other 05 06 05 06 successfully integrated and has attracted metals, whose elimination from consumer goods is required Before restructuring costs significant interest from customers.
to comply with new environmental legislation.
Reducing chemical use in paper production Faced with increasingly competitive markets for its board products, paper manufacturer Stora Enso needed to improve its performance.
At its mill in Barcelona, Spain, the company produces a chipboard based on fibres from recycled paper such as newspapers, magazines and telephone directories.
Using BTGs instrumentation to optimise additives in the production process has greatly reduced the need for chemicals and resulted in fewer breaks in the web, bringing higher productivity and savings of more than 500,000 per year in chemical costs alone.
310.1 343.6 32.4 34.9 45.2 47.1 SPECTRIS 01-12 15 3 07 22:51 Page 11 Malverns analytical systems are being used in the production of a unique product for encapsulating UV filters at nano-engineering company Sol-Gel Technologies in Israel.
UV filters are widely used in sunscreens, but can themselves cause skin damage, so the UV filter is encapsulated in a glass bead, retaining its UV protective properties but preventing direct contact with the skin.
Malverns Zetasizer Nano particle characterisation system is used to measure particle size distribution: if the particle size is too large, the sun protection factor is reduced, but if it is too small, skin penetration may occur.
Helping to develop new nanomaterials SPECTRIS 01-12 15 3 07 22:51 Page 12 Business review continued Spectris companies providing test and measurement Electronic Controls equipment to the automotive and aerospace industries have Sales in the Electronic Controls sector increased by 6% seen growth as new development programmes come on to 134.8 million, with profit up by 2% to 16.9 million.
Brel & Kjr Sound & Vibration, along with two Operating margins were 12.5%.
Profitability was other leading Noise Vibration Harshness NVH technology impacted by one-off costs of 0.7 million incurred for companies, was involved in the creation of an Application restructuring operations.
Research Center at Canton, Michigan, USA.
This facility, which HBM recovered in the second half of the year in line opened in June 2006, will help automotive manufacturers and with expectations, with strong sales to automotive and their suppliers to optimise the sound and vibration aerospace customers.
The recently introduced digital torque characteristics of their products.
measurement solution for automotive R&D applications The mining and minerals industries experienced good was well received.
This new product line has an important growth as customers invested in new production and refining role to play in the development cycle of engines, powertrain capacity globally, but particularly in Asia and Latin America.
Sales to the aerospace industry also Both PANalytical and Malvern provide solutions to improve increased typical applications in this market include productivity in this market.
PANalytical has increased its component stress or functionality testing, landing gear drop presence in these regions with the acquisition of its distributors tests and wind tunnel and aerodynamic testing.
in Korea, Brazil and Mexico, providing direct sales and support The general manufacturing sector was strong globally.
operations to customers in these important markets.
Sales of Microscans bar code scanners grew, with the Quadrus Mini product, a small high resolution imager, proving In-line Instrumentation particularly successful.
The company also launched the MS-4, The In-line Instrumentation sector grew sales by 2% to a miniature imager for reading 2D bar codes in small spaces, 164.2 million.
Profits at 21.1 million 2005: 22.6 million which is particularly suitable for healthcare applications.
were impacted by one-off costs of 5.1 million 2005: nil Red Lion Controls grew sales of its human machine for restructuring operations at Beta LaserMike, Brel & Kjr interface HMI display and new network Vibro and BTG.
Operating margins were 12.9% 2005: 14.0%, communication products with both end Sales Profit or 16.0% before restructuring 2005: 14.0%.
users and original equipment m m Consolidation in the pulp and paper industry continues, manufacturers.
Demand for the companys with fewer, but larger, mills now in operation.
Increased industrial panel meters also increased machine speeds mean that the cost of downtime is rising, following the launch of the CUB5 series which has benefited BTG Duroblade.
BTGs high performance which feature all the functionality and blades greatly extend operational life, which reduces machine performance of a full-size panel meter 05 06 05 06 downtime.
The acquisition of IPI enables BTG to offer a condensed into a small, easy-to-mount Before restructuring costs broader range of products for coating applications worldwide.
Spending on higher-value analysers by mill owners is still at a low level, but is expected to recover as pressure to increase Looking ahead production efficiency continues to rise.
We will continue to pursue our objective of margin enhancement There was strong demand from the and cash generation in 2007 as the benefits of management Sales Profit converting market in North America actions are realised and as we drive cost competitiveness across m m following several years of under-investment, our businesses.
The introduction of new products and which helped drive sales of NDCs web applications will bring additional organic growth and benefits scanning systems.
Higher energy prices and in the year.
We will increase our focus on the strategic the continued investment in new plant development of Spectris during 2007, completing our resulted in strong demand for Servomexs gas divestiture activity and continuing the pursuit of acquisition 05 06 05 06 analysis solutions and for Brel & Kjr opportunities which strategically fit our businesses and will Before restructuring costs Vibros safety condition monitoring systems.
12 Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2006 161.7 164.2 22.6 22.6 21.1 26.2 127.4 134.8 16.5 16.5 16.9 17.6 SPECTRIS 13-23 15 3 07 22:50 Page 13 Financial review sales, meaning that total group sales and sales in continuing businesses increased by approximately 5% and 8% respectively on a constant currency basis.
The year-on-year impact on sales from acquisitions was approximately 2.2 million or 0.4% of sales in continuing businesses.
Adjusted operating profit rose by 17% overall and by 16% in continuing businesses, with operating margins improving from 11.2% to 12.5% overall, and from 11.9% to 12.9% on a continuing businesses basis.
This growth in operating profit was driven by the increase in sales and good cost control, and was achieved despite the significant one-off cost of restructuring in several businesses which amounted to some 7.7 million in the year 2005: 3.1 million including 0.6 million in one business being divested.
The impact on operating profit from both Clive Watson, Group finance director acquisitions and foreign currency exchange rate movements after taking account of the benefit of the groups hedging Introduction arrangements was minor.
Spectris uses adjusted figures as key performance measures in Interest costs, including IAS 19 pension charges, reduced from addition to those reported under IFRS.
Adjusted figures are stated 13.0 million to 9.4 million, reflecting the consistent reduction before amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets, in the level of net debt during the year.
After taking account of goodwill charges, profits or losses on the termination or disposal lower interest costs, adjusted profit before tax increased by 26% of businesses or major fixed assets, unrealised changes in the fair from 60.5 million to 76.3 million.
value of financial instruments, related tax effects and other tax Unadjusted operating profit, after including goodwill charges items which do not form part of the underlying tax rate.
Unless of 1.2 million 2005: 7.4 million and acquisition-related otherwise stated all profit and earnings figures referred to below intangible asset amortisation of 1.8 million 2005: 1.2 million, are adjusted measures.
increased by 27% from 64.9 million to 82.7 million.
The The Arcom and Spectrum businesses were divested in March goodwill charge of 1.2 million in 2006 relates to a technical 2006 and February 2007 respectively as described further reduction of goodwill under IFRS following the recognition below.
In addition, one other business in the In-line of an equal and opposite deferred tax asset relating to the Instrumentation sector is presented in these financial statements acquisition of PANalytical in 2002. as held for sale as it is intended that it is divested during 2007.
Unadjusted profit before tax increased by 69% from The results of these three businesses are not considered to be 50.8 million to 85.6 million.
In addition to goodwill charges sufficiently material to be presented as discontinued operations and acquisition-related intangible asset amortisation charges, under IFRS.
However, in order to aid understanding of the results the 2006 result includes unrealised gains of 2.8 million on the for the ongoing business, references below to the sales and groups cross-currency interest rate swaps 2005: unrealised loss operating profit results for continuing businesses exclude the of 1.1 million.
Additionally in 2005, income of 1.7 million results of these three businesses.
from the disposal of Luxtron was offset by an unrealised loss relating to changes in fair value of average rate options.
Operating performance Acquisitions and disposals 2006 2005 Increase During the year, the group acquired two businesses and, in Total group addition, a number of distributors in markets where a direct Sales m 684.5 655.9 4% presence was sought.
The total consideration, including Operating profit m 85.7 73.5 17% acquisition expenses and net debt acquired, as well as deferred Operating margin 12.5% 11.2% 1.3pp and contingent consideration expected to be paid in future years, was 16.5 million.
The largest of these acquisitions took place Continuing businesses close to the end of 2006.
These acquisitions contributed Sales m 642.6 599.2 7% 1.6 million of sales during the year.
Operating profit m 83.2 71.5 16% In March 2006, Spectris sold the Arcom business to Operating margin 12.9% 11.9% 1.0pp Eurotech S. p. A for net proceeds after taking account of transaction costs of 13.3 million, giving rise to a profit on Total group sales increased by 4% and sales in continuing disposal of 9.5 million.
An agreement for the sale of the businesses increased by 7%.
Adverse movements in foreign Spectrum Inspection Systems business to Illinois Tool Works currency exchange rates had an impact of approximately 1% on Inc. was signed on 22 February 2007 for completion on Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2006 13 SPECTRIS 13-23 15 3 07 22:50 Page 14 Business review continued 28 February 2007.
The total consideration is 16 million on a Cash flow debt and cash-free basis and subject to a working capital adjustment.
The profit on disposal will be reflected in the 2007 2006 2005 Operating cash flow m m accounts.
Adjusted operating profit 85.7 73.5 It is also the intention to divest one other business in the Add back: depreciation 13.2 12.6 In-line Instrumentation sector in 2007 and accordingly the assets Working capital movement other 3.1 4.5 and liabilities of this business, together with those of Spectrum, Net cash flow from operating activities 102.0 90.6 are presented as held for sale in the group balance sheet.
before capital expenditure Capital expenditure 10.5 12.2 Taxation Operating cash flow 91.5 78.4 The effective tax rate on profits was 28.8% 2005: 26.9%, an Cash conversion 107% 107% increase of approximately 2 percentage points.
The effective tax rate continues to be below the weighted average statutory tax rate Non-operating cash flow of 32.1% 2005: 32.8%, primarily as a consequence of the Tax paid 21.5 15.8 recognition of tax assets arising in prior years in the UK.
Interest paid 11.2 12.7 The increase in the tax rate in 2006 was due to a reduction in Dividends paid 20.2 18.1 the benefit from tax planning and brought forward loss Acquisitions 13.6 3.0 utilisation.
The underlying tax charge is expected to continue to Disposals 13.3 move closer to the weighted average statutory tax rate in future.
Exercise of share options 5.3 2.5 Sale of own shares by Employee Benefit Trust 0.9 9.5 Earnings per share Exchange other 3.7 1.8 Adjusted earnings per share increased by 21% from 36.2p to Total non-operating cash flow 43.3 39.4 43.7p, reflecting the net impact of a 26% increase in profit before Operating cash flow 91.5 78.4 tax, partially offset by the rising tax charge.
Movement in net debt 48.2 39.0 Basic earnings per share increased by 72% from 28.8p to 49.4p.
The differences between the two measures are shown in the table below.
Cash conversion of operating profit to operating cash was 107% 2005: 107%.
This was achieved through continued 2006 2005 control of both working capital and capital expenditure and is Pence Pence also in part attributable to restructuring charges that did not Basic earnings per share 49.4 28.8 result in cash outflows in 2006.
Inventory turns improved from Goodwill charges and acquisition-related 2.4 7.0 4.2 times at December 2005 to 4.4 times at the end of 2006. intangible asset amortisation Debtor days outstanding also improved, reducing from 60 days Profit on disposal of business 7.6 at December 2005 to 58 days at the end of 2006.
Over the same Income from disposal of Luxtron 1.4 period, year end working capital expressed as a percentage of Unrealised changes in fair value of 2.3 2.3 sales reduced from 15.7% to 14.8% and average working capital financial instruments expressed as a percentage of sales reduced from 15.4% to 13.7%.
Tax effect of the above and other tax items that do not form part of the underlying tax rate 1.8 0.5 Capital expenditure during the year equated to 1.5% of sales Adjusted earnings per share 43.7 36.2 2005: 1.9% and, at 10.5 million 2005: 12.2 million, was 80% of depreciation 2005: 97%.
This unusually low level was The weighted average number of shares outstanding during primarily due to timing differences which will reverse in 2007. the year increased from 122.1 million to 124.3 million.
This The level of tax paid in 2006 was higher than in 2005 due increase arose as a result of both the exercise of share options in primarily to the increase in profits and the reduced utilisation the year and a further disposal of a proportion of the own shares of tax losses brought forward in 2006. held by the Spectris Employee Benefit Trust for cash proceeds of Overall, net debt fell by 48.2 million 2005: 39.0 million 0.9 million 2005: 9.5 million.
Interest cost, excluding the financing charge arising from IAS 19, was covered by adjusted operating profit 9.4 times 2005: 5.8 times, providing significant headroom over and above banking covenants which require a minimum of 3 times cover.
Financing and Treasury The group finances its operations from both retained earnings and third-party borrowings, the majority of which are currently at fixed rates of interest.
14 Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2006 SPECTRIS 13-23 15 3 07 22:50 Page 15 The $100 million 1996 US Private Placement loan notes were Forward exchange contracts are used to hedge forecast sale repaid on their due date of 15 July 2006.
The repayment was transactions where there is reasonable certainty of an exposure.
funded predominantly from existing cash resources with the At 31 December 2006, approximately 65% of the estimated US balance funded from available borrowing facilities.
Following this dollar and Japanese Yen exposures for 2007 were hedged using repayment, the groups principal borrowings relate to its 2000 forward exchange contracts.
and 2003 US Private Placement loan notes which had been swapped into Euro-denominated borrowings using crossDefined benefit pension schemes currency interest rate swaps.
In order to redress the balance Operating profit includes a defined benefit pension scheme between the groups US dollar and Euro-denominated current service charge of 0.8 million 2005: 0.7 million.
borrowings, given the groups relative investments in Euro and The net pension liability in the balance sheet before taking US dollar-denominated assets, the group cancelled the crossaccount of the related deferred tax asset has reduced to currency interest rate swap attached to the $75 million 2000 US 18.8 million 2005: 22.6 million, largely as a consequence Private Placement loan note borrowings such that they revert to of cash contributions into the schemes and actuarial gains on being US dollar-denominated borrowings.
No charge to the the scheme assets.
During 2006, the group increased its cash income statement arose from the cancellation of this crosscontributions into the defined benefit pension schemes to currency swap in 2006 since the cost was previously fully 3.3 million 2005: 3.2 million.
At the year end, 97% of group borrowings were at fixed Principal risks and uncertainties interest rates 2005: 99%.
The ageing profile at the year end showed that 4% of debt is due to mature within one year The process for identifying, evaluating and managing any 2005: 30%, 31% of debt is due to mature in between one significant risks forms part of the groups system of internal and five years 2005: 29% and the remaining 65% in more controls.
Internal controls Share buy-back The Board is ultimately responsible for the groups system of Over the last three years, year-end net debt has reduced to internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, 72 million from 163 million, principally as a result of strong such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of internal cash generation.
In addition to its ordinary dividend failure to meet business objectives and can provide only payments, the company now intends to return up to 75 million reasonable and not absolute assurance against material over the next twelve months by way of a share buy-back misstatement or loss.
This will improve the efficiency of the balance sheet, Following publication of the updated guidance for directors whilst also allowing the company to retain the financial flexibility on internal control Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on necessary to fund its continued development.
The shares will be the Combined Code, the Board confirms that there is an held in treasury.
ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant risks faced by the group, that this has been in place for Currency the year under review and up to the date of approval of the The group has both translational and transactional currency annual report and accounts, that this process has been reviewed exposures.
Translational exposures arise on the consolidation of by the Board during the year and that the group accords with the overseas company results into sterling.
The Board affirms the importance it attaches to the arise where the currency of sale or purchase invoices differs from continuous review and application of the guidance, the regular the functional currency in which each company prepares its local and systematic assessment of the risks facing the group and the accounts.
The transactional exposures include situations where value of embedding risk management and internal control foreign currency-denominated trade debtor, trade creditor and systems within its business processes.
The processes which the Board and the audit committee have The largest transactional exposures are to the US dollar and, applied in reviewing the effectiveness of the groups system of to a lesser extent, the Euro and the Japanese Yen.
The largest internal controls are summarised below: translational exposures are to the US dollar, Euro and Danish Krone.
The table below shows the key average exchange rates risk assessment and evaluation for each business unit takes during 2005 and 2006.
Translational currency exposures are place as an integral part of the annual strategic planning cycle.
Having identified the principal risks to achievement of their strategic business objectives, each business unit is required to 2006 2005 document the management and mitigating actions in place and average average proposed: US $ 1.84 1.82 Euro 1.47 1.46 Yen 214 200 Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2006 15 SPECTRIS 13-23 15 3 07 22:50 Page 16 Business review continued the principal risks identified during the annual strategic continue to ensure that any businesses acquired will be planning cycle and the effectiveness of the management and successfully integrated.
mitigating actions in place are reviewed regularly by the executive directors and twice yearly by the audit committee: Operational risk additionally, the executive directors consider those risks to the In order to sustain competitive advantage, the group invests groups strategic objectives which are not addressed within the significantly in research and development.
The development business units and develop appropriate approaches to of all new technologies and products involves risk including managing and mitigating these risks: the product being more expensive, or taking longer, to develop annual financial plans for each business unit, significant capital than originally planned: that the market for the product is investments or contractual commitments and major smaller than originally envisaged: or that the product fails to acquisitions or divestments are all subject to review and reach the production stage.
However, we endeavour to reduce approval by the Board: this risk by ensuring that the development of new products is there is a Group Accounting and Policies Manual which sets carried out in conjunction with customers to ensure that the out the minimum standards and procedures to be applied in products meet expectations of the market.
All businesses are relation to those risk areas which are regarded as significant exposed to risk from competitive activity, however the diversity in a group context: of Spectris products and markets limits the overall risk from a process of self assessment of compliance with the Manual any single competitor.
and reporting thereon has been established, providing for a Although the majority of our business is to supply products documented trail of accountability from business unit only, there may be instances where Spectris companies enter into presidents and finance directors to the audit committee.
The complex long-term or multi-site contracts with customers.
necessary actions are taken by the audit committee to remedy Spectris has a strict approval process for such contracts in order any failings or weaknesses identified by its review of the internal to manage any risks they may present.
Potential risk from loss control system: of a key customer is limited as no single customer accounts for the executive directors report to the Board on changes in the more than 1% of turnover, and credit control procedures limit business and external environment which present significant the risk from non-payment by customers.
The group finance director provides the Board with companies also monitor customer satisfaction to ensure they are monthly financial information which includes key performance meeting customers product, delivery and service requirements.
Regular reports on significant legal issues and The company is also exposed to the risk that some of the insurance matters are received from the company secretary.
components it sources, particularly for custom-built items or older components, are provided by a single supplier and are The key potential risks and uncertainties which could have vulnerable to interruption of supply.
This risk is addressed by a material impact on the groups long-term performance are finding alternative sources to reduce dependency described below.
on single-source suppliers and building sufficient safety stock of critical components.
Strategic risk Spectris operations are characterised by short lead times Spectris has a broad spread of markets, products and customers, and seasonal fluctuations in sales, with some businesses as described previously in this review, and thus any risk to the exhibiting a greater trend towards sales in the second half of ability to implement our strategy due to changes in the political the year.
This limited forward visibility and the potential for and economic environments in the countries in which we operate delays in the shipment of orders expose the company to the is limited.
This broad spread of markets also provides a good potential risk that it may not meet its sales forecast for the year.
averaging of individual sector investment cycles.
Our products typically involve low capital outlay but provide significant and Financial risk rapid payback.
These benefits become even more attractive to The principal financial risks managed by the group are foreign customers as they seek to reduce their own costs of production.
The groups exposure to In addition, the majority of sales are to customers who are commodity risk is perceived to be small by virtue of the nature looking to upgrade existing processes at modest cost rather than of the businesses.
Foreign exchange transaction risk is managed in two ways.
A key element of Spectris strategy is to grow the business Firstly, the companies are required to settle inter-company portfolio through acquisition of stand-alone or bolt-on balances within 30 days, thereby reducing risk between invoice businesses which complement or extend the range of products and settlement.
Secondly, outright forward contracts are taken to and applications Spectris can provide.
Potential risks exist in cover up to 75% of forecast forward exposures for up to eighteen successfully integrating acquisitions.
However, Spectris believes months ahead.
that its track record of carefully selecting businesses which fulfil Foreign exchange translation risk, which results from its acquisition criteria and rigorous financial assessment of the converting the results of overseas companies reporting in a potential acquisitions ability to contribute to growth will foreign currency into sterling, is not hedged.
However, it is the 16 Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2006 SPECTRIS 13-23 15 3 07 22:50 Page 17 aim where possible to hedge foreign currency investments with Resources borrowings in the same currency.
In order to minimise interest cost and maximise interest income, companies are required to The companys key resources include: pass surplus funds to Group Treasury through inter-company the skills and expertise of our people loans.
Where possible zero balance pools are in place to our technology automatically centralise cash.
our relationships with customers The long-term aim with regard to interest rate risk is to have a balance between fixed and floating rate debt.
Interest rate swaps People will be considered to achieve this balance.
In order to ensure Spectris employs around 6000 people in 160 offices around the adequate liquidity the group maintains sufficient lines of credit to world.
The success of the company is dependent upon the abilities cover expected cash requirements.
We recruit high calibre people, with a high proportion of employees qualified at, or above, degree level, and Intellectual property risk are committed to providing them with the resources and working Spectris business is focused on the design and manufacture of environment they require to achieve the highest standards.
In technologically advanced products and applications and the 2006, on average, 3,261 employees were employed in production group makes significant investment in research and development.
and engineering, with 2,106 in sales and marketing and 480 in As a consequence, the group owns and protects patents, administrative functions.
Further information on our employees, trademarks, trade secrets, copyright information and intellectual and on their recruitment, training and development, is set out in property licenses.
Although these are important to growth as a the corporate social responsibility statement on page 18. whole, no single patent, trade secret or trademark is sufficiently important to present a material risk to the success of the Technology company.
Appropriate measures are taken to protect the As mentioned above, we invest significantly in research and companys intellectual property rights and to minimise the risk of development to develop new products and applications.
We have infringement by third parties.
Spectris is prepared to initiate legal technology centres and applications laboratories around the action if necessary to safeguard its interests.
Inadvertent world and our businesses are leaders in their markets, providing infringement of third-party rights also presents a risk and customised solutions to customers in all locations.
Spectris has procedures in place requiring its operating companies to maintain a watching brief on new applications and Customers to undertake specific reviews prior to commencing new product We sell  instrumentation and services to a development programmes, acquisitions or licenses.
large number of customers around the world.
We have developed close working relationships with many of our customers and in Information technology business interruption risk many instances involve them in the development of new Spectris depends on timely and reliable information from key products.
software applications to aid day-to-day operational management and to provide accurate financial information for its head office.
Corporate social responsibility Whilst the company endeavours to ensure the continuous availability and operation of these systems and software, any Spectris is committed to creating business growth whilst disruption could delay or otherwise impact day-to-day decision ensuring that the impact on the environment is minimised.
Disaster recovery plans to maintain business-critical The companys products are used to help customers to reduce processes and activities in the event of a significant interruption their use of resources such as energy, water and raw materials to the normal course of business are in place throughout the during the manufacturing process.
For further details of group and are regularly tested.
Spectris policies on the environment, health and safety, ethics and human rights refer to the corporate social responsibility Hazardous risk report on the following pages.
Assessment of risk to the business is carried out on a continuous basis to determine any potential effects on the environment resulting both from product manufacture and operation of our products at the customers site.
Each operating company is required to produce a risk register which identifies possible hazardous risks to their business.
For each risk the likelihood of the occurrence is documented, together with the possible John OHiggins Clive Watson consequences, the actions required to minimise the probability of Chief Executive Group finance director the event occurring, and responsibility assigned to a member of the companys management team.
The risk register is reviewed regularly by the group internal control and risk manager.
Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2006 17
