4 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2006 Business review Group overview Introduction Product transition The year as a whole saw a series of challenges, primarily due to the The major feature of the year was significant product transition.
The continuing variable market conditions resulting from the impact of growth in sales of all our new and enhanced products was encouraging, customer consolidation and product transition which both depressed with Spirent TestCenter sales reaching 20 million 2005 4 million, sales and margins and was particularly notable in the first half.
As which was the Groups highest revenue generating product in the final expected at the time of the announcement of the interim results we quarter of 2006.
As expected, orders of our older platforms, SmartBits delivered a much improved second half which benefited from the and AX declined sharply by 27 million being 36 per cent year-on-year.
growth in new product revenues and restructuring actions undertaken.
Revenues from all of our Performance Analysis Broadband products, For the full year the adjusted profit before tax was 14.3 million apart from SmartBits and AX grew in 2006. compared with a loss before tax of 0.2 million in 2005.
Spending on product development by the Communications businesses, Our newly developed and recently launched products and solutions totalled 55.0 million 2005 56.1 million of which 5.0 million was for next-generation networks continue to grow sales and gain market incurred by our newly acquired businesses.
Product development share and represented almost 25 per cent of orders for Performance was primarily focused on the new Spirent TestCenter platform, WCDMA Analysis Broadband in the final quarter of the year, demonstrating the performance test equipment for mobile handsets and triple play IP success of our investment in product development and the benefit of service assurance monitoring solutions, as well as in our other faster newly acquired products.
Four acquisitions were completed expanding our breadth of expertise Spirent TestCenter was developed to take testing to new levels by and solutions into new growth areas such as IP multimedia subsystems consolidating a host of solutions on a single platform.
To date, our new IMS, IP telephony and security test, whilst boosting our offering in and upgraded products have been well received by customers, who other areas such as wireless.
consistently report enhanced functionality, improved productivity and reliability.
Spirent TestCenters performance is very encouraging.
It has With new Board leadership and having made key operational already been purchased by over 200 customers worldwide, compared appointments we are now undertaking an in-depth business review, the to just 90 when we reported our interim results in August 2006.
These outcome of which will be reported before the AGM in May.
include most of the leading global companies in our industry and all of our largest customers.
Market conditions The many high prole mergers of the last two years among our We were pleased with strong performances in our Asia Pacic operations, customers have resulted in customers delaying their investment in especially in Performance Analysis, and Europe, which was boosted by next-generation networks and have created highly competitive markets.
Indeed, our sales to these latter customers as a group fell by 8 per cent in the year as whole, principally in the first half.
As a result overall, many of our markets saw no growth, although we remain positive for long term growth prospects.
We expect our markets will remain competitive in the current year.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2006 5 Restructuring actions Outlook During the year we continued to manage the balance between the cost Our performance in 2007 is expected to benefit from the investment base and maintaining the capability to generate long term growth.
in new and upgraded products and the acquisitions made last year and Accordingly, we undertook two major restructuring actions to realign further progress beyond that will depend on the outcome of the resources and to reduce operating expenses in our Performance business review.
We are confident that our new products, led by Spirent Analysis and Service Assurance divisions, one announced in June and TestCenter, will grow revenue and continue to gain market share the other in October, as follows: although this will be offset by the decreasing revenue from our older products.
With market conditions continuing to be similar to last year, in June, a total annualised cost reduction of approximately we consequently expect only a modest growth in Performance Analysis 9.0 million per year at a one-time cost of 3.9 million: revenues.
In addition, should sterling continue its recent strength in October, a total annualised cost reduction of approximately relative to the US dollar, our performance for 2007, particularly in 7.0 million per year at a one-time cost of 5.2 million.
Systems, will be held back.
These actions included completion of the outsourcing of all Summary manufacturing except final assembly and test, continuing investment 2006 has been a busy and challenging year for Spirent with variability in our low cost offshore engineering centre, further divisional and unpredictability in our markets.
We have worked hard to stay ahead management changes and restructuring of support functions.
of the competition and drive the development of our new products and Including these actions, we are targeting a long term improvement in services.
We achieved an improved performance in the second half operating margin in Performance Analysis Broadband, with an interim over the first half year.
goal to deliver a run rate of 15 per cent by the end of 2007.
The success We made good progress with our new products and saw growth in a of Spirent TestCenter as a single platform should enable the Group to number of key product areas during 2006.
We have secured the first realise significant operating efficiencies in product development, sales major contract for a full-scale triple play service assurance solution.
and marketing and other areas within the division.
We intend to build on this in 2007.
In particular the development plans The significant restructuring actions within Service Assurance is we have for Spirent TestCenter will deliver increased functionality, intended to allow the division to target a break-even position through scale, ease of use and automation for our customers.
2007, whilst funding the investment in the future of next-generation The sale of the HellermannTyton Division enabled Spirent to achieve triple play IP monitoring solutions.
a signicantly strengthened balance sheet and to return capital to our shareholders.
Over the coming months the newly constituted Board will The Board and staff be working to undertake an in-depth business review and will report Following the Extraordinary General Meeting on 22 December 2006, the outcome before the AGM in May.
John Weston, Andrew Given, Fred DAlessio, Marcus Beresford and Kurt Hellstrm ceased to be directors of the Company.
We would like to thank them for their collective service to Spirent over many years.
At the EGM, Edward Bramson, Ian Brindle, Gerard Eastman and Alex Walker were appointed directors of the Company.
Subsequently, Edward Bramson was elected as Chairman of the Board and appointed as Chairman of the Nomination Committee: Ian Brindle was appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee, and as a member of the Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee: Alex Walker was appointed as the Senior Independent Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, and as a member of the Audit Committee and Nomination Committee: and Gerard Eastman was appointed as a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
We evaluate the performance of Spirent based on revenue and operating profit loss before the effect of material one-time items and goodwill impairment so that period-onperiod comparisons are not distorted.
Operating profit loss and return on sales are referred to in the text before material one-time items and goodwill impairment unless otherwise stated.
6 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2006 Business review Financial review Description of the business PG Drives Technology is a leading supplier of sophisticated electronic Spirent Communications plc is a global provider of performance control systems for specialist electrically powered vehicles in the analysis and service assurance solutions that enable the development mobility and industrial markets.
These include medical vehicles such and deployment of next-generation networking technologies such as as powered wheelchairs and mobility scooters as well as small broadband services, Internet telephony, 3G wireless and web industrial vehicles such as oor cleaning vehicles, golf carts, fork-lift applications and security testing.
The Systems group develops power trucks and aerial access platforms.
Our systems allow the user to control systems for specialist electrical vehicles in the mobility and control the direction and speed of the vehicle as well as other vehicle industrial markets.
functions, including seating or platform position, lights, turn indicators and vehicle diagnostics.
The Group is organised into two groups Communications and Systems with Communications consisting of two divisions, Performance Analysis Key performance indicators and Service Assurance.
The key performance indicators KPIs monitored by the Board and Spirents Performance Analysis group provides expertise and solutions which are considered to be the most effective measures to determine to accelerate the development and deployment of devices, networks, how the Group is progressing towards achieving its strategic objectives applications and services.
Testing functionality, conformance, are set out below.
Targets are set during the annual budget process interoperability, scalability and QoE under real-world conditions in the and are for continuing businesses only.
lab shortens the development cycle, improves quality, and reduces Revenue growth.
the cost and risk associated with service rollout resulting in lower Growth in adjusted operating profit.
Spirents solutions provide complete coverage of the Return on sales.
next-generation wireless and wireline networks, including access, Adjusted earnings per share.
metro, core and application servers, as well as a wide range of Adjusted cash generation from operating activities.
architectures and services including IMS, 3G, 4G, voice, data, video, IPTV and push to talk over cellular.
These KPIs were agreed by the Board in 2006 prior to the recent Board changes.
The newly constituted Board will be reviewing these KPIs The worlds leading telecom service providers use Spirents service in 2007. assurance solutions to ensure technologies and revenue generating services such as TDM, Ethernet, ATM, IP as well as residential triple Group financial performance play services including DSL, VoIP and IPTV are deployed efficiently and The Groups financial performance is reported in accordance with effectively.
Our service assurance solutions are used to diagnose, International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS under which the troubleshoot and determine how to solve telecom service problems.
Groups discontinued operations, the HellermannTyton Division, are Customers benefit from Spirents service assurance solutions through reported as a single line at the foot of the income statement including reduced operating costs, automation to scale their business, and the profit on sale.
superior performance metrics that allow them to protect their subscriber base through high quality service delivery.
All comments below refer to continuing activities only unless otherwise stated.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2006 7 Adjusted operating profit improved by 30 per cent to 8.3 million Results compared with 6.4 million in 2005 excluding the effect of exchange, Continuing operations Restated Second Restated Change growth was 36 per cent.
This result includes a significant reduction in million first half half 2006 2005 % the loss for the Service Assurance division to 1.1 million: after shareRevenue 138.2 133.4 271.6 259.3 5 based payment of 1.2 million, 2005 1.2 million from a loss of 1,2 Adjusted operating profit 2.8 5.5 8.3 6.4 30 10.8 million reported in 2005.
However, this was offset by the decline 1,2 in profitability of the Performance Analysis division down from Return on sales % 2.0 4.1 3.1 2.5 18.4 million in 2005 to 10.5 million in 2006 after share-based Adjusted profit loss 1,3 payment of 3.6 million, 2005 3.6 million and intangible amortisation before tax 5.1 9.2 14.3 0.2 of 1.6 million, 2005 nil, although the performance improved in this Adjusted earnings 1,4 division in the second half of 2006.
The decline in profitability in the per share pence 0.50 0.91 1.41 0.22 Performance Analysis business was largely a result of additional spend Adjusted cash generation on product development and sales and marketing costs associated 5 from operating activities 0.9 13.5 12.6 6.4 with the launch of new product releases.
Notes 1 Please note that the adjusted profit and earnings per share measures have been Return on sales for the Group improved to 3.1 per cent from 2.5 per restated to include share-based payment of 5.2 million 2005 5.1 million and cent in 2005. intangible amortisation of 1.6 million 2005 nil.
2 Before material one-time items and goodwill impairment.
3 Before material one-time items, goodwill impairment, profit on the disposal of Revenue grew by market in the Asia Pacic region by 7 per cent and operations and costs associated with the repayment of loan notes.
in Europe by 27 per cent, a result of the SwissQual acquisition, but it 3 4 As and before any related and prior year tax.
was reduced in North America year-on-year.
5 Before the cash cost of material one-time items and lump sum pension contribution.
The year has been affected by the complexities of implementing major Currency impact product transitions combined with continued challenging market In 2006 the currency effects were minimal in relation to the income conditions in our communications markets.
The average sterling to US dollar exchange rate increased to a large extent were a consequence of the consolidations of some from 1.82 in 2005 to 1.85 in 2006.
Currency translation reduced revenue of our major customers.
Revenue increased by 5 per cent over 2005, by 3.4 million and operating profit by 0.4 million compared with 2005. excluding the contribution from acquisitions revenue was at year-onWith the US dollar to sterling rate rising to $1.96 : 1 this is likely to year.
There were some significant areas of growth, namely in our voice, have a more material impact in 2007.
In particular our Systems group, security testing, positioning, client services and of course in sales of which is exposed to transactional currency risk, had hedged its our pioneering platform Spirent TestCenter.
The growth of these exposures and as a result did not experience the full effect of the products was offset by the rapid decline of our two traditional products, weakening of the US dollar in 2006.
Should the current exchange rate SmartBits and AX, which were down by 36 per cent, as well as the prevail in 2007, this would have a significant impact on its profitability.
expected drop in revenue in our Service Assurance division during the second half of the year as carriers continued to shift spending away Cost of sales and operating expenses from legacy networks.
We focused on the realignment of resources and Product development spend is included in cost of sales in the income the reduction in operating expenses across all divisions and took statement.
2006 was a year of major product transition hence investment restructuring actions in both Service Assurance and Performance in product development remained high, with a total of 57.3 million, Analysis in June and also in October which improved the profitability being 21 per cent of revenue, expensed during the year 2005 in Performance Analysis during the second half year and allowed us 58.4 million and 23 per cent of revenue.
Of this amount 45.5 million to maintain a near break-even position in Service Assurance.
2005 42.1 million was incurred in the Performance Analysis division, 9.5 million 2005 14.0 million in the Service Assurance division We are presenting an adjusted earnings measure eliminating the with the remaining 2.3 million 2005 2.3 million in the Systems effect of material one-time items and goodwill impairment.
The rate of spend increased in Performance Analysis in 2006 we had adjusted for intangible amortisation and share-based payment.
compared with 2005 as we undertook additional investment for the Comparatives have been restated to reect this change.
development of the TestCenter platform.
Our acquired businesses have added 5.0 million to product development spend in 2006.
Product development decreased in Service Assurance year-on-year.
8 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2006 Business review continued Gross profit was higher at 44 per cent of revenue compared with 41 In accordance with IFRS we have also assessed the goodwill carrying per cent in 2005 as a result of the reduction in product development value of the SwissQual business that we acquired in January 2006 where expense and the reorganisation of our supply chain activities to activity levels have been lower than had been anticipated.
This has increase efficiency as well as the move to increase outsourcing.
resulted in a goodwill impairment charge of 27.7 million.
Goodwill in SwissQual has been fully impaired.
Whilst we have written down the Operating costs, excluding material one-time items and goodwill carrying value of SwissQual, we believe that there are excellent prospects impairment are 41 per cent of sales compared with 39 per cent in 2005. for the new products in the medium term.
However, we have discounted This is a result of the additional sales and marketing effort in respect the projections to reect the inherent risk in the growth projections.
of new product launches, the significant costs of compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002, 2.6 million, incurred as a result of being a Goodwill impairment charged in 2005 was 37.0 million and was in US listed company and intangible amortisation of 1.6 million 2005 nil.
respect of the Service Assurance division.
Material one-time items Intangible amortisation Material one-time items include restructuring costs of 9.1 million, the This is the first year that the Group has acquired businesses under costs related to the EGM requisition in December 2006 of 2.0 million, IFRS and consequently this is the first time acquired intangible assets a credit of 0.6 million in relation to the release of provisions on prior have been recognised and the associated amortisation has been period disposals and curtailment and settlement gains of 1.7 million charged.
We have made four acquisitions in 2006 resulting in in respect of changes to our dened benefit pension plan.
Together 10.0 million of acquired intangible assets being recognised on the these total a net 8.8 million cost for the year.
The Group incurred a balance sheet and we have estimated that the average useful life of one-time finance charge of 8.8 million as the loan notes were repaid these intangibles is five years.
These intangible assets represent early out of the proceeds from the sale of the HellermannTyton Division, current technology and customer relationships in the main.
and we incurred fees to break the associated interest rate swaps.
Amortisation of 1.6 million has been expensed in the income statement in 2006 and this is expected to be slightly higher in 2007 Restructuring actions took place at the end of June 2006 and in to reect the full year effect of the 2006 acquisitions.
October 2006 affecting both our Communications divisions.
These actions were in response to reductions in demand for legacy products Share-based payment in Service Assurance, and include the closure of loss making locations The charge for share-based payment for 2006 is 5.2 million for our and the initiatives identied to help achieve the divisional margin continuing businesses 2005 5.1 million based on a fair value model.
The estimated annualised cost savings from these actions are 16 million in total.
Net finance income In November 2006 the Company received a notice of requisition from In February 2006 we repaid our senior loan notes out of the proceeds certain shareholders requesting that the Company convene an of the sale of the HellermannTyton Division.
After funding the UK final Extraordinary General Meeting to consider the removal of three of its salary pension plan this left us with a significant cash position some non-executive directors and the appointment of four proposed new of which has been utilised to pay for acquisitions and commence an ones.
The costs incurred in relation to this action amounted to on-market share repurchase.
Net finance income was 6.0 million excluding costs associated with During 2006 active and deferred members of the Spirent Staff Pension the repayment of loan notes compared with a net charge of 6.6 million Plan were offered the opportunity to leave the Plan and take an in 2005.
Of net income 2.0 million is in respect of the expected enhanced transfer value to another pension arrangement.
Many return on pension scheme assets less interest on the unwinding of the members accepted this offer resulting in a benefit to the funding of liabilities 2005 1.1 million charge a result of the change to the the Plan under IFRS of 1.7 million.
funding position of the UK final salary pension plan in February 2006.
Surplus cash is held on deposit or in short dated commercial paper Goodwill impairment and is earning current market rates of interest.
We wrote down goodwill in our Service Assurance division by 9.5 million at the interim stage and have taken a further impairment Loss before tax for continuing operations charge in the second half of 9.6 million.
19.1 million has been Reported loss before tax for continuing operations was 50.1 million charged in total reecting the delays in triple play roll out and continued compared with a loss before tax in 2005 of 41.7 million.
Goodwill in the Service Assurance division has now been fully impaired.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2006 9 Adjusted profit loss before tax is set out below: payable depending on future revenue growth and on various technical and financial milestones being achieved.
We have paid an additional million 2006 2005 3.1 million of deferred consideration in 2006 and have accrued for Reported loss before tax 50.1 41.7 a further 4.5 million of deferred consideration.
The total estimated Material one-time items 8.8 8.4 consideration is 35.4 million, 4.8 million less than the maximum Goodwill impairment 46.8 37.0 payable.
SwissQuals solutions analyse, measure and improve the profit on the disposal of operations 3.9 quality of experience for users of wireless applications and services.
Costs associated with the repayment of On 13 February 2006 we acquired QuadTex Systems, Inc. QuadTex loan notes 8.8 for an initial consideration of $7.5 million 4.3 million, paid in cash on Adjusted profit loss before tax 14.3 0.2 completion with up to a further $1.5 million 0.9 million payable depending on certain technical milestones and the retention of key employees.
We paid 0.3 million of deferred consideration in 2006.
Tax QuadTex is a provider of innovative and leading test tools for IMS and The tax charge for 2006 was 0.9 million, an effective rate of 6.3 per cent VoIP testing.
on the adjusted profit before tax 2005 4.0 million credit.
We continue to incur a low effective rate due to the carry forward of tax losses.
On 10 July 2006 we acquired scientific Software Engineering, Inc. SSE, the US based developer of the Landslide product, a leading Discontinued operations software based system for testing the performance and functionality of Discontinued operations relate to the HellermannTyton Division which 2.5 and 3G wireless network infrastructure for an initial consideration was sold to Doughty Hanson & Co Limited on 15 February 2006.
For of $10.0 million 5.5 million, paid in cash on completion with up to a the period up until sale the operating result was a profit after sharefurther $6.0 million 3.3 million payable depending on the satisfaction based payment of 3.0 million.
of certain technical milestones and the retention of key employees in 2007.
The profit on sale before tax was 166.1 million and tax of 9.2 million is payable in relation to the sale.
The final proceeds from the disposal On 10 August 2006 we acquired the business of Imperfect Networks, on a cash free debt free basis were 296.7 million.
The total expenses Inc. Imperfect Networks, a US based developer of security testing of the transaction amounted to 10.9 million, of which 6.7 million solutions.
The acquisition enables Spirent to deliver enhanced security was incurred and charged in 2005 and net assets excluding debt and testing solutions to its customers across a number of markets.
The cash sold were 128.2 million.
We realised a curtailment gain on the initial consideration was $4.0 million 2.1 million, paid in cash on UK final salary pension fund of 0.5 million.
Unrealised exchange completion, with up to a further $4.0 million 2.2 million payable gains of 1.3 million have been transferred from the translation depending on the satisfaction of certain technical milestones and reserve to the profit on sale.
revenues to be achieved in 2007.
Earnings per share Financing and cash ow Basic earnings per share for the Group were 11.75 pence, this includes At 1 January 2006 cash and cash equivalents were 49.2 million and the profit on sale of the HellermannTyton Division compared with a loss borrowings, which comprised mainly of 70.9 million of senior loan notes in 2005 of 2.62 pence.
Adjusted earnings per share, being before attracting a 9.1 per cent rate of interest, were 84.8 million.
The sale material one-time items, goodwill impairment, profit or loss on the of the HellermannTyton Division enabled the Group to realise a significant disposal of operations and costs associated with the repayment of loan amount of cash repaying the loan notes, extinguishing all other debt, notes, net of any related tax, was 1.41 pence compared with a loss of funding the 47.0 million deficit in the UK final salary pension plan and 0.22 pence in 2005. commencing an on-market share buy back programme.
We ended the year with cash and cash equivalents of 97.6 million, a significant Acquisitions strengthening of the balance sheet from the prior year end.
In addition, We acquired four businesses during 2006 paying an initial 8.5 million of cash is held on deposit in a blocked trust account as consideration of 39.7 million and deferred consideration of required by the capital restructuring discussed below.
All acquisitions were in the Performance Operating cash ow was representative of the tough market conditions Analysis division.
Further deferred consideration payments amounting and the additional costs required to undertake such significant product to approximately 6.6 million are expected to be paid.
Net cash outow from continuing operations before tax was On 23 January 2006 we acquired SwissQual Holding AG SwissQual 40.8 million 2005 1.1 million outow.
This outow includes a for an initial consideration of CHF62.5 million 27.8 million, paid in 47.0 million contribution to fund the UK final salary pension plan cash on completion with up to a further CHF28.0 million 12.4 million and other one-time costs.
10 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2006 Business review continued Adjusted operating cash ow before tax is set out below: The triennial actuarial valuations of the plans at 1 April 2006 are currently being nalised.
million 2006 2005 A dened benefit pension plan deficit is reported of 1.4 million at Reported cash ows from continuing operations 40.8 1.1 31 December 2006 in respect of the acquired scheme in SwissQual Add back: and the unfunded UK plan.
UK final salary pension plan lump sum contribution 47.0 3.5 Capital structure, on-market share repurchase programme and dividend Material one-time items 6.4 4.0 During 2006, and following on from the cancellation of the share Adjusted cash generation from continuing premium account and capital redemption reserve the Cancellation operations 12.6 6.4 which took place in 2004, the Company was able to release nondistributable special reserves formed as a result of the Cancellation During 2006 the Group absorbed 10.6 million of working capital by placing funds in a blocked trust account in accordance with the much of which was in relation to receivables and a consequence of undertakings made to the Court at the date of the Cancellation.
At the higher activity levels experienced during the latter part of the year.
31 December 2006 cash held in the blocked trust account was 8.5 million.
The Company currently has reserves of 195.7 million Reported operating cash outow for the continuing Group after tax was which are capable of being distributed to shareholders through dividend 42.4 million 2005 1.8 million outow and discontinued operations or through share repurchase.
used 0.6 million of operating cash in the period up to disposal 2005 31.2 million inow.
Tax payments in 2006 amounted to 2.3 million We commenced the on-market share repurchase programme in May compared with 4.6 million in 2005 including discontinued operations.
2006 which had been announced to shareholders together with the In the first quarter of 2007 we will settle tax obligations on the sale proposed disposal of HellermannTyton in December 2005.
To date we of the HellermannTyton Division of approximately 6.7 million.
have returned 41.9 million, being 90.3 million shares, to shareholders at an average price of 46.1 pence per share.
There is a further Capital expenditure was 12.6 million compared with 14.8 million 8 million to be returned of the originally announced 50 million in 2005 for the continuing Group.
The depreciation charge was programme.
Purchases are expected to be completed during 2007.
It was also announced in October that the Company proposed to We spent 44.4 million on the acquisition of businesses in 2006 and seek authority for a further return of 50 million to shareholders.
received net cash of 278.2 million from the sale of the HellermannTyton This will be considered further as part of the in-depth business review Division.
Deferred consideration payments on acquisitions amounting currently under way.
to approximately 6.6 million are expected to be paid.
Dividend policy is kept under review by the Board, however no dividend As previously mentioned the senior loan notes were repaid in February is being declared in respect of 2006.
2006 and this left the Group debt free.
On the early repayment of loan notes a make whole amount was due of 7.2 million and we incurred Review of US listing and SEC registration break fees on the early termination of interest rate swaps of 2.3 million.
As announced in October 2006 the Company has been carrying out Net finance income received in 2006 was 4.1 million compared with a review to explore a process by which it can fide-list its shares and a net finance cost in 2005 of 6.5 million.
fide-register in the United States.
The US listing has become signicantly more costly and onerous in recent years, not least due to the Pension fund imposition of the Sarbanes-Oxley regulations, which have cost the The surplus in the UK dened benefit pension plans at 31 December Company approximately 2.6 million during 2006.
2006 was 2.4 million 2005 net deficit 50.8 million, having been If the proposed SEC rule change announced in December 2006 is funded in February 2006 by way of a special contribution of 47.0 million passed without significant amendment it is expected that the Company from the proceeds of the disposal of the HellermannTyton Division.
will be able to seek a fide-registration as a result of its extremely low During 2006 the plans have benefited from rising equity markets but trading volumes in the US.
have also benefited from an offer made to active and deferred members giving them the opportunity to leave the UK final salary pension plan A further update on progress towards fide-listing and fide-registration will and take an enhanced transfer value to another pension arrangement.
be made as and when appropriate.
Many members accepted this offer resulting in a benefit to the funding of the plan under IFRS of 1.7 million and a reduction in the total liabilities of the plan of 21.8 million.
The value of the surplus at 31 December 2006 has been calculated using the latest mortality assumptions, and as such this has adversely affected the position.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2006 11 Business group development and performance In 2006, revenue for this division of 192.2 million 2005 Communications 178.8 million was up 7 per cent whilst operating profit decreased Restated by 43 per cent to 10.5 million 2005 18.4 million principally first Second weighted towards the first half.
The decline was largely due to half half Restated Change million 2006 2006 2006 2005 % additional spend on product development and sales and marketing costs associated with the launch of new product releases.
To mitigate Revenue the weak first half restructuring actions were taken at the end of the Performance Analysis 94.5 97.7 192.2 178.8 7 second quarter together with a greater focus on improving profitability.
Service Assurance 24.9 18.7 43.6 42.8 2 These actions resulted in a signicantly improved second half operating Communications group 119.4 116.4 235.8 221.6 6 profit of 7.3 million and a return on sales of 7.5 per cent versus a first half of 3.2 million and a return on sales of 3.4 per cent.
Operating profit loss Spirents top 20 customers typically represent an estimated 36 per Performance Analysis 3.2 7.3 10.5 18.4 43 cent of Performance Analysis revenues.
No one customer represented Service Assurance 0.1 1.2 1.1 10.8 more than 10 per cent of the total divisional revenues.
On a geographic Communications group 3.3 6.1 9.4 7.6 24 basis there was growth in Europe driven by Performance Analysis Positioning and SwissQual.
Activity in the Asia Pacic region grew, Return on sales % building on strong growth particularly in China and India.
Performance Analysis 3.4 7.5 5.5 10.3 Throughout 2006, market conditions continued to be variable and Service Assurance unpredictable in Performance Analysis Broadband Broadband.
While Communications group 2.8 5.2 4.0 3.4 we saw an increase in spending among some customers in the second half, when combined with customers reduced spending in the first half, Broadband experienced a at year overall.
This was driven by a reduction Performance Analysis in the total available market due to consolidation activity among larger Results for Spirents Performance Analysis division were marked by customers, lower spending from our largest customer, Cisco, and strong significant growth for a number of its products and solutions, including competition in the routing, switching, access, and L4-7 spaces, and in the pioneering Spirent TestCenter platform, and an appreciably improved the VoIP and IMS markets.
The tougher competitive environment second half due to early intervention efforts to increase profitability.
resulted in pressure on pricing, particularly at our larger accounts.
However, the Divisions overall performance was dampened by market variability, intense competition, delays in technology upgrades and a Despite unpredictable market conditions, Broadband gained position significant decline in revenue for two established products.
with leading customers and strengthened its position in the growing security market with the acquisition of Imperfect Networks ThreatEx.
In 2006, Performance Analysis introduced many new releases and established a solid foundation for future profitable growth within the The majority of product development investment for Broadband went segments of 3G wireless, IMS and VoIP.
Several products had to launching new products and to positioning Spirent for the long term.
noteworthy results, including: Spirent TestCenter continues to make significant gains in the marketplace, including: Spirent TestCenter, which was the Groups highest revenue generating product in the fourth quarter: more than half of Spirent TestCenter customers are repeat buyers: Spirent Protocol Tester, which received two industry recognition a significant number of customer wins are at incumbent accounts of awards one of the ten Best In Test products for 2006 by Test & the competition: Measurement World and Product of the Year by Internet Telephony: our top 20 Broadband customers are using Spirent TestCenter: and our security test solutions Avalanche and ThreatEx the result of more than 200 customers are now using the new platform.
the acquisition of Imperfect Networks : Spirents Broadband customers are interested in driving significant Abacus, a leading VoIP testing solution: competitive advantage through faster time to market for new services launch of new Diversity product acquired as a result of the and products, deploying new services to tap into new revenue streams SwissQual acquisition, with subsequent key customer wins: and and seeking highly integrated solutions to reduce their footprint.
They understand that complex testing cannot be outsourced and that their the first test demonstration of a Galileo global positioning system.
resources for implementing complex testing are limited.
Development plans for Spirent TestCenter will deliver increased functionality, scale, ease 12 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2006 Business review continued of use and automation so that our customers can continue to improve Delays in customer decisions and spending on new solutions time to test, reduce the cost of testing and achieve a faster time to revenue continued throughout the year and competition remains strong as for their new products and services.
Spirent TestCenter architecture service assurance players vie for fewer customers and retention of is signicantly ahead of the competition and is designed to integrate incumbent positions due to market consolidation.
Carriers continue to new technologies moving forward to protect customers investments.
shift spending away from legacy networks as they deploy triple play offerings, however the current limited triple play subscriber base is Results for Performance Analysis Wireless Wireless mirrored that restricting the service assurance market.
of Broadband a combination of key market successes countered by market and product challenges.
Spirents overall CDMA business was Overall revenues were slightly higher for Service Assurance compared down due to a lull in the air interface evolution by network operators which to last year, due to the recognition of revenue from one-time projects led to the lack of a new technology catalyst for testing.
In the WCDMA for remote packet access testing in the first half of 2006.
Operating market, our gains in selling into GSM and WCDMA-based A-GPS mobile loss was 1.1 million compared with a loss of 10.8 million in 2005. device test applications were offset by declines in the RF test business.
The improvement in profitability is due to increased revenue and margin, coupled with the benefit of restructuring actions that took In the Mobile Device Test segment, where we hold a significant market place in the second quarter.
These actions allowed the division to share, we had a strong year for Location Based Services test in both the target a break-even position before share-based payment for the year.
Spirents Location Test Systems turned in a record-breaking year, driven by additional regulatory requirements for The revenue prole has remained comparable with the prior year, with handsets and growth in the deployment of commercial Location Based the majority of revenue coming from US service providers.
More than 60 per cent of Wireless R&D is focused on the from DSL equipment 20 per cent of total revenue was higher in 2006 WCDMA applications market, and Spirent continues to invest in its core due to increased customer demand.
Leased line revenue for service network emulator platform to improve feature capability.
Wireless also assurance products 50 per cent of total was down on 2005 as saw some modest continued growth in the simulator market for faders, anticipated as customers continued to move spending away from driven by the evolution of Mobile Input-Mobile Output technology, a key legacy service assurance solutions.
At the end of the year, Spirent saw activity Service Assurance has begun to see the results of its investment in in testing for Mobile TV begin to ramp.
This exciting industry promises next-generation services.
It secured a strategic contract with TELUS, to be a key area of focus for Spirent as mobile network operators deploy a leading provider of data, IP and wireless solutions in Canada.
The multi-media services in 2007. contract represents the first award for a full-scale triple play service Performance Analysis Positioning Positioning saw its third year of assurance solution.
It also demonstrates that the triple play market double-digit growth.
Of note, Positioning launched the worlds first is growing and that carriers understand service assurance solutions commercial Galileo simulator and secured key contracts for ofcial are needed before scaling services.
In addition, the Service Assurance Galileo programme business.
Galileo is expected to be a significant divisions new handheld eld test device, Tech-X, was approved and source of revenue in the future.
deployed at major North American customers.
Spirent entered into the Subscriber Experience Management SEM Service Assurance is focused on providing the right tools for service market segment as a result of its acquisition of SwissQual.
Here, Spirent providers to scale triple play services and ensure consumers quality experienced a significant impact from widespread industry consolidation, of experience.
Its portfolio includes software and hardware based reducing demand markedly.
In addition, there were substantial delays in centralised test and diagnostic solutions as well as handheld eld test purchasing decisions compared to previous years.
The Tech-X is the first all-in-one eld test solution that combines as well and drove increased pressure on pricing: whilst several testing of copper, xDSL and triple play services enabling eld technicians competitors merged to improve their market position.
Despite these to access the power of the central test and monitoring systems in the conditions, Spirent added an estimated 30 new SEM customers during eld.
Spirents triple play service assurance solutions allow service the year.
It launched a new product, Diversity, which was well received providers to get it right the first time, scale the service while managing by the market and gained traction with leading mobile network operators.
operating costs, and dispatch to x not to nd problems.
From the lab to the live network, Spirent is the only company that offers triple play Service Assurance solutions throughout the entire technology lifecycle.
In 2006, Spirents Service Assurance division stabilised its performance The Service Assurance division will continue to seek opportunities to amid significant market consolidation, secured important contracts for realise the potential of its existing baseline business while focusing its triple play service assurance and eld test solutions and delivered its investments on expanding its position in the triple play market.
a break-even result before share-based payment of 1.2 million, However, continuing delays in the roll out of triple play service marking a significant improvement over its performance in 2005. assurance solutions by our customers is likely to impact the timing of Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2006 13 deployment of our new centralised test products.
In the short term we these suppliers through audits and surveys.
Wherever possible our expect that revenue from legacy products will decline faster than the products are designed and manufactured to take account of the ramp up of revenues from our triple play solutions.
recycling and disposal of the product at the end of its lifecycle.
Our businesses comply with both The Waste Electrical and Electronic Systems Equipment Regulations the WEEE Regulations and The Restriction Restated Change million 2006 2005 % of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Regulations 2004 the RoHS Regulations.
Revenue 35.8 37.7 5 Operating profit 4.7 4.3 9 Where possible, business units monitor energy consumption and all Return on sales % 13.1 11.4 business units continue to take positive steps to reduce energy consumptions, such as better space utilisation and more efficient The Systems group comprises PG Drives Technology, a leading supplier running of equipment and machinery.
of control systems for electrically powered medical and industrial Environmental waste management in the Group continues to improve vehicles.
Revenue was down 5 per cent and operating profit up 9 per with most business units operating waste minimisation schemes cent, respectively.
Return on sales increased to 13.1 per cent mainly focusing on increased recycling.
compared with 11.4 per cent in 2005.
The vacant site where historic activity had led to minor land During 2006 we saw continued strong revenues from the VR2, a low contamination is continuing to be remedied with full cooperation of the cost, mainstream wheelchair control system that we launched in local statutory body.
second half of 2005, as well as growing market recognition for the R-net, our highly sophisticated rehab wheelchair system.
These new Employees products, together with our established ones, enabled us to increase The Group aims to attract, retain and motivate the highest calibre of customer penetration in both the mobility and industrial vehicles employees and encourages their contribution and development.
This was achieved in spite of continuing constraints in US government healthcare funding for powered An environment that fosters innovation and collaboration are critical wheelchairs.
We also moved more of our production to China to reduce to Spirents success.
Appropriate career paths and internal recognition the logistical costs of supporting our activities in the Asia Pacic region.
programmes are developed for both technical and non-technical staff.
At the end of 2006 we launched two new systems, X25 30 and Employees are provided with numerous learning and development Sigmadrive, targeted at heavier industrial vehicles.
These new products opportunities to full their potential.
A wide variety of both courses and will spearhead our entry into new industrial markets.
training materials are available to employees both in the classroom and via the intranet.
These development opportunities are structured Non-segmental costs to align with our organisational objectives and to help employees in Non-segmental costs, being those which are not directly attributable furthering their career aspirations.
to the operating segments, were 5.8 million compared with 5.5 million in 2005.
These costs relate to the costs of our Board and Spirent demonstrates that it values its employees through several costs in relation to our dual listing, including much of the costs of the reward and recognition programmes.
The Engineering Fellowship Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Programme honours the top technical talent within the organisation, connecting the best and the brightest of Spirents technical expertise.
Environmental The Spirit of Spirent programme tracks outstanding service using Good environmental practice and the impact that our operations have Spirents core values customer focus, innovation, collaboration, on the environment are of great importance to Spirent.
The main aim contribution, continuous learning and ethics.
This programme is of Spirents Environmental Policy is to comply with local, state and implemented across the Communications group to encourage and national environmental legislation in all jurisdictions in which we operate reward significant contributions to Spirent by employees.
Furthermore, and to adopt responsible environmental practices.
The full text of our the annual Innovation Awards programme recognises all facets of Environmental Policy is available on our website at www.
contributions to Spirent, including outstanding sales, technical innovations and general business innovations.
Business units are required to comply with Group policy and local statutory regulations and are encouraged to set their own environmental Similarly, the importance of two-way communication is recognised targets.
An annual environmental questionnaire is completed by each particularly as it relates to the business and its performance.
The business unit which highlights their environmental performance.
leadership team is responsible for providing forums for employees to understand the business objectives and to ask questions.
A variety of The vast majority of our products are now manufactured by outside tools are utilised to foster two-way communications, including management contract manufacturers and we check the environmental policies of 14 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2006 Business review continued meetings, all-hands employee meetings, the regular distribution of an process of consolidation for Spirents communications customers could employee newsletter, and the intranet.
In 2006 a revised induction reduce demand for Spirents products or could reduce the number of programme was implemented to orient new employees to Spirent and potential customers to whom Spirents communications testing to assure that they have the knowledge and tools to be successful.
products and services could be sold.
The consolidated entities could also purchase products and services from other sources or use the Leadership and management development programmes are regularly additional leverage they gain from their consolidated purchasing power reviewed and updated as the competition for talented employees increases to demand more favourable terms, which could harm the business, and the leadership needs of our business grow.
Formal performance operating results and financial condition of the Communications group.
reviews are conducted and are linked to the values of the organisation.
The Group is committed to providing equality of opportunity to all existing Customer base and prospective employees without unlawful or unfair discrimination.
In some businesses, Spirent relies on a limited number of customers, Full support is given to the employment and advancement of disabled which makes relationships with these customers, as well as the persons and this is reinforced through the Groups Ethics Policy.
success of those customers businesses, critical to the success of Spirents business.
The loss of one or more large customers could Principal risks and uncertainties harm the business, operating results and financial condition.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing Spirent Communications plc are discussed below.
Product quality Whilst Spirent strives to ensure its products are of the highest standards, Diversication in the event that products are defective, Spirent may be held responsible The Spirent Group now comprises two divisions: Communications and for the damages that result and the costs associated with recalling the Systems.
These divisions operate in different market segments for which, products themselves.
Spirents reputation with customers may be notwithstanding global economic factors, the financial performance damaged as a result of any such event.
Product liabilities or the costs of and prospects are impacted by different and unrelated factors.
The implementing a recall could hurt profitability, and the damage to reputation performance and prospects of the Spirent Group since the disposal if products prove to be defective could cause Spirent to lose customers.
of the HellermannTyton Division will be largely dependent on the Communications division and any diversication benefit which the Operational risks and systems Group has historically benefited from will no longer be available.
Operational risks are present in the Spirent Groups businesses.
These risks include, but are not limited to, the risk of failed internal and Communications sector external processes and systems including information technology Unfavourable conditions in the communications industry into which systems, human error and external events.
Such events could have the Spirent Group sells most of its products and services have affected an impact on the business, operating results and financial condition.
the Spirent businesses from time to time and may continue to do so.
A significant portion of Spirents communications operations are Any decline in demand for products and services that has had, and may located in California which has experienced natural disasters, including continue to have, an adverse effect on the results could further harm earthquakes, in the past.
A significant natural disaster, such as an the business, operating results and financial condition.
earthquake, could disrupt its ability to conduct business in the affected locations and could have a material adverse impact on business, Technological change operating results and financial condition.
The Spirent Group sells products and systems in several industries that are characterised by rapid technological changes, frequent product Competition and service introductions and evolving industry standards.
It believes The Spirent Group faces competition in all of its businesses.
that the continued success of the Communications business is To stay competitive these businesses will need to introduce successful dependent on its ability to advance next-generation technologies and new products and also may have to adjust prices of some products.
If the Communications business fails to extend its existing The business, operating results and financial condition may suffer if capabilities in the next-generation technology, the business, operating the Spirent Group does not compete effectively.
results and financial condition of the Communications group will suffer.
Operational review Industry consolidation The Spirent Communications plc Board is conducting an in-depth The communications industry has recently experienced significant review of the Spirent Group operations and the results of that review consolidation.
If this trend continues, the disruption caused by the Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2006 15 are not expected before the end of April 2007.
The major purpose of Any failure by Spirent to comply with applicable government regulations the Boards review is to decide where to focus the Companys resources could result in non-compliant portions of our operations being shut and how to be the most efficient and effective competitor in its chosen down, product recalls or impositions of civil and criminal penalties area of business.
However, there may be costs incurred by Spirent in and, in some cases, prohibition from distributing our products or taking certain measures which may be recommended as part of this performing our services until the products and services are brought review and such measures may also have a short term disruptive effect into compliance, which could signicantly affect our operations.
on the Spirent Group business, which could have a material adverse impact on Spirents business, operating results and financial condition.
Compliance with section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act If Spirent is unable to fide-register in the United States as intended, Spirent Retention of key staff will be required to comply with section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act Spirents success is dependent on attracting and retaining highly of 2002 for our Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ending qualied and skilled employees.
There is intense competition for 31 December 2006.
Section 404 requires that the Group evaluate and personnel from other organisations and the loss of key employees, or report on its systems of internal control over financial reporting.
In addition, the failure to attract and retain other highly skilled employees, may its independent auditors will have to report on managements evaluation impair Spirents ability to run and expand its business effectively.
In the course of such review and evaluation, deficiencies in the systems of internal controls over financial reporting may be identied Intellectual property that may require remediation.
Spirent can give no assurances that any While Spirent does not believe that any of its products infringe the such deficiencies identied may not be considered material weaknesses valid intellectual property rights of third parties, it may be unaware of that may have an adverse effect on the financial condition of the business intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of its or the ability to raise capital or other forms of finance in the future.
As a result Spirent could suffer litigation expenses or could be prevented from selling certain products Exchange rate as a result of third-party infringement claims.
Since Spirent conducts operations globally, a substantial portion of the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are denominated in various The success of Spirent depends in part on proprietary technology.
currencies, principally the US dollar and the pound sterling.
Because Should Spirent fail to maintain or enforce intellectual property rights, the reporting currency of the Group is pounds sterling, uctuations in or if competitors design around its technology or develop competing exchange rates, especially if the US dollar weakens against the pound, technologies, its competitive position could suffer and its operating could have a material impact on the reported results.
Forward-looking statements Business development activity This document includes forward-looking statements concerning Spirents The Spirent Group is subject to the risks associated with business business, operations and financial performance and condition.
Forwarddevelopment activity, including acquisitions and disposals.
The Spirent looking statements are based on current expectations and projections Group has made a number of disposals for which the Spirent Group about future events.
These forward-looking statements are subject to has retained liabilities either contractually or through representations, risks, uncertainties, and assumptions about the Spirent Group.
The warranties or indemnities that have not yet expired.
Although Spirent Spirent Group undertake no obligation to update publicly or revise any evaluates the financial impact of each transaction and conducts due forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future diligence, should unforeseen circumstances occur, such that previously events or otherwise.
Given these considerations, readers are cautioned unknown liabilities arise, or should erroneous assumptions have been not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.
used, the business, operating results and financial condition of Spirent could be adversely affected.
Possible volatility of the price of ordinary shares The market price of the Spirent Groups Ordinary shares is signicantly Regulation affected by a variety of factors, including but not limited to, changes The businesses are subject to various significant international, federal, in sentiment regarding the Spirent Ordinary share, variations in the state and local regulations currently in effect and scheduled to become Spirent Groups operating results compared with the expectations of effective in the near future, including but not limited to environmental, market analysts and investors, its business developments or those of health and safety and import export regulations.
These regulations are its competitors, the operating performance of its competitors or complex, change frequently, can vary from country to country, and have speculation about the Spirent Groups business.
Shareholders should increased over time.
Spirent may incur significant expense in order to therefore be aware that the value of the Spirent Ordinary share can go comply with these regulations or to remedy violations of them.
