Business review: Market and industry overview Regional market information industry revenue 2005 % The global market information 1 market was valued at around 14 Market information a growth industry 4 US $23.3 billion Revenue 45 in 2005 US$bn 36 25 23.3 21.9 19.2 20 16.9 2005 $bn 15 Europe 10.4 10 North America 8.3 Central & South America 1.0 5 Asia Pacific 3.3 Middle East & Africa 0.3 02 03 04 05 Market segmentation Market growth The market information industry comprises two main types Market research is a growth industry, currently estimated to be of research.
growing annually by around 4 5 per cent.
Its long-term growth potential is thought by most commentators to be Syndicated services ahead of that of the advertising industry.
Information is collected on a regular basis, mostly from continuous panels.
It is owned by the research provider and Regional growth rates sold to multiple clients.
Key attributes are: There are distinct regional variations in the pattern of market must-have data that provides a measure of the market growth.
Highest growth rates are to be found in Asia Pacific, higher barriers to entry higher margin than custom Latin America, Eastern Europe and Middle East and Africa.
research Of particular note is the growth rate in China, which was longer-term contracts typically between one and five 25 per cent in 2005 and is forecast to continue at around years: steady growth rates 10 per cent in coming years.
The more mature markets of the mainly consumer and media but increasingly used in other US, the largest single market in the world, and Western sectors.
Europe, are growing more slowly.
These regional trends can be expected to continue in the medium term.
Custom research Ad hoc or continuous contracts that are tailored to the needs Growth drivers of individual clients, who own the information.
Growth in market research is driven by a number of factors, Key attributes are: most of which provide particular opportunities to the major more discretionary but potential for faster growth in good providers of market information, as follows.
economic environment Globalisation and growth of emerging markets fragmented with less sustainable competitive advantage: As major multi-nationals seek growth in developing markets current market developments offer opportunities for major and take an increasingly global view of their marketing, they players to raise competitive barriers to entry look for high-quality multi-country information, collected and traditionally lower margin than syndicated: should benefit analysed using consistent methodology.
from cost efficiencies, including those delivered by online access panels and off-shoring Sector specialisation basic data collection becoming more commoditised but Continued growth in demand for research from technology, with growing focus on quality financial services, media and healthcare businesses.
increased emphasis on added-value services.
14 TNS annual report 2006 Business review Top 10 market information companies share of global market 100 Market information Top 10 75 Rank Company Quoted holding company 2005 revenue $m 58% 1 The Nielsen Company 3538 50 2 TNS Taylor Nelson Sofres 1819 44% 36% 3 IMS IMS Health 1755 25 4 Kantar IIC WPP Group 1475 5 GfK GfK Group 1314 1992 1998 2005 6 Ipsos Ipsos 894 7 IRI 625 8 Synovate Aegis 602 9 Westat 420 10 Arbitron Arbitron 310 Source: Company announcements, translated by TNS at average rates: Honomichl Top 50 Source: ESOMAR Global Market Research 2005 report Demand for analysis networks, there has been significant consolidation in the As they look for increasingly complex data analysis and industry, although it remains less consolidated than other insight, clients increasingly outsource this to their market marketing services sectors.
Industry body ESOMAR estimates information suppliers.
that the Top 10 market research companies represented 58 per cent of the market in 2005, compared with 36 per cent Rapid market change in 1992.
TNS believes there will be further consolidation in the Markets and customer loyalties are changing faster than ever industry, as market developments continue to favour the before, thus becoming more complex and difficult to predict.
This is leading to an increased reliance on market information and, in particular, a growing demand for predictive services Impact of technology and off-shoring on and trend watching.
budget allocation Clients are aware of the opportunities for cost reduction in Impact of media fragmentation data collection presented by technology and off-shoring and Changing patterns of media consumption, including are demanding lower pricing in this area, with increased convergence of telecom and entertainment services, present participation of procurement departments.
As evidenced by significant challenges to advertisers.
This is fuelling an ongoing market growth, this is not leading to a reduction in increased demand for market information services, particularly overall budgets, as volume of work commissioned increases in the areas of advertising effectiveness, ROI information on and clients are allocating additional spend to the areas of advertising services, brand power and customer brand insight and analysis.
There is also a demand for new services to measure viewing of digital media.
Supplier rationalisation Demand for global services and increased insight and analysis is leading to a rationalisation by major multi-national Industry developments organisations of their market information suppliers.
The trend is for these organisations to develop partnership relationships As in most industries, the market has been subject to major with the few companies that have the scale and expertise to change over the past few years and the pace of change is meet their needs.
Most of these developments are, and will continue to be, positive for the major players such as TNS that have the People skills scale and geographic spread to benefit from these trends.
As clients seek additional levels of insight and analysis, the skill sets required by market information companies are changing Consolidation and they are having to adapt their HR policies accordingly.
As the major companies have sought to build worldwide Business review TNS annual report 2006 15
