16 telent Annual Report 2006 Business and Financial review Overview Disposal of businesses to Ericsson: launch of telent The financial year ended 31 March 2006 was a year of further significant change for the Group.
In January 2006, we substantially completed the disposal of our Telecommunications Equipment and International Services businesses to Ericsson, generating proceeds of 1.3 billion and a net profit on disposal of 752 million after fees and other transaction-related costs.
Work is ongoing to complete legal formalities associated with the sale of related shares and assets in a few overseas jurisdictions.
Cash proceeds from the Ericsson transaction were higher than anticipated in the shareholder circular principally as a result of the retention of additional liabilities by telent, mainly the obligations relating to deferred and active members of the Continuing business under the German pension fund and UK creditors.
The Marconi name was sold to Ericsson as part of this transaction and, on 24 January 2006, the Company was renamed telent plc.
As a result of the Ericsson transaction, we have reorganised our continuing UK and German service activities into one coherent business.
This business has retained much of the deep technological expertise contained within Marconi but is able to discuss solutions with customers with complete independence from any particular equipment type.
Many of our customers see value in this type of relationship.
The business is structured into two operating segments, one working with Telecommunications Network Operators Telco Services and the other focused on Enterprise customers including Governments and utilities Enterprise Services.
The services provided to operators include the installation and commissioning of new and replacement networks, installation, maintenance and repair of cable, maintenance and support of third party equipment operating in live communications networks, and the support of the installed base of System X exchanges.
17 telent Annual Report 2006 The services provided to Enterprise customers include the installation At 31 March 2006, we recognised 50 million of our total 444 million and commissioning of new and replacement networks, complete of deferred tax assets on the balance sheet 394 million not turnkey project management, supply and build of networks, whole recognised.
These tax assets are available to cover most of telents life cost-based network supply and support, and maintenance of profits for the foreseeable future.
UK Pension Fund The transaction with Ericsson involved the sale of assets in the majority In the UK, telent retained responsibility for the G. E. C. 1972 Plan of the countries in which Marconi operated.
telent has retained most the UK Pension Plan, which has around 64,000 members.
of the legal entities in these countries, which are now subject to a By contrast, telent currently employs around 2,100 people.
As part of rationalisation programme, managed by a small dedicated team, the Ericsson transaction, and required by the Plan Trustee and Pensions and which we anticipate will be largely completed over the next two Regulator, to protect the entitlements of UK Pension Plan members, financial years.
185 million of cash was injected into the UK Pension Plan, and an additional 490 million was put into an escrow arrangement for its By 31 March 2006, we employed approximately 2,100 people in five potential benefit.
At 31 March 2006, the UK Pension Plan had a surplus countries with 85% of the employees based in the UK.
The vast majority of 6 million on an IAS 19 basis excluding the 490 million in escrow.
of our employees are mobile, with 400 employees based in Coventry, The Trustee has recently put in place inflation and interest rate hedging our largest location in the UK, and 100 in Backnang, our largest and, taking this into account, we announced on 2 August that as at location in Germany.
30 June 2006, the UK Pension Plan had an IAS 19 deficit of 102 million.
Outlook for Continuing Operations The cash in the escrow, which is secured in favour of the UK Pension We aim to position ourselves as a leading communications services Plan, is available to meet any funding plan agreed between telent and business focused on the telecommunications and enterprise markets the Trustee to meet a deficit on an IAS 19 or Pension Protection Fund in the UK and Germany.
With our accumulated knowledge of fixed basis.
Cash can only be released from the escrow to telent if, in the networks and integrated communication systems, coupled with our future, the UK Pension Plan achieves a funding level of in excess of significant UK field force and project delivery capabilities, underpinned 105% on a buy-out basis.
by robust safety and quality management, the business is well positioned to exploit opportunities in our chosen markets.
telent has also retained pension obligations in Germany unfunded liability of 69 million and the US surplus of 4 million.
Further details Actions have already been taken since the launch of telent to downsize of all retained pension plans are set out in note 35 on pages 63 to 68. the remaining cost base to a structure suitable for supporting the continuing business.
Approximately 75% of the revenues we forecast for the current financial year will come through orders already booked at 31 March 2006 or from existing frame contracts.
Our main contracts include: a four-year cable services frame contract with BT ending in June 2008: our Tube Lines upgrade and maintenance contract continuing until 2018: a multi-year frame contract with Network Rail ending in 2009: our O2 Airwave GBNR contract for which the implementation element completes in 2007: our TollCollect contract in Germany, which continues until 2010: and a new installation & commissioning frame contract with Ericsson.
We have experienced a significant increase in bidding activity for new opportunities across all Enterprise sectors, particularly in Emergency Services and Transportation.
We are also positioning telent to play a key role in the 2012 Olympic Infrastructure development and believe that we have a strong competitive advantage both from a geographical and capabilities perspective.
At 31 March 2006, telent had long-term provisions of 89 million relating mainly to litigation, environmental issues and restructuring as well as 76 million of tax liabilities.
We estimate the cash cost relating to these items, legacy pension issues and the unwind of retained creditors in the current financial year ending 31 March 2007 to be approximately 80 million.
18 telent Annual Report 2006 Business and Financial review continued Enterprise Services comprises the provision of a broad portfolio Review of Financials of services ranging from consultancy through to whole-life turnkey management for enterprise network customers particularly in the This Review of Financials should be read in conjunction with telent plcs Government, transportation, emergency services and utilities sectors audited results for the year ended 31 March 2006. in the UK and Germany.
Continuing Operations Continuing Operations comprises two of our five operating segments: Our Enterprise Services offering covers consultation, design, Telco Services and Enterprise Services.
implementation, maintenance and operational support of mission critical integrated communications infrastructure and systems.
Our Telco Services offering covers a broad range of services for fixed, These systems include transmission equipment copper fibre radio, mobile and multi-vendor networks including: telephones, public address, customer information visual displays, i Network Build providing infrastructure build, installation, passenger assistance, closed circuit television, private mobile radio, commissioning and decommissioning of networks equipment, road tolling and command and control systems.
new service introduction, service migration, network optimisation The main customers of our Enterprise Services segment are and integration services.
in alphabetical order Deutsche Bahn, EDS, General Dynamics, Krone Toll Collect, Network Rail, O2 Airwave, and Tube Lines.
ii Network Support and Maintenance providing support and maintenance for multiple vendors equipment through technical 2006 2005 Continuing Operations million million support, on-site maintenance and spares and repairs management, Revenue 312 331 as well as remote monitoring and management of customers Cost of sales 239 250 live networks.
Gross profit 73 81 iii Infrastructure Services providing cable installation and repair, Operating costs before restructuring & litigation items as well as maintenance and modernisation services for operators and share option costs 46 52 access networks and telephone exchanges, plus project management Profit from Continuing Operations before of associated civil works.
restructuring items, pension & litigation settlements and share option costs 27 29 iv System X Service and Support providing System X software builds Share option costs 7 26 which provide additional functionality for the installed base of Profit from Continuing Operations narrowband System X switches as well as maintenance and support before restructuring items, pension & services under a number of existing multi-year support contracts litigation settlements 20 3 with UK operators.
Restructuring items, pension & litigation settlements 11 The main customers of our Telco Services segment are UK Profit from Continuing Operations 31 3 telecommunications operators including in alphabetical order BT, Revenue from Continuing Operations amounted to 312 million in Cable & Wireless, Ericsson, ntl, Thus and T-Mobile UK.
BT is our largest the financial year ended 31 March 2006 compared to 331 million in customer and accounted for 48% of revenues from Continuing the previous year.
A reduction in revenues from UK Telco and Enterprise Operations in the financial year ended 31 March 2006 2005: 60%.
customers was partially offset by growth in the German market.
Following the disposal of our equipment business to Ericsson, we are In the UK, the reduction was primarily due to higher levels of System X Ericssons preferred services partner in the UK and a further 2% of our hardware and software revenues under Last Time Buy orders in the revenues from Continuing Operations in the period January to March previous year as well as lower revenues from our Payphones business 2006 related to services provided to BT via Ericsson.
now disposed and APT now closed.
During the financial year ended Telco Services also includes the results of our Payphones business 31 March 2006, the UK accounted for 83% of revenues from sold to Teknowledge in March 2006 and the results of our loss-making Continuing Operations by territory of origin 2005: 89% and subsidiary, Albany Partnership Ltd APT, which we closed Germany 17% 2005: 11%.
Gross profit from Continuing Operations reduced from 81 million 24.5% of sales in the financial year ended 31 March 2005 compared to 73 million 23.4% of sales in the year ended 31 March 2006.
This was driven mainly by the reduced volumes of legacy System X hardware and software within Telco Services as well as the completion of a high-margin long-term contract in the Government sector within Enterprise Services in the previous year.
In addition, gross profit in Telco Services included contract accrual releases of approximately 5 million, described in more detail in the segmental discussion below.
19 telent Annual Report 2006 Operating costs before restructuring items, pension & litigation In the financial year ended 31 March 2005, we saw a significant settlements and share option costs reduced from 52 million to volume of orders and sales for System X hardware as we announced 46 million.
We recorded savings across all areas of operating a Last Time Buy programme and phased out manufacturing, and in expenditure compared to the prior year, particularly in central general addition, completed major network resilience and other software build and administrative functions as a result of headcount and other cost programmes for BT.
During the financial year ended 31 March 2006, reduction programmes.
We also benefited from the release of provisions we initiated a new three-year software support programme for BT.
held within our captive insurance company 2 million as a result of an As previously disclosed, we expect sales of legacy telecommunications actuarial review performed at the end of the year.
equipment and services such as System X to be phased down over the next five years as our customers focus investment on next In the year ended 31 March 2006, 7 million was charged to profit from generation networks.
Continuing Operations in respect of share options 2005: 26 million.
The 7 million in the current year mainly comprises the IFRS 2 fair value Revenue from Infrastructure Services was impacted by the phasing charge of 9 million, less a 2 million credit in respect of option lapses of activities under our long-term contract with BT, with completion during the year.
The share options charge is much lower in the year of a major network assurance programme completed early in the ended 31 March 2006, compared to the year ended 31 March 2005, financial year.
mainly because option tranches 1 to 3 vested during the year ended Growth in revenues from Network Build activities compared to 31 March 2005, and tranche 4 vested in August 2005. the previous year was driven by increased sales to UK customers Restructuring items, pension & litigation settlements within Continuing for broadband access and Local Loop Unbundling projects where Operations amounted to a net credit of 11 million.
During the year, we we successfully secured new business with BT and other UK recognised a 14 million settlement gain in relation to the termination telecommunications operators and internet service providers, of one of our US post-retirement medical benefit plans and a further including Cable & Wireless.
6 million curtailment gain in our UK Pension Plan as active members We have recently secured two contracts directly with operators transferred to deferred status, partly as a result of headcount reductions to provide a complete range of services in support of Local Loop and also due to the disposal of businesses to Ericsson.
These pensionUnbundling activities, which are currently growing in significance related gains totalling 20 million were partially offset by restructuring within the market.
We expect to see continued growth from this costs relating mainly to the expected costs of employee severance under area in the current financial year.
previously announced headcount reduction programmes 7 million, and a net 2 million increase in provisions for litigation and indemnities.
In addition, as Ericssons preferred services partner in the UK, we have This was mainly the result of the creation of provisions for claims signed a new two-year frame contract, which covers provision of received during the year from former employees in the US and CALA installation, commissioning and maintenance services for the former region, partially offset by the release of provisions relating to disposals Marconi product base.
We continue to build on our strong relationship completed in prior years following the successful settlement of all with Ericsson and believe this positions us well to pursue further outstanding claims from the purchaser at a lower level than opportunities in the wider Ericsson space.
In September 2005, we successfully secured new business from a large As a result of the factors above, profit from Continuing Operations cable operator to support the roll out of a multi-vendor metro ethernet improved from 3 million in the financial year ended 31 March 2005 transport network across the UK.
The contract covers provision of build, to 31 million in the financial year ended 31 March 2006. installation, commissioning and integration services as well as technical consultancy for network design and planning.
Continuing Operations segment review The results of our operating segments within Continuing Operations We recorded a 2 million improvement in segment result before share are set out below.
option costs year on year.
Reduced contribution arising from the lower volumes of System X software and hardware was offset by reduced Segment result is set out in note 4 to the audited accounts.
losses in our Payphones business.
Despite the reduced volume of It includes the segments share of the Groups corporate costs Infrastructure Services, we benefited from improved business mix and share option costs.
with a higher proportion of cabling activity than civil works.
Telco Services The segment result of Telco Services included contract accrual releases 2006 2005 of approximately 5 million.
These accruals were released following Revenue m 198 223 managements latest assessment of expected costs under Telco Services Segment result before share option costs m 21 19 contracts, which has reduced compared to the previous level of recorded Segment result before share option costs % 10.6 8.5 accruals as a result of strong cost control, project and risk management.
Share option costs m 5 18 Segment result m 16 1 Three main factors contributed to the 25 million reduction in revenues from Telco Services compared to the previous year: i a lower level of System X software and hardware revenues: ii reduced revenues from Infrastructure Services: and iii reduced revenues from Payphones now disposed and APT now closed.
20 telent Annual Report 2006 Business and Financial review continued Included within the results of Telco Services are 12 million of revenues In Germany, in addition to the one-off sale of spares stock under 2005: 17 million and a 1 million operating loss 2005: 4 million our ongoing long-term maintenance contract with Toll Collect, we operating loss relating to our Payphones business now disposed and recorded an increase in revenues from German utilities.
driven in particular by a specific project for EON to provide product and installation services to support the creation of a multi-site Enterprise Services communications network.
2006 2005 Revenue m 114 108 The completion of the high-margin Government sector service contract Segment result before share option costs m 6 10 in the UK was the primary driver behind the reduction in segment Segment result before share option costs % 5.3 9.3 result before share option costs in Enterprise Services compared to Share option costs m 2 8 the previous year.
Segment result m 4 2 Other financial items During the year, we reassessed the value of our 50% shareholding Increased revenues in Germany drove top-line growth within Enterprise in Plessey Holdings Ltd. Based on our latest view of the companys Services, more than offsetting a drop in UK revenues.
environmental and litigation exposures, we have released a 6 million In the UK, we successfully completed two major long-term contracts provision previously held against our investment, which has been early in the financial year, the West Coast Main Line contract with recorded as a credit under share of results of joint ventures in Network Rail and a network build and maintenance contract in the the income statement.
Government sector, and consequently recorded significantly less revenue under these contracts compared to the previous year.
Investment income of 160 million comprised an expected return on pension scheme assets 139 million, interest received 20 million This was partially offset by higher revenues in the Roads sector following and a gain on foreign currency cash deposits 1 million.
a significant increase in additional projects completed as variations to Finance costs of 143 million related mainly to notional interest on our existing long-term Roadside Communication System Regional pension scheme liabilities.
Maintenance Service contracts with the UK Highways Agency.
In addition, we recorded initial revenues under our 13-year 150 million Disposal of available for sale investments of 4 million related contract to support Tube Lines Rail Communications Network mainly to the sale of the majority of our investment in Retelit SpA.
signed in January 2005, which we are delivering with our partners At 31 March 2006, the Group had deferred tax assets totalling Amey Infrastructure Services.
This contract covers the upgrade and 444 million.
Following the disposal of businesses to Ericsson, the maintenance of the communications infrastructure on all stations on directors are of the opinion that the anticipated level of profits over the Jubilee, Northern and Piccadilly lines of the London Underground.
the next three financial years supports the recognition of 50 million The project is now fully mobilised and is expected to contribute of the total 444 million.
Accordingly, we have recorded a tax credit in increasing revenues for the Enterprise Services segment over the relation to deferred tax assets of 50 million during the financial year.
This is discussed further in note 12 to the audited accounts.
In January 2006, we signed a major new contract with O2 Airwave, Discontinued Operations with an estimated value of approximately 36 million, for the provision Discontinued Operations comprises the results of our of secure mobile backhaul for its emergency services network.
We will Telecommunications Equipment and International Services activities begin to recognise revenue under this contract in the financial year sold to Ericsson in January 2006.
In the year ended 31 March 2005, ending 31 March 2007.
Discontinued Operations also included the results of our Outside During the past six months, we have secured a number of trackside Plant & Power OPP business, sold to Emerson in August 2004. infrastructure upgrade contracts with Network Rail Westinghouse Discontinued Operations were organised into three operating segments, Signals, coupled with an increase in orders placed against our five-year Optical & Access Networks, Data Networks and Other Network Network Rail Communication System and Equipment frame contract.
For the year ended 31 March 2005, we have also separately disclosed information relating to OPP.
We have also secured frame contracts with EDS and General Dynamics to provide design and installation services for the Ministry of Defence Revenues from Discontinued Operations amounted to 666 million Information Infrastructure Services contract DII.
Initial revenues compared to 1,006 million in the previous year.
The year-on-year were recorded during the financial year ended 31 March 2006, reduction reflects the impact of business disposals.
Revenues from our with a significant increase expected in the current financial year.
Telecommunications Equipment and International Services businesses in the financial year ended 31 March 2006 reflect nine months of trading prior to disposal to Ericsson effective 1 January 2006 compared to a full 12 months of trading in the previous year 2006: 666 million, 2005: 939 million, while revenues from OPP are included until its disposal in August 2004 2006: nil, 2005: 67 million.
21 telent Annual Report 2006 We recorded a profit of 663 million from Discontinued Operations in Liquidity, capital resources and working capital the financial year ended 31 March 2006.
This comprised a net profit Net cash at 31 March 2006 amounted to 739 million, of which on disposal of businesses to Ericsson after fees and other transaction 2 million is presented within Assets held for sale.
This compared related costs of 752 million offset by i a net operating loss of to 334 million at 31 March 2005.
61 million for the first nine months of the financial year including Restricted cash balances of 568 million are included in the total cash restructuring items and litigation settlements 44 million and legacy balance at 31 March 2006.
This relates primarily to cash held in an provision releases 19 million : ii a tax charge of 24 million relating escrow account owned by telent but secured in favour of the Trustees mainly to tax charged on the profit on disposal: and iii a net interest of our main UK Pension Plan 490 million and other amounts relating charge of 4 million.
mainly to collateral held against bonding facilities, cash retained within We announced two major restructuring programmes in the UK during our captive insurance company, and amounts deposited in a High Court the financial year as well as programmes in certain overseas territories, escrow account for the protection of creditors not schemed as part of resulting in a 34 million restructuring charge within Discontinued the Groups financial restructuring in 2003.
Operations relating to the associated headcount reductions and site The Group recorded a 303 million net cash outflow from operating closures.
In addition, we recorded an 11 million charge to cover the activities comprising a 164 million net cash outflow from Continuing impairment of IT systems no longer required within telent following Operations and a net cash outflow of 139 million from Discontinued the disposal of businesses to Ericsson.
These were partially offset by Operations.
The net cash outflow from Continuing Operations a 1 million credit to cost of sales relating to the manufacturing comprised the 185 million voluntary contribution to the UK Pension outsourcing arrangements we had in place within our European Plan, 14 million cash generated by operations after movements in supply chain, now transferred to Ericsson.
working capital, tax refunds of 13 million and restructuring cash Provision releases of 16 million mainly related to the successful spend of 6 million.
settlement of legacy litigations at amounts lower than previously We recorded a significant movement in working capital across estimated, and the reassessment of environmental and litigation the Group during the year, attributable primarily to a 128 million exposures relating to disposals completed in prior years.
The 119 million profit from Discontinued Operations in the year As part of the disposal of businesses to Ericsson, all debtor and creditor ended 31 March 2005 resulted from a net profit on disposal of our balances at 31 December 2005 relating to the disposed businesses were OPP business after fees and other transaction related costs of transferred to Ericsson, with the exception of debtors and creditors in 103 million and a tax credit of 28 million relating mainly to the the UK, which were retained by telent.
release of tax provisions in respect of prior years following progress in resolving historic US and UK tax issues.
These were partially offset by Three main factors contributed to the overall movement in creditors: i a net operating loss of 8 million including a 9 million charge for i the one-off settlement of creditors previously accounted for as restructuring items and litigation settlements: and ii a net interest inter-company and which became external creditors upon transfer to charge of 4 million.
The 9 million charge comprised employee Ericsson: ii a significant reduction in the level of creditors in the UK and severance costs offset by recoveries from stock, which had been Germany as a result of the reduced business volumes following disposal previously written off and a release of excess litigation provisions of the equipment businesses to Ericsson: and iii a reduced level of following full and final settlement of all outstanding claims under advance payments compared to the previous year.
Advance payments the previously disclosed Telcordia lawsuit.
were particularly characteristic on service contracts in our US Data Networks business, now sold to Ericsson.
Key performance indicators In order to assist in the management of the business and to provide Movements in working capital within Continuing Operations resulted in evidence of achieving its strategies, the Board regularly reviews a a 17 million cash outflow.
Inventories reduced by 5 million as a result number of key financial performance indicators.
These are as follows: of the previously disclosed one-off sale of spares stock to Krone under our long-term services contract in Germany Toll Collect.
Receivables 2006 2005 Continuing Operations million million increased by 22 million largely as a result of extended business terms Revenue 312 331 agreed with BT under our Cable Services frame contract and the Profit from operations excluding restructuring items phasing of sales during the financial year with a particularly high level and pension & litigation settlements 20 3 of invoicing achieved in March 2006.
The increase in payables of Net cash flow from operating activities 5 million related mainly to the receipt of rental income 12 million before restructuring items and pension & paid in advance from Ericsson in relation to sites in Backnang Germany litigation settlements 80 11 and Genoa Italy retained by telent and leased to Ericsson under agreements signed upon completion of the business disposal.
This was partially offset by contract accrual releases of 5 million as previously disclosed.
22 telent Annual Report 2006 Business and Financial review continued The Group recorded a net tax cash inflow of 7 million during the year.
Pensions and other retirement benefits A 13 million inflow in Continuing Operations was offset by a 6 million Our net pension scheme deficit at 31 March 2006 amounted outflow in Discontinued Operations.
Tax refunds of 14 million were to 59 million compared to 230 million at 31 March 2005. received as historic audits were settled.
Tax payments of 7 million The 171 million decrease was primarily due to a voluntary contribution included 3 million in relation to territories where we have no of 185 million into the UK Pension Plan along with the disposal of tax loss coverage and payments on account that will be refunded.
overseas pension liabilities to Ericsson.
Additionally, 4 million was paid in the US to settle historic tax audits.
The geographical split of our net pension scheme deficit at We incurred total Group cash spend of 38 million during the year 31 March 2006 was as follows: which related to severance payments and other costs associated with million our restructuring programmes as well as payments made to settle a UK 6 number of litigations and other legacy issues, particularly in the US.
Germany 69 Of the total spend, 6 million was incurred within Continuing US 4 Operations and 32 million within Discontinued Operations.
Total 59 Group cash flow from investing activities was a net inflow of Actuarial assessments of our defined benefit pension scheme liabilities 1,287 million and related mainly to net cash proceeds from the disposal and valuation of our pension scheme assets were undertaken at of businesses to Ericsson 1,291 million after payment of professional 31 March 2006.
The actuarial assumptions for the UK Pension Plan fees and other transaction related costs this excludes the 12 million are set out below: advance payment received from Ericsson relating to rental income, At 31 March At 31 March 2006 2005 which was recorded within operating cash flow described above.
UK Pension Plan % % Capital expenditure of 29 million related mainly to investment in Inflation assumption 2.75 2.75 IT systems for Finance and HR as well as Optical and SoftSwitch Discount rate 5.00 5.50 engineering models prior to the disposal of our equipment businesses Rate of general increase in salaries 4.25 4.25 to Ericsson.
Of the total inflow of 1,287 million, 22 million related to Rate of increase in pensions in payment 2.75 2.75 Continuing Operations and 1,265 million to Discontinued Operations.
Rate of increase for deferred pensioners 2.75 2.75 Rate of credited interest 2.50 2.50 The 587 million cash outflow from financing activities related mainly to the special dividend payment 590 million partially offset The assumption adopted in respect of the expected mortality of the UK by proceeds from the exercise of share options 6 million both Pension Plan members is based on the experience analysis carried out for recorded within Continuing Operations 584 million.
In addition, the most recent formal valuation, updated for experience to 31 March within Discontinued Operations, we recorded a net 3 million 2004.
In addition, telent also recognises that improvements in longevity repayment of borrowings prior to disposal of all existing loans as are likely to continue and has made a further allowance for this within part of the Ericsson transaction.
the IAS 19 liabilities at 31 March 2006.
The UK Pension Plan experience will continue to be monitored at successive plan valuations and will Balance sheet inform the Groups choice of assumptions for accounting purposes.
The decrease in goodwill from 390 million at 31 March 2005 to 42 million at 31 March 2006 resulted mainly from the transfer of The German plan discount rate was reduced from 4.50% at 31 March goodwill associated with our Telecommunications Equipment and 2005 to 4.00% at 31 March 2006 and mortality assumptions were International Services businesses to Ericsson upon completion of the updated in line with the latest official mortality tables Richttafeln disposal.
The balance at 31 March 2006 relates to the UK services 2005.
In the US, mortality assumptions were also updated.
The movements in the Group pension scheme deficit since 31 March Long-term provisions decreased from 145 million at 31 March 2005 2005 are summarised in the table below: to 89 million at 31 March 2006.
Of this decrease, 36 million resulted million from the transfer of provisions to Ericsson upon completion of disposal.
Net pension scheme deficit at 31 March 2005 230 Other significant movements in long-term provisions during the Current service cost 16 financial year included a net charge of 42 million to cover costs of Contributions and benefit payments 207 our restructuring programmes 46 million provisions created offset Settlement and curtailment gains on announced UK redundancies 2 by 4 million release and other provision releases of 26 million.
Settlement gains on Ericsson deal 64 These related mainly to the successful settlement of legacy M&A and Settlement gain on termination of US post-retirement medical plan 14 employee litigations at amounts lower than previously estimated, Other finance charge 5 and the reassessment of environmental and litigation exposures Actuarial losses 93 relating to disposals completed in prior years including General Foreign exchange 2 Domestic Appliances, Avery Berkel, Express Lifts and Optical Net pension scheme deficit at 31 March 2006 59 Components 17 million.
This also includes provision releases relating to our captive insurance company following the latest actuarial assessment 2 million.
In addition, we released provisions in respect of share option lapses and as a result of reduced national insurance accruals triggered by the fall in the Groups share price during the year 2 million.
23 telent Annual Report 2006 One of the most significant movements was a net actuarial loss Service costs, plan contributions, benefit payments and net finance costs of 93 million, which has been accounted for in the Consolidated have been recognised in accordance with the actuarial assumptions set Statement of Recognised Income and Expense SORIE for the at the beginning of the year and published as at 31 March 2005.
The key elements of the net Financial risk actuarial loss are as follows: As part of its ordinary activities, telent is exposed to a number of million million financial risks, including liquidity risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, UK foreign exchange risk and insurance risk management.
A summary Gain on plan assets 156 of the principal impacts on the Group is set out in note 40 to the 1 Experience loss arising on scheme liabilities 35 audited accounts.
Loss from reduction in discount rate 5.50% to 5.00% 188 Other risks and uncertainties 67 As a service company with a large field force working in challenging US environments there are a number of other risks and uncertainties that Loss on plan assets 3 1 could have an impact on the Groups future performance.
The most Experience loss arising on scheme liabilities 3 significant risks can be categorised into two areas: Loss from change in mortality assumption 5 11 i Market risk telent is a major supplier of telecommunications Germany services to a number of large customers.
A shift in customer strategy 1 Experience loss arising on scheme liabilities 2 towards insourcing of their telecommunications services could have Loss from increase in inflation rate assumption 2 a significant impact on our business.
We therefore focus on diversity Loss from reduction in discount rate 6 both within our market sectors and customers within the sector, Loss from change in mortality assumption 3 offering a range of services from more basic services right through 13 to more complex and sophisticated services.
It is unlikely that such Italy a significant change would be realised across this diverse group of 1 Experience loss arising on scheme liabilities 1 sectors or services within a sector.
We also regularly monitor our Loss from reduction in discount rate 1 competitors positioning and approach to ensure we remain current 2 and cost competitive.
Total SORIE movement for the 12 months ended ii Business operations telent operates in a number of demanding 31 March 2006 93 environments, including tube and main line railways, highways, 1 Reflects differences between actual and expected plan membership experience, see below.
motorways and customer telephone exchange buildings.
We have A 50 basis point reduction in discount rate was adopted for our a field force working 24 hours per day in these environments, UK, German and Italian plans as at 31 March 2006, resulting in a sometimes using sophisticated heavy equipment.
Safe working 188 million actuarial loss in the UK Pension Plan where the discount practices are extremely important to protect everyone affected by rate reduced from 5.50% to 5.00% and actuarial losses of 7 million our activities.
We have highly developed quality and safety processes in our German and Italian plans.
In accordance with IAS 19, the discount within our business and are regularly audited by professional bodies rate is set at the balance sheet date with reference to the recorded yields and our customers, where specifically necessary.
We have long at that date on high quality corporate bonds of equivalent currency and established working practices and controls to minimise damage duration as the plan liabilities.
A further assumption loss of 8 million was recorded as new standard Going concern mortality tables were used to value our US and German plans.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and have therefore Assets delivered a return of 13.59% in the UK Pension Plan for the used the going concern basis to prepare the statutory accounts.
The actual return on assets exceeded expectations by 156 million in the UK Pension Plan, which partially offset the impact of changes in actuarial assumptions.
The actual return on assets in our rest of world plans was under expectation by 3 million.
An experience loss of 35 million was recorded in the UK Pension Plan, which reflects differences between plan membership experience and demographic assumptions for the UK Pension Plan e. g. average retirement age, level of leavers.
The assumptions have been aligned with the assumptions adopted by the UK Pension Plan Actuary for use in the latest triennial valuation of the UK Pension Plan, which is being undertaken as at 5 April 2005.
The UK Pension Plan Actuary has confirmed that there is no reason to expect that the assumptions made will alter when the final valuation results are published.
A further experience loss of 6 million was recorded in relation to our rest of world plans.
During the 12 months ended 31 March 2006, we recognised a curtailment gain of 6 million in the UK Pension Plan in relation to our previously announced headcount reductions in the UK as well as the transfer of UK members now employed by Ericsson from active to deferred members.
We also recognised a settlement gain of 14 million in the AB Dick post-retirement medical and life plan in the US as we have notified all members of the termination of this plan.
