Business review: Production and Development 2006 was a year of delivery: successful key development projects achieved our year end target of 75,000 boepd: UK operating capability delivered record gas production and facilities uptime: and business development significantly enhanced the Groups portfolio.
Development projects on schedule and providing continued production growth Enhanced operating capability with a strong focus on safety, the environment and our neighbours 89% reserves replacement, with total commercial reserves and contingent resources now exceeding 500 mmboe Delivery of key objectives in 2006 Challenging external environment 2006 was dominated by the production of Whilst the commodity pricing environment first oil and gas from several of Tullows key has been strong, leading to increased ability developments.
The most significant project to commercialise our oil and gas assets, it has was Okume, which produced first oil in been countered by a tight and inflationary December.
This US$1.2 billion development contractor environment.
In 2006, despite is performing ahead of expectations and significant inflationary pressures on our field is now well on its way to delivering around operating costs we managed to maintain our 10% of Tullows production by early 2008. cost of production below 2005 levels.
This has The Tullow operated Bangora development been achieved by strong cost management, in Bangladesh delivered first gas in May 2006, but more importantly on more optimal use only 18 months after the field was discovered.
of our infrastructure by increasing throughput In Africa, the West Espoir development and synergies.
This will continue in 2007 delivered first oil in July and is now enhancing where operational synergies, especially in the value of the overall Espoir area.
The strong the Espoir and Ceiba Okume projects, will operational performance of our UK portfolio have a greater impact.
resulted in record levels of gas production at an all time peak of pricing in the UK gas market.
Overall we continued to deliver on 11% our objectives of strong reserves replacement and ongoing production growth.
increase in average annual production to 64,720 boepd.
The management of key developments, producing assets and exploration drilling Competition increased for new assets activities was performed with a strong focus and licences during the year and Tullows on costs, operational safety and minimisation entrepreneurial approach, combined with of our impact on the environment.
This our diverse portfolio of assets, enables us resulted in lower operating costs, against to meet this challenge.
Recently we have a backdrop of an inflationary contractor seen lead times for future developments market, combined with an excellent safety significantly increase.
To address this industryand environmental performance despite wide problem we have enhanced our skills significantly expanded operations.
10 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Production by core area boepd Total reserves and resources by core area mmboe 2006 29,532 33,418 1,770 2006 80 405 21 2005 24,414 33,623 413 2005 91 248 19 2004 20,500 19,200 900 2004 57 251 19 Europe Africa South Asia Europe Africa South Asia Sales revenue by core area m 2006 307 268 4 2005 180 265 1 2004 116 108 2 Europe Africa South Asia in medium to long-term operational planning Continued growth and delivery in 2007 and improved our capacity to share resources Our extensive and balanced portfolio of Production and across our global asset base.
opportunities has assisted Tullow in development managing the recent changes in both the Strong operating capability and team 22 producing fields global contractor market and the UK gas Tullow has built a highly skilled team of 120 licences, 22 countries pricing environment.
Tullow prioritises operational management and technical financial and operating flexibility and specialists, and despite the competitive undertakes a structured and rigorous process Challenges employment environment, we continue of project and prospect evaluation to ensure Improve asset performance and to attract and retain excellent people.
The effective allocation of funds at any point in the ongoing strengthening of the team and extend field lives cycle.
Thus for 2007, we will have a greater improvements to our organisational structure focus on funding and resources, mainly in Maintain quality and diversity help to guarantee that we have the capacity Africa and South Asia, until the anticipated of portfolio to continue to expand our business, whilst improvement in pricing and the contractor ensuring that existing operations and environment occurs in the UK gas market.
Deliver production and developments are executed on schedule, reserves growth to budget and in a manner that is safe Our ability to continue to access and drive and environmentally aware.
development activity across our portfolio is Retain the ability to adapt to the central to our continued growth.
In 2006 this external environment was achieved through exploration success, the addition of new licences and the 85,000 boepd Hardman acquisition, which gives the Group Skills and opportunities significant opportunities in Uganda and targeted level of production by year end.
Clear Management of EHS Mauritania.
The portfolio of resources and assets that Tullow has built over recent years performance across the business Operational control of strategic assets is expected to continue to deliver strong A key element of our strategy is to enhance Strong operational team and production and development growth in 2007. our operational control or influence over operating capability to drive key assets.
Our SNS and South Asia performance portfolios are well balanced in this regard and our focus is now on achieving a similar Maintaining production growth balance in the Africa core area.
This includes and asset enhancement acquiring African licences as operator where possible, direct operational control of Kudu Continuing to build the portfolio Paul McDade, Chief Operating Officer and gaining control and operatorship of the and deliver development strategically important Block 2 in Uganda, a opportunities key element of the rationale for the Hardman acquisition.
This block will be central to all oil developments in the Lake Albert Rift Basin, and we have already integrated it into our operational structure to ensure early production from recent discoveries.
Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 11
