10 VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Business Review Showing exceptional delivery in key areas Business Review The following review highlights the significant aspects of the Groups business and is prepared solely to provide additional information to shareholders to assess the Companys strategies and potential for success.
It should not be relied on by any other party or for any other purpose.
Long-term Strategy Vedanta is a diversified non-ferrous metals and mining group with principal operations in India, Australia and Zambia.
The Group primarily produces aluminium, copper, zinc and lead.
A detailed analysis of each business is set out in the Operations section.
The key strengths of the Groups businesses are: world-class resources and integrated operations: a strong competitive position in the growing Indian and Asian markets: managements track record in and ability to: turn around and optimise underperforming businesses: improve operational efficiencies and drive down the costs of production: Results for the Year ended implement green-field and brown- 31 March 2006 field projects on time at capital costs lower than industry G:K:CJ:H 6C9 :7 I96 GDLI b aa dc standards: %%% GZkZcjZ a well-balanced commodity portfolio: %% a strong pipeline of expansion :7 I96 projects: and %%% a highly talented and empowered ' %% young management team with '%%% entrepreneurial skills.
& %% The Groups goal is to create a world- &%%% class metals and mining business and %% to generate strong financial returns.
% The Group is pursuing this by: '%%' '%% '%% '%% &&, optimising the performance of existing assets by debottlenecking plants, continuously improving efficiency and lowering costs of production: VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 11 Aluminium rolling at BALCO completing growth pipeline projects Underlying Profit has increased to of 4% compared with the previous year.
within budget and on time: $373.5 million from $140.1 million and The new Korba plant has achieved consolidating the Group structure EPS, based on Underlying Profit, to production of 14,000 tonnes in March and continuing to increase its 130.2 US cents per share from 48.9 US 2006.
However, as a result of power ownership in the underlying cents per share.
plant tripping due to stormy weather in businesses: and the third week of May 2006, the pot-line leveraging established skills by Capital employed increased by $529.7 was destabilised.
Efforts to stabilise the seeking further growth opportunities million during the year on account of production from disrupted pots are in India and outside India where we capitalisation of expansion projects and ongoing.
These will be stabilised along can add value.
the consequent increase in working with the commissioning of all pots capital.
Despite this increase, ROCE progressively by the second quarter of The developments and progress made before capital work in progress the current financial year according to on various aspects of operations in increased to 37.9% from 32.0% in the our present assessment.
As a result of 2005-06 is detailed below.
previous year mainly due to improved this, overall production is estimated to productivity and higher prices.
As all the four G:K:CJ: H: B:CI6I DC 6C6ANH H '%% units of the new power plant ramped up Operations ahead of the smelter, we exported 6ajb c jb &' Aluminium surplus power to the local grid during 8deeZg cY V & The Aluminium Business comprises two the year and will continue to do so until 8deeZg OVbW V &.
O cX ' companies, BALCO and MALCO.
BALCO all of the pots are stabilised.
Di]Zgh is a fully integrated producer with its own bauxite mines, a captive power Despite better capacity utilisation and plant and refining, smelting and higher output, the unit costs of BALCOs fabrication facilities at Korba in Eastern existing plant rose to $1,497 per tonne India.
MALCO is also a fully integrated during the current year from $1,347 per :7 I96 H: B:CI6I DC 6C6ANH H '%% producer with two bauxite mines, a tonne in the previous year, on account of captive power plant and refining, increased power costs due to a change 6ajb c jb &' smelting and fabrication facilities at in coal mix and higher coal prices, 8deeZg cY V '% Mettur in Southern India.
coupled with an increase in the input 8deeZg OVbW V &.
O cX - prices of caustic soda, fluoride and Di]Zgh & This year was a milestone for our carbon, etc: impacting the industry.
We Aluminium Business as the BALCO will continue to debottleneck and expansion project comprising the new further improve output, which will 250,000 tonne aluminium smelter with partially mitigate the trend of rising associated 540 MW captive power plant input costs.
Unit costs of MALCO have Group revenue doubled to $3,701.8 came on stream.
This project was also been affected by similar factors, million and EBITDA at $1,101.5 million completed in record time from groundincreasing to $1,671 per tonne from increased by 142.6%, compared with the breaking in May 2003 to the start of $1,466 per tonne.
Operating profit at $943.8 commissioning in May 2005.
By March million was also higher compared to 2006, 216 pots and all four units of the The unit costs of BALCOs new plant $328.0 million in the previous year.
power plant were progressively were $2,045 per tonne.
During the year These increases were due to higher commissioned.
The production of alumina was sourced from third party volumes from expanded facilities, better 70,000 tonnes from the new smelter and vendors at an average cost of $1,160 per prices across all metals and a full year overall good performance of existing tonne of metal produced.
Other contribution from the operations at KCM.
facilities resulted in a higher output of manufacturing costs were $885 per Operating costs were generally in line 211,000 tonnes, an increase of 55.1% tonne.
These costs are progressively with our expectations at all Businesses from the previous year.
reducing with the increase in volumes, except the Copper Business in Zambia.
stabilisation of operating parameters The existing plants at BALCO and and efficient running of the captive EBITDA margin increased to 29.8% from MALCO have performed well and have power plant and we expect these to 24.1% in the previous year mainly due to operated to full capacity during the year, stabilise towards the end of the year.
higher prices and product mix.
producing 141,000 tonnes, an increase 12 VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Business Review continued Left: Zinc-Lead mine at Rampura Agucha, India Right: Copper smelter at Tuticorin, India We expect a gradual softening of Honourable Supreme Court of India Tuticorin in Southern India, a refinery alumina prices during the year.
sub-committee regarding certain and two copper rod plants at Silvassa in environmental aspects in 2004.
After Western India and a copper mine at We continue to focus on improving the due process of investigation and Tasmania in Australia.
KCM is a large sales mix in terms of a higher tonnage deliberation, on 3 February 2006, the integrated copper producer operating of value added products such as rolled Honourable Supreme Court of India three copper mines, a smelter, a products, which rose by 31% during passed an order that the Ministry of refinery and a tailing leach plant the year to 46,000 tonnes, thereby Environment & Forests MOEF should in Zambia.
We started consider this matter and submit its exporting during the year to, amongst report to the Forest Advisory Copper India Australia other countries, South East Asia and Committee.
The next hearing is We completed the expansion of the the Middle East.
We will continue to expected to take place in July 2006 and Tuticorin smelter to 300,000 tpa during develop these and other markets as we are hopeful of an early resolution of the year and quickly ramped up the the production from our new smelter the matter.
From the third quarter ramps up.
onwards the smelter has been The green-field 500,000 tpa aluminium operating at its capacity of 75,000 Revenues in the Aluminium Business smelter and associated 1,215 MW tonnes per quarter.
We produced increased by 60.8% to $453.0 million, captive power plant in Jharsuguda, 273,000 tonnes of cathodes, an increase with EBITDA at $135.3 million, an Orissa, to be built at an investment of 58.7% from the previous year.
From increase of 79.0% from the previous estimated at $2.1 billion, was approved these, we produced 167,000 tonnes of year.
The increase in revenue and by the Board in December 2005.
This copper rods, an increase of 33.6% from profitability was mainly due to better project will be implemented in two the previous year.
We continue to focus volumes, improved product mix and phases of 250,000 tpa each.
on increasing the production of copper higher LME prices which were about Construction of the first phase, rods which was 61.2% of the total 14% higher than that in the previous including five units of the 135 MW each production.
These factors have more than captive power plant, is expected to be maintenance shutdown of the Tuticorin offset the higher alumina prices for the completed in the second half of 2009. smelter for a period of 21 days in April new Korba smelter and other input The second phase comprising the 2006 has been completed and the costs, and the reduction in import tariff remaining four units of the captive smelter is back on line.
on aluminium from 10% to 7.5% which power plant is expected to be completed became effective in March 2006. by the end of 2010.
This investment Despite higher energy prices, unit includes the cost of the smelter, conversion costs decreased to 6.1 Work on the $800 million alumina associated power facilities and all cents lb from 7.1 cents lb in the project at Lanjigarh, Orissa is necessary infrastructures including previous year on account of higher progressing well.
This includes a 1.0-1.4 a railway network, water pipelines and volumes, better recovery of metal and million tpa alumina refinery with an a township for employees.
Activities improved realisation of by-products.
associated captive power plant and related to the ordering of critical bauxite mines.
For the refinery and equipment and regulatory clearances We exported 165,000 tonnes of copper power plant, the delivery of major has commenced.
Design engineering cathodes and copper rods, 60.4% of equipment, vessels and materials are and other pre-construction activities production, against 89,000 tonnes in the on schedule, with constructive activities are also in progress.
Exports included 79,000 in full swing.
We expect the mechanical tonnes of copper rods against 56,000 completion of the refinery and power Copper tonnes in the previous year.
The Middle plant by the end of the second quarter The Copper Business consists of three East, China, Japan, Philippines and of the current financial year and, major operations: the Sterlite smelter in Thailand are our key export markets thereafter, we plan to start India, the CMT copper mine in Australia and we continue to develop a larger commissioning activities using bauxite and the KCM operations in Zambia.
customer base for the export of sourced from third parties.
Sterlite is the leading copper producer copper rods.
Sterlites copper operations In respect of the mine, there have been include a smelter, refinery, phosphoric On the back of strong market public interest submissions to the acid plant, and copper rod plant at conditions, TC RC realisation increased VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 13 Anode casting at Tuticorin copper smelter, India substantially to 23.1 cents lb, from 8.6 While import tariffs on copper were were closed and the processing plant cents lb in the previous year.
The effect reduced from 10% to 7.5% which was disposed of during the year along of stronger TC RC globally in the first became effective in March 2006, with associated liabilities.
half of the year was felt mainly in the the effect was negligible due to a second half.
We see that a softening of corresponding reduction in import Copper Zambia TC RC terms is likely to be reflected in duty on copper concentrate to 2% from Copper cathode production in the year future settlements.
Duty assistance on the export of was at 164,000 tonnes, out of which make good progress in our strategy copper is equivalent to import duty on 110,000 tonnes was from the Nkana of securing long term contracts copper concentrate.
smelter and the balance of 54,000 with mines.
tonnes was from the tail leach plant.
CMT produced 30,000 tonnes of copper Mined metal production in the year was Revenues at the Copper Business in in concentrate during the year, an 99,000 tonnes.
On the back of strong India Australia more than doubled to increase of 8.7% over the previous year commodity prices, revenues at the $1,537.9 million, with EBITDA of $219.0 production due to operational Copper Business in Zambia were $703.4 million, an increase of 151.7% as efficiencies and improved grade.
million for the year with EBITDA at compared to the previous year, Australian mines contributed a total of $206.3 million.
primarily on account of significant 34,000 tonnes during the year including increase in the LME copper prices by marginal production from TCM in the Overall production performance at KCM approximately 37% over the previous first half of the year which accounted was not up to our expectations largely year.
The increase in EBITDA was for about 11 % of total concentrate due to the low head-grade in the ore attributable mainly to better TC RCs, requirements of the Indian copper which affected concentrate production, improved product mix and a reduction smelter operations.
Operations at TCM lower acid soluble feed for the tailing in overall unit costs of production.
leach plant and lower equipment availability throughout all operations.
Mining operations at the open pit were also affected in last quarter of the financial year due to adverse weather conditions.
14 VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Business Review continued The Group has 23,000 employees, of which 4,000 are professionals in engineering, business management, human resources and finance.
Unit costs of production including sinking of a new shaft, widening an The new hydro smelter at Chanderiya mining were at 127.9 cents lb for the existing downcast shaft, installing a and the associated 154 MW coal-based year, compared to 106.2 cents lb for the new headgear, establishing a new captive power plant were commissioned five-month period in the previous year.
pumping station to expand copper ore in the year and ramped up on time and Apart from lower output, the main mining operations and 6 million tpa below budget.
The new smelter factors contributing to the increase in concentrator.
All approvals from the produced 71,000 tonnes of zinc in the unit costs were the appreciation of Zambian government for KDMP have year, operating close to its rated about 30% in the Zambian kwacha, been received.
The project is due for capacity in March 2006.
The total zinc local wage increases, and a higher completion in late 2009 and activities metal output during the year was expenditure on plant maintenance and for ordering of major infrastructure 284,000 tonnes, an increase of 34.0% higher crude and sulphuric acid prices.
compared with the previous year.
We produced 472,000 tonnes of mined We have taken steps to reduce After a detailed feasibility analysis, metal content, an increase of 33.0% operating costs by increasing capacity the concept of the augmentation and from the previous year, primarily due to utilisation and improving the efficiency smelting capacity has been modified to increased output from Rampura Agucha of existing plants and the new sulphur establish a new smelter at the Nchanga Mines post-expansion.
The Zinc based acid plant.
Better recovery from mine premises with a capacity of business posted excellent all round the smelter and availability of improved 250,000 tpa.
This shift in location will results on account of higher volumes grade from the Konkola mine will give us an advantage in terms of from mines and smelters, controlling further help in reducing costs of locational synergies and savings in of costs and high LME prices.
transportation costs of the acid to the Upgrading of tank houses at the tailing tail leach plant and for concentrate Unit cost of production was at $691 per leach plant, better slag management, from KDMP.
After this, the overall tonne, which is marginally lower than stabilisation of cranes and furnace, and smelting capacity at KCM will increase the previous years level of $695 per replacement of the CT hood and mouth to 400,000 tpa, which will enable us to tonne.
During the year, cost reduction at the Nkana smelter will enhance the treat concentrate from other mines over as a result of various positive plant availability and output.
Similarly and above that from our captive mines.
improvement measures in terms of for the Konkola and Nchanga mines, The overall project cost of this smelter, volumes, productivity, and savings in we are making efforts to improve the including the associated facilities, is procurement costs, were offset by plant availability, debottlenecking their now estimated at $280 million and is higher LME linked royalties impacting capacities and improve the operating expected to be completed by mid 2008. costs adversely by $35 per tonne.
With parameters to enhance mined The technology contract has been the progressive stabilisation of volumes metal output.
signed with Outokumpu and further from the new plant, costs of production tenders for detailed engineering have improved appreciably towards the last During the year, we have commissioned been released and the process of shortquarter.
the sulphuric acid plant and achieved listing the vendors has started.
This will increase our We sold 323,000 tonnes of zinc metal in captive capacity of acid by 180,000 tpa Zinc the year, 11.8% more than the previous which will help in reducing our The Zinc Business is operated by HZL, year, with the additional output coming dependence on acid procurement from the third largest integrated producer in from tolling activities.
We maintained a external parties at higher prices and the world.
HZLs zinc operations include leading position in the domestic Indian thus reduce our overall costs for tailing three lead-zinc mining complexes, one market, which accounted for about 96% leach plant production.
lead-zinc smelter and two zinc smelters of sales, and we exported small in the state of Rajasthan in North West quantities to develop the potential in the The KDMP expansion project will India and one zinc smelter in the state of nearby markets.
With double-digit increase the copper ore output from the Andhra Pradesh in South East India.
growth in the domestic market, we will Konkola mine by 4 million tpa to 6 HZL has a smelting capacity of about continue to sell most of our output million tpa at an estimated cost of $400 400,000 tpa of zinc metal and 85,000 tpa domestically.
In addition to refined zinc million.
This project includes the of lead metal.
metal, we also sold 195,000 dry metric VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 15 An ariel view of the Rampura Agucha Zinc-Lead mine tonnes, of surplus zinc concentrate in Others People the year, having zinc metal content of The Groups other activities include an We have invested in developing our about 100,000 tonnes.
aluminium conductor business, which is organisation, processes and people to a division of Sterlite consisting of two support and sustain a growing business Revenues at the Zinc Business rose to power transmission aluminium of global size and stature.
The Group $875.5 million from $486.4 million, an conductor plants.
has a SBU-based flat organisation increase of 80.0%, with EBITDA for the structure to promote empowerment, year at $532.9 million, up from $218.5 During the year we sold 57,000 tonnes wider ownership and a higher degrees million, an increase of 143.9% of conductors an increase of 14% from of commitment and accountability.
Our compared with the previous year.
Revenues were hands-on participative management increase in revenues is due to metal $132.0 million, an increase of 30.2% style and the involvement of top volumes and increased LME zinc prices from the previous year, mainly due to an management continue to strengthen which were 46% higher than the increase in aluminium prices.
EBITDA our operational architecture and value previous year.
The increase in EBITDA increased to $8.0 million mainly due to system down to grass-roots level.
was mainly attributable to better increased profitability in the conductor A robust performance management volumes and realisation and partly to a business attributable to increases in system that aligns organisational reduction in unit costs of production.
aluminium prices and lower costs.
and individual goals sustains the The import tariffs on zinc were reduced development of employees and from 10% to 7.5% which became Group Structure the organisation.
effective in March 2006 and tariff on We continue in our endeavours to lead remains the same at 5%.
acquire the outstanding minority stakes in BALCO and KCM.
Upon completion of A new ausmelt lead smelter was these two transactions, we will have commissioned in early February 2006 further consolidated our ownership in and is expected to achieve its rated the Aluminium and Copper Businesses.
This has increased capacity from 35,000 tpa to 85,000 tpa of lead metal at the Chanderiya lead zinc smelter.
We announced a second 170,000 tpa smelter to be built at Chanderiya, identical to the hydro smelter recently commissioned also at Chanderiya.
Activities related to ordering and regulatory clearances have commenced.
60% of ordering and 80% of engineering is now complete and preconstruction activities are in full swing.
The smelter and the captive power plant are expected to be commissioned by early 2008.
16 VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Business Review continued the fruits of success must be shared with the employees.
The Group has 23,000 employees, As the Group charts an aggressive and Exploration of whom 4,000 are professionals in determined course of action to grow The clear focus of exploration within engineering, business management, rapidly and achieve ambitious targets, the Group is to deliver resources which human resources and finance.
It is a each employees contribution will be a enable Vedanta to meet and sustain its core belief for the Group to attract, key ingredient for the success of the long-term metal production growth develop and retain high quality talent to Group.
In this sense, the key to objectives.
The core commodities for produce top quality results.
The Group unlocking the phenomenal potential exploration are copper, zinc and bauxite.
considers all management positions to that lies ahead of Vedanta rests with During the year, exploration focused on be leadership positions where people each one of our employees.
Group identifying and delineating near-mine are expected to make a meaningful management has a strong belief that resources which have the potential to contribution in their respective work the fruits of success must be shared add significant value to our existing areas as well as the organisation as a with the employees.
Towards this mining operations, whilst also building whole.
There is a well-defined process objective we have a unique programme a portfolio of green-field opportunities for the career development of called the Long Term Incentive Plan particularly in zinc.
The most significant employees whereby challenging designed to create wealth for our success was increasing the resources assignments with commensurate employees.
Under this plan, a large at depth below the Rampura Agucha responsibilities are given to deserving proportion of our employees are zinc deposit in Rajasthan, India.
The employees, even at a young age.
covered and they stand to benefit Group continues to increase the from the superior performance of allocation of resources and funds the Company reflected in higher in the field of exploration.
shareholder return in comparison with its peers.
Sustainable Development We remain committed to managing our Businesses in a socially responsible manner.
The management of environment, employees, health and safety and community issues, in respect of our operations is central to the success of our Businesses.
Our commitment to quality, health, education and livelihood opportunities for the communities where we operate has been consistent and progressive.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 17 In 2006-07, we expect to have higher Awards and Recognition Future Outlook production from our expanded Our pursuit of excellence in all areas The current growth in the global copper, capacities.
Volume growth and of our business has been widely aluminium and zinc markets is productivity, and process improvements recognised.
We won the 2005 consistent with that in 2005-06 and through the use of modern tools such Recognition of Commitment award from markets are expected to be healthy in as six-sigma are expected to continue to the Institute of Internal Auditors, USA.
Growth in all these metals improve our cost of production.
This award values three attributes, will primarily be driven by Asia and excellence, quality and outreach and emerging markets such as China and Our new projects are also progressing recognises our demonstrated strengths India.
Real Indian GDP has grown at an well and we expect will be delivered on and continued focus on assurance average rate of 6% per annum over the schedule, thereby adding to volumes practices and process improvements, last ten years and is now growing at progressively until 2009-10, consistent making us the only manufacturing almost 8%.
The Indian Government has with growing demand.
Once these company out of four companies in India continued its focus on investment, job projects are completed our capacities in to have ever received this award.
creation, rural development, copper, aluminium and zinc will be closer infrastructure growth, employment, to our vision of 1 million tpa in each of In the areas of HSE, there have been a health and education with requisite these metals.
This increase in volumes number of landmarks during the year, stress on comprehensive economic will ensure growth and relative insulation including the following: reforms.
Industrial growth in India has from changes in commodity cycle.
Tuticorin copper smelter received risen by around 10% per annum and the British Safety Council award similar growth levels are expected to for 2005. continue.
Investments in the power Rampura Agucha mine received the generation and transmission, housing, National Energy Conservation Award real estate, automobile and transport for 2005 in the mining sector from sectors are expected to drive future the Ministry of Power, Government.
growth for copper, aluminium and zinc of India, the first ever given under into double-digits, thus increasing the this category.
per capita consumption of these metals.
The Confederation of Indian Industries CII has awarded the Sterlite copper operations the National Award for Excellence in energy management.
MALCO received the first place for excellent water efficiency at a national level and third place for leadership and excellence in HSE in Southern India, awarded by CII for 2005.
