V VIIC CT TR RE EX X p pllc c Annual Report & Accounts 2006 03 Annual Business Review B Bu us siin ne es ss s o ov five er rv viie ew w 30 countries worldwide.
Our team of dedicated marketdevelopment, sales and technical support professionals work with VICTREX plc is an innovative world leader in high performance customers around the world offering assistance in new application materials through the manufacture of VICTREX PEEK polymer, development, product performance data and processing support.
a high performance, easy to process thermoplastic.
VICTREX PEEK has a unique combination of chemical, wear, S St tr ra at te eg gy y a an nd d o ob bjje ec ct tiiv five es s electrical, hydrolysis and temperature resistance, as well as excellent Victrexs strategic objectives are to: dimensional, mechanical and chemical stability combined with inherent purity and low flammability.
Achieve sustainable earnings growth: Deliver new solutions to meet end users evolving application End users specify VICTREX PEEK to reduce systems costs, improve requirements through product and technology innovation: part performance, exploit greater design freedom and create a differentiated application.
VICTREX PEEK is used across a broad Continually improve customer satisfaction through superior range of applications in diverse markets including transport, product quality and customer service and innovative application industrial, electronics and medical.
Invibio, Victrexs biomaterials solutions: business, provides specialised solutions for medical device Achieve the highest appropriate standards for the supply chain manufacturers.
in terms of capacity, operational efficiency, safety, health and environment SHE performance and quality and, The Groups headquarters are in the UK where its manufacturing facilities are based.
This is complemented by a global network of Maximise employee motivation and performance.
sales, distribution and technical centres that serve more than K Ke ey y p pe er rf fo or rm ma an nc ce e iin nd diic ca at to or rs s The Victrex Board monitors a number of financial and non-financial performance indicators to assess the Groups performance against its strategic objectives.
Of these performance indicators, the key performance indicators KPIs are: A Ar re ea a K KP PII T Ta ar rg ge et t A Ac ct tu ua all 2 20 00 06 6 A Ac ct tu ua all 2 20 00 05 5 Financial performance Five year compound Sustainable earnings 15.2% 16.2% annual growth rate growth in basic EPS New application Commercialised Delivery of sufficient 517 new 475 new development applications new commercialised applications with applications with applications to 345 tonnes 351 tonnes underpin growth of MAV of MAV Supply chain Capacity Delivery of sufficient Current capacity - 2,800 Current capacity - high quality capacity tonnes per annum.
2,800 tonnes to meet demand Final delivery of a per annum further 1,450 tonnes per annum scheduled for Autumn 2008.
Health & safety Reportable injuries 0 0 0 Environment Reportable incidents 0 1 1 Employees Voluntary staff Minimise 5.2% 4.3% turnover Further information with respect to our financial performance, new application development and supply chain is set out below in this Annual Business Review.
Further information with respect to SHE and employees is set out in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 24 to 26.
04 V VIIC CT TR RE EX X p pllc c Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Annual Business Review continued F Fiin na an nc ciia all r re es su ullt ts s principally reflecting the ongoing investment in additional capacity.
Taxation paid was 12.4m 2005: 9.9m as a result of These results are the first to be published under International increased profits.
The main effects of the transition from UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles At the year end, the Group had net cash of 26.9m 2005: UK GAAP to IFRS were set out in our 2005 Annual Report 15.7m.
The Group has a committed bank facility of 40m, all and are detailed in note 25. of which was undrawn at the year end.
This facility expires in September 2008.
Gross profit increased by 32.3% to 75.8m 2005: O Op pe er ra at tiio on na all r re ev viie ew w 57.3m, representing 61.9% of revenue 2005: 56.8%.
This significant gross margin improvement was driven by reduced M Ma ar rk ke et ts s cost of sales arising from last years acquisition of certain BDF Total sales volume increased by 18.6% to 2,339 tonnes 2005: operations the key raw material from which VICTREX PEEK is 1,972 tonnes with second half volume of 1,226 tonnes 2005: produced.
984 tonnes up 10.2% on first half volume of 1,113 tonnes These numbers include revenue of 3.8m 2005: 2.2m 2005: 988 tonnes.
relating to third party sales by a small, low margin fluorides Of our three principal market segments, industrial sales volume business acquired as part of the BDF acquisition.
As this does was up 21.6% at 761 tonnes 2005: 626 tonnes, largely due to not represent a strategic business for Victrex, we have increasing demand from US oil and gas and chemical processing implemented a closure programme which will be completed in customers and European demand for industrial machinery the first half of 2007.
Accordingly, we have provided for applications.
Second half sales of 414 tonnes were up 19.3% associated redundancy and infrastructure costs of 0.8m in the on the first half of 347 tonnes.
Group gross profit excluding this business Electronics sales volume increased by 18.1% to 658 tonnes amounted to 76.1m 2005: 56.9m, representing 64.1% of 2005: 557 tonnes as a result of increased semiconductor and revenue 2005: 57.7%.
Second half sales volume of 344 Sales, marketing and administrative expenses increased by tonnes was 9.6% above the first half of 314 tonnes.
34.6% to 30.7m 2005: 22.8m as we have continued to Transport sales volume grew by 12.1% to 619 tonnes 2005: invest in product development and sales and marketing 552 tonnes as a result of increased automotive sales in Europe resources for both the main VICTREX PEEK business and Invibio, and commercial aerospace volume in the United States.
The the Groups biomaterials business.
second half sales of 305 tonnes were in line with the first half Profit before tax increased by 30.8% to 46.1m 2005: 35.3m 314 tonnes.
and basic earnings per share were up 31.8% at 39.4p 2005: Europe, our most established region, continued to show strong 29.9p.
Compared with the previous year, exchange rates have growth across all market segments with sales volume at 1,196 had an adverse impact of 0.4m on profit, principally due to a tonnes for the year, up 23.4% on 2005 969 tonnes.
Second weaker US Dollar partially offset by a stronger Euro.
half volume 640 tonnes was 15.1% up on the first half The overall effective tax rate is 31.0% 2005: 32.2%.
performance 556 tonnes partly as a result of increased electronics sales to European processors for use in Asia-Pacific D Diiv viid fide en nd d applications.
In recognition of this strong performance, the Directors are recommending a final dividend of 10.2p per ordinary share At 724 tonnes, United States volume was 19.1% up on 2005 2005: 9.3p, making a total of 14.4p per ordinary share for the 608 tonnes due to increased demand in the oil and gas, year 2005: 12.0p.
This represents an increase of 20% over last chemical processing, aerospace and semiconductor segments.
year and dividend cover of 2.7 times.
Second half sales volume of 376 tonnes was up 8.0% on the first half 348 tonnes.
C Ca as sh h f fllo ow w Cash flow generated from operations increased to 54.8m 2005: 37.4m primarily as a result of improved trading.
Capital expenditure cash payments amounted to 21.5m 2005: 6.0m V VIIC CT TR RE EX X p pllc c Annual Report & Accounts 2006 05 M Ma ar rk ke et t s se eg gm me en nt t T Tr ra an ns sp po or rt t VICTREX PEEK delivers an excellent combination of APPLICATION AREAS properties that make it the material of choice in a wide Transmissions range of transportation applications.
In the automotive Heating, ventilation and air-conditioning systems industry, increased performance requirements such as Jet engines higher operating temperatures, size reduction and Avionics demands for lower production costs continue to drive increased usage of VICTREX PEEK.
Gears Fuel line protection WHY VICTREX PEEK?
Engines Metal replacement Structural parts composites Ease of processing Sensors Systems cost savings Brakes Outstanding mechanical performance over a wide Steering temperature range Suspension Impact strength Excellent fatigue properties Outstanding resistance to chemicals, solvents and fuels Excellent wear performance Increased design and processing flexibility ranging from injection moulding and extrusion to coatings and solution membrane casting Friction resistance 06 V VIIC CT TR RE EX X p pllc c Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Annual Business Review continued Asia-Pacific sales volume increased to 419 tonnes, up 6.1% on We commenced sales of high performance films based on 2005 395 tonnes as we consolidated our position in this region VICTREX PEEK directly to end users and fabricators.
This has after three years of very strong growth.
Second half sales volume begun to develop the market ahead of a wider initiative for 2007 210 tonnes was in line with the first half 209 tonnes.
As noted driven by strong industry interest and supported by Victrexs above, these volumes do not reflect sales to European processors investment in our own film manufacturing facility currently under for use in Asia-Pacific applications and we continue to believe that construction on our main UK site at Thornton Cleveleys, this region offers excellent growth potential in the medium term.
This facility is due for completion in Spring 2007 at an estimated capital cost of 5.3m.
We are developing a number of IIn nv viib biio o applications based on VICTREX PEEK film in areas such as Invibio has had another excellent year with revenue of 15.4m, aerospace insulation and flexible printed circuits, and have showing an increase of 40.5% over 2005 11.0m.
This reflects commercialised applications in high performance speakers and continued sales growth of the PEEK-OPTIMA family of electronic substrates.
implantable polymers and sales of recently launched products such To further extend the potential uses for our materials, we launched as ENDOLIGN composites and PEEK-CLASSIX polymer.
the VICTREX T-Series of polymers, the first product family During the year we entered into 35 additional PEEK-OPTIMA introduced by Victrex not entirely based on VICTREX PEEK polymer.
polymer long-term supply assurance agreements with implantable This product, a blend of VICTREX PEEK and Celazole PBI, extends medical device manufacturers.
We have achieved further the performance range of our materials into even more penetration of strategic end use markets including spine, demanding temperature and wear applications such as high arthroscopy, dental, orthopaedic, trauma, urology and speed compressors and components for semiconductor wafer neurostimulation.
Invibio received Frost & Sullivans 2005 Product Innovation of the While new product innovation continues to open up new markets, Year Award for polymeric materials in the medical implant market.
other investments globally underline our commitment to emerging This award recognised Invibio for the introduction of new market areas.
We opened our first dedicated technical centre biomaterials, valuable regulatory approval expertise and for outside the UK, the Asia Innovation and Technology Center collaborating with key market players for medical device AITC, based in Shanghai.
The AITC is focused on delivering innovation.
application solutions rapidly to regional and global customers, to keep pace with their increasing demands.
Since opening in June We have continued to invest in our business with the construction 2006, the Center has already become very active, with many of a new Invibio Global Technology Centre in the UK due for customer seminars, technical programmes and visits already completion in Spring 2007 and the establishment of a presence in completed.
In addition, our AITC based technical team are helping Asia-Pacific with a new sales office and dedicated personnel.
Longto drive new semiconductor application developments.
term implantable devices utilising PEEK-OPTIMA polymer have now been approved in China, Taiwan, Korea, India, Australia and Japan.
In our more traditional industries and geographies, we are seeing expansion of both our applications and our customer B Bu us siin ne es ss s d fide ev five ello op pm me en nt t base.
Reduced systems cost, improved safety and reduced Victrex market development efforts continued to accelerate in warranty claims continue to drive interest in VICTREX PEEK in 2006, as our global teams developed new applications for Victrex the automotive segment, with exciting new applications in areas products in an increasingly diverse set of industries.
such as ball joints, gears and mechanical friction and wear We introduced a new range of coating products under the components.
In the electronics market, we are penetrating new VICOTE brand, characterised by the theme VICOTE Coatings board level components such as connectors, capacitors and the next generation of coatings for durability and long-life, which battery systems where lead-free solder processes demand will allow us to continue to broaden our application and industry robust materials at higher temperatures.
The need for weight exposure.
In addition to launching the product range, we savings in the aerospace market, especially with the launch of commercialised a number of applications ranging from consumer a new generation of fuel efficient aircraft, requires the use of cookware to industrial belting, in industries which were not served materials which are lighter than traditional metals yet still by our traditional products.
offer outstanding strength and toughness in a variety of demanding environments.
V VIIC CT TR RE EX X p pllc c Annual Report & Accounts 2006 07 M Ma ar rk ke et t s se eg gm me en nt t IIn nd du us st tr riia all Engineers are facing increased demands for materials with APPLICATION AREAS high temperature performance and chemical resistance Data logging tools while avoiding costly production downtime due to Seals and back up rings component failure.
Cable insulation VICTREX PEEK is an excellent choice for industrial Cable ties applications due to its exceptional combination of physical Down-hole sub-sea connectors properties and processability.
Components designed with VICTREX PEEK can deliver superior long-term reliability in Plugs and packers the harshest of environments that require high strength Submersible motor parts and wear resistance over a wide range of temperatures.
Bearings and bushings Compressor parts WHY VICTREX PEEK?
Outstanding mechanical performance over a wide temperature range Excellent dynamic fatigue resistance and high creep resistance Extremely low gas permeability Excellent wear resistance Withstands high continuous operating temperatures: very thermally stable Good hydrolysis resistance: ability to retain mechanical properties and dimensional stability when exposed to water or steam at elevated temperatures Superior resistance to a wide range of chemicals 08 V VIIC CT TR RE EX X p pllc c Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Annual Business Review continued Our success in new application development is best characterised O Ou ut tllo oo ok k by the continued strength of our development pipeline and new S Sa alle es s v vo ollu um me e applications commercialised.
At the year end, our pipeline of Sales volume has shown further growth since the year end which, potential target opportunities contained 1,764 developments if sustained, will result in higher first half volume than the second 2005: 1,433 with an estimated mature annualised volume half of 2006.
MAV of 2,754 tonnes 2005: 2,344 tonnes which represents the total additional volume achievable if all of the developments C Cu ur rr re en nc cy y iim mp pa ac ct t were successfully commercialised.
During the year we As previously reported, trading results for 2007 will be impacted commercialised 517 new applications 2005: 475 with an by the strengthening of Sterling against our key trading currencies estimated MAV of 345 tonnes 2005: 351 tonnes.
US Dollar, Euro and Yen compared with 2006.
Based on our budgeted sales volume, currency hedging already in place and S Su up pp plly y c ch ha aiin n a an nd d c ca ap piit ta all e ex xp pe en nd diit tu ur re e recent spot exchange rates, we currently estimate the following The supply chain can currently support 2,800 tonnes per annum of average exchange rates will apply: VICTREX PEEK sales.
To allow us to meet our growth expectations and demonstrate further security of supply to our customers, we Year to Six months to Six months to Year to are currently constructing a second VICTREX PEEK polymer powder 30 September 31 March 30 September 30 September plant on our main UK site.
With an estimated capital cost of 2006 2007 2007 2007 29m, the new plant will have the capacity to support an Actual additional 1,450 tonnes per annum of VICTREX PEEK sales and is on schedule to be completed in Autumn 2007.
US Dollar 1.82 1.81 1.89 1.85 Detailed design and costing of the BDF supply chain uprate to Euro 1.43 1.46 1.46 1.46 support this additional polymer capacity has now been completed.
Yen 188 201 210 205 The estimated capital cost of the BDF uprate will be around 23m with completion expected in Autumn 2008.
Total tangible fixed asset additions amounted to 25.0m for the As can be seen from the above table, most of the impact will be year 2005: 18.5m including the acquisition of the BDF felt in the second half.
By way of illustration, if the estimated 2007 operations compared with total forecast expenditure of around rates had applied in 2006, this would have had an adverse impact 30m.
The additions principally related to the ongoing of 2.5m on profits.
construction of the polymer powder plant.
Other items include the T Th he e f fu ut tu ur re e AITC, Invibio Global Technology Centre and the film manufacturing facility.
The lower than expected level of expenditure for the year As we look to the future, we will continue to expand the simply reflects specific phasing of project expenditure.
We expect applications, markets and industries we serve through investments capital expenditure for 2007 to amount to approximately 35m, in market development, product and application technology and again subject to phasing of projects.
This will be funded from the supply chain infrastructure.
We believe that this provides a sound Groups cash resources and committed borrowing facilities.
basis for sustainable earnings growth.
V VIIC CT TR RE EX X p pllc c Annual Report & Accounts 2006 09 M Ma ar rk ke et t s se eg gm me en nt t E Elle ec ct tr ro on niic cs s Victrex works with component manufacturers to reduce APPLICATION AREAS system cost while improving overall application Mobile phones performance.
Semiconductor manufacturing VICTREX PEEK provides electronic components with an Printers exceptional combination of benefits including wear LEDs resistance, strength, dimensional stability, low outgassing Connectors and moisture absorption and high temperature resistance.
This means greater part functionality, reliability and cost Batteries savings for designers.
HDDs hard disk drives Computers WHY VICTREX PEEK?
Switches High temperature resistance Eco compliant Green FR systems High mechanical strength and abrasion resistance Fully recyclable Low moisture absorption Electrical stability Processing flexibility Chemical resistance Low particle generation Dimensional stability Low flammability 10 V VIIC CT TR RE EX X p pllc c Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Annual Business Review continued R Riis sk ks s a an nd d u un nc ce er rt ta aiin nt tiie es s We hold significant stocks of raw materials and finished goods to enable us to maintain supplies during any short-term Victrexs business and share price may be affected by a number disruption.
Furthermore, the second VICTREX PEEK of risks, not all of which are in our control.
The process Victrex manufacturing plant will be able to operate independently has in place for identifying, assessing and managing risks is set from the existing plant, thereby reducing the impact of any out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 17. operational disruption on our ability to continue manufacturing Sections of this Annual Report contain forward-looking products.
statements, including statements related to: future demand and IIn ns su uf ff fiic ciie en nt t c ca ap pa ac ciit ty y markets for the Groups products and services: research and development relating to new products and services, and liquidity Our customers businesses depend on maintaining a consistent and capital resources.
These forward-looking statements involve supply of high quality products.
Any unexpected upsurge in risks and uncertainties, because they relate to events that may demand could lead to insufficient capacity to fulfil customers or may not occur in the future.
needs: additionally any delays in the implementation of major capital expenditure programmes could create a capacity The specific principal risks which could impact the Groups shortage, leading to customers seeking alternative products.
revenues, profits and reputation and relevant mitigating factors, as currently identified by Victrexs risk management process, are To mitigate this risk, our stocks of finished goods enable us to described below.
However, other risks may also adversely affect supply any short-term surge in demand from our customers.
Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from Additionally, it is our policy to keep capacity well ahead of anticipated results because of a variety of risk factors, including: demand, by investing in our supply chain, so that our customers changes in global, political, economic, business, competitive and can be confident that we can meet any requirements they may market forces: changes to legislation and tax rates: future have.
business combinations or disposals: relations with customers P Pr ro od du uc ct t s sp pe ec ciif fiic ca at tiio on ns s and customer credit risk: events affecting international security, including global health issues and terrorism: changes in The Groups products are used in highly demanding end use regulatory environment, and the outcome of litigation.
Any failure to supply products in accordance with their specifications could lead to loss of business and, T Te ec ch hn no ollo og giic ca all c ch ha an ng ge e potentially, a product liability claim.
Victrexs business is dependent on manufacturing and selling To mitigate this risk, VICTREX PEEK is manufactured within a high quality products into advanced applications.
Demand for quality management system approved to ISO 9001 2000. these applications and, consequently, for our products could be Invibio PEEK-OPTIMA polymer is additionally manufactured impacted as new technologies and materials are developed.
within the requirements of ISO 13485, a system of good To address this, we employ specialists covering the major market manufacturing practice often used by the pharmaceutical segments for VICTREX PEEK to maintain and advance our skills industry and by medical companies.
This enables us to develop new applications for C Co om mp pe et tiit to or r a ac ct tiiv viit ty y VICTREX PEEK, so that we maintain our position as a leading solutions provider to designers and engineers at our customers Victrex operates in competitive markets, both in terms of and end users.
competitors offering directly comparable materials other polyaryletherketone products and alternative materials.
Failure O Op pe er ra at tiio on na all d diis sr ru up pt tiio on n to compete successfully could lead to loss of business.
The Groups business is dependent on the ongoing operation of Accordingly, we are continuing to work closely with our our various manufacturing facilities.
A significant operational customers to provide high quality products as required and to disruption could adversely affect our ability to make and supply invest in resources to bring cost effective, high quality products.
application solutions to our customers.
As a result, we have implemented policies and procedures to C Cu ur rr re en nc cy y e ex xp po os su ur re e safely manage all our operations and maintain our supply of VICTREX PEEK to customers.
In particular, we employ a Currently, the Group exports 97% of sales from the UK.
These dedicated and empowered SHE department to assist line sales are denominated in US Dollar, Euro and Yen.
Fluctuations management and to provide expert guidance.
Further in exchange rates between Sterling and these other currencies information on SHE matters is set out in the Corporate Social could cause profit and balance sheet volatility.
The Group hedging policy to mitigate this risk is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 17.
V VIIC CT TR RE EX X p pllc c Annual Report & Accounts 2006 11 M Ma ar rk ke et t s se eg gm me en nt t IIn nv viib biio o APPLICATION AREAS Invibio is an innovative global leader providing high performance biomaterials, advanced technical research PEEK-OPTIMA POLYMER and proven market expertise across a wide range of medical device applications.
Our biomaterials solutions Spinal fixation and motion preservation enable customers to deliver innovative medical devices Arthroscopy that enhance patient quality of life.
Cardiovascular Invibios proprietary biomaterials, including implantable Dental PEEK-OPTIMA polymer and ENDOLIGN composite, and Drug delivery medical grade PEEK-CLASSIX polymer, combine Orthopaedic outstanding physical properties and biocompatibility, Neurology making them the material of choice for leading medical device manufacturers.
ENDOLIGN COMPOSITE WHY INVIBIO BIOMATERIALS?
Translaminar pins Excellent biocompatibility and biostability Osteosynthesis plates Modulus similar to human bone Spinal fixation cages Excellent repeated sterilisation resistance Trauma fixation Imaging compatibility allows clear visualisation of PEEK-CLASSIX POLYMER the healing site Analytical equipment Outstanding wear properties Dental components Exceptional mechanical properties that can be Surgical instruments and tubing tailored to applications Wide design and processing flexibility
