Business review Last year we said.
creative solutions for our clients This year We have been managing an automated warehouse and transport operations for Heinz for several years and we were recently awarded a further contract for reworking activities and related services.
This includes repacking goods for product promotions and quality inspection work.
Solutions Heinzs Warehousing & Distribution manager said: Wincanton has become an integral part of our structure in ensuring the continued success of Heinz and its brands.
Strategy Wincantons strategic objective is to become the leading provider of European supply chain management services.
Already challenging for leadership in the UK and Ireland, we also aim to be amongst the leaders in each of our chosen markets in Continental Europe.
The Groups existing presence across Changes in legislation, strategy, We serve a well diversified customer In Continental Europe, we Europe is a competitive advantage in technology and the economy lead base, deliver a wide range of significantly strengthened our an industry which remains fragmented, to both tactical and strategic change business-critical solutions and offer French presence through acquisition with large numbers of small in the supply chain needs of our a Pan-European presence which is and made further profit progress operators and a very limited number customers.
We continue to invest in already amongst the best in the sector.
overall in spite of a disappointing of Pan-European service providers.
our people, our services, our systems We have a clear strategy which we performance in certain operations.
technology and our processes to believe will generate further value for The European market is our core ensure that we offer the innovation, shareholders by continuing to add UK and Ireland: geographic focus, our home market.
operational excellence and value value for customers.
Performance highlights It is a market of 460 million which deliver the solutions to meet Our businesses in the UK and Ireland consumers.
It has a substantial these changing customer needs and We look to the future with confidence.
reported underlying operating profit manufacturing and retailing enable us to compete successfully of 19.6m in the second half, an infrastructure and significant national, in our chosen markets.
2005 06 Summary increase of 3.2 per cent on the same cross-border and international flows Wincanton made further encouraging period last year and a 7.7 per cent of raw materials, finished products Our strong profit and cash flow progress in the financial year to 31 increase on the 18.2m reported in and services.
It is these supply chain performance gives us the financial March 2006. the first six months of this financial flows that we manage on behalf of capacity to take advantage of new year, to give a full year underlying customers.
We actively consider Our UK and Ireland operations, which operating profit of 37.8m, an annual market in which we have a leading opportunities to expand our portfolio continue to generate most of the increase of 3.6 per cent.
Turnover presence and which offers substantial of services and sector expertise, both profit and cash flow of the Group, in the UK and Ireland increased by opportunities for future growth.
produced another solid operational 5.3 per cent, to 1,156.3m.
Acquisitions are also expected to and financial performance.
New We have a strong portfolio of contribute to the further business activity levels remained Growth with our retailer customer customers across Europe, including strengthening and expansion of our high and overall contract contribution base, particularly in DIY and general many of the worlds major retailers and geographic presence across Europe.
margins were stable, with fee merchandise, was again a key feature manufacturers.
Maintaining and pressure in certain cases offset by of the year.
Contract gains in the enhancing supply chain efficiency is performance bonuses and higher period included a new direct import business-critical to our customers.
We levels of gainshare elsewhere.
A centre for Argos, a Christmas relief have a proven track record of growth substantial programme of contract operation for Sainsburys and a with these customers and we are now start-ups was successfully delivered.
home delivery platform for Comet.
able to serve their needs on a national, Further expansion of other existing regional and Pan-European basis.
relationships gave rise to gains with customers such as B&Q, Morrisons 8 Wincanton plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 and Woolworths.
Contracts were Our contract base of industrial produced another good performance.
also renewed with long-standing customers saw a marginal year-onThe costs of increasing capacity in customers such as ACC, New Look year reduction in profit with a strong our data records management Wincanton has become and WH Smith.
Lower volumes at performance within our petroleum business in the year had a negative an integral part of our certain shared user sites restricted an customer base failing to offset effect on profit performance but structure in ensuring the otherwise strong retail performance.
several small year-on-year negatives, growth prospects remain continued success of including a reduced contribution encouraging in this area.
Our portfolio of manufacturing from our fridge recycling activities Heinz and its brands.
customers reported a higher profit following the delayed implementation Wincanton is a strong number two contribution on a slightly reduced of the WEEE Directive.
Contract wins in a UK market which has become Heinzs Warehousing level of turnover.
Co-packing services included Shell Gas and First Milk.
increasingly polarised in recent years.
and Distribution manager were further expanded through Contract renewals included Dairy A number of our competitors have contract gains with Heinz and Procter Crest, Novartis, Texaco and Statoil.
either been sold, are in the process of & Gamble.
Our growing presence in In terms of operational performance being sold, or are facing uncertainty the drinks sector was reflected in a we worked hard, and successfully, as to either their future ownership or new national warehousing and on behalf of long-standing customers their ability to sustain critical mass.
distribution contract for SABMiller Texaco and Total, to mitigate the In certain instances this has created and the award of a contract to adverse effect on their operations short term pricing pressure, but has manage Britvics national primary of the major explosion at their generally created incremental transport.
Last years substantial gain Buncefield depot.
with GlaxoSmithKline, a 10-year contract to design and operate a new In terms of ancillary services, the year The scale of our operations in the UK automated warehouse, was to 31 March 2006 was another good and Ireland allows us to offer flexible successfully delivered.
Profit year for Pullman Fleet Services.
solutions combining both dedicated progress in this sector was held back Pullman delivered strong growth, and shared-user options and the by continued weak trading in our continuing to develop its national opportunity for customers to benefit chilled consolidation operations in network of vehicle maintenance and from reduced costs overall.
We seek the first half of the year, although assistance services both organically to combine the benefits of scale performance improved materially and through in-fill acquisition.
New without the loss of the specialist in the second half.
contracts were added with service focus or the closeness of customers such as Arla Foods, personal relationships which remain Cemex, Sainsburys and Tesco.
Consilium, our consulting operation, Wincanton plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 9 Business review continued Last year we said ensuring consistency of operational performance This year Wincantons partnership with Procter & Gamble in the UK received global recognition in the customers internal audit during 2005.
The automated warehouse at Thurrock was reviewed in 14 areas.
In 3 of the 14 areas, auditors categorised the distribution centre as Consistency a Global Benchmark Site, describing the operations as outstanding and praising health and safety processes.
As a result of the close team culture and level of integration between Wincanton and P&G, auditors also commented that it was impossible to differentiate between contractor and customer.
Continental Europe: example, to expand the capacity of In France, as across the rest of Performance highlights our Eisenach site, a key hub location Continental Europe, our transport Underlying operating profit growth in our German transport network, is activities are principally carried out of 50.0 per cent, including our French indicative of our commitment to through sub-contractors.
In certain acquisition, and of 7.1 per cent ensure that the business continues countries, however, we do operate our excluding this acquisition, is indicative to be well-positioned for the future.
own vehicles, generally small fleets for of another year of change, investment There are also plans to expand the specific customers, routes or regions.
and strategic development in our capacity of our international freight Difficulties and delays in recovering Continental European activities.
management facility at s-Heerenberg the full effect of the significant fuel The progress in underlying profit on the Dutch-German border.
price increases in the year in respect was achieved in spite of the early of these fleets is estimated to have termination in February 2005 of the In terms of further strategic reduced Continental European key customer contract managed by development, the highlight of the profitability by approximately 1m.
year was the acquisition of Premium.
Our enlarged French business now Volumes were generally strong in our Underlying operating profit of 4.2m, has a good national presence, an German business, particularly in our on turnover up 17.9 per cent to enhanced portfolio of customers intermodal and freight management 653.0m, is still some way below and both the operational capability activities.
Container traffic on the what we believe to represent the and credibility to serve the needs Rhine showed good year-on-year profit potential of these businesses.
The growth, albeit with a weaker final Progress is nonetheless being integration process has gone well and quarter as a result of low water levels.
achieved in terms of brand awareness, we are re-building the development The performance of our road network customer account management, the pipeline.
Some early new business was mixed, with good results in consistency of our operational wins, most recently a new distribution certain depots offset by customer standards and the strength and depth centre for a major drinks company, loss elsewhere.
The integration of of our senior management teams.
confirm our belief that the French last years midiData acquisition with market will bring attractive our existing hi-tech network had a Operationally, our Continental opportunities for future growth.
There European activities are generally was also good growth across the strong and our business infrastructure Profitability in our existing French network with customers such as is capable of handling the higher activities, based in Strasbourg, was Honeywell, Goodyear Dunlop and volumes that will deliver faster profit held back by the effect of fuel price JohnsonDiversey.
Investment in the year, for increases on our fleet operations.
10 Wincanton plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Adjusting capacity in anticipation of Financial performance in Central and Overall, the 2005 06 results for future opportunity led us to invest in Eastern Europe was down compared Continental Europe showed the expansion of Eisenach, a key hub to 2004 05.
There was good progress progress strategically, operationally We need to make sure we in our network activities.
It also led us in the region, particularly in Poland, and financially.
Management are always ahead of the to terminate the lease on one of our with customers such as Numico, changes have been made in several game by having the right Hamburg sites, following customer Leroy Merlin and Exxon.
Our countries which, together with change.
The closure costs of the capacity in place to meet forwarding operation in Gdansk also increased investment in business Hamburg operation are included contributed well.
New operations development and marketing, will both short and long term within the exceptional restructuring commenced in the year included a enable us to make more rapid and demand.
Wincanton charge further explained below.
warehouse for Goodyear Dunlop in substantial progress.
already has a proven track Slovakia.
Contract gains in Hungary Our Dutch operations reported a good record with P&G, with customers such as Hipp, M-Real, Wincanton Group: performance, particularly in Henkel and Philips were not sufficient Consolidated results managing our automated international freight management.
in financial terms to offset prior-year Consolidated Group turnover of UK distribution centre.
Gains and renewals in this area were customer losses.
1,809.3m was 9.6 per cent higher recorded with customers such as than in 2004 05.
Underlying operating Girish Deshpande, Diolen and Rohm and Haas.
Our The financial performance of our profit increased by 6.9 per cent to Product Supply, Procter & Gamble growing business in automotive Spanish operations improved in 42.0m, leading to a slight reduction components showed further progress 2005 06, following the closure of our in accounting margin on turnover, to with contract gains with Mitsubishi Valencia site last year, but further 2.3 per cent.
For Pininfarina we action will be required to deliver are consolidating component supply a return to profitability.
A new Neither turnover growth nor from 160 suppliers across Europe management team in Spain is percentage margin on turnover are for just-in-time delivery into its making good progress in addressing key performance indicators for us.
specialist manufacturing facilities in the structural issues that have led to We measure the progress of the Turin.
The Dutch business also has continuing under-performance and Group principally in terms of growth considerable expertise in complex our focus on sales and business in operating profit, cashflow and freight management into the former development is beginning to produce return on capital.
Turnover growth Soviet republics, for example for new business wins.
We are actively can nonetheless give a broad oilfield construction customers in reviewing potential opportunities to indication of underlying business Central Asia, and there was good yearstrengthen our presence in the momentum.
Annualised turnover on-year growth in this activity.
from new business wins and contract renewals totalled 300m in the UK Wincanton plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 11 Business review continued Last year we said continuing opportunities for growth in the UK This year Our relationship with Argos has continued to grow and during the year they awarded us several further contracts.
One of these is to manage a distribution centre for their Argos Extra range, serving their 650 stores nationwide with throughput reaching 500,000 units during peak times.
Opportunities A second one is for the management 2 of a 700,000 ft Direct Imports Centre, which will open this summer.
The site will house goods imported by Argos into the UK.
Argoss Managing Director commented: We chose to work with Wincanton as the company knows our business and we have developed a solid working relationship with them over the years.
and Ireland and 85m in Continental The interest charge for the year was Wincanton operates in jurisdictions Europe, giving a Group total of 385m, covered 4.3 times by underlying across Europe, with corporate tax compared to last years 250m.
rates that range from 12.5 per cent to 40.0 per cent.
Brought-forward Approximately 70 per cent of the Exceptionals trading losses in certain countries annualised turnover from new wins Net exceptional restructuring costs may lead in due course to a further in the period came from existing of approximately 8.1m were offset reduction in the Groups accounting customers.
This compares to last by net exceptional profits of 8.1m rate of tax.
years 85 per cent and confirms arising from the disposal of a number again the importance of strong of surplus freehold properties.
Net Minority interests, earnings customer relationships and a exceptional costs included the final and dividends diversified sector portfolio to both phase of the move to our new A small number of the Groups Wincantons current performance head office in Chippenham and a activities are carried out through and its future growth potential.
subsequent senior management companies in which there are restructuring 4.2m, the costs of minority shareholdings.
Wincanton Interest costs closure of a number of European holds the majority controlling share in The interest charge of 9.7m sites and operations, principally a these companies and therefore fully represents a slight reduction on last site in Hamburg 3.0m and postconsolidates the activities in the years 9.9m.
Strong cash inflows acquisition restructuring costs in Groups results.
The largest such from operations were offset by cash France 0.9m.
Net exceptional operation is RhineContainer BV, a outflows relating to the acquisition profits arose principally from the freight forwarding activity in the of Premium.
Towards the end of the disposal of five surplus freehold Netherlands and Germany, in which financial year the cash injection into properties in the UK.
The the pension fund was offset by the profits attributable to minority proceeds from property disposals.
Taxation interests of 0.2m were lower than Average debt levels were therefore The tax charge of 10.1m on underlying last years 0.6m.
similar to the previous year.
The profits gives an accounting rate of tax average interest rate payable on the for the year of 31.3 per cent.
The Underlying earnings per share of 19.2p Groups borrowings in the year was overall tax rate was lower, at 26.8 per represents a 17.8 per cent increase 4.3 per cent.
cent, because the gains on property on last years 16.3p per share.
disposals were offset by broughtforward capital losses.
The Board proposes a final dividend of 8.6p which, together with the 12 Wincanton plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Heading continued Case study facts Argos Direct interim dividend announced at the the kitting-out of a new warehouse are 93m, of which 55m arise in the Imports Centre half year, gives a total dividend for for Argos in Corby and the UK and Ireland.
Across the Group 2005 06 of 12.54p per share.
This commissioning of a second recycling approximately 32 per cent of these Warehouse space represents a 10.0 per cent increase machine at our waste management commitments were either fully or on the full-year dividend for 2004 05. centre in Billingham.
partially underwritten by customers, 2 increasing to approximately 45 per 700,000ft On this basis, the full-year dividend In evaluating growth opportunities, cent in the UK and Ireland.
either organic or through acquisition, assessing the return on new projects our focus is significantly weighted financed by operating leases the Weekly throughput of containers Cash flow and net debt towards cash flow return on Group attributes a memorandum Underlying EBITDA being underlying investment and return on capital value to these underlying assets.
operating profit plus depreciation and employed.
All capital expenditure 350-500 amortisation totalled 74.8m.
This proposals are subject to review and Other cash movements in the year inflow, plus a working capital inflow approval at appropriate levels, included 20.3m in respect of our of 4.0m gave rise to a total cash including the Wincanton Board.
The French acquisition, and the additional Pallet capacity inflow from operating activities of first-year results of approved projects payment of 17m into the Group 78.8m before capital expenditure are subsequently backchecked pension fund, further discussed below.
110,000 The net effect of these and other Gross capital expenditure of 40.3m Gross capital expenditure was offset cash flow movements was a slight was higher than in recent years, at by 24.0m of asset sales in the year, increase in year-end net debt, up approximately 123 per cent of the principally the disposal of surplus from 56.5m last year to 60.6m at 32.8m charge for depreciation.
freehold properties referred to above.
The 31 March 2006 The total of 40.3m included some Further surplus property disposals are position is net of 29.8m of cash held 28.6m of expansion capital and expected in the new financial year.
within our captive insurance 10.9m of replacement capital.
company to fund future insurance Investments in expansion capital and The Group also finances its growth claims 33.5m at 31 March 2005. replacement capital last year totalled through operating leases, which in The Group has therefore been able to 23.6m and 14.7m respectively.
our UK and Ireland operations, in fund an infill acquisition and a cash The principal items of expansion particular, are generally underwritten injection into the pension fund with capital included the balance of the by our customers under the terms of only a marginal increase in its net investment in a new automated our contracts.
The Groups annual debt position.
We also propose a warehouse for GlaxoSmithKline, commitments under operating leases double-digit percentage increase in Wincanton plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 13 Business review continued Last year we said building momentum in Continental Europe This year In October 2005 Wincanton acquired the principal French operations of Premium Logistics.
The acquisition, when combined with Wincantons existing Strasbourg-based activities, gave Wincanton national coverage of the important French market, an enhanced portfolio of customer contracts and further strength and Momentum depth of management resource.
Annual revenue of the enlarged French business is approximately 150 million.
This represents a substantially stronger and broader business base from which Wincanton can serve both the French and cross-border requirements of its portfolio of bluechip customers and significantly strengthens our operational capabilities and customer portfolio in the important French market.
This strong Through the year our borrowings are Case study facts France cash flow performance is further drawn approximately two-thirds in evidence of Wincantons ability to euros and one-third in sterling.
The National coverage: generate significant liquidity from Group has entered into an interest rate both its operations and its asset base.
cap to cover 100m of its potential exposure to rising interest rates.
30 sites and The Groups committed banking 2 facilities were increased during the The interest rate and foreign year from 200m to 210m and the exchange positions of the Group are 600,000m facilities were amended to a fully subject to regular review.
No revolving basis with the maturity speculative trading is entered into extended to 2010, significantly and all activities of the treasury Annualised revenue enhancing the flexibility of the function are designed to support the Groups bank funding.
190m of this Groups commercial operations.
committed facility was undrawn at 150m 31 March 2006.
The Group also Return on capital employed took advantage of low long-term Capital employed at 31 March 2006 interest rates by raising $150m of was 122.9m, of which 35 per cent Number of employees 7- and 10-year money in the US related to our UK and Ireland private placement market.
This operations and 65 per cent to 1,500 further extended the maturity of Continental Europe.
The return on our committed borrowings on capital employed, at 34.2 per cent attractive terms and gave a useful represents an increase on last years diversification in our sources of 29.8 per cent.
This rate of return is funding.
The placement monies have believed to compare favourably with been swapped back into euros to the returns of our peer group.
give a fixed cost of borrowings of 0.85 per cent over EURIBOR.
In Goodwill addition to these committed facilities The total of balance sheet goodwill the Group has available a range of and intangibles of 70.0m consists overdraft and leasing facilities.
principally of acquisition goodwill and acquired intangibles of 65.4m including 11.3m of goodwill and 14 Wincanton plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Heading continued 10.4m of acquired intangibles contribution to be substantially covered of future service accrual.
It is believed International Financial Reporting arising on the Premium acquisition in by the proceeds of its programme of that both the steps being implemented Standards IFRS the year.
The balance of 4.6m is the disposal of surplus properties.
and those which remain subject to The Group has adopted IFRS in the net book value of capitalised consultation, which are facilitated current financial year, as required by software in use across the Group.
Following the up-front cash injection, by the strong cash flow generation the EU for all listed companies.
The and subject to satisfactory of the Group, will address the deficit Group published a full IFRS Transition Pensions completion of the employee prudently and progressively.
statement in November 2005 to Following the results of the triennial consultation process, Wincanton explain the effect of the transition and actuarial valuation of the principal expects the actuarial deficit of the The currently low levels of bond this is reproduced in note 31 to these Wincanton pension scheme as at pension scheme to be approximately yields will increase the service cost financial statements.
The key areas 31 March 2005, the Groups pension 70m.
The principal issues that have charged to operating profit for of impact for the Group of adoption policy and funding approach has been caused this increase in the deficit, pensions in 2006 07, partially offset are, in common with most entities, subject to detailed review.
A number of up from approximately 15m as at at the pre-tax level by the positive in relation to jointly owned entities: changes to pension policy have been 31 March 2002, are investment effect on the Group interest charge employee benefits including considered and are currently subject performance, lower bond yields and of the up-front contribution and pensions : leases and share-based to consultation with employees.
An a change in assumptions to reflect investment returns.
These are discussed in up-front injection of 40.0m in cash increased longevity.
detail in note 31 but in summary have to address the past service deficit of PGN combined to reduce the comparative the fund has been agreed with the On an IAS 19 basis the pension fund As explained in last years Annual underlying earnings of the Group for pension scheme trustees.
deficit of the scheme at 31 March report, PGN, a jointly owned entity in the year ended 31 March 2005 from Incremental annual cash contributions 2006 was 116.3m.
Taking account which Wincanton has a 50.0 per cent 17.5p to 16.3p and the net assets on to further address the deficit, up of the up-front contributions made stake, is in dispute with its sole transition at 1 April 2004 from 25.6m from 2.0m per annum to 8.0m just prior to and immediately after customer in respect of the early to 3.7 m. The latter being primarily per annum, have also been agreed.
the year end and the scheme termination of the contract.
The the result of the recognition on the 17.0m of the up-front contribution changes currently subject to arbitration process, which includes balance sheet of the net pension was paid prior to the 2005 06 year end employee consultation, this deficit financial claims and counter-claims, deficit of 25.7m, which is made up and the balance of the payment was would have been reduced to is continuing, with the final outcome of the IAS19 deficit of 69.9m offset made early in the new financial year.
unlikely to be known before midby the reversal of the SSAP 24 these incremental contributions are tax 2007.
Wincantons share of the net provision of 33.2m both net of deductible and will lead to a reduction Very careful consideration has been assets of PGN, which consist deferred tax.
The adoption of IFRS in the cash tax payable by Wincanton given to the appropriate measures principally of working capital, was has had no impact on the cash flows in the future.
Wincanton expects the required to respond to the growth in consolidated at 6.7m in the balance of the Group.
after-tax cost of the up-front the past service deficit and the costs sheet as at 31 March 2006.
Wincanton plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 15
