Operating and Financial Review 14 Review of Business UK classified advertising US classified directories US independent publishers and local search 16.5% 18% 59% Yell UK Independent Yellow 4.2bn $15.3bn $2.8bn publishers Book 83.5% 82% Other classified Incumbent and 41% advertising online publishers Other independent publishers Our business revenue from our non-printed products and The US total advertising market was worth Yell is a leading international directories other activities over the life of the contract approximately $277 billion in 2005.
Within company that puts buyers in touch with sellers from the point at which the service is first this, the total US classified directories and through a choice of media the book, the provided.
In the case of a one-off service we local search sector was worth $15.3 billion.
Our primary advertisers recognise revenue at the time of delivery.
This sector is expected to achieve between are a relatively stable base of small and 4-6% annual growth for the next two years, medium-sized businesses employing fewer Our markets driven primarily by independent classified than ten people, who view classified directory We offer classified advertising in the UK and directories publishers and online publishers.
advertising as a highly valuable proposition the US, where we compete with a range of that constitutes a significant part of their media such as other printed directories, local Yellow Book is an independent publisher, that marketing budget.
and national newspapers, online directories is, a publisher without ties to a telephone and search engines, and providers of business operating company.
Yellow Book is the oldest Users of our products are generally more and residential information over the phone.
and largest independent publisher, with a ready to buy than users of other media and 10.7% share of the total classified directories we believe this makes ours the more costThe UK total advertising market was worth and local search sector.
Within the effective solution for advertisers.
Compared to approximately 17.3 billion in calendar year independent sector, which was worth other forms of advertising such as 2005, having grown 2.7% from the previous $2.8 billion in 2005, we have a 59% share, employment, automotive sales and property year.
This growth was driven primarily by a up from 23% in 2000.
The independent sector sales, classified advertising is less exposed to 66% increase in internet advertising to is forecast to achieve consistent, annual growth cyclical advertising effects and, in the main, 1.4 billion.
A key driver for internet use has of around 12% for the next four to five years.
more resilient to economic downturns.
been the rapidly-increasing availability of high-speed internet access in the workplace Yell UK We generate the majority of our revenue from and at home.
Although printed directory Printed products In the UK, our printed our printed directories in the UK and the US.
publishing continued to grow, other classified products are Yellow Pages, our business to The market dynamics of our US business and printed advertising, predominantly consumer directory, and Business Pages, our its younger portfolio mean that we view our newspapers, did not perform as strongly in business to business directory.
In 2006 we printed directories business in the UK as more 2005, and the total classified advertising produced 104 editions of Yellow Pages and developed, and it has historically produced market is forecast to be flat over the next few distributed more than 28 million copies to higher profit margins.
However, in view of the years.
In contrast, internet advertising is homes and businesses across the whole of the dynamism and growth potential of the US expected to deliver a 40-50% annual growth UK.
We produced nine editions of Business market, there are significant opportunities for rate over the same period, and may break the Pages and distributed more than 2 million growth in profit margins.
In 2005, the copies to businesses across England, Scotland classified advertising market was worth and Wales.
Our printed directories contain We agree our advertising sales for printed 4.2 billion.
We had maintained our share of almost 1.2 million advertisements from 462,000 products several months in advance of this market at around 15% for several years, advertisers and are used more than a billion directory publication and payment.
For this however, in 2005 we increased this to 16.5%.
reason, it provides us with great visibility of our expected financial results.
We recognise Yell Group plc Annual Report 2006 Operating and Financial Review 15 Yell.
com searches advertisers 000s for the month of March m 02 56 19 04 75 21 03 05 103 32 06 04 05 141 06 174 Our Yellow Pages directories are subject to trading, and enabling us to compete more Yell.
com is our UK online advertising medium regulatory undertakings, which limits the effectively with the wide range of alternative and major local search engine, offering annual growth in their advertising rates to classified information available to consumers.
information from 174,000 searchable Headline Retail Price Inflation RPI minus 6%.
advertisers, accessible through the internet The timing of our sales cycles means that we We know the power of our Yellow Pages and by mobile device.
com revenue grew have set our Yellow Pages rate card at directory and the value it delivers to our by around 65% during the 2006 financial RPI 6% for the next year.
We have advertisers, and a core focus this year has year.
Whilst the majority of advertisers on consistently delivered growth in the volume of been on proving that value to our advertisers.
com also advertise in Yellow Pages, we advertising sales to new and existing Our approach is two-fold: we directly currently have 32,000 advertisers who customers, through a focussed approach and demonstrate leads generated, and we conduct advertise on Yell.
new product offerings, to ensure we offset independent research.
Research shows that, on these price reductions and continue to grow average, every 1 invested in Yellow Pages We launched a range of new products our printed product revenue.
helped to generate 25 of new business for an throughout the year.
We also have detailed information Information Page provides advertisers with the We continued our strategy of winning new for 400 classifications.
For example, last year opportunity to enrich the information shown on customers, keeping them and growing their every advert in the builders classification the search results page, and the introduction of investment with us.
During the past year we helped to generate an average of 33 new local sponsored listings provides them with the have developed our marketing approach leads per month and 448 of new business, for opportunity to appear at the top of a search around customer segmentation.
page for a specific classification and location.
include the development of  also benefited from greater specific advertising packages, and aligning In order to demonstrate leads generated we programme flexibility, with the opportunity to pricing offers for new and returning recently launched Call Counter, a programme upgrade their contract mid-way through their advertisers according to the value generated which provides customers with unique numbers programme, and volume advertising rates for by the classification.
to use in their Yellow Pages adverts.
free of charge to the customer and charged at a Colour continues to be a popular choice for local call rate to users.
We are able to monitor We launched the next generation of our our advertisers, with almost 30% of our these numbers and tell customers exactly how search engine One Search which makes it customers choosing a colour advert.
many calls their advert has generated.
far easier for users to find precisely what they Advertisers choosing a colour display advert are looking for, by matching multiple spend significantly more than those choosing To ensure our products and brand remain classifications to the users search and then a normal display advert, and are more likely front-of-mind with our users, we invested ranking adverts within them by relevance.
Colour advertisers claim their around 5% of total UK revenue in advertising In December 2005, we made significant new Yellow Pages advert has helped increase campaigns last year.
We refreshed 330 enhancements to Yell.
Real-time enquiries compared with the previous year.
classifications to ensure our directories remain draggable maps, the facility to plot car parks relevant in todays social context, and we and intelligent default-scale zooming, are In 2006, we rescoped two directories into four currently provide enriched content in the form amongst the features which now position the in our Midlands region, addressing of three lifestyle guides.
site at the forefront of UK online mapping.
demographic changes in shopping and Yell Group plc Annual Report 2006 Operating and Financial Review 16 Yellow Book advertisers 000s 02 166 363 03 386 04 05 455 06 489 Our relationship with Active Hotel allows users Yellow Book USA high advertiser content, make us a logical to find and book hotels directly through Printed products Established in 1930, Yellow alternative to the incumbent directory.
com and we share a commission for every Book is the oldest and largest independent forward, we will use new directory launches, booking made.
We have also partnered with classified directories publisher in the US.
In and re-launches of existing directories, as a Google to provide our advertisers with even recent years, Yellow Book has made a number way of expanding our footprint and entering greater visibility.
of strategic acquisitions and entered new new markets.
Following the acquisition of Results of research commissioned by TransWestern in July 2005, Yellow Book now To provide greater value and choice for our Superbrands, a leading UK advertising forum, publishes 835 printed directories across 46 advertisers, we tested colour advertising in 12 rated Yell.
com as one of the top five UK web states.
Last year we distributed almost 107 of our directories, with very positive feedback.
sites for favourite online brand, most trusted million copies of our directories.
More than 35% of advertisers took online brand and most reliable brand.
With advantage of colour, and we will continue to a proliferation of web sites competing for We attract new advertisers to our directories explore this option across our markets.
prominence, this type of recognition of our and ensure they stay with us by offering greatbrand is great evidence of the profile and value advertising rates.
Yellow Book rates are As the only truly national classified directories success of Yell.
typically around half of the incumbent directory publisher in the US, we have focused on publishers rates.
This ensures our directories are promoting this message to national Yellow Pages 118 24 7 is our operatorhighly populated, which, in turn, provides our advertisers.
Our success in this area was assisted telephone information service.
We users with content-rich directories.
recognised by the Association of Directory remain the only provider of a 118 service to Marketing, with an award in their sell classified business advertising and we We are keen participants in Yellow Pages partnerships category for our Master Market have the capability to search by thousands of Market Reporter the new classified directories Analysis.
This analysis enables us to develop keywords to find specific information usage study developed by Knowledge advertising strategies with our national requested by the caller.
Networks SRI, the survey research firm hired by advertisers, geared to delivering exceptional the industry to provide syndicated usage value to them.
In line with our strategy of providing value for studies.
Initial usage results vindicate our story money for our advertisers, we are exploring Yellow Book generates new business leads at ways to align advertising rates to the value a lower cost than the incumbent directory, even advertisers receive from their chosen as a new entrant to a market.
classification, as well as introducing flexible term contracts.
We also attract new customers by launching new directories.
Last year we launched 32 new directories, the largest of which was Las Vegas.
This market, worth around $120 million, previously had only one directory publisher.
Sales into our new directory were ahead of forecast and its current circulation of 850,000, together with its Yell Group plc Annual Report 2006 Operating and Financial Review 17 Yellowbook.
com is the internet site for established dedicated teams to process and one of the largest deals worldwide between Yellow Book.
In 2006 we integrated amend advertising for these customers, a directory publisher and its printer.
com, TransWesterns internet site, ensuring any changes to advert content are contract with our pre-sales production into Yellowbook.
com and, along with a 66% made within one day.
partner, Pindar Set, secured a 33% price increase in Yellowbook.
coms own adverts, reduction over the last three years, as well as we now have more than 1.4 million Further progress in our drive for superior offering additional market capacity and adverts online.
service quality is shown in the UK by the guaranteed quality and turnaround.
achievement of our lowest ever error rate for In keeping with our philosophy of user first, the key accuracy measures of name, address Over the past seven years, a time of we began to develop the site for our users and telephone number, as well as significant considerable change and growth in our US and have grown the number of visitors from reductions in customer complaints, waived business, we have reduced our pre-press 1.3 million to 2.4 million in the last year.
In September 2005 production cost per advertisement by 60%, Advertiser take-up has followed this trend.
the Yellow Pages 118 Contact Centre was our paper cost per ton by 7%, and our print accredited by the Call Centre Association costs per billion impressions by 41%.
In February 2006, we acquired the online and Yellow Pages 118 24 7 was also company Click Forward.
As a result, we are awarded best UK Directory Enquiry service now able to develop online advertising for the second year running at the programmes for our advertisers which, International Directory Enquiry Awards.
through keyword placement, gives them access to Google, MSN and Yahoo, as well In the US, we completed the operational as Yellowbook.
and system integration of TransWestern Publishing, involving 332 directories across Our operations 25 states, and facilities for more than In the UK, we celebrated 25 years of 2,500 people.
We now operate as a single successful business partnerships with Pindar company, a mere nine months after the Set, our pre-press production partner and acquisition.
We continued to develop RR Donnelley, our printer.
Interactive Customer Experience ICE as part of our sales automation programme, together Satisfied customers stay with us, and we with our customer-facing system, continue our drive for excellent customer Yellowbookdirect, to ensure we have in place service.
In the UK, our customer self-service the right online channels.
portal Yell Direct has 98,000 registered advertisers.
We will continue to develop the In the US, we have developed strong online management of our business and to relationships with a small number of key focus on Yell Direct as a major service channel business partners.
We have secured a deal for advertisers.
Recognising the complexities with our printer Quebecor until 2017, which associated with new media products, we have should lead to significant savings over the life of the contract, as well as quality and efficiency improvements.
This is believed to be Yell Group plc Annual Report 2006 Operating and Financial Review 18 What inspires you about Yell?
Yell knows what it wants to do, commits to doing it and goes out there and does it.
Im proud to be part of that.
John Condron Chief Executive Officer Our user-first approach which guides and informs everything we do.
Joe Walsh Chief Executive Officer Yellow Book Our commitment to delivering the best for our The consistency and customers, our people and simplicity of our core values our shareholders.
and the way you see them modelled throughout our Paul Fry organisation.
Strategy and Business Development Director, Yell UK Victoria Sharrar Chief Sales Officer Yellow Book Our ability to grow from a UK paper-based business into an international company with growing new media products.
Eddie Cheng eBusiness Director Yell UK Yell Group plc Annual Report 2006 Operating and Financial Review 19 Our total focus on delivering the commitments we make to all our stakeholders.
John Davis Chief Financial Officer Watching the company grow and develop alongside the development Success is a tremendous and growth of our people.
Weve made Yell Jim Haddad a success story that Im very Chief Financial Officer proud to be part of.
Yellow Book Steve Chambers Chief Commercial Officer Yell UK The environment we have created which allows people to reach their potential.
John Satchwell Operations Director Yell UK We are serious about, and committed to, our values and to behaving in a The quality, clarity and responsible manner.
depth of Yells vision and strategy.
Howard Rubenstein Company Secretary Ann Francke Chief Marketing Officer Yell UK Yell Group plc Annual Report 2006 Operating and Financial Review 20 Where has Yell helped you to go?
The main impact from the Yellow Pages directory has been that we have been able to grow our business.
Brian Moore Lantern Conservatories Ltd, UK Yellow Book has done a tremendous amount of business for me and given me the opportunity to open my second shop.
Carol Keane Underneath It All, USA Yell.
It certainly means that we see a lot of business from outside of our area.
Gordon Gapper Music Room Solutions, UK Yellow Book has generated the best dollars for me.
Glen Pollack Pollack Graphics, USA Yell Group plc Annual Report 2006 Operating and Financial Review 21 Our advert in Yellow Pages has significantly increased our sales.
Nigel Matthews Shift It Removals, UK Yellow Book has enabled us to meet customers that would otherwise never have heard of us.
Peter Amato Thomas M Amato Company Inc, USA Thanks to Yellow Pages I have been able to employ another plasterer in my business.
Mark Stevens Mark Stevens Plasterers, UK Our ad in Yellow Book has lifted our sales significantly.
Monica Woo 1-800 Flowers, USA Theres no question that Yellow Book brings in the best results for my business.
Robert Slater NG Slater Corporation, USA Yell Group plc Annual Report 2006
