The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 13 Business review Our strategy Our strategy The Davis Service Group Plc We are predominantly a European textile maintenance business.
We believe that by focusing on our core business we are able to deliver higher levels of growth UK and Ireland at better margins than our competitors.
We do this by managing our service The Sunlight Service Group Limited Great Britain operations efficiently and by making the resources available to drive our growth Spring Grove Services Limited strategies using our core areas of expertise.
We believe that it is important to build Ireland Central Laundries Limited market leading positions as this provides scale for our operations and creates the Northern Ireland opportunity to win new business at attractive margins and to deliver the benets Continental Europe of bolt-on acquisitions.
We will exit markets where we believe the opportunity Sophus Berendsen A S to create a market leading position is limited.
Denmark Berendsen Textil Service A S Since the acquisition of our Berendsen business in 2002 we have grown the Denmark Berendsen Tekstil Service AS proportion of profits in Continental Europe relative to the UK as we believe Norway Continental Europe offers greater opportunity in our existing activities.
Today Berendsen Textil Service AB Sweden the majority of our business is in Continental Europe.
In growing our European Bjrnklder AB Sweden business we look to enter new markets, which provide opportunities for growth.
Berendsen Sourcing AB An immediate priority is the opportunity in Central Europe where the new Sweden Berendsen Beteiligungs GmbH accession countries to the EU are forecasting higher levels of economic growth Germany than their Western European counterparts.
The development of outsourcing in Berendsen Textiel Service BV The Netherlands these countries in markets such as textile maintenance has substantial potential Berendsen Textile Service Sp.
z. o. o. in our view but its pace is still somewhat unclear.
Poland S Berendsen OY We intend retaining our market leading position in the UK and Ireland by ensuring Finland AS Svarmil that we maintain our high standards of operational excellence.
With our product Estonia offering continuing to mature, we will seek to develop related activities in which Berendsen GmbH Austria our existing customers will appreciate our service.
The different service areas of our business offer different opportunities for growth and returns on our investment.
As we look to invest and grow our business we generally give priority to the workwear and facilities parts of our business, where these opportunities are of more value to our customers and therefore more profitable.
Geographically, we will continue to concentrate on Europe.
Our key objectives case studies Our business objectives Throughout this report case studies from We have experienced management teams running our business who understand around our business have been provided as their markets and their service operations.
They are commercially focused in order examples of how we achieve our objectives.
to capture the opportunities for organic growth.
Although the majority of markets They are featured on the following pages: in which we operate are largely mature and the outsourced service is generally 2 Providing quality service well established, the opportunities for volume growth and winning of new 3 Developing innovative services contracts remain.
4 Achieving operational excellence We also continue to innovate and improve our customer service, moving the focus 6 Delivering returns from bolt-on acquisitions from product supply to delivering service solutions.
Service quality is an essential 7 Capturing new market opportunities component of both winning and retaining contracts with significant benets arising 8 Offering a diversied portfolio from a stable contract base.
9 Focusing commercially All our teams are focused on delivering pricing that recovers the increases in our 15 Maintaining health and safety as a priority cost base, which in recent years have been significant, in particular in the UK where 37 Reducing our impact on the environment this is a key area of focus for management.
Our business teams continually drive for efficiency and to be the lowest cost provider in their markets, using our scale, investment and experience.
We also maintain health and safety as a priority.
We believe that attractive returns can be delivered from investment in bolt-on acquisitions where we can leverage our market leading position and scale to deliver higher levels of operational efficiency to the acquisitions that we have made.
The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 14 Business review continued Financial objectives Our strategy By following the strategy we have laid out above and with the focus of our management in delivering these business objectives, we aim to deliver the following financial objectives.
We aim to grow our revenues faster than the economic growth of our markets.
We target returns on our invested capital and from our investments at a higher rate than the cost of capital to the group.
We look to grow our earnings at least in line with ination.
We target stable free cash ow generation with a level of post dividend free cash ow to finance at least partly further investments in the business.
We will manage the group on a sound financial footing.
Key performance indicators We assess the progress we are making on our strategy including the development, DELIVERING performance and position of the business using a broad set of financial key performance indicators and these are set out below: RESULTS... 2006 2005 Growth in revenue 7% 2% INVESTING Growth in adjusted operating profit 3% 1% FOR GROWTH Return on sales 13.5% 14.1% Return on invested capital post tax 8.4% 8.2% Gearing ratio 60% 57% Interest cover times 10 13 Free cash ow profit for the year 99% 103% Growth in adjusted earnings per share 11% 20% Operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation of customer contracts and intellectual property rights.
In addition we use a number of non-financial measures in the management of the business at the operational level.
These are illustrated in the case studies we have presented on pages 2 to 37.
Corporate Social Responsibility The application of a sound Corporate Social Responsibility CSR policy is regarded as fundamental to the way in which we operate.
The importance of CSR is recognised by the board, which has determined that the responsibility for CSR policy implementation and compliance monitoring lies ultimately with the Chief Executive.
The board has identied that the most significant CSR-related issues facing the group relate to: health and safety management: the environment: the welfare of our employees: our use of overseas textile suppliers: and the impact of our operations on the communities in which we operate.
Further details of how the group is addressing these CSR-related issues can be found in the directors report on pages 35 to 38.
Our Group Ethics Policy embraces core principles which require all of our business units to treat employees fairly, equitably and with respect, to manage the impact of their business operations through interaction with key stakeholders, to protect the environment and to be a responsible neighbour.
The board regularly reviews the management of CSR-related issues, which have now been integrated into the groups risk management programme.
The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 15 Benets to our business Cost of employers liability claims in the UK We require all of our business units to maintain per employee reduction from 2003 4 a safe and healthy working environment 2003 4 Increased awareness of health and safety issues 2004 5 A safer working environment 2005 6 Reduced number of days lost through serious injury Lower impact of accidents Health and safety continuing improvement at Sunlight Since 2003 we have put significant effort into standardising and improving our health and safety practices and procedures.
As a result we have achieved a significant and continuing reduction in the number of serious health and safety related incidents that have occurred.
Alistair Hopkins Health and Safety Manager, Sunlight MAINTAINING HEALTH AND SAFETY AS A PRIORITY The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 16 Business review continued Our strategy Our services Through our Sunlight business in the UK, our Spring Grove business in Ireland and MARKET Berendsen in Continental Europe, we are a leading provider of textile maintenance LEADING services to the hotel and leisure, healthcare, commercial, industrial and public sectors through the provision of at linen, workwear garments, mats and maintenance POSITIONS products for facilities.
We are primarily a textile rental business where we acquire and own the at linen or garments and rent these to customers on service rental IN MOST contracts of varying lengths.
Hotels and Sales and OF OUR restaurants Healthcare Workwear Facilities production UK MARKETS Ireland Denmark Sweden Norway Germany Austria Netherlands Poland Estonia Finland Over the following pages we take a closer look at the operations of our Continental European and UK, and Irish businesses.
Our markets Hotels and restaurants In our hotel and restaurant division we provide at linen including bed linen, tablecloths, napkins as well as towels.
We also provide workwear for hotel and restaurant staff including chefwear.
We provide systems and processes for managing these textiles within our customers facilities.
In most of our markets, this is the most established of the outsourced textile maintenance services and we focus our services at the high volume end of the market.
Healthcare For our healthcare customers, we provide linen rental together with management systems for ward linen and other patient related products.
In addition, we have a comprehensive sterile textile and procedure pack rental service for use in the operating theatre, which is serviced from specialist clean room operations.
We continue to expand the range of products and services we offer to the sector.
Workwear Our workwear business provides light and heavy duty workwear for the different industrial and service sectors, including safety clothing such as reective high visibility wear.
We also provide services to the public sector.
Increasing legislation in health and safety as well as upgrades to best manufacturing practice are positive drivers in this important sector of our business.
Our workwear products are dedicated to the individual worker at our customer and the service requirements are therefore greater.
Facilities Our facilities range of products and services are designed to improve hygiene and remove dampness and dirt from the workplace, hotels and restaurants.
This range includes washroom services as well as industrial wipers and mats.
Sales and production We have direct sales businesses selling principally linens and workwear, including retail shops in Sweden.
We also have manufacturing for these products.
These businesses complement our rental businesses.
The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2006 17 Principal risks and uncertainties The identication, evaluation, management and monitoring of the most significant WE IDENTIFY risks that face the group are the responsibility of the board.
Mitigating actions are taken, where possible, in order to reduce risks to acceptable levels.
AND MANAGE Further details of our risk management procedures are included within the THE RISKS IN corporate governance statement on page 30.
The board regard the most significant risks affecting the group as being: OUR BUSINESS People Government policy regarding labour markets We have over 15,500 employees.
Any policy that might inuence the availability of an appropriate economic and skilled workforce is likely to impact upon our operations.
Government immigration policies and local minimum wage legislation could have an impact on both the cost and availability of labour.
Loss of key personnel One of our biggest assets is the experience and dedication of our senior management team.
The unexpected loss or departure of key management within the group could cause disruption in the short term.
Operational Unforeseen loss of capacity Our continuing focus on improving operational efficiency means that our operations work at high capacity utilisation levels: therefore the unforeseen non-availability of a significant facility could result in significant disruption to our operations and increased costs.
Non-compliance with health and safety The welfare of our employees is very important regulations or recognised practices to us.
Any breach of health and safety regulations, or non-compliance with any recognised local practices, could potentially result in a loss of licence to operate, and potentially damage our reputation.
Inability to develop a national garments The efficient integration of our Berendsen business business in Germany and Permaclean is essential to set the foundation for a national workwear business in Germany, upon which bolt-on acquisitions will be made.
Financial Foreign currency exposure The group hedges its overseas net assets denominated in foreign currencies through the use of long-term borrowings in relevant local currencies.
However, our overseas businesses account for more than 57% of our earnings, and in common with other UK companies, foreign currency exposures on the translation of overseas profits into sterling are not hedged.
Levels of funding for pension schemes The levels of funding required for our dened benefit pension schemes are predominantly dependent upon uctuations in equity markets, movements in interest rates and changing life expectancy.
Other Exposure to public sector markets An important part of our business and future with strong budget pressure opportunities involve servicing the public sector in both the UK and Continental Europe, particularly healthcare operations.
Much of this business is dependent upon the planned levels of public sector investment and how they intend to manage outsourced services: there is currently strong pressure on public sector expenditure within the healthcare markets in the UK and Germany.
Non-availability or increasing cost of utilities We are very reliant upon a continuous supply of utilities.
Any event that might result in a potential shortage of a utility could represent a risk to the groups operations.
Utilities comprise an important part of our costs, so any utility price increases could have a significant impact on the groups profitability.
