Business review received from clients until after the year-end.
The groups xed income business has New business generation has continued been transformed by the DeAM strongly into the new financial year, with a further 1.5 billion of investment mandates transaction and we now have a truly awarded by clients in October and November.
The Groups results for 2006 have been prepared for the first time in accordance with the requirements of International Financial Financial objectives Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS.
Although this has resulted in changes Aberdeen is committed to delivering long in the presentation of the audited financial term shareholder value by pursuing a strategy statements, the key drivers of the Groups which involves an appropriate mix of organic business and the way the Board manages the growth and selective acquisitions.
This business The Groups principal aims are to grow the review discusses the results on the basis of recurring revenues generated from assets presentation adopted for management under management AUM and to maintain purposes, which we refer to as the underlying an efficient cost base from which to service basis, because the Board considers that the this business.
The level of net new business separation of recurring and non-recurring inows is a key driver of the growth in items in this way will provide more helpful revenues and profits.
The following table summarises the principal differences between Key performance indicators KPIs the IFRS and underlying numbers.
2006 2005 % % ReclassiUnderlying cations IFRS Growth in underlying profit before taxation 132 28 000 000 000 Growth in underlying EPS diluted 92 53 Revenue 302,124 302,124 Operating margins: Other operating income 7,925 18,381 26,306 Investment management division 29.4 26.5 Total income 310,049 18,381 328,430 Property management division 16.9 13.0 Operating expenses 228,792 42,476 271,268 Net new business 6.0bn 3.6bn Martin Gilbert Operating profit 81,257 24,095 57,162 Chief Executive Growth in underlying profit before taxation and EPS Net finance costs 2,215 1,100 3,315 for the year to 30 September 2005 involves comparing Bill Rattray gures prepared under IFRS for 2005 with gures profit before taxation 79,042 25,195 53,847 Finance Director prepared under UK GAAP in 2004.
However, the Tax expense 17,404 7,429 9,975 comparison on this basis remains a valid indicator of profit after taxation 61,638 17,766 43,872 the scale of the Groups progress in that year.
Exceptional income and expenses 16,237 16,237 Review of results Amortisation of The Groups results for the year to 30 intangible assets 8,958 8,958 September 2006 disclose a record level of Tax on exceptional items profit and reect strong organic growth from and amortisation 7,429 7,429 net new business inows and the benets of profit for the year 43,872 43,872 the acquisition of certain businesses from Deutsche Asset Management DeAM.
The Groups total income increased by 96% to 310.0 million, while the underlying operating Net new business inows of 6.0 billion were profit improved by 132% to 81.2 million.
achieved during of the year: of this total, 5.0 Net finance costs reduced to 2.2 million, billion had been funded by clients before the resulting in an underlying profit before year-end and is therefore included in the taxation of 79.0 million, an increase of 218% assets under management gure at that date: on the previous year.
the remaining 1.0 billion represents the value of new mandates awarded at 30 September 2006 but for which the funding was not 6 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 These improved results arose from the mix between the major asset classes and considerable progress made in each of the by mandate type.
Much of the change can be Groups fund management and property attributed to the addition of the AUM brought management divisions, which will be in by the DeAM transaction but it is also discussed in more detail below.
The Groups encouraging to note that there has been overall operating margin, which is dened greater diversity in the new business inows as the operating profit divided by total achieved by the Group.
income, improved from 22.5% in 2005 to AUM at 30 September 2006 can be analysed 26.9% this year.
as follows: m % Underlying earnings per share, which is probably the most meaningful measure of By principal asset class Fixed income 38,126 52.1 progress, as it takes account of the increased Equities 28,456 38.9 number of shares in issue as well as the rise in Property 6,588 9.0 profits, increased by 92% to 8.83 pence per share on a diluted basis.
73,170 100.0 By mandate type Fixed income 35,315 48.3 AUM has continued to grow steadily, Equities 24,122 33.0 with good investment performance Multi-asset 6,700 9.1 Property 6,588 9.0 the catalyst.
Private equity and other 445 0.6 Review of operations 73,170 100.0 Operational structure Investment management xed income The Group operates two business segments: The Groups xed income capability has been Investment management, which involves transformed by the DeAM transaction, which the management of equities and xed added approximately 28 billion of assets income securities: and managed for approximately 400 clients.
former DeAM teams are based in London and Philadelphia but we have been able to The investment management division is integrate our xed income teams in Singapore organised in three geographical areas and Sydney to create a truly global xed Europe, Asia and the Americas.
The nature of income capability.
the Groups business, whereby assets sourced from clients of any given domicile may be The ability to operate on a business as usual mandated for investment in another basis immediately following completion of geographic area, means that there is the DeAM transaction has been extremely considerable ongoing interaction and important in maintaining existing client interdependencies amongst these regions.
relationships and in enabling us to seek new client mandates.
Investment performance The property division operates principally in and process are also of paramount Europe, with approximately 85% of AUM in importance and we have continued to deliver Scandinavia and 15% in Continental Europe.
steady and consistent outperformance across Our objective is to continue the a wide range of products and mandates.
diversication of AUM, both in Europe and more widely, and since the year-end this team We have been encouraged by the interest and has launched its first fund investing in Asia.
support shown by investment consultants during this period of transition.
Following a The performance of each of these divisions series of meetings with consultants during the and regions is discussed below.
first half of 2006 we have witnessed increased Investment management division overview opportunities to be considered for new business, culminating in a number of recent The year under review has seen a considerable mandate wins.
change in the composition of the Groups assets under management, both in terms of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 7 Business review continued A key area of focus during 2006 has been the performing consistently ahead of benchmark launch of a range of pooled funds to provide a over a four year period and that this has begun liability driven investment LDI capability to be recognised by investors and consultants.
for a wider range of US, UK and European Investment management multi-asset investors.
Our AUM in LDI strategies now exceeds 4 billion, having grown from only The scale of the Groups multi-asset AUM was 142 million three years ago.
Looking increased considerably as a result of the DeAM forward, we are now aiming to add a series of transaction.
The nature of the agreement we absolute return funds to complement our made for the purchase of the equities & multiexisting product range.
asset business recognised that there were likely to be further client losses from this area Consistent outperformance of client of the business, and approximately 4.4 billion benchmarks and the disciplined process of AUM was indeed transferred out by clients followed by the xed income teams have each during the period to 30 June 2006.
However, contributed to the growing level of new the level of multi-asset business retained, at business opportunities available to the Group.
approximately 50% of the values a year Investment management equities earlier, exceeded our initial expectations by a considerable margin.
The Groups equity AUM has continued to grow steadily during the year, with good We are seeing two trends in this area of our investment performance providing the business.
On the one hand the trend seen in catalyst for this growth.
The consistency and recent years of larger investors moving away discipline of our equity investment process from multi-asset mandates or balanced has been key to the delivery of performance mandates, as they may also be referred to in across a wide range of products.
favour of specialist mandates continues.
On the other hand there is still a sizeable element A key element of our equity investment of the investing community who recognise process is that we visit companies before we and value the simplicity and exibility offered invest and again on a regular basis after by the multi-asset approach.
Our capability in investing: this is clearly easier to achieve by the multi-asset arena has been particularly having ofces in each of the key investment appreciated by our charity clients and we have regions.
Our principal equity ofces have, for underlined our commitment to this area of some time, been in London, Singapore and our business by launching a dedicated range Edinburgh and during 2006 we transferred our of funds.
US equities team to Philadelphia.
We have recently opened a research ofce in Tokyo and Multi-asset AUM stood at 6.7 billion at 30 intend to expand this to a full investment September 2006.
We recognise that there is a management ofce in due course.
We also risk of some multi-asset mandates being intend to transfer a Mandarin-speaking fund withdrawn by clients who favour the specialist manager to Hong Kong with a view to approach but we believe that our deepening our China research.
performance record in a range of key asset classes positions us well to win a reasonable proportion of the specialist mandates that We now have ten property funds, and may emanate from any such decisions.
our ambition is to expand this range, Equally, we are confident of our ability to win further mandates from clients who favour the both geographically and in specialist balanced approach.
Property asset management Investment performance has been strong in We have made substantial progress during the each of Asia-Pacic, global emerging markets year against our twin targets of diversifying and global equities and we can demonstrate our product offering and improving the superior performance in each of these profitability and margins of this division.
categories both on a one-year view and on a Against a background of global institutions longer term basis.
It is encouraging to note seeking to increase their allocation to that our UK equity performance has now been property, we have continued our strategic 8 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 A global reach For the first time we have a genuine global dimension to our business.
Our investment centres in Edinburgh, London, Philadelphia and Singapore, situated in the key time zones are fully resourced to represent our main business lines.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 9 Business review continued transition towards the international property Business development fund business.
At 30 September 2006 2006 has seen us make considerable progress approximately 24% of the divisions AUM was in developing a more balanced and global invested in property funds, compared to only client base.
We have been able to build on the 9% a year earlier, and our aim is to continue to outstanding levels of client retention by the grow this element of our business.
former DeAM xed income teams in London In February 2006 we completed the final and Philadelphia, buoyed by a quick return to closing of Europes first, and largest, property favourable consultant outlook in these areas.
fund of funds, which attracted 623 million New business ows have become more approximately 420 million of cash diversied and xed income inows have investment.
On the back of this success we exceeded our expectations with notable wins began marketing an Asian fund of funds at the in global, UK and US core-plus products.
end of the financial year and have now Recent wins for our global xed income completed a first closing which gives us product have included mandates awarded by confidence that this will also become a sizeable investors in Australia and Japan, building on fund during 2007.
In addition, we have raised Aberdeens long established presence in these 500 million approximately 340 million of markets.
We have also been awarded a new investment in our European Balanced, number of liability driven investment Swedish, Finnish and Pan-Nordic funds.
mandates by UK, European and US clients and we have launched a range of pooled funds to We now have a range of ten property funds enable us to offer an LDI capability to a wider and our ambition is to continue to expand this range of institutional investors.
range, both geographically and in specialist Our Asia Pacic and global emerging markets property segments, to provide institutional products have continued to experience strong investors with the product range they desire.
inows, with the latter seeing considerable Of course, this expansion of our business interest from US investors.
Our Middle Eastern would not be possible without the delivery of client base continued to grow at an impressive consistent superior performance and we were rate and we have also seen considerable delighted to again be named the leading interest from European investors.
Interest in property investment manager for the Western our global equity, EAFE and SRI products has Europe and the Nordic & Baltic regions in the increased and will remain a marketing priority Euromoney Awards for Excellence in Real for 2007.
In the UK domestic market, Estate.
We also earned top position in the recognition of our proven investment process Global category.
and strong investment performance in both global and UK equity products resulted in better than expected retention of multi-asset Our Asia Pacic & emerging market and equity clients acquired from DeAM.
We recognise that some investors may elect to products have continued to experience move away from multi-asset mandates over strong inows.
time, in favour of specialist mandates, and we believe that our superior investment As well as expanding our product range, we performance in a range of equity, xed income have entered the French property market, first and property disciplines leaves us well by recruiting a small team based in Paris and positioned to benefit from any such activity.
thereafter by taking a minority investment in The success of our business development an established French property asset activities has always depended on the manager, with the opportunity to increase our interaction with our investment management interest in this business in future.
We regard teams and during 2006 we have taken steps to France as an important element of the overall achieve greater interaction with the property European property market and we believe asset management teams.
We have already that this move will enable us to offer a more seen some success reected in the launch of a complete European offering.
number of property funds and we look forward to developing this relationship further.
10 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 A balanced product range Our revenues are well spread across key business lines namely equities, bonds and property and across clients.
This diversity gives us an unprecedented platform for growth.
Potential synergies are still to be exploited.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 11 Business review continued Our priorities are to market our equity buoyant levels of new business wins have also made a significant contribution.
The most and xed income teams while also significant growth has been generated in the increasing the visibility of our highly investment management division, with revenues of 241.9 million showing a 120% regarded property arm.
increase on 2005 but the property division has also made a major contribution with an Our priorities for 2007 will be to market our increase of 30% to 60.2 million.
client-focused and consistent xed income Operating profit and margin and equity teams, whilst also increasing the visibility of our highly regarded property Operating profit increased by 132% to 81.2 capability.
million, with good progress in both the New initiatives include the establishment of a investment management and property asset dedicated marketing presence in our new management divisions, as follows: Frankfurt ofce, from January 2007, as well as 2006 2005 Change continuing to add senior resource to our Operating profit Amsterdam and Luxembourg ofces as we Investment management 71.1m 29.1m 144% develop our European client base further.
We Property 10.1m 6.0m 70% will move some marketing staff to our new Group total 81.2m 35.1m 132% Tokyo ofce on receipt of the appropriate Operating margin licence, whilst our most significant spend in Investment management 29.4% 26.5% terms of new resource and energy will focus Property 16.9% 13.0% on North America.
Aberdeen also has considerable expertise in Net finance costs the management of closed end funds, both in The main elements of net finance costs are the UK and US, and this provides us with interest paid on the various bonds and additional opportunities for the attraction of convertible bonds issued by the Group and on new equity and xed income AUM.
During bank borrowings drawn from time to time, 2006 we were successful in raising 110 less interest earned on cash balances.
Net million for the UK-listed Aberdeen Asian finance costs have reduced signicantly, from Income Fund and US$145 million 10.2 million in 2005 to 2.2 million this year, approximately 78 million for the US-listed because of the reduced level of net First Trust Aberdeen Emerging Opportunity borrowings following the rights issue used to Fund.
Some of the longer-established UK finance the DeAM acquisition.
closed end funds under our management have continued to undertake share buybacks Tax which result in a small reduction in the The effective tax rate, dened as the tax Groups AUM but this has been countered to charge divided by profit before taxation was an extent by our appointment, shortly after 22% in 2006.
This relatively low rate arose the year end, to manage the Aberdeen All Asia because of continued growth in profits earned Investment Trust.
in jurisdictions which charge tax at lower rates than the UK corporation tax rate of 30%, The Groups private equity assets are fairly supplemented by the improvement in profits small when expressed as a proportion of of our UK subsidiaries where the tax charge total AUM but good performance by our has been reduced by the offset of losses limited partnership and venture capital trust incurred in earlier years.
This pattern is VCT teams provides an opportunity to expected to continue, resulting in an effective undertake further fund raising in these areas tax rate which will remain at similar, or slightly during 2007. lower, levels for the foreseeable future.
Earnings per share Financial review As discussed above, the Board believes that Revenue the most appropriate measure of the Groups Revenue increased by 93% to 302.1 million.
profitability is the underlying EPS number, A large element of this increase arose from the which excludes from its calculation addition of the ex-DeAM business, but the exceptional costs, exceptional income and 12 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 A specialist capability While the management of traditional products will remain our core business, we recognise that innovation and exibility are essential if we are to respond successfully to changing client needs.
In areas like LDI, global multi-assets and property fund of funds we are already extending our expertise.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 13 Business review continued The effective tax rate fell owing to the are used for the management of working capital requirements including the provision of growth in profits earned in low tax regimes seed capital to enable fund launches.
plus the benefit of offsets in the UK.
The deficit on the Groups three legacy dened benefit pension schemes has increased slightly, from 30.0 million in 2005 gains and the amortisation of intangible to 32.3 million at the latest year-end.
On this measure the Groups EPS has principal factors to which pension scheme improved by 92% to 8.83p per share.
liabilities are sensitive are i the discount rate Dividends used to estimate the present value of the future cash ows arising from payment of An interim dividend of 2.0p per share was paid benets to members: and ii the estimated to ordinary shareholders in June 2006 and the time period over which benets will be paid to Board is recommending payment of a final members.
The discount rate, which is dividend of 2.4p per share, resulting in a total calculated by reference to the yield on payment for 2006 of 4.4p, an increase of corporate bonds, remained unchanged at 46.7% on 2005.
This dividend is covered 2.0 5.1% but, in accordance with recommended times by recurring earnings per share.
practice, we have adopted recently updated This payment will trigger an adjustment to the mortality assumptions which disclose subscription price applying to the warrants improved life expectancy, thus indicating that which form part of the 6.75% Convertible benets will be paid to members for a longer Preference Share Units issued in June 2005. period than had previously been assumed.
The subscription price will reduce from 99p Full details of these assumptions are included per ordinary share to 98p per ordinary share.
in note 34 to the accounts but, in summary, Financial position the adoption of the more conservative mortality assumptions has added Shareholders funds increased by 19.8 approximately 12 million to the schemes million to 450.1 million at 30 September liabilities.
The main elements of this increase performance and ongoing contributions have were as follows: 000 led to increases in the value of the schemes assets which largely offset the increased profit for the year 43,872 liabilities.
The Groups cash contributions to Net expense recognised directly in equity 3,028 Issue of shares on exercise of these schemes is expected to continue at the options and warrants 901 current rate, approximately 4.5 million per Preference dividends paid 5,397 annum, for the forseeable future.
Ordinary dividends paid 22,713 Cash ow Release from reserves to match charge for share-based payments in Income Statement 6,163 The Groups cash ow performance over the last two years is summarised below.
Increase in equity shareholders funds 19,798 2006 2005 000 000 In July 2006 the Group issued US$125 million approximately 67 million of subordinated Cash ow from operating activities 52,567 34,316 Maintenance capital expenditure 3,446 2,465 notes and the proceeds were used to repay bank debt.
These notes are treated as liabilities Dividends 28,110 10,044 in these financial statements but are treated as Free cash ow 21,011 21,807 an element of capital for regulatory purposes.
Exceptional costs 49,118 51,820 Acquisitions and disposals 109,067 48,996 Net borrowings at 30 September 2006 were Debt drawn repaid 90,678 130,186 90.2 million, equivalent to a gearing ratio of Issue of share capital 873 295,623 20.0% of shareholders funds.
Net borrowings Purchase of own shares 3,024 include 26.6 million of convertible bonds Exchange uctuations 249 740 which holders may elect to convert to ordinary shares at any time up to March 2010.
The Movement in net debt 48,896 85,688 Group also has access to 75 million of Maintenance capital expenditure represents the committed but undrawn bank facilities and an purchase, less disposals, of property, plant and overdraft facility of 15 million.
These facilities equipment used in the Groups ongoing activities.
14 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 A stable capital base The Groups balance sheet has benefited from substantial growth in new business, high levels of client retention post DeAM and tighter cost control.
Gearing has fallen to nominal levels following the rights issue.
Our overall health is reected in strong EPS growth, which appears sustainable over the medium term.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 15 Business review continued Cash ow from operating activities, which is an extent, offset any similar impact of stated after payments of interest and tax, has uctuating exchange rates on revenues and the Board has therefore decided that it is not increased by 53% to 52.6 million as a result appropriate to undertake any specic hedging of improved operating profits and the lower of exchange rates.
Fair value of financial instruments Financial risk managment As explained in note 29 to the accounts, there Interest rate risk is no material difference between the book value and fair value of financial instruments at The Group nances its activities from a 30 September 2006. combination of share capital and debt, including convertible debt.
Interest is charged at xed Resources rates on the convertible bonds and the coupon on the preference shares in issue is payable, at Employees the discretion of the Board, at a xed rate.
The Groups most important resource is its Bank borrowings under the Groups multiemployees and their knowledge and abilities currency revolving credit facility are drawn in are central to meeting clients needs and expectations.
Retention of key staff is vitally the desired currency at variable interest rates.
important in maintaining this focus on client Interest on the US dollar subordinated loan is service.
Aberdeen therefore invests in graduate charged at a xed rate for 5 years from the recruitment programmes and in ongoing date of issue, July 2006. training and development programmes The Board believes that the current balance relevant to the needs of the Group and its between oating rate and xed rate employees.
Appropriate incentive packages are borrowings is appropriate to the Groups also operated, having been considered and business needs and will continue to monitor recommended by the Remuneration this position on a regular basis.
Committee, to ensure that strong performance is both encouraged and rewarded.
Client relationships The Board is recommending a final The Groups relationships with clients is dividend of 2.4p per share, making a fundamental to its business.
Our client total of 4.4p for 2006, a 46% leap relations teams keep in regular contact with our larger clients to ensure that we can over 2005. identify any changes or action that might be needed as a result of their changing needs.
Foreign currency risk More widely, we aim to provide a high level of The Groups revenues are earned principally information to our customers generally, either from fees which are calculated on the basis of by mailings to particular classes of customer the value of AUM managed for clients and or via our website.
many mandates include investments valued in currencies other than sterling.
Fluctuations in the rates at which overseas currencies are convertible to sterling can therefore affect the Martin Gilbert value of the Groups revenues on an ongoing Chief Executive basis.
The fact that the Group operates on a global basis, with ofces in a number of countries Bill Rattray worldwide, means that a proportion of Finance Director operating costs is also incurred in foreign currencies and interest on the Groups US$125 million subordinated debt is incurred in US dollars.
Variations in the sterling value of these operating costs and interest cost will, to 16 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Independence As an independent asset manager, our fortunes depend on how well we manage client funds: as a listed entity we can use shares to align rewards with the interests of all shareholders.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 17
