In our 20th year as a managing agent at Lloyds we are pleased to announce a group profit before tax of 86.8m.
Rates remain firm and our business is prospering in such strong underwriting conditions.
Business review 2006 was a good year both for the group and Informed underwriting decisions.
With the right people in The knowledge and expertise of our the right places, we saw growth across the underwriters is central to our ability to business and took advantage of the develop the classes of business we write.
opportunities presented by profitable We have attracted and hired staff with underwriting conditions.
Throughout the year complementary skills to help our we continued to deliver our strategic initiatives underwriters in making their business in line with our vision and are focused on what decisions.
were good at: risk-taking and claims Access to our business worldwide management.
US business development Our US business continued to make progress Strategy in its first full year of operation.
The business We continue in our vision to build a premier writes insurance through an MGA, which risk-taking business measured by results and writes business both for our syndicates at reputation.
The four main strategic themes are: Lloyds and our admitted insurance company, Beazley Insurance Company Inc. BICI.
In Diversification maintaining a well 2006 we wrote US$68.9m 2005: balanced and diversified book of business: US$15.4m of premiums through the US, Cycle management delivering profit at all with US$35.9m coming from the admitted points of the insurance cycle: insurance company.
Distribution target markets must be broker led markets with sustainable Of the teams that write this business, profitability: and specialty lines is the largest, having written Talent we must be able to leverage US$22.7m on behalf of the syndicates and the depth and experience of our staff.
an additional US$34.6m through the The enablers which will help us achieve insurance company in 2006.
The US this are: specialty lines team writes a variety of professional indemnity and directors and Access to our business worldwide.
officers liability insurance, focusing on small Developing new ways of providing our to mid-sized customers, who traditionally may customers with access to our insurance not have accessed insurance through Lloyds.
products will help us grow our products Our second largest US team is the property profitably: group, which writes high value homeowners Proactively managed claims.
business in the Carolinas, Florida and A proactive claims management capability Georgia, and wrote premiums of US$10.3m can be a source of competitive advantage in 2006.
The remaining premiums of for the group.
Consequently we are making US$1.3m were written by our US cargo team.
significant investment in this area: and Andrew Beazley Chief executive 6 6 Beazley Annual Report 2006 Beazley Annual Report 2006 Fig 9: 2006 US combined business 10,000 9,000 8,000 7,000 6,000 5,000 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2006 BICI cargo lines 2006 BICI SL 2006 BUSA SL 2006 BUSA property To illustrate the growth during the year, and drew on our underwriting experience, In November, we established a presence in Figure 9 above shows our premiums written whilst allowing for competitive and market Singapore for our engineering team, which per month during 2006.
The initiative was formally forms part of the property group.
This team encouraging signs for 2007. launched in February 2007. will write specialist engineering risks and will be managed from the UK.
Given the nature of As the company is still in a start-up phase Extended coverage through branch network the Asian market, in which business tends to the costs of the operation are During the year we have strengthened our be placed almost entirely within the region, disproportionate to its ultimate steady state position and opened branch offices across a Singapore provides the perfect hub to access position.
These costs include recruitment, number of locations.
We completed the this type of business.
marketing, IT development and legal fees purchase of the Asia Pacific Underwriting along with the infrastructure costs allowing us Agency APUA in January 2006, a managing To build our UK cargo business line, and to to offer admitted market policies in addition agent operating through Hong Kong, and gain access to the local UK markets, we to our Lloyds surplus lines products.
renamed the company Beazley Limited Hong established offices in Manchester and Leeds Headcount increased from 44 to 100 by the Kong.
We previously owned 79.8% of this during 2006, adding to our existing offices in end of December.
We do not anticipate that business.
The acquisition provides access to Birmingham and Colchester.
the benefits of this increase will start to be the local market and is primarily focused on The map below shows the full range of our realised until 2008. professional indemnity insurance.
In 2006 it branch network as at the end of 2006. wrote 2.2m of premiums on behalf of the We are pleased with progress made to date, two syndicates.
We also set up a small having made a number of key hires and operation in Paris in September to write proved our ability to attract the level of talent similar business.
to complement our London skills.
We have Office locations and number of employees also established broker contacts through a strong marketing campaign which will aid us UK in executing this important initiative.
309 Commercial property initiative employees During 2006 we developed a commercial property insurance service for the mid-sized market segment through our admitted US France insurance company.
This will complement our US Hong Kong 3 existing US commercial property business employees written through Lloyds.
We recruited Mark 100 4 employees employees Bernacki, formerly of Liberty Mutual Group, to lead the initiative.
The service embodies the Singapore flexibility and breadth of coverage valued by brokers and their clients.
A new and 3 employees comprehensive tool has been developed on our BeazleyTrade IT platform to facilitate efficient underwriting.
In developing product pricing, we employed actuarial techniques Beazley Annual Report 2006 Beazley Annual Report 2006 7 7 Premiums US $ 000s Fig 10: Cumulative rate increase since 2001 % 220 200 180 160 140 120 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 07E Year of account Marine Speciality lines Property Reinsurance E Estimated Business review continued Proactively managed claims We are confident that the energy invested in Growth Unlocking the value in claims this important area will benefit both our Our managed premium capacity increased During 2006, we continued to invest in clients and shareholders.
This developing our claims service.
Improved increase was driven by the forecast increase Informed underwriting decisions underwriting and pricing capabilities, in insurance rates following the 2005 Rating environment maintenance of our high client retention hurricane season, together with continued During 2006, trading conditions were robust rates, lowered cost of the claims, and growth in our specialty lines business.
In across all lines of business.
The market is improved confidence in our results and 2007, we plan to write combined premium proving to be dynamic and responsive, with reserving, all result in a significant capacity of 860m, an increase of 4%.
rate increases across all classes averaging improvement to the service we provide 6% Figure 10.
This is particularly true in our We increased our share of managed premium our clients.
catastrophe accounts: reinsurance, open capacity to 78% 2005: 70% in 2006 which 70% of our claims managers in specialty lines market property and offshore energy.
This increases are litigators sourced from partner and senior were heavily impacted by the 2005 hurricane the amount the group can underwrite at associate roles in top law firms.
Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma Lloyds to 697m 2006: 647m.
Part of managers have over 10 years experience accounted for estimated worldwide losses of the expansion in capacity 19m came from and expertise in specialist areas, such as around US$80bn, of which Beazleys share our acquisition of Santam Corporate Limited insurance of architects and engineers, was originally estimated at 60m net of in December 2006. medical malpractice and employment reinsurance.
Our managed syndicates both 2623 623 practices.
In the US, we established claims We have since adjusted the way we price our capacity has grown by 30% since the flotation operations that are responsible for managing risks.
For instance, in our reinsurance of Beazley Group in 2002.
The groups share claims emanating out of both our Lloyds account our premium rates increased by over of the premiums we manage has increased business and our US carrier.
Likewise, open market property even more dramatically by 111% from people in place, we focused our efforts in rates increased by 26%, whilst offshore 330m in 2003 to 697m in 2007.
We integrated our claims energy rates saw some of the highest growth in premiums written together with our managers and underwriters by product line to increases over 35%.
To ensure our prices share of these premiums is highlighted in the give the managers a thorough and detailed were correctly calibrated, we bought and Figure 11. understanding of the clients and their claims, refined a number of risk management enhancing our credibility, essential in thirdOutlook products which we use to monitor pricing and party claims.
We adopted a team-based As the US business becomes more our aggregate exposures in certain geographic approach to complex claims, and developed established, we are optimistic about realising regions.
We also refined our approach greater returns in 2007.
We have key in the selection of counsel and worked closely Rates across specialty lines, which accounts individuals in place and have seen strong with them to improve management practices.
for around 50% of the premiums we write, premiums growth in recent months.
The maintained their competitive position small addition of the commercial property team in In the property group our claims managers decrease of 1% despite increasing pressure the spring of 2007 will strengthen this further.
each have at least 14 years experience and on rates during the second half of the year.
are successful in managing some of the most Premiums written by this team increased complex property claims negotiations on significantly over the past year to 361.0m behalf of the market.
In the marine division, a 33% increase.
Through this growth we we hired a chief engineer of ships to work continued to seek out the most attractive closely with us evaluating the claims, finding risks while adhering to rigorous management alternative solutions to mitigating our clients principles.
exposure and our own exposure.
8 8 Beazley Annual Report 2006 Beazley Annual Report 2006 Fig 11: Growth in premiums m 1000 800 600 400 200 0 02 03 04 05 06 07E Group share Managed syndicate capacity E Estimated We actively monitor the position of our expect it to grow despite minor rate team of 419 people around the globe.
business in relation to the insurance cycle.
Careful management of the Our growth has been organic and timed to Figure 12 is an indicative guide to our main insurance cycle through active price coincide with positive market conditions.
opportunities and threats in 2007 and monitoring and claims management holds the We believe that patience and picking the illustrates where our efforts will be focused.
It key to our long-term success.
We believe that right people has been core to our success.
and the statements below represent our underwriting conditions in 2007 will lead to Over the years, numerous world events have current view based on information up to the continued profitability for the group.
tested our skills and ability to both underwrite end of February, and any comparisons at later high quality risks and manage them.
The dates should be viewed in this context.
20th anniversary business has never made a loss and we 2006 marked the 20th year of Beazley continue to grow confidently and purposefully.
Across the business, we are expecting 2007 Furlonge Limited as a managing agency to be a positive year both in terms of at Lloyds.
We have recruited and retained talented premiums written and ratings.
Our current individuals underwriters, claims managers We began trading in 1986 with capacity to projection is that both premiums and ratings and support staff who have made Beazley the underwrite 12m of premiums.
Our aim has will increase up to 5%.
Our largest anticipated professional, well regarded, premier risk-taking been to create and build a premier risk-taking growth areas are in our political and business we are today.
Id like to take this business partly through nurturing a working contingency group within specialty lines and opportunity to thank all those who have environment that attracts and retains highly large commercial risks within the property contributed to making our early vision a reality.
Twenty years later we have group.
Specialty lines will account for over the capacity to underwrite 860m with a 50% of the business premiums, and we The insurance industry will continue to undergo changes and face challenges brought about by expected and unexpected events.
Figure 12: Opportunities and threats One can be certain that the future holds as 2007 2007 much opportunity as we have experienced so Rest of premium premium US UK Overall world rate change share far in our journey.
The journey is far from over.
Political contingency group 8% Andrew Beazley Management liability 5% Chief executive Professional indemnity 38% Specialty lines 51% Jewellers & homeowners 7% Large commercial risks 19% Property 26% Reinsurance 8% Hull & cargo 7% Energy 5% Miscellaneous marine 3% Marine 15% Total 100% Reduction of between 0% and 5% No change Growth of between 0% and 5% Growth of more than 5% Beazley Annual Report 2006 Beazley Annual Report 2006 9 9
