Directors report B17234 R&A 2006 FRONT 23 2 07 17:40 Page 6 06 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2006 Directors report Business review Understanding and meeting customers The Directors have pleasure in presenting their Report on the needs through innovative products Group for the year ended 31 December 2006.
Changing customer needs are driving the growth of our core markets.
During 2006 we made significant investments in our product capabilities and improved the quality of our people, systems and infrastructure.
This includes the product design teams, credit and customer information, allowing us to be at the cutting edge of product development in all our Our strategy chosen markets.
This gives us a leading position in one of the most important aspects of competition.
We have been offering Bradford & Bingleys strategy is to establish Growth in this market is supported by specialist lending products for many years and leading positions in sectors of the UK strong demographics: steady levels of selfour underwriting skills and experience are a mortgage market that offer superior longemployment,  earnings core strength.
term potential for growth and profitability, and borrowers with multiple sources of income.
enabling the Group to provide attractive We have continued to improve customer choice We are making great progress with returns to shareholders.
in this area, creating better value products reinvigorating the Bradford & Bingley brand and available to a wider range of people.
continuing to drive Mortgage Express forward.
We are competing in We also selectively compete in other areas To support our move to selling our own of the mortgage market that meet our attractive markets mortgages, a fresh approach to the Bradford & requirements for risk-adjusted return, typically Bingley brand was developed in 2006.
We have chosen to compete in markets that offering products that satisfy quite specific Grounded in our core purpose, our new have attractive fundamentals.
Our current core customer requirements.
Customer Value Proposition a better solution markets buy-to-let, self-cert and other niche for a better future is helping to drive a new level products each offer good risk-adjusted As one example, lifetime mortgage lending is of customer engagement across the Group.
These products are more complex than currently a small market, but has the potential mainstream mortgages and the additional for significant growth.
Housing equity is a very From this proposition we introduced an expertise required to manufacture and significant and currently under-utilised asset exciting new identity, me&my, which is distribute these loans provides the basis for in retirement.
Our lifetime mortgage products helping establish a unique position on the building sustainable competitive advantage.
make it possible for customers to make use of high street, increasing engagement this asset without the need to sell their home.
with both customers and staff alike.
The Our chosen markets continue to show brand programme is also helping to drive impressive growth underpinned by long-term We also provide loans to investors in incomesignificant improvements to our customer shifts in UK consumer demographics.
producing commercial real estate in the UK.
experience, from improved appointment These loans are typically secured on retail, booking to simpler, more interesting and The buy-to-let market has two key drivers: office or industrial property.
We also make informative communications.
the continued growth of the private rental loans to developers of pre-sold or pre-let sector and the relatively low penetration of commercial property, and residential 2007 promises to be a great year for the buy-to-let loans within this market.
In addition, we lend to Bradford & Bingley brand as we build on the factors support the continued strong demand not-for-profit housing associations throughout strong foundations laid in 2006. for rental properties, including relatively high the UK that provide affordable rented homes UK immigration levels, increased participation for people unable to satisfy their housing Specialists in mortgage distribution in further education, greater labour force needs in the open market.
Through the Mortgage Express brand we mobility and continuing reductions in are already recognised as one of the average household size.
As a result, the leading intermediary mortgage lenders.
private rental sector is forecast to experience We are establishing leading In 2006 we have further developed our ongoing growth for at least the next decade, positions in our chosen markets competitive strength in this area, particularly creating a significant opportunity for buy-to-let through improvements in our intermediary lending growth.
In each of our markets we are creating lasting service proposition.
sources of competitive advantage that will Self-cert lending lending to prime customers make us the leading provider of specialist We have continued to develop our own with non-standard employment provides our mortgage products.
These sources of mortgage distribution channels.
Very few biggest medium-term growth opportunity.
advantage extend across our whole business.
specialist lenders offer their products through both intermediaries and their own distribution Directors report B17234 R&A 2006 FRONT 23 2 07 17:40 Page 7 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2006 07 Buy-to-let Product overview Buy-to-let loans are no different from other residential mortgages in the sense that they are fully secured on residential property.
However, the income required to cover mortgage payments is derived from the rent generated by the property rather than the borrowers salary or private income.
Buy-to-let offers customers an opportunity to make a leveraged investment in property.
Typically the mortgage can be up to 85% of the value of the property and rental income is required to exceed mortgage payments usually by 25%.
For lenders, buy-to-let offers superior risk-adjusted returns.
There is a small margin premium over standard residential mortgages, but arrears rates and losses are broadly comparable.
Drivers of demand There is considerable room for further growth with increasing demand for rented accommodation and the attractiveness of buy-to-let as an effective means of financing investment in rental property.
We conduct regular surveys of buy-to-let landlords and in December 2006 a high proportion 95% intended to increase or maintain their investment in rental property.
Market and competition Mortgage Express, our intermediary lending business, was a pioneer of the buy-to-let product in the UK and now, a decade later, we are still the leading buy-to-let lender in the UK.
There has been substantial growth in the UKs buy-to-let market, particularly over the last five years.
At the end of 2006, there were over 850,000 buy-to-let loans outstanding, worth over 94bn, representing 9% of the total mortgages in the UK.
The market has evolved considerably over the last two years, with more lenders offering this product.
Correspondingly, a wider range of pricing options and extended product features are becoming available.
Self-cert Product overview Self-cert mortgages are designed to meet the needs of customers who do not have a conventional, single source of income required on a standard mortgage application.
This may be because they are self-employed, have irregular, commission-based income or multiple sources of income.
Although we still require self-cert applicants to state their income and carry out a standard affordability assessment, our underwriting relies more heavily on the credit search and other forms of automated checking.
As part of this process a sense check is carried out in order to ensure that the stated income is consistent with the applicants age, occupation, location and time in employment or self-employment.
Selfcert lending is higher risk than standard lending, however the combination of rigorous underwriting and premium pricing available in the market ensures that risk-adjusted returns are better than those available in the standard market.
Drivers of demand Recent growth in the self-cert market in the UK has been driven by changing working patterns with increasing numbers of people going into business for themselves there are now four million self-employed in the UK.
We have also seen considerable growth amongst employed applicants who have additional income from a second job or investment and want to include this income in their main mortgage application.
Market and competition The self-cert market has become increasingly sophisticated in the last two years and there are now broad ranges of products catering for the specific needs of these customers.
In particular, the advent of regulation has increased confidence in the processes surrounding the sale of selfcert mortgages which has led to growth both in terms of lenders offering self-cert and intermediaries distributing the product.
As the product becomes more mainstream, we expect to see increasingly innovative solutions designed to address the specific needs of these customers.
Although a number of new lenders have entered the self-cert market over the last two years, their impact on the market has been limited with the established players continuing to drive the market.
Directors report B17234 R&A 2006 FRONT 23 2 07 17:40 Page 8 08 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2006 Directors report Business review Our strategy continued channels.
As our markets grow, the scope However, we are investing in the development people are fully equipped to meet the for lending through our own branches, online of new market-leading service capabilities, challenges ahead and more able to service and on the telephone will create a further particularly for our intermediary partners.
the needs of our customers.
Diversified funding base Managing the principal risks to our strategy In addition to these distribution channels, During 2006 we continued to build a diversified, We manage our business to withstand we also have an agreement with GMAC to low-cost funding base.
unforeseen events along the following acquire up to 4bn of mortgages per year principles: from them over the next three years.
These Unlike most specialist lenders, a large prudent underwriting protects us against mortgage portfolio acquisitions supplement proportion of our funding comes from retail deterioration in mortgage credit quality our organic origination.
deposits through our branch network, via with every loan application being online, telephone and offshore channels.
underwritten by a skilled professional: In 2006 we introduced our specialist These deposits provide access to safe and strong equity cover protects us against mortgage range to the branch network and stable funding at an average cost that is housing market slowdown: across our direct distribution channels.
We are investing significantly below wholesale rates.
portfolio our average indexed loan-to-value for further growth, particularly through Combined with our secured funding ratio is 53%: direct channels, and have restructured our programmes, we are able to finance the new funding sources help manage our telephony functions bringing all sales and substantial growth opportunities in our liability margins and prevent us from being service activities together in one team.
over reliant on any one market: diversifying our new lending through new We are continuing to develop our savings Attracting, developing and retaining the products and distribution channels will distribution channels.
Our internet savings best people help to protect us in the unlikely event of product has been highly successful in Bradford & Bingley is a significant force in any adverse movement in our primary attracting new customers and generating UK specialist mortgage lending.
However, lending markets: growth in savings balances.
Branch-based getting our whole business working together maintaining prudent levels of capital savings products remain central to providing a is essential for continuing our progress.
ensures the business has a solid and high-value source of funding and our offshore Therefore, in 2006, we launched our Culture stable base: and savings business in the Isle of Man continues & Values programme.
This far-reaching holding high levels of liquid, wholesale to make a strong contribution.
programme has two broad aims.
Firstly, assets ensures we are able to provide a it makes our strategy clear to all our staff, safe, secure home for our depositors and Operational excellence generating a common understanding of fulfil our obligations as they fall due.
According to an independent study, we our purpose and a strong sense of belonging.
For further information on already have one of the UK mortgage Secondly, it is helping to shape the culture of 18-21 risk management see pages industrys most efficient processing units.
Bradford & Bingley, ensuring that all of our Other specialist markets The UK residential mortgage market is becoming increasingly diverse.
Potential customers have a growing range of specialist needs, which are not satisfied by the traditional mortgage offering.
The current strong housing market is changing the accepted view of house purchasers and what they need from their mortgage.
Young people and first-time buyers are turning to a variety of new options to establish themselves in a home, for instance, seeking help from family or pooling their financial resources with friends.
Equally, sectors of the market such as remortgagers and home movers can no longer be viewed as homogeneous groups served by one size fits all solutions, meaning that advice and innovative product solutions are becoming more important.
Changes in society are generating opportunities to develop unique product propositions.
There is a continuing trend towards one-person households and a large number of house transactions result from some form of relationship breakdown.
In addition, an increasing number of people are coming to the UK to work and study.
Many want to buy a property here, as a permanent base or as an investment.
Many people also see the equity in their property as part of their retirement provision, although recent Bradford & Bingley research suggests that 58% of retired people would prefer to stay in their home, which is leading to an increased focus on equity release mortgages.
With our existing skills and infrastructure, Bradford & Bingley is well placed to take advantage of these trends.
Through 2006 we launched new mortgages targeting niche markets including a product tailored specifically for recently qualified and trainee professionals buying their first home, and developments to our Lifetime equity release mortgage range.
We also launched the Bradford & Bingley branded mortgages through our branches and direct channels, enabling customers to access a wide range of specialist and mainstream mortgages on the high street, all backed up with professional advice and the confidence of dealing with Bradford & Bingley.
