Filename: 824571 1.3d Time: 18:21:47 Date: 22 05 06 Checksum: 309423105 BUSINESS REVIEW Introduction includes IP infrastructure, CRM customer relationship British Telecommunications plc is a wholly owned subsidiary of management, security, applications, managed mobility, BT Group plc and is BT Group plcs principal trading subsidiary.
BT Group plc is the listed holding company for an integrated In recent years, we have developed a track record of winning group of businesses that provide communications solutions and and delivering complex, large-scale networked IT services services in the UK and elsewhere in Europe, the Americas and contracts for large business customers and other organisations the Asia Pacic Region.
British Telecommunications plc holds including the public and government sectors around the world.
virtually all businesses and assets of the BT group.
We have shown that we have the experience and expertise to Our vision is for BT to be dedicated to helping customers help our customers succeed in a world in which business thrive in a changing world.
Our mission is to be the leader in applications are increasingly being networked and networks are delivering converged networked services.
seen as increasingly vital to productivity and competitive We are committed to increasing shareholder value by advantage.
transforming the customer experience through service excellence, In the 2006 financial year, we secured networked IT services by the effective management of our powerful brand, and by orders in the UK and internationally worth 5.4 billion, leveraging our largescale networks and our existing customer including a number of major contracts.
We aim to nd new and mutually-rewarding ways of Networked IT services revenue for the 2006 financial year engaging with around 20 million customers, to capitalise on the was 4,065 million, a rise of 33% on the 2005 financial year.
possibilities of convergence, to offer global reach combined with the service values associated with local delivery, and to continue Deliver on broadband to provide innovative services and solutions.
In the 2006 financial year, we continued our drive to enhance Our principal activities include networked IT services: local, the awareness, availability and attractiveness of broadband.
As national and international telecommunications services: and at 31 March 2006, in the highly competitive retail market, our broadband and internet products and services.
market share of consumer and business DSL digital subscriber BT consists principally of four lines of business: BT Global line and LLU local loop unbundling broadband connections in Services, Openreach, BT Retail and BT Wholesale.
the UK was 33% 2.6 million connections.
Openreach was established on 21 January 2006 in response In early April 2005, we reached our target of five million to Ofcoms strategic review of telecommunications.
It operates broadband lines one year ahead of schedule.
At 31 March the physical as opposed to the electronic assets of the local 2006, we had 7.9 million lines, including those provided via BT access and backhaul networks and provides the services which Retail and LLU.
In total, 5,501 exchanges had been upgraded use these networks to communications providers, both by 31 March 2006, making broadband available to 99.7% of internally and externally.
the UKs homes and businesses.
For financial reporting purposes Openreach remained part of As a demonstration of our commitment to delivering higher BT Wholesale until the end of the 2006 financial year.
It will be speed broadband to UK consumers, 59% of wholesale reported as a separate line of business in the 2007 financial broadband lines were 2Mbit s at 31 March 2006, compared year.
Openreach, BT Retail and BT Wholesale operate almost Having conducted trials of broadband speeds of up to entirely within the UK in the residential and business markets, 8Mbit s in association with a number of service providers, we supplying a wide range of communications products and launched BT ADSL asymmetric digital subscriber line Max and services, including voice, data, internet and multimedia BT ADSL Max Premium broadband services nationally with services, and offering a comprehensive range of managed and effect from 31 March 2006. packaged communications solutions.
Although the broadband speed that can be supported on an BT Global Services addresses the networked IT services individual line is governed by a wide range of physical factors, needs of multi-site organisations both in the UK and our trials suggest that 78% of BT phone lines should support internationally.
rates of at least 4Mbit s. In addition, we have enhanced broadband line stability to ensure that customers can run more Group strategy bandwidth-hungry applications, including video, gaming and Our strategy is to: music downloads, at the same time as sending receiving e-mails r pursue profitable growth in new wave markets and surng the internet.
r maximise the return from our traditional business We offer a family of broadband packages designed to meet the r transform our networks, systems and services for the twentydiverse needs of our customers, simply and cost effectively in a first century highly competitive market.
In October 2005, in partnership with r create long-term partnerships with our customers.
Yahoo!, we simplied our broadband packages into four options, The successful delivery of this strategy depends on the each of which offers new and existing customers a premium commitment of all BT people and our continued ability to Yahoo!
broadband experience, enhanced security features and manage their development and reward them.
the option of cheap internet telephony.
We are helping to define next-generation television which Pursue profitable growth in new wave markets is being made possible by the convergence of digital broadcast In the 2006 financial year, 32% of our revenue was from new TV and broadband technology.
During the 2006 financial year, wave activities networked IT services, broadband and we put in place a number of the key building blocks designed to mobility.
enable us to launch the BT Vision broadband TV service in autumn 2006.
Microsoft will help to provide the software Build on our networked IT services capability platform over which BT Vision will run and the set top boxes will Our strategy in the networked IT services market is to reinforce be provided by Philips, Europes largest electronics company.
BTs position as a global player capable of competing with the We are also playing a lead role in the development of worlds best in selected markets.
Our portfolio of services internet telephony or VoIP voice over IP.
International calls 2 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 Business review Filename: 824571 1.3d Time: 18:21:48 Date: 22 05 06 Checksum: 309925237 made with BT Communicator which enables customers to In addition, we provide a range of managed mobile services to make voice calls over the internet using a PC or laptop are UK and global customers who either outsource their mobile proving cheaper than those offered by many other suppliers.
BT communications entirely or rely on BT to provide specic Communicator comes with Yahoo!
Messenger which provides managed services.
access to a range of features including instant messaging, During the 2006 financial year, we launched a number of e-mails and texts.
BT Broadband Talk enables customers to new services designed to integrate customers xed and mobile make and receive broadband calls using an ordinary phone.
aim to introduce an enhanced VoIP offering, featuring highIn the 2006 financial year, we saw continued growth in the denition sound quality, in June 2006.
UK wholesale mobile arena increasing the volume and value of Broadband is increasingly critical to the success of small and wireless-originated trafc over our network.
medium businesses and BT Business Broadband remained the In February 2006, we announced that Virgin Mobile will be leading internet service provider for SMEs in the UK.
At the end the first operator to sign up to the BT Movio broadcast digital of the 2006 financial year, we had 453,000 BT Business TV and radio service, making it the first mobile operator in Broadband customers.
Europe to offer its customers digital TV and radio content on a We recognise that businesses need solutions that combine mobile device using broadcast technology.
fast and reliable access with superior support and a range of We have also developed a strategic relationship with business applications and services.
Many of these customers opt Microsoft to enable a secure and efficient environment for for such value-added services as the Internet Security Pack and delivering broadcast services on a mobile handset.
Microsofts the Internet Business Pack.
Windows Media technologies will enable BT Movio to deliver In October 2005, as part of our drive to encourage high-quality audio and video content over a DAB digital audio broadband take up in the SME market, we launched our most broadcast network using minimal bandwidth.
The BT Movio comprehensive broadband package for business to date, service also incorporates Windows Media DRM digital rights offering reduced prices, increased value and higher levels of management technology to ensure secure delivery of premium support than were previously available, including support for video and music content.
LAN local area network and IT equipment that customers BT Movio is the first wholesale mobile broadcast TV offering connect to their broadband line.
of its kind in Europe and we plan to make it available to all mobile operators in the UK.
Create convergent mobility solutions In a convergent world, individuals and businesses increasingly Maximise the return from our traditional business need to connect and communicate whenever and wherever they We face continued challenges in our traditional markets as a happen to be, using whatever devices they choose.
result of regulatory intervention, competition and a shift in our BT is both an MVNO mobile virtual network operator and a customers buying patterns, as we provide them with higherservice provider in the business and consumer mobility markets.
specication, high-value, new wave products.
At 31 March 2006, BT Mobile had over 340,000 GSM and BT Total xed-to-xed voice call minutes in the UK market as a Fusion business and consumer connections.
whole declined by 3% in the 2006 financial year.
This was BT Openzone is one of the leading providers of Wi-Fi driven by customers making use of alternatives such as mobile services in the UK and Ireland.
We operate our own network of calls, e-mail, instant messaging, corporate IPVPNs internet high-quality sites and offer more wholesale and roaming protocol virtual private networks and VoIP, continuing the connections than any other UK Wi-Fi network operator.
We have already built BT Openzone networks in However, the call minutes measure is becoming less Westminster and Cardiff and we have announced our intention important to BT as customers increasingly opt to sign up for to Wi-Fi enable a further ten cities by the end of the 2007 pricing packages and take other non-PSTN public switched financial year.
At 31 March 2006, our BT Openzone customers had access to around 8,400 hotspots throughout the UK and Ireland and Traditional services for consumers more than 30,000 globally.
We continued to develop the services we have traditionally Revenue in the mobility market in the 2006 financial year offered in order to make them more attractive to consumers.
was 292 million, an increase of 42% on the 2005 financial Examples included: year.
r at 31 March 2006, more than two million customers had In the consumer mobility market our strategy is to build a signed up for BT Together Options 2 and 3 and 67% of foundation for the delivery of xed mobile convergent solutions.
consumer call revenue was under contract BT Fusion launched in June 2005 is the worlds first r at 31 March 2006, 3.7 million customers had signed up for intelligent mobile service that switches calls to a BT broadband BT Privacy, a caller display service which enables customers line when the user is at home, offering customers the to preview incoming call numbers and lter out unwanted convenience of mobile in combination with the cost and quality calls.
All BT Privacy customers are automatically added to advantages of a xed-line phone.
BT Fusion brings with it a the Telephone Preference Service register which lters out range of mobile services including text and picture messaging.
most unsolicited marketing calls Users can connect PCs, laptops, games consoles, printers and r between January and April 2006, actor Tom Baker was the broadband wirelessly via the BT Hub that comes with BT voice of BT Text, the text-to-speech service that enables Fusion.
At 31 March 2006, there were 24,000 consumer users to send and receive texts on their home landline BT Fusion connections.
BT Text volumes increased by 94% in the 2006 Our strategy is to integrate traditional xed, mobile and IP financial year.
At 31 March 2006, 268,000 BT customers services to offer a single communications solution to our were registered on the service and around 1.2 million text customers both through commercial packaging and through messages were being sent to landlines every week the exploitation of technological convergence.
Business review British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 3 Filename: 824571 1.3d Time: 18:21:48 Date: 22 05 06 Checksum: 326087990 Transforming our costs Corporate and public sector customers will be able to work We remain focused on financial discipline and on delivering more efficiently with suppliers, structure their internal efficiency programmes that will generate sustainable cost processes, enhance customer service and drive down costs by savings.
deploying integrated networked IT solutions across their entire We continue to benchmark ourselves against the best in the supply chains.
industry and aim to achieve savings of at least 400 million in each of the next three years.
In the 2006 financial year, Create long-term partnerships with our customers efficiency programmes delivered savings of over 400 million, We believe that our relationships with our customers are key in enabling us to invest in growing our new wave activities.
a market going through major transformation.
Understanding A key area of focus has been enhancing the ways in which customers needs and responding to them exibly, customers can deal with BT, simultaneously saving costs and comprehensively and with insight is critical in helping to improving customer service.
Programmes have targeted the differentiate us from our competitors.
That is why we aim to cost of failure by, for example, minimising the number of times put the customer at the heart of everything we do a customer call is transferred before resolution and reducing the strengthening that relationship and building trust and delivering amount of call waiting time through better call routing.
This will encourage customers to move from The number of transactions via bt.
com grew by 28% in the short-term contracts based on individual transactions, to longer- 2006 financial year, and we now have approximately 2.3 million term arrangements under which they sign up for packages of customers receiving e-bills half a million of whom do not services.
Keeping a relentless focus on improving customer A number of other programmes are underway, including satisfaction is also key to these long-term partnerships.
structural changes in our network management and planning In the 2006 financial year, our aim was to increase the divisions.
Some of these are related to our 21CN initiative and number of customers who are very satisfied and extremely will, we believe, help achieve the significant reduction in satisfied with the service they receive from BT by 5%, while operational and capital expenditure that we expect from this ensuring that we maintained the reductions achieved in programme in the next few years.
previous years in levels of customer dissatisfaction.
For the 2006 financial year, the average score for customers Transform our networks, systems and services for the very satisfied and extremely satisfied was 3% higher than in twenty-first century the 2005 financial year, although the customer dissatisfaction BT has the most comprehensive communications network in the score was slightly worse than in the 2005 financial year.
UK, with around 5,600 exchanges, 680 local and 103 trunk The 2006 financial year was particularly challenging for the processor units, more than 121 million kilometres of copper delivery of customer satisfaction because many of our new wave wire and more than eight million kilometres of optical bre, and products and services require complex customer interactions.
the most extensive IP backbone network in the UK.
The network During the year, we recruited a further 900 engineers to ensure services we provide include frame relay, ATM asynchronous that we could meet customer demand.
We have one of the broadest IP-enabled networks in Europe Regulation, competition and prices and our network-based services extend to and across North and BT operates in an increasingly competitive and dynamic South America and the Asia Pacic region.
commercial environment, both in the UK and around the world.
As at 31 March 2006, our agship MPLS network service The 2006 financial year saw the most significant change to the provided coverage and support to over 90 countries from more UK regulatory regime since BT was privatised when, in response than 1,200 points of presence.
Our MPLS revenue grew by 34% to Ofcoms strategic review of telecommunications, we during the 2006 financial year, exceeding 400 million.
proposed a number of legally-binding Undertakings under the Global customer service is provided via service and network Enterprise Act 2002 the Enterprise Act.
These Undertakings management centres around the world, 24 hours a day, seven were accepted by Ofcom and came into force in September days a week.
We believe that our twenty-first century network 21CN The Undertakings are intended to deliver clarity and programme is the most ambitious business transformation certainty to the UK telecommunications industry, leading to programme in the global telecommunications industry today regulation being focused on the deepest point in the network at and one of the largest ever investments by a private company in which competition is feasible, and rolled back elsewhere.
This is mainly being achieved through the creation of a new An end-to-end, next-generation IP network, 21CN is Openreach line of business to manage our access and backhaul designed to consolidate BTs complex network and systems networks and their associated portfolio of Openreach products infrastructure to ensure that the delivery of the next generation and services.
Apart from any exceptions agreed with Ofcom, of converged services is fast, efficient and highly cost-effective.
these products and services are to be made available in exactly In the 2006 financial year, for example, we developed the first the same way to all communications providers who wish to use new 21CN services based on re-usable capabilities.
Rather than them including BT itself under the same timescales, terms being product-specic, re-usable capabilities form the basis for and conditions including price and using the same a range of products and applications, enhancing the customer processes, with the same information available to all.
experience by reducing product development and launch times By offering services equivalently, BT anticipates deregulation and proving more cost effective for BT.
and the benets this will bring to consumers and others in the 21CN will mean the ability to customise, personalise and marketplace as part of enhancing the competitive process.
change in real time services based on the convergence of voice, mobility, video, data and content.
Ultimately, it is expected to Regulation in the UK support the introduction of many more new services than are Our policy is to comply fully with the regulatory framework in currently available, offering greater customer choice.
For example, we are committed to meeting 4 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 Business review Filename: 824571 1.3d Time: 18:21:48 Date: 22 05 06 Checksum: 306975508 the obligations imposed under the Communications Act 2003 certain services to other communications providers, not to the Communications Act and BTs Undertakings to Ofcom discriminate unduly and to notify price changes and obligations under the Enterprise Act, and complying with generally relating to regulatory accounting.
In some cases, extra applicable legislation such as the Competition Act 1998 the obligations such as price controls have also been imposed.
Competition Act, while competing fairly and vigorously within Following a number of market reviews by Ofcom, BT has the rules.
been deemed to have SMP in certain xed telecommunications We continue to work closely with compliance professionals in markets, including the markets for xed narrowband retail the telecommunications and other regulated industries in the services, xed narrowband wholesale exchange lines, call UK and the EU European Union to establish best practice.
We origination and conveyance, wholesale broadband access and publish an annual compliance report which does not form part wholesale local access.
of this report at http: www.
htm BTs Undertakings under the Enterprise Act The key Undertakings given by BT are to: Ofcom r establish a new access services division to operate BTs local The Ofce of Communications Ofcom was set up under the access and backhaul networks, and to provide services over Ofce of Communications Act 2002 to provide a single, those networks to the UK communications industry on the seamless approach to regulating the entire communications basis of equivalence we established Openreach for this market.
Its functions were dened by the Communications Act purpose on 21 January 2006 In carrying out its functions, its principal duty is to further the r deliver equivalence of input for key wholesale products, and interests of citizens in relation to communications matters, and increased transparency for others secondly to further the interests of consumers in relevant r introduce new rules on access to, and sharing of, certain markets, where appropriate by promoting competition.
In restricted information in particular the commercial performing its duties, it must have regard to a number of information of Openreach and BT Wholesale matters, including the desirability of promoting competition and r restrict the exercise of inuence by other parts of BT on the the use of effective self-regulation, encouraging investment and commercial policy of both Openreach and parts of BT innovation, and encouraging the availability and use of highWholesale speed data services including broadband.
r ensure fair access and migration to BTs next-generation Regulation takes the form of sets of conditions, mostly laid network 21CN for other communications providers down by Ofcom, and directions made by it under these r publish and make available to all BT people a code of conditions.
Some conditions apply to all providers of electronic practice explaining what they must do to comply with the communications networks and services: others apply to Undertakings individual providers which are designated to have the USO r create an Equality of Access Board EAB to monitor, report universal service obligation or, following a review of the and advise on BTs compliance with the Undertakings and relevant markets, are found to have SMP significant market the code of practice.
The EAB was established on 1 power.
Other general obligations are set out in the November 2005.
The Undertakings include a number of things to be achieved by specified dates.
As at 31 March 2006, we had achieved all Conditions applying to BT specically the milestones required by that date, and we are working hard Universal service obligation conditions to ensure future milestones are achieved.
BT is the designated supplier of universal service for the UK, In the case of a breach of the Undertakings, Ofcom has the excluding the Hull area where Kingston Communications is the right to seek an injunction through the courts.
Undertakings set out a process for Ofcom to issue a direction, The services covered by the USO are dened in an order which we would normally expect it to do rather than instigate issued by the Secretary of State for Trade and Industry.
A third party who suffers loss from the primary obligation is to provide a single narrowband connection breach may take action in the courts against BT for damages.
to the xed telephone network which, in addition to voice Whether or not it took enforcement action, Ofcom would be services, must support functional internet access, to anyone able to refer BT to the Competition Commission.
Additional conditions relate to issues such as schemes for consumers with special social needs, Competition and the provision of public payphone services.
Competition and the UK economy Ofcom intends to review the cost and benefit of the USO in The growth of mobile telephony over the past decade has been 2007 and if it considers the net cost of the USO to be an undue a major factor in shaping the UKs telecommunications burden, it could look at alternative ways of funding it.
Mobile now accounts for around 30% of total UK voice minutes.
BTs share of the UK voice market, including significant market power conditions mobile, is estimated to have fallen by about 3% in the 2006 Ofcom is required by the European Commission to define, financial year to approximately 37%.
The mobile and xed-line analyse and regularly review markets, and to determine whether markets are currently treated as separate and regulated any communications provider has SMP, which is aligned with differently.
the competition law concept of dominance.
Economic We anticipate that competition in the UK xed regulation can only be imposed following a market review and a telecommunications market will intensify as a result of the nding of SMP.
Undertakings as services are provided equivalently and the Where Ofcom nds that a provider has SMP in a market, it take-up of Openreach products increases.
must impose such additional SMP conditions as it considers BTs share of the residential xed-voice calls market declined appropriate, as specified in the Communications Act.
These to an estimated 58% for the 2006 financial year, compared may include obligations to meet reasonable requests to supply with estimates of 64% and 70% for the 2005 and 2004 Business review British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 5 Filename: 824571 1.3d Time: 18:21:49 Date: 22 05 06 Checksum: 289057971 financial years respectively.
CPS carrier pre-selection has been certain conditions and obtain licences or other authorisations.
one of the contributors to the loss of share in the xed-voice The degree to which these markets are liberalised varies widely.
Our ability to compete fully in some countries is therefore We estimate that BT had 41% of the market for business constrained.
xed-voice calls in the 2006 financial year, compared with We continue to press incumbent operators and their national estimates of 42% and 44% in the 2005 and 2004 financial regulatory authorities around the world including the EU for years respectively.
cost-related access to their networks where appropriate.
We also estimate that BT supplied around 74% of exchange lines in the UK at the end of the 2006 financial year, compared Legal proceedings with 79% and 82% in the 2005 and 2004 financial years BT does not believe that there are any pending legal respectively, with cable operators being the primary alternative proceedings which would have a material adverse effect on the providers.
financial position or operations of the group.
Current and future wholesale line rental arrangements will There have been criminal proceedings in Italy against 21 enable BTs xed-line customers to move PSTN lines to other defendants, including a former BT employee, in connection with operators which are expected to be the source of more the Italian UMTS universal mobile telecommunications system competition in the future.
Blu, in which BT held a minority interest, participated Since 2000, we have been required to provide LLU local in that auction process.
On 20 July 2005, the former BT loop unbundling which enables other operators to use the lines employee was found not culpable of the fraud charge brought connecting BTs local exchanges to our customers, and to install by the Rome Public Prosecutor.
All the other defendants were equipment in our exchanges.
The Public Prosecutor is in the process of There are two types of unbundled line: appealing the courts decision.
If the appeal is successful, BT r a fully unbundled line gives other operators the exclusive use could be held liable, with others, for any damages.
The of the copper line company has concluded that it would not be appropriate to r a shared access line only gives other operators the use of the make a provision in respect of any such claim.
high-frequency channel used for broadband.
The line will also be used by the customers xed-line voice provider.
Property Take-up of LLU a key Openreach product continued during At 31 March 2006, we occupied approximately 6,500 the 2006 financial year, with the total number of unbundled properties in the UK and approximately 1,500 properties lines exceeding 350,000 at 31 March 2006.
We anticipate a around the world.
substantial increase in the number of unbundled lines in the The majority of these UK properties are owned by and 2007 financial year.
Communications providers benefited from leased back from the Telereal Group, which is part of the lower prices for both connection and rental resulting from cost William Pears Group.
studies carried out by Ofcom during the period.
These properties mainly house exchange equipment and are needed as part of our continuing activities.
Other, general Non-UK regulation purpose, properties consist chiey of ofces, depots and BT must comply with the regulatory regimes in the countries in computer centres.
which we operate and this can have a material impact on our We anticipate that our changing working patterns will business.
continue to reduce property costs.
European Union Corporate reputation and brand strength The degree to which European Commission directives relating BT has a strong, integrated brand that is widely recognised to electronic communications have been implemented varies both in the UK and around the world.
Although the general move towards Our brand helps to shape our relationships with all our the new regime continues, in some countries this is happening stakeholders, including shareholders, customers, suppliers and more slowly than, for example, in the UK.
It is vital that they all have a clear understanding of BT does not have universal service obligations outside the what BT stands for, and that all their interactions with us UK, although in certain member states we may be required to contribute to a consistently positive image of BT.
contribute towards an industry fund to pay for the cost of As a vital asset, the BT brand needs to be developed, meeting universal service obligations in those countries.
protected and managed with the same rigour that we bring to The European Commission is formally investigating the way other assets, both tangible and intangible.
And as the world and the UK Government has set BTs property rates and those paid the markets in which we operate change, so our brand needs to by Kingston Communications.
The Commission is examining reect this, becoming more confident, dynamic and forward whether the Government has complied with European looking.
Commission Treaty rules on state aid in assessing BTs rates.
Towards the end of the 2006 financial year, we completed a BTs rates were set by the Valuation Ofce after lengthy thorough review of our brand, as a result of which we developed discussions based on well established principles in a transparent a new vision and mission.
In our view, any allegation of state aid is groundless Our vision for BT is to be dedicated to helping customers and we are confident that the Government will demonstrate the thrive in a changing world.
fairness of the UK ratings system.
A nding against the UK Our mission is to be the leader in delivering converged Government could result in BT having to repay any state aid we networked services.
By ensuring that the services we offer may be determined to have received.
customers are consistently focused on meeting their needs, straightforward and easy to use, we will help those customers Rest of the world succeed in their business and personal lives.
The vast majority of the markets in which we operate around the world are regulated, and in most of these we have to meet 6 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 Business review Filename: 824571 1.3d Time: 18:21:49 Date: 22 05 06 Checksum: 294632386 The review concluded that the BT brand values remained t for In the 2006 financial year, 22 million was allocated to provide purpose.
Consequently, they are unchanged: free shares to employees under the ESIP.
Employees outside the r trustworthy we do what we say we will UK receive a cash payment equivalent to the value of the r helpful we work as one team shares.
This allocation of profits was linked to the achievement r inspiring we create new possibilities of corporate performance measures determined by the Board.
r straightforward we make things clear In addition, employees can buy shares at a discount under our r heart we believe in what we do.
During the 2007 financial year, we will be delivering a More than 98% of eligible employees participate in one or comprehensive communications plan to ensure that all more of these plans.
stakeholders understand the implications of our new vision, mission and brand positioning.
Pensions Most of our employees are members of the BT Pension Scheme Motivating our people and living the BT values a dened benefit scheme or the BT Retirement Plan a money Our commitment to meeting our customers needs presents the purchase scheme, both of which are controlled by independent 104,400 people employed by BT at 31 March 2006 with trustees.
The BT Pension Scheme was closed to new members opportunities to develop innovative solutions, generate new on 31 March 2001.
The majority of new employees are eligible business, drive efficiencies and experience personal growth.
to join the BT Retirement Plan.
Our aim is to create a team of high-performing, engaged and motivated people who can make a difference for customers, Health and safety shareholders, the company and themselves.
Only by living our The health and safety of our people is of paramount importance values will we deliver our strategy, keep our promises to our and we are implementing a group-wide initiative to reduce customers, seize new opportunities in new markets and levels of accidents and ill health amongst our workforce.
We maximise the return from our traditional business.
have reduced the number of accidents leading to absence from work from 8.6 cases in every million working hours in 2001 to Motivating leaders 2.8 cases in every million working hours at 31 March 2006.
The quality of leadership in BT is key to the successful delivery Specic initiatives addressed lifting and working at heights and of our strategy for transformation and growth.
We are focused we continued to enhance our occupational road risk on ensuring that leaders at all levels understand what is programme.
expected of them, have access to appropriate development In the 2006 financial year, we ran major initiatives on opportunities and are able to benchmark their performance lifestyle change focusing on exercise, diet and giving up against that of their peers.
We have, for example, rigorously smoking.
dened the capabilities we expect our leaders to exhibit and have introduced a 360 degree feedback tool to help them Learning now and for the future measure their performance.
We believe that people, particularly at the start of their careers, will increasingly want to work for companies that commit to the Engaging and motivating our people long-term development of their employees.
Our annual employee attitude survey was conducted most Our successful company-wide re-accreditation to Investors in recently in February 2006 and attracted a more than 75% People in February 2005, first achieved in 1998, demonstrates response rate 80,000 responses.
The survey generates around our continuing commitment to the effective alignment of our 5,000 feedback reports for managers and their teams across communications, training and development with our business the business, helping to promote effective team working.
Employees are kept informed about our business through a We have created a learning governance model to ensure our wide range of communications channels, including our online learning and development objectives and practice align with the news service, bi-monthly newspaper, regular e-mail bulletins key strategic objectives of the businesses.
Senior and senior management webchats and webcast briengs.
representatives from all parts of BT sit on the Learning We have a record of stable industrial relations and enjoy Executive Council and senior learning and development generally constructive relationships with recognised unions in representatives form the Learning Council.
Both bodies provide the UK and works councils elsewhere in Europe.
strategic and operational guidance for the whole of BT to In the UK we recognise two main trade unions the ensure that all learning and development activity is co-ordinated Communication Workers Union and Connect.
We hold regular across all lines of business.
meetings between management, employees trade union In March 2006, we upgraded BT Academy, our web-based representatives and other groups of employees in order to corporate learning portal, to a new platform and renamed it ensure that their views are taken into account in any decisions Route2Learn R2L.
R2L a group-wide system is evidence of affecting employees interests.
We also operate a pan-European our continuing investment in lifelong learning and education for works council the BTECC.
Our Chief Executive and other all BT people.
Providing all BT employees with an extensive senior executives have regular meetings with the BTECC and range of learning programmes and facilities, it is one of the other employee representatives.
largest corporate learning management systems in Europe.
In the 2006 financial year, the BT Academy Learning System Rewarding and recognising achievement delivered over 250,000 online and nearly 38,000 instructor-led We continued to provide our employees with opportunities to course completions.
acquire a stake in the company.
Under the BT Employee Share Investment Plan ESIP, BT can provide free shares to Embedding exibility and diversity employees and employees can buy shares in BT from their The changing nature of the markets in which we operate, our pre-tax salaries.
focus on cost leadership and our investment in new services have impacted the shape of our permanent workforce.
Business review British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 7 Filename: 824571 1.3d Time: 18:21:49 Date: 22 05 06 Checksum: 295121091 During the 2006 financial year, in the UK more than 6,600 social and environmental report.
These risks are not regarded 2005 3,903 people joined BT, natural attrition was running as material in relation to the BT group.
at 3% 2005 2.6% and 2,169 2005 2,685 people left BT under our voluntary paid leaver package.
Environment We are committed to helping our people optimise their During the 2006 financial year, we achieved re-certication work life balance.
At the end of March 2006, for example, under the revised ISO 14001 standard the international around 11,000 people were working from home.
standard for environmental management systems for our We continue to create a working environment that actively operations in the UK and Spain.
We requested withdrawal of supports all our employees regardless of gender, race, sexual our certication in Ireland, pending reorganisation and will seek orientation, religion beliefs, disability or age.
re-accreditation during the 2007 financial year.
Although BT is one of the largest consumers of industrial and Our commitment to society commercial electricity in the UK, and the growth of broadband Corporate social responsibility CSR continues to increase our electricity use, our electricity Managing social, ethical and environmental issues in a way that consumption increased by less than 1% in the 2006 financial grows shareholder value and helps BT and our customers be year.
The green energy contract we signed in the 2005 financial more sustainable is very important to us.
year means that almost all our UK electricity needs are met The Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes rank companies for from  sources, including wind their success in managing social, ethical and environmental generation, solar, wave and hydroelectric schemes.
During the 2006 financial year, BT was ranked as the top telecommunications company in Research and development the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the fifth year in a row.
In the 2006 financial year, we invested 727 million in research We also hold the Queens Award for Enterprise in and development R&D to support our drive for innovation.
recognition of our contribution to sustainable development.
This investment comprised capitalised software development More detailed disclosures on BTs implementation of social, costs of 401 million and R&D operating costs of 326 million.
ethical and environmental policies and procedures are available This compares with 522 million in the 2005 financial year, online in our independently-veried Social and Environmental which comprised 265 million of capitalised software Report 2006 which has been prepared in accordance with the development costs and 257 million of R&D operating costs.
2002 Global Reporting Initiative GRI sustainability reporting In addition, the 2006 financial year includes an amortisation guidelines and assured against the AA1000 Assurance charge of 160 million 2005 95 million in respect of Standard.
During the 2006 financial year, our CSR strategy was This increase in R&D underpins our increased focus on substantially revised and updated to focus on three principal developing innovative products and services for a converged, issues climate change, sustainable economic growth and an networked world.
Embedding CSR into our commercial We continue to focus our innovation work on key areas operations remains an important part of our strategy.
As part of which support our business and technology strategies, ling this process, we have carried out a number of health checks in patent applications for 141 new inventions in the 2006 financial our commercial operations to identify specic social, year and maintaining a total worldwide portfolio of 7,700 environmental and ethical risks and opportunities.
We have important relationships with a wide range of We have successfully launched eight innovative, independent stakeholders, including employees, customers and suppliers and start-up companies through the corporate venturing partnership engage with them in a number of different ways.
unit New Venture Partners, in which we are a limited partner.
As part of our CSR performance measurement, we have 12 These start-ups generate value by launching innovative CSR KPIs key performance indicators which cover our solutions as high-technology businesses in the global relationships with our stakeholders, as well as our marketplace.
environmental performance and our contribution to digital inclusion and business integrity.
Details of our performance Principal risks and uncertainties against these KPIs are published in our annual social and In common with all businesses, BT is affected by a number of environmental report.
risks, not all of which are wholly within our control.
Although Our CSR team co-ordinates and monitors CSR performance, many of the risks inuencing our performance are identies potential issues and opportunities that could affect macroeconomic and likely to affect the performance of the business and supports BTs commercial activities.
businesses generally, others are particular to our operations.
This section highlights some of those particular risks but it is Social, environmental and ethical risks not intended to be an extensive analysis of all risks affecting the During the 2006 financial year, we further developed our business.
Some risks may be unknown to us and other risks, knowledge and understanding of our CSR risks.
In the context currently regarded as immaterial, could turn out to be material.
of CSR, our most significant risks continue to be: All of them have the potential to impact our business, revenue, r breach of the code of business ethics profits, assets, liquidity and capital resources adversely.
r climate change r diversity Regulatory controls r health and safety If our activities are subject to significant price and other r outsourcing regulatory controls, our market share, competitive position and r privacy future profitability may be affected.
Most of BTs xed network activities in the UK are subject to Each of these risks has an owner and mitigation strategy in significant regulatory controls.
The controls regulate, among place more detail on these risks can be found in our online other things, the prices we may charge for many of our services 8 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 Business review Filename: 824571 1.3d Time: 18:21:50 Date: 22 05 06 Checksum: 292415609 and the extent to which we have to provide services to our If these trends accelerate, our xed network assets may be used competitors.
In recent years, the effect of these controls has uneconomically and our investment in these assets may not be been to cause us to reduce our prices.
We cannot assure our recovered through profits on xed-network calls and line shareholders that the regulatory authorities will not increase the rentals.
severity of the price controls, nor extend the services to which The complexity of the 21CN programme may also result in controls apply including any new services that we may offer in delays to the delivery of expected benets.
Impairment the future, nor extend the services which we have to provide to write-downs may be incurred and margins may decline if xed our competitors.
These controls may adversely affect our costs cannot be reduced in line with falling revenue.
market share, the severity of competition and our future profitability.
In response to Ofcoms strategic review of Transformation strategy telecommunications, we proposed a number of legally binding Our strategy for transformation includes the targeting of Undertakings under the Enterprise Act 2002.
These significant growth in new wave business areas.
This may result Undertakings were accepted by Ofcom and came into force in in changes to our products, services, markets and culture.
In the case of a breach of the Undertakings, transformation strategy is unsuccessful there is a risk that Ofcom has the right to seek an injunction through the courts or future revenue and profitability will decline.
Third parties who suffer losses as a result of In particular, we have targeted significant growth in new the breach may also take action against BT in the courts for business areas, such as networked IT services, broadband and damages.
The timescales for achievement of a number of the mobility.
In view of the likely level of competition and milestones in the Undertakings are very challenging.
uncertainties regarding the level of economic activity, there can be no certainty that we will meet our growth targets in these Competition in UK xed-network services areas, with a consequential impact on future revenue and We face strong competition in UK xed-network services.
Ofcom considers we have significant market power in various parts of the UK xed telecommunications market.
In these Major contracts areas Ofcom can enforce obligations to meet reasonable Our business may be adversely affected if we fail to perform on requests to supply services to other communications providers, major contracts.
not to discriminate unduly, to notify price changes and in some We have entered into a number of complex and high-value cases it can also impose extra obligations such as price controls.
networked IT services contracts with customers.
Our pricing, Ofcom has promoted competition in the xed-network area cost and profitability estimates for major contracts generally by measures including local loop unbundling, carrier include anticipated long-term cost savings that we expect to pre-selection making it easier for BT customers to route some achieve over the life of the contract.
or all of their calls over our competitors networks and the These estimates are based on our best judgement of the introduction of wholesale access products.
efficiencies we plan to deploy.
Any increased costs, delays or Reduction in our share of the xed-network market may lead failures to achieve the anticipated savings could make these to a fall in our revenue and an adverse effect on profitability.
contracts less profitable or loss making, adversely impacting our Unlike our competitors, we continue to be obliged by the profit margins.
current regulatory regime to serve customers in the UK, In some cases, our products and services incorporate whether or not such provision of service is economic.
software or system requirements from other suppliers or service There is also competition for voice and data trafc volumes providers.
Our ability to meet our commitments in a timely between xed-network operators and those operators offering manner may depend on the ability of these suppliers and service VoIP and mobile services.
providers to meet their obligations.
Failure to manage and meet The impact of all these factors may be to accelerate the our commitments under these contracts may lead to a diversion of our more profitable customers without being able reduction in our future revenue, profitability and cash to reduce our costs commensurately, which may cause adverse generation.
effects on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.
Networks and systems failures Our business depends on our ability to transfer substantial Technological advances volumes of data speedily and without interruption.
Any Our continued success depends on our ability to exploit new significant failure or interruption of such data transfer as a technology rapidly.
result of factors outside our control could have a material We operate in an industry with a recent history of rapid adverse effect on the business and our results from operations.
technological changes and we expect this to continue We have a business continuity strategy in place, designed to new technologies and products will emerge, and existing deal with such catastrophic events including, for example, major technologies and products will develop further.
terrorist action, industrial action, extreme computer virus We need continually to exploit next-generation technologies attack, hurricane or ooding.
A failure to deliver that strategy in order to develop our existing and future services and may result in a material loss and there can be no assurance that products.
material adverse events will not occur.
However, we cannot predict the actual impact of these future technological changes on our business or our ability to Pensions provide competitive services.
Declining investment returns and longer life expectancy may For example, there is evidence of substitution by customers result in the cost of funding BTs dened benefit pension using mobile phones for day-to-day voice calls in place of scheme becoming a significant burden on our financial making such calls over the xed network and of calls being resources.
routed over the internet in place of the traditional switched network.
Business review British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 9 Filename: 824571 1.3d Time: 18:21:50 Date: 22 05 06 Checksum: 16090086 As a result of the triennial actuarial valuation of the BTPS at 31 December 2002, BT agreed to make annual deficiency payments of 232 million.
The triennial actuarial valuation at 31 December 2005 is currently being reviewed in the context of recent regulatory developments and the impact of the Crown Guarantee granted on privatisation in 1984.
The results of future scheme valuations will be impacted by the future performance of investment markets, interest and ination rates and the general trend towards longer life expectancy, as well as regulatory changes, all of which are outside our control.
10 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 Business review
