16 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2006 Business review Caledonia is an investment trust company, Caledonia seeks new investments with Risk management but is unusual in holding trading subsidiaries a typical size of 10m to 25m.
Although It is the responsibility of management to as part of its investment portfolio.
The Caledonia usually aims to have an influential ensure that proper controls are in place ownership of subsidiaries requires Caledonia minority stake, the company will, on occasion, to maintain effective risk management in to prepare consolidated financial statements, be prepared to take a controlling interest every aspect of the companys business.
but Caledonia views and manages these where it believes that this will maximise The main risks comprise economic risk, holdings as part of its investment portfolio.
When considering an treasury and funding risk, investment risk This business review reflects managements investment opportunity, particular care is and operational risk.
view that subsidiaries are part of its taken in appraising the capabilities and investment portfolio.
commitment of the management team Economic risk of the prospective investee company.
The Caledonia invests mainly in the UK, Objectives and strategy anticipated total return from the investment, Europe, US and Asia.
The company takes an Objectives the strategy in relation to it, and the overall opportunistic approach to investment and is Caledonia aims to achieve a long term risks, are carefully analysed as part of the not sector or geography driven.
At present total shareholder return in excess of the investment process.
the majority of investments are based in the FTSE All-Share Total Return index, while Caledonia will invest part of its UK, which results in exposure to the UKs maintaining a progressive annual dividend, portfolio in third party managed funds.
In addition, a proportion through a focused portfolio of significant Again, a core skill is its ability to assess the of assets are invested in the US and an stakes in companies where it believes there capabilities and commitment of the fund increasing proportion of assets are invested to be good opportunities for building value.
management team and Caledonia will often in Continental Europe and in Asia, which may Caledonia measures its performance seek to obtain a significant stake in the be subject to different economic cycles.
over the long term by comparing its total management company, thereby potentially shareholder return against the FTSE Allenhancing returns to shareholders.
Treasury and funding risk Share Total Return index over five and Caledonia seeks to work closely and The overall funding objective continues to ten year periods.
constructively with the managements of be to ensure access to efficient financing In addition, Caledonia aims to achieve companies that it has backed and to make for investment purposes whilst investing a positive total return over rolling five available, the considerable experience of its liquidity for optimal returns within an year periods.
own team to help the investee companies agreed risk matrix.
This objective continued managements to address the business during the year ended 31 March 2006.
The strategy for each investment, All assets and liabilities are held by the Caledonias strategy is to invest in and including the returns and the timing of company for non-trading purposes and, as actively manage significant stakes in 30 eventual disposal, is reviewed regularly.
a result, Caledonia does not have a trading to 40 companies and situations where it Investments are realised when it is believed book.
Caledonia does not trade in derivatives believes there to be good opportunities that the funds released can provide and does not enter into transactions for building value.
Active management better long term returns, but in a manner unrelated to its investment activities.
will usually be achieved by working closely consistent with Caledonias reputation Derivatives are used to manage the risks and constructively with the investee as a supportive long term investor.
arising from Caledonias investment activities.
management, and usually with board Whilst the source of funding for new The main funding risks faced by Caledonia representation, as a long term supportive investments generally comes from its own are interest rate risk and exchange rate risk.
Risk is managed by holding a resources, Caledonia may at times seek to The level of these risks is addressed by the diversified portfolio, with at least 50% of the enhance returns by taking on moderate overall funding objective and the Board portfolio in quoted securities or liquid assets.
regularly reviews and approves policies Caledonia self-manages its portfolio, using Tight control is exercised over costs, on the approach to each of these risks.
in-house expertise, as well as using third notwithstanding Caledonias active and party managers who specialise in particular participative management style.
Cost asset classes or geographical areas.
containment is significantly aided by managing the large majority of investments through the in-house management team.
Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2006 17 Caledonias foreign exchange risk The valuation of a large proportion Financial review management policy allows for exposure of Caledonias equity portfolio is based Profit for the year to structural and transactional currency on stock market valuations.
Quoted Caledonia achieved a profit of 349m movements.
In the event that there is a investments are valued using the closing for the financial year, which equates to clear, short term exit plan for a foreign market bid price at the balance sheet date.
35.7% on restated opening shareholders currency denominated investment, a view Where appropriate, Caledonias unquoted funds.
This compares with a 24.0% return will be taken of likely currency movements portfolio investments are valued using on the FTSE All-Share Total Return index.
over the period to expected exit and part or stock market earnings multiples for the The components of the profit for the year all of the exposure may be hedged using relevant industry sector, discounted for nonare shown in table 1. foreign currency contracts or currency marketability.
Accordingly, stock market The main drivers of the profit were the derivatives.
valuations are a factor in determining the level of profitable realisations, strong levels The exposure to interest rate valuation of Caledonias portfolio and of income and overall growth in the value of movements on treasury assets is managed the total return.
through the use of term deposits and Actual proceeds from the disposal of Table 2 summarises the changes in the money market funds.
Where there are any individual investment will inevitably investment portfolio.
group borrowings, exposure to interest rate depend on market and economic conditions movements is managed through the use of prevailing at the time.
Investments derivatives, such as caps and collars where Caledonia invested a total of 155.2m, appropriate.
Operational risk compared with 123.8m in 2005.
Day-to-day management of treasury Within a framework approved by the Board, A summary of the principal investments, activities is delegated to executive Directors heads of department are responsible for analysed between new and follow-on and to the Group Treasurer.
Regular reports identifying, assessing, controlling and investments, is given in table 3. on Caledonias funding position and cash reporting operational risk.
This is supported During the year, 125 potential new flow forecasts are considered during the by a framework of core values, standards investments were considered and eight year by the Board.
There has been no and controls and delegated authorities.
were selected with an aggregate cost of change during the year or since the year The ability to recruit, develop and 70.0m.
Of these new investments, one end to the principal funding risks faced by retain capable people is of fundamental was made directly in India and one in China.
Caledonia, or to Caledonias approach to importance to Caledonias strategy.
The In addition, the company supported the such risks.
company operates in a competitive industry raising of a 75m fund for investment in and aims to remunerate staff in line with India and also made a follow-on investment Investment risk market practice, to provide development during the year in Alok Industries, the Indian This risk includes investing in companies opportunities and to encourage staff quoted textiles manufacturer.
that may not perform as expected, motivation and retention.
being over-exposed to one sector of the The company seeks to operate within Realisations economy, being over-exposed to individual applicable legal and regulatory frameworks.
Caledonia made full and partial realisations investments and the portfolio valuation A Compliance Committee sits weekly and of certain holdings during the year with total being partly based on stock market reviews Caledonias current business for proceeds of 307.0m 2005 217.8m, valuations which may fluctuate.
regulatory compliance, as well as reflecting a gain over cost of 180.5m 143%, In addition to financial, legal and market considering investment proposals from compared with 105.4m 94% in the prior due diligence, Caledonias investment a compliance perspective.
The increased uplift percentage relative criteria include a rigorous assessment of A business continuity strategy is in place to last year was significantly enhanced by the investee managements track record of to ensure that operations can continue in rise in the value of Paladin Resources, as a success and commitment to their business.
This strategy has result of the successful offer from Talisman All potential investments are presented been assessed against a detailed business Energy Resources.
to Caledonias Investment Management impact analysis and is regularly tested.
A summary of full and partial Committee, which comprises executive realisations of our holdings is given in Directors and other senior managers and table 4. any individual investment of 20m or more requires Board approval.
18 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2006 Business review continued Gains and losses on investments Table 1: Profit for the year Net gains and losses on investments during 2006 2005 m m the year was 352.7m 2005 159.0m.
Investment and other income 26.2 18.9 An analysis of the principal contributors is given in table 5.
Gains and losses on investments 352.7 159.0 Gains on money market funds 0.8 Income and costs Gains and losses on derivatives 9.0 5.8 The main elements of income and costs are Provisions 10.0 shown in table 1 on page 17.
360.7 183.7 Investment and other income was Management expenses 10.8 10.6 26.2m 2005 18.9m.
The increase Other expenses 1.1 0.6 when compared with the prior year is due 348.8 172.5 mainly to the receipt of a 2.4m dividend Finance costs 0.8 1.0 from Satellite Information Services.
Taxation 1.4 0.1 Management expenses of 10.8m Profit for the year 349.4 171.4 2005 10.6m comprised the costs of managing the companys investment operations.
Table 2: Summary of changes to the investment portfolio Other expenses included transaction 2006 2005 m m costs of 1.1m 2005 0.2m, which Opening portfolio 947.1 886.1 comprised the due diligence costs incurred in Investments 155.2 123.8 successfully making investments during the Realisation proceeds 307.0 217.8 year, together with costs where investment Capital distributions 4.0 opportunities were not followed through to a specific investment being made.
The increase Gains and losses on investments 352.7 159.0 over the prior year reflects the increased Closing portfolio 1,148.0 947.1 activity during the year.
The provision of 10.0m 2005 nil Table 3: Investments during the year was in respect of matters related to the Equity mandated disposal of investments.
holding Country of Cost % Category incorporation Business m Finance costs of 0.8m 2005 1.0m New investments were lower than in the prior year as the company had minimal borrowings during Satellite Information Services 24.3 Equity UK Data distribution to betting offices 18.1 1 this year.
India Capital Growth Fund 22.0 Equity UK Closed-end Indian equity fund 16.5 1 Avanti Screenmedia 17.9 Equity UK Media distribution 10.0 1 Accounting policies Dewan Housing Finance 14.0 Equity India Indian mortgage company 7.1 Basis of preparation CF AVI Global Fund Prefs UK Equity fund 7.0 Caledonia is an investment trust company.
Cleveland London Investments Loans UK Property development 4.4 However, because it holds majority stakes BIA Pacific Fund Fund Cayman Investment fund 3.5 in certain investments, it is required to Kingdom Group Holdings 15.0 Equity China Linen yarn manufacturer 3.4 prepare group accounts that consolidate 70.0 the results of such investments.
In addition, Follow-on investments in order to present information that is Polar funds Prefs Cayman Hedge funds 18.4 comparable with other investment trust 1 Alok Industries 11.8 Equity India Textile manufacturer 10.7 companies, Caledonia publishes company Edinmore 100 Loans UK Property trading 10.5 financial statements, which include these Oval 32.3 Loans UK Insurance broking consolidator 5.2 investments in subsidiaries at fair value.
1 Incisive Media 10.5 Equity UK Business publisher 4.0 1 Melrose Resources 7.5 Equity UK Oil and gas exploration 2.7 Redleaf VI Unit trust UK Property fund 2.3 Other investments 31.4 85.2 Total 155.2 1.
Equity securities listed on the UK or overseas stock exchanges.
Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2006 19 Valuation Table 4: Full and partial realisations during the year Investments have been valued by the Realised Full or partial sale Proceeds gains losses directors in accordance with IAS 39 and of holding m m based on the principles of the International Paladin Resources Full 108.2 91.2 Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Wallem Full 31.0 22.8 Guidelines.
Details of Caledonias valuation General Practice Partial 25.5 7.0 methodology are provided on page 62.
Kerzner International Partial 22.5 17.3 F&C Asset Management Full 20.4 1.0 Introduction of International Financial Aberforth LP fund Distribution 15.7 15.7 Reporting Standards IFRS Polar funds Redemptions 14.5 0.8 These financial statements have been MORI Full 10.3 4.6 prepared for the first time in accordance Discovery Trust Full 8.5 4.0 with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
The British Empire Securities Partial 8.4 7.1 principal elements impacting Caledonias results on transition to IFRS were as follows: Redleaf V Full 8.3 3.5 Easybox Partial 7.0 The requirement under IAS 39 Savills Partial 4.1 2.9 Financial Instruments: Recognition Landsdown Full 2.7 2.0 and Measurement to value quoted Other realisations 19.9 2.6 investments at bid price.
Under UK Total 307.0 180.5 GAAP, quoted investments were reported at mid-market price.
Table 5: Net gains and losses on investments during the year Gains losses Under IAS 19 Employee Benefits, the m pension scheme deficits should be Close Brothers 52.6 included in the balance sheet.
Paladin Resources 52.5 British Empire Securities 46.5 Deferred tax has been recalculated in Kerzner International 36.6 accordance with IAS 12.
This adjustment Sterling Industries 22.3 includes deferred tax calculated on the Rathbone Brothers 16.7 unrealised gains on investments and Wallem 15.0 a deferred tax asset in respect of the Quintain Estates & Development 13.5 pension deficit recognised under IAS 19.
Savills 12.8 Under IAS 10, dividends declared after Other net gains and losses 84.2 the balance sheet date are not accrued Total 352.7 at the balance sheet date.
