Directors Report Special Business five business days immediately preceding the date of Authority to purchase shares purchase.
This authority, if conferred, will be exercised Resolution 8 will be proposed to renew the Companys only if to do so would enhance the net asset value per authority to make market purchases of its own shares.
share and is in the best interests of shareholders The maximum number of ordinary shares which may generally.
be purchased pursuant to the authority shall be 14.99% of the issued share capital of the Company as By order of the Board at the date of the passing of the resolution.
The minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be 25p.
The maximum price for an ordinary Fidelity Investments International share exclusive of expenses shall be an amount equal Secretary 5 June 2006 to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the Companys ordinary shares for the Business Review Fidelitys Investment Team Simon Fraser Rita Grewal Charles Payne President of Fidelity Internationals Investment Director Relationship Director European Institutional Business INTRODUCTION This Business Review forms part of the Directors review period.
Its function is to provide a balanced and leisure goods sectors brought up the rear.
Shares in the comprehensive review of the Companys performance retail sector, especially those in the leisure segment, and development during the year and its position at were the weakest performers during the period.
The review also covers the principal risks According to the Confederation of British Industrys and uncertainties faced by the Company and sets out survey of distributive trades, retail sales volumes key performance indicators used to measure, monitor declined more than expected as it would appear that and manage the Companys business.
poor weather kept consumers away from the shops.
MARKET BACKGROUND However, the UK stock markets performance was The FTSE All-Share Index experienced an encouraging somewhat at odds with economic data released twelve month period to 31 March 2006, with bid activity throughout the period.
Unemployment continued to helping to drive the UK stock market to its highest level rise and, by the end of the period, the claimant count since 2001.
Robust corporate earnings also helped had reached a near three year high.
Decembers preimprove investor sentiment, although the continued rise Budget report saw the Chancellor of the Exchequer in oil prices proved to have a dampening effect.
By the revise his 2005 GDP estimate to 1.75%, down from his end of the twelve month review period to 31 March previous 3%-3.5% range forecast.
Signs of slowing 2006, the FTSE-All Share Index had added 28.0% in economic growth pressured companies into increasing value on a total return basis.
their focus on driving down costs.
Nevertheless, Mr Brown stated that the UK economy remained stable At sector level, mining stocks were the notable gainers, despite rising oil and commodity prices, and asserted buoyed by higher metal prices.
Financial stocks also that momentum would pick up again in 2006. performed well, particularly in the last quarter of the Page 10 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2006 Business Review At 31 March 2006 On a more positive note, the UK economy was indeed Portfolio Index %% showing signs of recovery by the end of the period, as exemplified by a revival in the housing market which FTSE 100 80.1% 82.2% experienced robust growth over the period.
The FTSE 250 17.7% 14.4% average asking price of a home in England and Wales FTSE Small Cap 1.3% 3.4% rose above 163,500, according to a survey by a wellOther 0.9% 0.0% known property website, with a shortage of sellers and 100.0% 100.0% increasing demand helping to push asking prices to record levels.
However, the UK posted its biggest Size analysis of the UK equity portfolio current account deficit 2.6% of GDP in six years in Index is the FTSE All-Share Index 2005, raising concerns that the economy might not be accelerating as fast as the government had forecast.
The overweight position in the aerospace & defence sector was the most significant contributor to portfolio In terms of monetary policy, the Bank of England returns and, reflecting this, BAE Systems was the second BoE reduced rates once over the period, cutting largest contributor at stock level.
Europes largest the key interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point weapons maker BAE Systems performed strongly over in August 2005.
After this, the BoE chose to keep rates the period amid news that the group had secured a large unchanged at 4.5%.
Inflation having slowed to its defence contract for Saudi Arabia.
The second largest lowest level in 13 months in March, well within the contributor on a sector basis was tobacco, with the BoEs target of 2%, the pressure on the BoE to raise portfolios overweight position in British American rates has eased somewhat.
Tobacco representing the portfolios most notable contributor at stock level.
Despite this mixed backdrop, the FTSE 100 Index broke through the psychological 6,000 barrier for the Security selection in the oil & gas producers, travel & first time in five years in mid March 2006.
Strong leisure and household goods sectors were key company data, rather than macroeconomic contributors to relative performance.
The holding in BG fundamentals, seem to have underpinned the markets Group proved beneficial to returns as the increasing rise during the period.
Indeed, ongoing merger demand for gas and high levels of bid speculation activity, strong corporate earnings and buybacks helped the share price to rally.
helped fuel the Indexs comeback.
The portfolios overweight stance in the banking sector PORTFOLIO REVIEW helped relative performance, with Standard Chartered For the twelve months to the end of March 2006, on a representing the portfolios third largest contributor at total return basis the net asset value per share rose by stock level as the company continued to benefit from its 27.9%, marginally less than the performance of the FTSE exposure to the emerging markets.
All-Share Index, which increased by 28.0% over the same period.
However, the Company has performed well over The portfolios underweight position in the mining sector a three year period, rising by 99.1% against a benchmark was the largest detractor from relative returns.
particular, the lack of exposure to mining group Anglo American and the underweight position in Rio Tinto were The portfolio is managed using a multi-manager the two key detractors from relative returns as growth in approach, with the Companys assets currently split the emerging markets continued to boost demand for across three individual Fidelity portfolio managers.
adopting this structure the risk profile of the portfolio is reduced, as the performance risk of each portfolio The relatively high exposure to the mobile manager is offset by the performance of the others.
The telecommunications sector was the second largest three portfolio managers have been selected because detractor from relative returns.
In particular, the portfolio their investment styles tend to be complementary.
As a was overweight in Vodafone and this proved to be the stock-picking investment management house, each second largest stock level detractor.
Vodafones share Fidelity portfolio manager constructs his portfolio using a price fell dramatically over the period as the company bottom-up approach, where attractive companies are was forced to cut its earnings forecast following identified first and the portfolio is constructed to reflect increased competition.
Security selection in the media sector was detrimental to As at 31 March 2006, the Companys key overweight performance, and market selection in the beverages sector positions were in tobacco, media and aerospace sector had a negative impact on relative performance.
The Companys key underweight positions The overweight positions in media companies ITV and were in mining, pharmaceuticals and real estate.
Trinity Mirror were two notable detractors from relative The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2006 Page 11 Business Review returns.
ITVs share price trod an erratic path over the parameters and seeks to ensure that individual stocks period amid a downward ratings spiral at its flagship ITV1 meet an acceptable risk-reward profile.
Trinity Mirror suffered from continuing tough market conditions with advertising revenue down as a 3 Income dividend risk result.
The company also suspended its three-year share The Company is subject to the risk that income buyback programme, a move that weighed negatively generation from its investments fails to meet the level on investor sentiment.
of income required to meet its objectives.
The Board monitors this risk through the receipt of detailed PURCHASES monthly income forecasts and comparison of receipts The portfolio managers were active over the twelve against forecast.
The Board considers the level of month period with a number of significant purchases.
Key holdings bought during the period included online gambling company Partygaming and energy companies 4 Share price risk Centrica, International Power and British Energy.
Other The price of the Companys shares relative to the stocks included support service companies Bunzl, Capita benchmark Index and in absolute terms, as well as its and Group 4 Securicor.
Existing holdings that were discount to net asset value, are not factors the Company increased significantly during the period included can control.
Some short term influence over the Vodafone, HSBC and BP.
discount can be levied by the use of share repurchases at acceptable prices.
In the year to 31 March 2006, 5.5 SALES million shares were repurchased at a cost of 21.8 Key holdings sold during the twelve month period million 2005: 3.35 million shares for 9.7 million.
included mining group Xstrata, leisure company Hilton Group and Pilkington.
Following the bid by Telefonica, The Companys share price is monitored daily by the the O2 position was closed.
Elsewhere, the portfolio Investment Manager, reported to the Board weekly managers decreased holdings in GlaxoSmithKline, BAE and considered by the Board at each of its meetings.
Systems and British American Tobacco.
Other notable positions that were decreased included financial 5 Gearing risk groups Barclays and HBOS.
The Company has the option to invest up to 200 million of Debenture Stocks in the equity market.
In a rising PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES market the Company would benefit but in a falling The principal risks facing the Company are set out below.
market the impact would be detrimental.
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each risk and summaries are included below.
These policies In order to manage the level of gearing the Board have remained unchanged since the beginning of the regularly considers this item and sets gearing parameters accounting period.
The Investment Manager follows these and 1 Market risks invests part of the debenture funds in Fidelity The uncertainty about future prices and the Managers Institutional Cash Fund plc and short term cash deposits success or failure to protect and increase the to control the level of net gearing.
Futures positions have Companys assets against this background are core to been used during the year as an effective means to the Companys continued justification.
Other factors increase or decrease the Companys exposure to the affected by market forces such as exchange and bond equity market.
Due to the movement of markets in the rates contribute to risks which have to be taken as part year transactions in futures have resulted in realised of the Companys normal business.
2 Performance risk 6 Control systems risk The achievement of the Companys performance The Company is dependent on the Managers control objective relative to the market requires the systems and those of its Custodian and Registrars, both application of risk.
Strategy, asset allocation and stock of which are monitored and managed by the Manager in selection might lead to under performance of the the context of the Companys assets and interests.
The benchmark Index and income targets.
security of the Companys assets, dealing procedures and the maintenance of investment trust status under Management of the two principal risks set out above is s842 of ICTA, among other things, rely on the effective carried out by the Board which, at each Board meeting, operation of such systems.
These are regularly tested considers the asset allocation of the portfolio and the risk and a programme of internal audits is carried out by the associated with particular industry sectors within the Manager to maintain standards.
parameters of the investment objective.
The Investment Manager is responsible for actively monitoring the An internal controls report which includes the assessment portfolio selected in accordance with the asset allocation of risks applicable to the Companys operations is prepared by the Manager and considered by the Audit Page 12 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2006 Business Review Committee.
Risks are identified, introduced and graded their monitoring and management which are key to the and this process, together with the policies and business of the Company.
procedures for the mitigation of risks, are updated and reviewed twice a year.
Attribution Analysis The attribution analysis below enables the contributions OTHER RISKS from various sources of income and cost to be Other risks to which the Company is exposed and determined.
which form part of the Market risk referred to above are included in note 19 to the financial statements Year to 31 March 2006 together with the summaries of the policies for % managing these risks.
Change in NAV 27.9 The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process Change in FTSE All-Share Index 28.0 for identifying, evaluating and managing other Relative Return -0.1 strategic, business and operational risks.
This process Contribution to Relative Return Year to 31 March 2006 is regularly reviewed by the Board in accordance with the Turnbull guidance on internal controls.
UK Equities -1.4 Debenture Borrowings: KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Invested in equities 5.5 The key performance indicators KPIs used to Invested in cash -2.4 determine the progress and performance of the Debenture interest -1.8 Company over time and which are comparable to those reported by other investment trusts are set out below.
Share Buybacks 0.4 Charges -0.4 2006 2005 Total -0.1 1 Net asset value debt at par 27.9% 16.2% Analysis of capital performance 1 Net asset value debt at market 28.2% 17.7% All figures are calculated on a Total Return Basis 2 ie cum income Share price 35.3% 14.7% 3 FTSE All-Share Index 28.0% 15.6% SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT 1 Discount to NAV debt at par 17.0% 20.9% The Manager believes that high standards of corporate 1 Discount to NAV debt at market 11.7% 15.9% social responsibility CSR make good business sense Revenue return per share 15.28p 12.36p and have the potential to protect and enhance investment returns.
Consequently, the investment Actual gearing ratio 11.4% 10.3% process takes social, environmental and ethical issues Total expense ratio 0.41% 0.42% into account when, in the Managers view, these have a All figures are calculated on a total return basis ie cum income material impact on either investment risk or return.
1 Calculated in accordance with AITC guidelines 2 Calculated on a mid to mid basis with income reinvested 3 Source Datastream The Manager recognises and supports the view that social, environmental and ethical best practice should Notwithstanding that some KPIs are beyond its control be encouraged as long as the potential for financial they are measures of the Companys absolute and return is not reduced.
It favours companies committed relative performance and the Board monitors them at to high standards of CSR and to the principles of each meeting.
Additionally, indices and ratios which sustainable development.
assist in managing performance and compliance are regularly reviewed including the total expense ratio.
The Manager does not screen out companies from its Expenses themselves are reviewed at each Board investment universe purely on the grounds of poor social, meeting enabling the Board, amongst other things, to environmental or ethical performance.
Instead, it adopts a review costs and consider any expenditure outside that positive engagement approach whereby it discusses these of its normal operations.
Apart from the KPIs set out issues with the management of the companies in which it above the Board also regularly reviews the invests on behalf of its clients.
The information gathered performance of the Company against its peer group of during these meetings is used both to inform the eleven investment trusts with investment objectives, Managers investment decisions and also to encourage policies and benchmarks similar to the Companys.
company management to improve procedures and attitudes.
The Manager strongly believes that this is the The principal risks and uncertainties section above most effective way to improve the attitude of business includes descriptions of performance indicators and towards CSR and the Board endorses this view.
The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2006 Page 13
