Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in presenting their report The Board of Directors recognises that investing in together with the audited financial statements of the equities is a long term process and that the Companys Company for the year ended 31 December 2006. returns to shareholders will vary from year to year.
The Company was incorporated in England and Wales The impact of this on dividend payment may be found as a public limited company on 16 August 1991 under on page 3 in the Chairmans Statement.
the name of Legistshelfco No.
112 PLC with the registered number 2638812.
The name was changed Unlike equivalent open-ended investment vehicles, to Fidelity European Values PLC in September 2001. the investment trust structure offers investors a portfolio which may be geared.
The Board takes the view that BUSINESS REVIEW long term capital gains can be enhanced by the use This section of the Directors Report provides a review of of gearing.
In normal circumstances a gearing level the Companys business and describes the principal risks of below 20 per cent of net assets will be maintained.
Fidelitys investment management philosophy, Business of the Company style and process HM Revenue & Customs has approved the Company as The portfolio is primarily built on a stock by stock an investment trust under Section 842 of the Income and basis following the Managers assessment of the Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for the accounting period fundamental value available in individual securities, ended 31 December 2004 and has granted provisional with geographical weightings largely the result of stock approval for the accounting period ended 31 December selection, rather than macro-economic considerations.
2005 although this approval may be subject to review The charts and graphs provided in this Annual Report should there be any subsequent enquiry under should therefore be read with this in mind.
The portfolios Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
The Directors are geographical weightings may vary significantly from the of the opinion that, since that date, the Company has weightings within its benchmark index and the conducted its affairs in a manner which will satisfy the concentration on the identification of fundamental value conditions for continued approval as an investment in individual stocks within continental Europe may result trust under that Section.
in investments made against prevalent trends and local conventions.
The value investor seeks to be amongst the The Company is not a close company and has no first of his peers to recognise the potential in individual employees.
The Company has given notice to the stocks and hence returns are only properly assessed on Registrar of Companies of its intention to carry on the basis of long term results.
business as an investment company, as defined in Section 266 of the Companies Act 1985, and The Manager invests in securities of companies which operates as such.
are considered by the Manager to have fundamental value.
Securities of interest may fall under the Objective, strategy and principal activity following categories: The Companys objective is to achieve long term capital growth from the stockmarkets of Continental Europe.
an industry anomaly: The Company aims to achieve this with an actively a turnaround or recovery situation within managed portfolio of investments, consisting primarily of a certain company: continental European securities.
As part of this strategy unrecognised growth relative to the price of the Board has delegated the management of the the shares: portfolio and other services.
The principal activity is to an undervalued asset situation: pursue the objective through operating as an investment the potential for some merger and acquisition activity.
Both the objective and principal activity have remained unchanged throughout the year ended Although the portfolio consists predominantly of 31 December 2006.
A review of the years activities and holdings in Continental European companies, up to 20% an indication of likely future developments are given in may be invested in the securities of companies outside the Chairmans Statement on pages 3 to 5 and in the the benchmark index.
Managers Review on pages 6 and 7.
Investment in other investment trusts: The Board believes that individuals and institutions choose limit of 15 per cent to invest in the Company because the stock selection The Board has set a limit of 15 per cent on the proportion approach adopted by the Manager is considered to be of the Companys total assets that can be invested in the well suited to achieving its objective.
Although there has securities of other investment trust companies.
As at 31 been income received by way of dividend payments the December 2006 there were no such holdings in the emphasis is placed on capital growth.
Page 16 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2006 Directors Report Corporate activism The Summary of Performance graphs on pages 12 The Board believes that the Company should, where and 13 indicate the relative historical performance of appropriate, take an active interest in the affairs of the the Company against its benchmark index since launch companies in which it invests and that it should exercise and the discount to NAV over that period.
Some of the its voting rights at their general meetings.
Unless there Companys KPIs are considered to be beyond the are any particularly controversial issues which are then Boards control, however they are measures of the referred to the Board it delegates the responsibility for Companys absolute and relative performance and the corporate activism and shareholder voting to Fidelity.
Indices and ratios which These activities are reviewed annually.
assist in managing performance and compliance are also reviewed, including the total expense ratio.
Expenses are Premium discount management: enhancing considered regularly at Board meetings and this enables shareholder value the Board, amongst other things, to review costs and The Board seeks authority from shareholders each year consider any expenditure outside that of its normal to issue new shares at a premium or repurchase shares operations.
In addition to the KPIs set out above the for cancellation at a discount to the net asset value.
Board regularly reviews the Companys performance It will only use these authorities to enhance the net asset against its peer group of five investment trusts: value and to protect or improve the premium discount Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC, JPMorgan European rating of the shares.
Details of share repurchases may be Investment Trust plc, JPMorgan European Fledgeling found on page 19.
Investment Trust plc, Gartmore European Investment Trust PLC and TR European Growth Trust PLC.
Performance Over the period the net asset value of the Company The principal risks and uncertainties section below increased by 17.5% compared with the return by includes descriptions of other performance indicators, the Companys benchmark index of 19.5% on a their monitoring and management which are key to the total return basis.
Long term performance is also monitored and the Summary of Performance charts on KPIs page 12 show this information.
The key performance indicators KPIs used to determine the progress and performance of the Attribution analysis Company over time and which are comparable to those The attribution analysis table which follows enables reported by other investment trusts are set out below.
contributions from various sources of income and costs The first three KPIs, namely NAV, share price and to be determined.
benchmark, are concerned with change, whereas Analysis of change in NAV the remaining KPIs deal with absolute amounts.
in the year pence per share Starting NAV 1 January 2006 1,094.71 Year ended Three years 31 Dec ended 31 Impact of: 2006 2005 Dec 2006 Index 238.87 %% % Stock selection 37.54 1 NAV 17.5 34.8 99.8 Gearing 39.16 2 Share price 8.6 46.0 107.0 Currency movement 25.88 FTSE World Europe Cash 4.75 ex UK Index 19.5 23.4 66.9 Charges 23.20 Discount Buy backs 2.40 premium to NAV 5.7 2.1 n a Closing NAV 31 December 2006 1,283.77 Actual gearing ratio 12.4 16.0 n a Total expense ratio 1.47 1.55 n a Sources: Fidelity and Datastream Past performance is not a guide to future returns All figures are calculated on a total return basis ie, cum income Investments were valued at 901,497,000 as at 31 1 Calculated in accordance with AIC guidelines December 2006.
Shareholders funds amounted to 2 Calculated on a mid to mid basis with income reinvested Source: Datastream 801,663,000 resulting in a net asset value per share of Past performance is not a guide to future returns 1,283.77p.
Changes to investments are shown in Note 9 to the financial statements on pages 40 and 41.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2006 Page 17 Directors Report Principal risks and uncertainties 4.
Share price, NAV and discount volatility risk The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process The price of the Companys shares relative to the for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal benchmark index and in absolute terms, as well as risks which fall under the general headings of strategic, its discount to net asset value, are not factors the operational and management.
With the assistance of Company is able to control.
Some short term influence Fidelitys Internal Audit team the Board has constructed a over the discount may be exercised by the use of share risk matrix which identifies the key risks to the Company repurchases at acceptable prices.
Details of under these broad headings.
The Board reviews and repurchases during the year are given on page 19. agrees policies, which have remained unchanged since The Companys share price, NAV and discount volatility the beginning of the accounting period, for managing are monitored daily by the Manager and considered risks and summaries of these are set out below.
by the Board at each of its meetings.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Board in 5.
Gearing risk accordance with the FRCs Internal Control: Revised The Company has the option to invest up to the total Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
of its loan facilities in equities.
In a rising market the Risks are identified, introduced and graded and this Company will benefit but in a falling market the impact process, together with the policies and procedures for would be detrimental.
In order to manage the level of the mitigation of risks, is updated and reviewed twice gearing the Board regularly considers gearing and a year in the form of a comprehensive internal controls gearing risk and sets limits accordingly.
The portfolio report considered by the Audit Committee.
manager follows these and may hold short term cash deposits to control the level of net gearing appropriate 1.
Market risks to the circumstances as viewed at the time.
The inevitable uncertainty about prices and the portfolio managers success or failure to protect and increase the 6.
Control systems, regulation, governance Companys assets against this background are core to including shareholder relations risks the Companys continued justification.
Other factors The Company is dependent on the Managers control affected by market forces, such as exchange and bond systems and those of its Custodian and Registrars, rates, contribute to risks which have to be taken as part both of which are monitored and managed by the of the Companys normal business.
Manager in the context of the Companys assets and interests on behalf of the Board.
Performance risk Companys assets, dealing procedures and the The achievement of the Companys performance maintenance of investment trust status under s842 of objective relative to the market requires the application the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988, among of risk.
Strategy, asset allocation and stock selection other things, rely on the effective operation of such might lead to under-performance of the benchmark systems.
These are regularly tested and a programme index and target.
Management of the risks set out above of internal audits is carried out by the Manager to is carried out by the Board which, at each Board maintain standards.
meeting, considers the asset allocation of the portfolio and the risk associated with particular countries and Other risks industry sectors within the parameters of the investment Other risks monitored on a regular basis include objective.
The portfolio manager is responsible for actively banking covenants and the continuation vote monitoring the portfolio selected in accordance with at a time of poor performance.
Risks to which the the asset allocation parameters and seeks to ensure that Company is exposed and which form part of the individual stocks meet an acceptable risk reward profile.
Market risks category are included in Note 18 to the financial statements on pages 44 to 48 together with 3.
Investment management summaries of the policies for managing these risks.
and income risks dividends These comprise: market price risk: foreign currency In addition to the risk of the mis-management of funds risk: interest rate risk and liquidity risk.
by poor investment decisions, there is also a risk involved in income.
The Companys objective of long term capital Socially responsible investment growth relies less on income to support dividends than The Managers primary objective is to produce superior investment trust companies with a more income oriented financial returns to investors.
It believes that high target.
Nevertheless, generating income to meet standards of corporate social responsibility CSR expenses and provide adequate reserves is subject to make good business sense and have the potential to the risk that income generation from its investments fails protect and enhance investment returns.
Consequently, to meet the level required.
The Board monitors this risk its investment process takes social, environmental and through the receipt of detailed income reports and ethical issues into account when, in its view, these have forecasts which are considered at each meeting.
a material impact on either investment risk or return.
Page 18 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2006
