British EnErgy group plc 09 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 Business review review of operating performance Review of Operating Performance our focus on achieving Nuclear Generation world class operational nuclear output for the year was 60.4 tWh, 0.6 tWh higher than last years output of 59.8 tWh.
performance continues, in addition, unit Capability loss Factor uClF, which provides a measure of unplanned losses, improved to 13% compared with 18% in the previous year.
and we will shortly be commencing a programme Average UCLF per year for all British Energy Nuclear Power Stations % to accredit our key training programmes to 2005 06 13 international standards.
2004 05 18 2003 04 13 2002 03 13 2001 02 11 2000 01 12 UCLF for each British Energy Nuclear Power Station in 2005 06 % -- 159,000 sizewell B 5 heysham stage 2 5 torness 6 tonnes hinkley point B 9 last year our nuclear stations hunterston B 10 avoided the release of 159 kt Dungeness B 17 of sulphur dioxide and 89 kt heysham stage 1 18 hartlepool 38 of oxides of nitrogen Average 13 the year-on-year improvement in output was components.
in addition, one of the hartlepool delivered despite conducting six statutory units was out of service from november 2005 outages compared with four in the previous to mid-March 2006 following the failure, and year.
the six statutory outages resulted in the subsequent replacement, of its generator equivalent of 7.1 tWh of lost output in the stator rotor and generator transformer.
year, 1.3 tWh of which was due to overruns against planned outage durations.
this in addition to these major unplanned outages, -- compares with 2.9 tWh of lost output from there was a further 6.5 tWh of smaller losses 23,000 statutory outages in 2004 05.
Agr refuelling of under 1 tWh each and variances to the accounted for 3.2 tWh of lost output, of the full year plan from outage and refuelling same order as the previous year and better under overruns, resulting in a net loss of tonnes than plan.
the total unplanned loss for the year was 12.9 tWh, which compared with last year the new Flue the output for the year was below our original the total unplanned loss for the previous gas Desulphurisation plan.
this was primarily due to several year of 17.7 tWh.
prolonged unplanned outages which resulted equipment at Eggborough in 6.0 tWh of losses.
hartlepool and heysham Nuclear Generation Outlook for 2006 07 saved around 23kt of stage 1 suffered extended outages on each of Consistent with last year, we are extending their units following a requirement for statutory outages in 2006 07 in order to sulphur dioxide emissions additional inspection work on their boiler accommodate additional investment to closure unit studs.
this issue was reported last improve materiel condition, reduce the risk year together with the risk that it may result in of equipment failure and thereby improve the need for additional outages.
the units were operational reliability.
We expect nuclear successfully returned to service during october output for the financial year 2006 07 to be and november 2005.
Baseline inspections on around 63 tWh.
nuclear output for the these components will be completed shortly period to 11 June 2006 was 12.0 tWh, and thereafter they will be subject to routine after total unplanned losses of 1.7 tWh, inspections in line with many other station slightly behind plan.
indd Proof: 09 Proof Read by: Operator: Amy Date: 18 07 06 Server: Studio lll Set-up: Amy First Read Revisions British EnErgy group plc 10 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 the improvement in the materiel Business review condition of our plant and the review of operating development of staff are delivering performance benefits in terms of improved safety performance across the group, as demonstrated by most of the longterm indicators that we use to measure nuclear, radiological and industrial safety.
We continue to monitor lifetime technical 283m was spent in the year on plant, We are continuing to invest issues.
the most significant of these relate to projects and strategic spares, including costs in our staff: leadership the lifetime of Agr components which it may associated with pip, demonstrating our ability development programmes not be economic to repair or replace.
these to successfully deliver the increased workload.
include risks to boilers and graphite brick investment was targeted at equipment are well established cracking.
strategies are being developed reliability, mitigation of risks, and work throughout the organisation.
significant plant investments included: Continuous Improvement replacement of above ground cast iron one of our key imperatives is the achievement pipework, boiler safety work at hartlepool of world class operational performance.
We and heysham stage 1, and development of initiated the performance improvement the replacement data processing system for programme pip during 2003 04 to drive Dungeness B. investment on strategic spares through necessary changes.
the programme was significantly higher than in previous years focused on improving six fundamental areas: with the acquisition of new transformers, rotors foundation organisation, people, leadership and stators and the continuation of the rolling and culture change, training, human spares refurbishment projects across the fleet.
performance, equipment reliability, management of work and operational focus.
the benefits of the improvement programme the programme has drawn heavily on the are already being seen across a range of key experience of nuclear professionals and performance indicators.
there were 12 consultants from around the world.
unplanned Automatic trips in the year compared to 15 in 2004 05 and 25 in pip resulted in an improved organisation 2003 04. the number of non-outage defects with increased staffing at the stations and was reduced to 541 by the end of the year central support functions.
As the improvement compared to 3,722 at the end of 2004 05 and programme has developed over the last three 8,409 at the end of 2003 04.
All legacy nonyears, key responsibilities and tasks have been outage defects arising in prior years have now progressively transferred from the pip project been dealt with, and we encourage reporting of sharpening skills team to routine operations.
the final phase new defects for quick resolution.
the 541 nonour KEy trAining progrAMMEs ArE shortly to BE ACCrEDitED of the transition was completed towards the outage defects have all arisen during the year.
to intErnAtionAl stAnDArDs end of 2005 06 and responsibility for safety performance indicators have also continuous improvement will now be improved and these are discussed below.
in terms of output, it will take time before we see the full extent of the benefits from We are continuing to invest in our staff, and the increased investment.
leadership development programmes are well established throughout the organisation.
our focus on achieving world class operational performance continues, and we will shortly be our aim is to improve station reliability through commencing a programme to accredit our key improved human performance and targeted training programmes to international investment to improve materiel condition of standards.
this is an important enabler to the plant and carry out the actions necessary deliver our overall business improvement plans to mitigate the risk of lost output.
this level and will be a significant milestone.
We of investment is much higher than that continue to embed system health, Design made historically and as a consequence Engineering and training functions within the the capabilities of a number of the central stations operations and to establish strategic functions have been enhanced to support teams within the central support functions this investment.
A new function Asset focusing on improving our fuel route and planning and investment was established in outage management where required.
We will 2004 05 to identify, prioritise and schedule continue to increase staff numbers to achieve investment.
this function has continued this objective.
to work over the last year to develop our investment strategy and to optimise the As previously indicated, we are increasing returns from these investments.
We have investment compared to the levels previously also established a new in-house project indicated, and now expect total investment in delivery capability and have developed new plant and other projects to be in the range of supply chain and contractor partnerships 250m to 300m in the financial year in order to improve the management and 2006 07.
We expect to continue to invest delivery of the investment programme.
at these higher levels through 2007 08.
British EnErgy group plc 11 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 our objective: a state of We made considerable progress A return to relentless predictability, during the year in focusing investment where our reactors generate investment where it was most electricity around the clock, needed.
this ranged from major investment is the cleanly and safely, without projects such as the 8m lifeblood of any costly interruptions.
replacement of the hartlepool business, and the and hinkley point B generator our projects group set up transformers and 12m to year 2005 06 saw in April 2005 helped deliver upgrade fuel routes across a major programme investment of 283m over the the fleet, to some 150m to enhance the year.
the projects group grew being spent on a variety of from 100 to 270: we put in projects costing 3m or less.
efficiency and safety place new standards and Kpis: Most importantly, the work of our plant.
and founded an Academy, with was executed with no safety key staff working with our or environmental incidents.
main contractors to establish tornEss CrAnE rEFurBishMEnt: onE oF thE suCCEssFul pArtnErships BEtWEEn excellence at its core.
proJECts group AnD our stAtions We expect controllable operating costs to All radioactive waste produced by our power Industrial Safety increase in the range 65m to 75m stations is highly regulated and controlled in We continue to promote an open culture beginning in the financial year 2006 07. order to minimise and control discharges and towards the reporting of all accidents and ensure they remain within authorised limits.
this enables prompt Safety and Environmental Performance During the course of the year none of our investigations to be carried out and changes to the safety of our plant, people and the general stations exceeded the relevant authorised be made to working practices and equipment public is fundamental to British Energy.
discharge limits imposed under the radioactive in order to avoid repetition of similar events.
the reinforcement of appropriate cultural substances Act.
our focus on industrial safety is reinforced behaviours has continued to receive a high through regular consultation on health and profile and significant effort has been made Flue gas Desulphurisation FgD equipment safety matters with employees, safety on embedding the techniques and practices was successfully commissioned and taken representatives and contract partners at all of developed through the Continuous over on two units at Eggborough.
We conduct a variety of monitoring, improvement process.
successfully implemented the oil storage auditing and surveillance processes by station regulations, the hazardous Waste regulations staff and Company specialists to identify best the improvement in the materiel condition of and completed our first year of working under practices and opportunities for improvement.
our plant and the development of our staff are the greenhouse gas permits, which apply to delivering benefits in terms of improved safety all sites.
our nuclear power stations are a there were a total of 19 lost time accidents performance across the group, as major source of electricity production with very ltAs for all employees and contractors at our demonstrated by most of the long-term low carbon dioxide emissions.
nuclear sites and operations offices in the year, indicators that we use to measure nuclear, an improvement on the 22 in 2004 05 and radiological and industrial safety, which are Security 41 in 2003 04. this represents an overall discussed below.
the Civil nuclear Constabulary has a presence improvement of 54% over the last two years.
on all of our nuclear stations.
they are an the number of ltAs sustained by British Energy Nuclear Safety armed police service dedicated to the nuclear staff reduced over the period, from 10 in there were no nuclear safety events industry within the uK and have responsibility 2004 05 to six in 2005 06. however, the during 2005 06 rated higher than level 1. for protecting nuclear licensed sites and safenumber of ltAs sustained by our contractors level 1 represents the lowest point on the guarding nuclear material in transit.
they work increased slightly over the period, from 12 in international nuclear Event scale inEs in partnership with the home office and police 2004 05 to 13 in 2005 06.
We have therefore and reflects operating anomalies with no services in each location.
policing services initiated an improvement process with our impact on the general public or workforce.
required at each individual nuclear site are principal contractors in order to identify and agreed with nuclear operators in accordance address the underlying causes.
We continue to maintain a positive reporting with the nuclear industries security culture and the number of nuclear reportable regulations 2003 and ratified by the uKs As reported last year, a contractor died in an Events events that must be reported to the nuclear security regulator, the office for Civil accident at Eggborough power station in July nuclear installations inspectorate in their nuclear security.
2005, when working within the chimney stack.
capacity as the nuclear safety regulator We have carried out an internal investigation reduced to 36 in 2005 06 from 47 events in Trading Review and have established new working practices 2004 05 and 77 in 2003 04, representing a Market Conditions across British Energy.
the incident remains 53% reduction over the last two years.
We are an active market participant in the under investigation by the regulatory authorities.
wholesale electricity market, which includes Radiological Safety generators, suppliers, trading businesses and Environmental Performance in 2005 06, the collective radiation dose some large industrial end users.
the investment in plant reliability and focus on CrD to workers on our nuclear power stations human performance has had a positive impact was 0.07 mansv reactor.
this is very low on 1 April 2005, the wholesale electricity on our environmental performance.
We have compared to world standards, mainly due market in England and Wales was extended to continued to strengthen our procedures and to the design of the Agrs.
it represents an include scotland under the British Electricity have reinforced our expectation of top-tier increase from the collective dose of 0.03 trading and transmission Arrangements performance within a new Environmental mansv reactor in 2004 05. this is in part due BEttA.
All of our output is now covered by a policy.
We continue to encourage event to the increased number of statutory outages single set of market arrangements in which reporting at all levels in the group.
undertaken in 2005 06 six in 2005 06 participants are incentivised through the compared to four in 2004 05. in addition, pricing mechanism to balance their production We had 22 Environmental Events in the last the outages carried out at hunterston B and with contracted sales.
Environmental Events include events of hinkley point B required an increased level of a lower significance than the Environmental inspection and maintenance on their boilers Electricity prices have continued to be driven incidents reported in the previous year.
We inside the reactor vessel.
one of the statutory largely by gas prices and have risen sharply have adopted this new performance indicator outages was carried out at sizewell B which, during the year.
the market has experienced to highlight precursors to more serious as a pWr, has a higher impact on CrD than very high volatility, reflecting uncertainty over pollution or environmental incidents or nonan outage on an Agr.
gas supplies during the winter period in compliance with legal requirements.
this was exacerbated by a loss of enables early investigation and remedial action to be taken.
indd Proof: 09 Proof Read by: Operator: Amy Date: 18 07 06 Server: Studio lll Set-up: Amy First Read Revisions British EnErgy group plc 12 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 Electricity prices have continued to be Business review driven largely by gas prices and have review of operating risen sharply during the year.
performance the market has experienced very high volatility, reflecting uncertainty over gas supplies during the winter.
availability of the rough gas storage facility changes to the transmission access regime We have continued to follow because of a fire on 16 February 2006 would apply from April 2007. this would have a prudent trading strategy.
during a period of cold weather.
short-term a small financial impact on British Energy.
our routes to market include prices of over 160 MWh were subsequently experienced for day-ahead power in mid-March the government has initiated a consultation on direct sales to industrial and 2006. system balancing costs have also risen allocation of allowances for phase ii of the Eu commercial customers, during the year reflecting higher short-term Ets for the period 20082012.
We support contracting in the wholesale electricity prices.
the proposals made by government to use a benchmarking approach to determine market, together with sales the forward price for annual baseload electricity allocations for different types of power station.
of balancing and ancillary rose from around 35 MWh in March 2005 to the final station allocations will not be services to national grid.
over 55 MWh at the end of March 2006, an determined until the end of this calendar year.
the price of carbon dioxide allowances in phase i of the Eu in June 2005, the European Commission Emissions trading scheme Eu Ets rose from launched an inquiry into competition in gas around 16 tonne to 27 tonne between the and electricity markets focusing on how prices start and end of 2005 06. prices have since are set.
A preliminary report was issued in fallen back during the first part of 2006 07 February 2006 which highlighted the need for following the announcement by some Eu action to improve the functioning of the gas Member states that actual emissions in 2005 and electricity markets across Europe.
Coal prices for delivery to European ports traded in the range $50-$70 Trading Strategy tonne during the year.
We have continued to follow a prudent trading strategy.
our routes to market include direct Market Outlook sales to industrial and commercial customers, We expect electricity prices to continue to be contracting in the wholesale market, together driven largely by gas prices.
the gas supply with sales of balancing and ancillary services situation for winter 2006 07 continues to be a to national grid.
concern as supplies from the uK continental getting it right shelf decline and there is increasing reliance We have focused on extending our fixed price thE ABility to Monitor our risK position AnD to MEEt CustoMEr rEQuirEMEnts Will on imports from Europe and of liquefied contract portfolio to provide more future BE iMprovED By suBstAntiAl nEW natural gas lng.
An upgrade to the capacity income certainty while operating within the invEstMEnt in our trADing it systEMs of the existing interconnector, as well as tight collateral constraints necessary to protect additional pipelines capable of importing gas the business against some extremely volatile from norway and the netherlands, are power prices.
We will continue to develop new expected to be commissioned towards the end and innovative arrangements with our counterof calendar year 2006.
As at close of business parties to deliver an increase in the volume of 50% on 9 June 2006, the baseload price for the zero capped collateral trades so that we can year from october 2006 was 52.9 MWh.
extend the fixed price contract portfolio further.
Forward baseload prices have in addition, we are pursuing committed credit risen from around 35 MWh Market and Regulatory Developments facilities to underpin our collateral on 16 December 2005, a proposal was made requirements and give us more trading in March 2005 to over by rWE npower for a modification to the flexibility.
We recently completed a 150m 55 MWh at the end of Balancing and settlement Code which would committed letter of credit facility and continue change the current charging mechanism for to seek further opportunities.
March 2006 an increase transmission losses, with the effect of reducing of over 50% the share of losses applied to power stations Eggborough is operated primarily as a flexible closest to major centres of population at the mid-merit plant and its output level is expense of stations further away.
given the influenced by a number of factors including the location of our stations, if this proposal were market prices of coal, Eu Ets allowances and approved by ofgem, it could adversely affect electricity prices.
in February 2006, ofgem formed an industry-wide group to discuss British Energy power and Energy trading options for reform of transmission access BEpEt, our trading business, has continued and a consultative report from this group was to work towards its goal of becoming world published by ofgem on 10 May 2006.
in order to achieve this, we are British EnErgy group plc 13 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 During the year, our employees leaving care, to others who the princes trust have dug deep, played hard have gained new skills through and helped raise money for development programmes.
in 2005 06 we the princes trust in a host made the princes of ways, commented British A good example is shenica trust our Charity of Energy Charity of the year Williamson, who suffered a the year.
We were Chairman, Julie Bennett.
traumatic childhood and Following a wave of activities unemployment.
With delighted to be the throughout the year, British help from the trust, her selffirst organisation to Energy raised 350,000 for esteem and confidence were adopt the trust in the princes trust.
she completed an apprenticeship, and then this way.
over the last 30 years, the embarked on a new career princes trust has helped more as a carer.
in February 2006 than half a million people, she received the trusts young ranging from budding Achiever of the year award.
shEniCA rECEiving hEr AWArD FroM thE prinCEs trust entrepreneurs and those AMBAssADor piErCE BrosnAn enhancing our organisational structure, Eggboroughs four generating units will be position for 2006 07 and beyond through the expertise of our staff and our systems.
treated as a single plant for the purposes of increased use of structured wholesale contracts the lCpD.
which minimise the requirement to provide British Energy Direct, our direct supply trading collateral.
As at 11 June 2006, we had business which supplies large industrial Following an evaluation of the options 35.9 tWh of zero capped collateral, fixed price and commercial customers, has been available, on 2 February 2006 we elected trades that will deliver over the period to April restructured into industry sectors, and teams to operate Eggborough under the national 2011 excluding power already delivered under now have responsibility for managing all Emissions reduction plan nErp regulations.
We have extended the aspects of a customer relationship from this enables us to generate at levels broadly weighted average life of our structured contract initial interest to fulfilment.
consistent with generation over the last five portfolio from around 10 months to over 16 years without installing FgD on the remaining months at 31 March 2006.
We have continued to build expertise in all two units.
the details of the operating strategy key fields and have enhanced our training for Eggborough in relation to the running of the our realised price which is calculated by development through the launch of our internal individual units following the implementation of dividing revenue from generating electricity training programme, BEpEt Academy.
the lCpD remain under review and could result by total output for the year was 32.0 MWh, in the mothballing of one of the non-FgD units.
an increase of approximately 57% compared We have significantly improved the way in with a realised price of 20.4 MWh in which the reliability of our stations is modelled.
Direct Sales to Customers 2004 05. similarly to other generators, we the new approach adapts automatically to British Energy Direct has had another good have benefited from higher market prices, changing plant performance over time and year, broadly maintaining its market share in however, this has been partially offset by allows the business to better understand its increasingly competitive trading conditions.
output below our original plan.
total direct sales for the year were 30.5 tWh, compared with 31.4 tWh in 2004 05.
During At the start of the year collateral was at to minimise our exposure to imbalance costs, 2005 06, customers have felt the impact of a 216m.
it peaked during December at we have implemented improved interface steep rise in power prices and in response they 452m, and ended the year at 201m.
arrangements between our nuclear generation, have sought more flexible contract terms which trading and direct supply activities.
this has led allow prices to be fixed for a shorter period or Trading Outlook to improved focus on accurate generation to float with the market.
As at June 2006, we As at 11 June 2006, fixed price contracts were planning for our nuclear fleet and demand were supplying over 2,600 customers across in place for approximately 73% of planned forecasting for our direct sales.
We are also over 13,500 sites within great Britain.
We output for the year ending 31 March 2007 at embarking on a substantial investment have maintained our high ranking in the an average contracted price of approximately programme in our trading it systems in order quarterly customer satisfaction survey of 43 MWh excluding 5 tWh of capped to improve our ability to monitor our risk industrial and commercial customers carried contracts.
this price excludes the impact of position and to meet customer requirements.
out by the independent body, the Energy higher prices achieved as a result of running information Centre.
We shared joint first place Eggborough to take advantage of the the changes instigated during 2005 06 have in the latest survey, and held first place differential between peak and baseload prices.
had a positive impact on the performance of continually over the last six years.
We have this price also excludes Balancing services BEpEt and laid the foundations for continued also retained our top ranking for customer use of system and other electricity market improvement.
We will continue to concentrate satisfaction in Datamonitors six-monthly participation charges of around 1 MWh, on improving our operational performance, survey, reported in April 2006. our major market costs incurred through output variation extending the length of our fixed price contract customer event talk power held in February and unreliability expected to be around portfolio still further and developing British 2006, was highly successful and attracted 1 MWh and the impact of capped price Energy Direct.
arrangements of approximately 5 tWh at around 30 MWh.
We intend to progressively Eggborough Trading Performance close out our exposure to market prices output from Eggborough was 8.0 tWh for our contracted price position continues to for 2006 07 and, subject to collateral limits, the year compared with 7.6 tWh in 2004 05. include the impact of a number of fixed and to build our fixed price position for 2007 08 capped price contracts entered into at a time and beyond.
FgD plant has been fitted on two of the four when significantly lower market prices Eggborough units.
the contract portfolio also includes the Department for Environment, Food and profiled contracts both wholesale and direct rural Affairs clarified its position regarding sales and therefore the contracted price is not the implementation of the large Combustion directly comparable to a baseload market price.
Bill Coley plant Directive lCpD with the result that We have continued to build the contracted Chief Executive
