Business and financial review Intermediate Capital Group PLC 7 Business and In 2005 the European financial review buyout market reached a ten-year high with nearly 600 deals completed at a value of ?117bn.
Leveraged buyout market review the first quartenary buyouts: Gala and The European private equity market, Frans Bonhomme.
The recapitalisations which we serve, is now at the heart of and the secondary buyouts provided an the European economy employing six opportunity to re-lend to known million people in its investee companies companies, albeit usually at higher 3% of the EU active population and than historical leverage multiples.
generating an annual employment growth rate of 5.4% compared with European mezzanine market 0.75% for all companies.
Mezzanine invested ebn 9 This private equity market is the principal 8 driver of developments in the mezzanine market.
In 2005 the European buyout 7 market reached a ten-year high with 6 nearly 600 deals completed at a value 5 of ?117bn including the ?12.2bn 4 acquisition of Wind, an Italian Telecoms 3 company.
This compares with the ?81bn invested in 2004, another buoyant year.
2 This growth results from the active M&A 1 market and last years unprecedented 0 level of fundraising at ?72bn for European private equity funds.
Source: Standard & Poors Although the record level of funds The growth in the European buyout raised by the private equity community market together with the requirement is generating increasing competition it for private equity houses to pay is the availability of debt, of all sorts, higher prices, whilst preserving returns, that is driving acquisition multiples drove demand for subordinated upwards.
This trend in acquisition financing solutions.
Consequently multiples and leverage has permeated the European mezzanine market the whole market with small to medium experienced record growth with ?9bn sized businesses attracting similar of mezzanine loans arranged, a 75% multiples as the larger buyouts.
Mezzanine loans became the preferred financing option Last year was a fabulous year for for the private equity sponsors, for all private equity investors.
Buoyant exit but the very largest deals, due to their markets have led to record gains on added flexibility over high yield bonds.
investments stimulated by sharp Accordingly, the average mezzanine increases in secondary buyouts.
Higher loan continued to increase in size levels of leverage and accommodating culminating in the arrangement of the bankers led to an increase in largest ever European mezzanine loan refinancings, which allowed private of 460m for the Gala acquisition of equity investors to take some of their Coral where we were the lead money off the table derisking their mezzanine investor.
investments at the expense of the lenders.
Most private equity sponsors The European mezzanine market is took advantage of this opportunity, thus, now polarising into three distinct in 2005, 51 recapitalisations returned markets: large commodity transactions, ?13.2bn of equity, more than double local mid-market transactions and the value in 2004. sponsorless transactions where there is no private equity investor.
Whilst Secondary buyouts were also a popular participating in the larger commodity route for realising value and, in 2005, transactions, ICGs focus remains on accounted for nearly 50% of all the local mid-market and sponsorless transactions in terms of value including opportunities.
The competitive 8 Intermediate Capital Group PLC 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 Since 1999 institutional investors in, for example, leveraged loans have come to represent almost 50% of the market demand, a tenfold increase.
environment is more intense for larger has been confined to history the than being dependent on achieving a transactions, generally underwritten in increase in leverage has been offset by high price multiple at exit in three to the London market by investment and a trend to less onerous repayment five years time.
arranging banks, whereas there schedules.
The LBO market has, we continue to be a considerable number estimate, risen from 6x EBITA to 8x European mezzanine of good opportunities available across EBITA in the last two years.
market prospects the other market sectors.
We anticipate that the mezzanine Leverage at funding 1997-2005 market will continue to experience The growth in interest not only for significant growth as the private equity 9 mezzanine but for all leveraged debt sponsors seek to invest the recent 8.0x instruments has wrought a profound funds raised.
The wealth of capital will 8 7.6x change on the market, not least greater also ensure that competitive tension is liquidity, competition for assets and maintained.
Private equity investors will 7 6.5x 6.5x greater volatility in asset prices.
therefore continue to optimise financing 6.2x 6.7x structures to enhance returns and will 6 6.0x 5.9x Since 1999 institutional investors in, for seek flexible solutions, most likely to the 5.7x example, leveraged loans have come continued benefit of the mezzanine 5 to represent almost 50% of the market market.
The trend in recapitalisations is demand, a tenfold increase.
Banks, 4 likely to slow and be driven by the 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 meanwhile, now represent less than performance of the companies as most Total debt EBIT at funding half of the demand: a dramatic fall in recent investments have already Source: ICG estimates the last two years.
Second-lien loans and other lending European leveraged loan market solutions became a frequent feature The mezzanine market will remain by investor type S&P of leveraged loan structures in either competitive as new funds focus on the 75% partial or full substitution of the increased number of opportunities: in mezzanine loans with ?5.4bn of the short-term this is likely to lead to second-lien loans invested up from continued pressure on leverage and 50% ?1.5bn in 2004.
We expect to be able to non-amortising second secured loans continue to benefit from this overall with higher cash yields but lower market growth whilst maintaining our 25% overall returns than mezzanine.
As a position as a selective investor.
consequence of their subordinated position in the capital structure, these Debt markets have, over several 0% loans are often mis-priced and add decades, been cyclical and we expect 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 complexity by introducing a further this cycle to be similar to previous ones.
European banks Institutional investors Non-european banks Securities firms set of lenders.
Default rates have, historically, been Source: Standard & Poors closely correlated inversely with In line with the overall European Pricing, perhaps unsurprisingly, has in economic growth and it is default rates leveraged loan market, competition for the increasingly liquid market come that have been correlated with and mezzanine loans intensified in 2005, under some pressure.
As in 2004, in the determined debt pricing.
In due course with institutional investors, particularly mezzanine market as a whole, there we expect a rise in default rates to the hedge funds and CDOs, attracted was an increasing replacement of temper some of the exuberance of by the opportunity to invest in an asset warrants with a combination of current the European debt markets.
The class with high cash yields and low yield and deferred interest.
Only 18 institutional investors have, in many default rates.
percent of the mezzanine loans in the cases, a short investment horizon: market were structured with warrants, indeed they borrow on a short-term This competitive pressure led to a about half of the previous years level.
basis to invest in long-term mezzanine significant rise in accepted leverage ICG continues to maintain a higher level loans.
Thus, as companies fail to multiples, as banks offered more debt of equity and or warrant exposure than achieve the growth required by highly to the private equity houses, in order to the average for the market due to our leveraged financing structures and secure lead arranger fees, confident in focus on the mid-market.
Furthermore, repayment schedules, default rates will the knowledge that they could in the current market, with high prices rise and many of these new investors syndicate the debt to new entrants being paid for companies, it can be will have to sell loans to protect shorteager to build up mezzanine portfolios.
preferable, on occasion, to structure a term returns and to meet their funds While the conservative bank base case loan with a contractual return rather own covenants.
Intermediate Capital Group PLC 9 Total debt EBITA As the leverage loan Business and market depends financial review primarily on the Continued buyout market, the outlook for 2006 is for continued growth.
This should provide significant US$22.5bn, the second highest year We will also look at opportunities to opportunities for long-term mezzanine since 1998, and returns steady at 6.5%.
expand into new markets and new investors such as ICG.
The downgrades of Ford and General product areas where we can gain Motors accompanied by concerns competitive advantage.
Leveraged loan and high yield regarding economic growth and high oil bond market review prices led to lower new issuance levels Within the fund management business, The principal driver of loans and high in the middle of the year: nevertheless, the strategy is to continue to develop our yield bonds for our fund management the market recovered swiftly resulting in fundraising and investment capabilities to business is the European leveraged loan a number of successful, large, high ensure that we remain amongst the top market.
This market, which includes profile bond issues.
2006 has started performing sub-investment grade refinanced loans, soared to ?124bn in strongly with ?4.8bn of issuance in the investors, with an emphasis on quality 2005 from ?65bn in 2004 beating the first quarter and positive returns.
and performance rather than volume.
record high set in telecoms-driven 2001.
Our new Eurocredit Opportunities Fund As the leverage loan market depends also provides us with a more flexible Competition strengthened during 2005 primarily on the buyout market, the vehicle to invest across the capital with the institutional investors, hedge outlook for 2006 is for continued structure as appropriate.
This will enable funds and CDOs, accounting for almost growth, as detailed in our review of the us to raise further funds and generate 50% of the primary market up from 25% mezzanine market, thus there will incremental fee income.
in 2004 and 4% in 1999, when ICG continue to be investment opportunities launched the first European CDO, for the managed funds.
However, as in In addition, we will also market our fund Eurocredit I.
Hedge funds, in particular, 2005, we expect competition for assets management skills with a view to made inroads into the market to be fierce but we will continue to be managing funds on a bi-lateral basis.
quadrupling their market share to 9%.
selective in our choice of investments Bank demand for leveraged debt also and asset class to protect the long-term Principal risks and uncertainties remained strong as investment-grade returns of these funds.
ICG operates primarily in the European loan returns were low.
As a consequence private equity market at the riskier end of the liquidity in the market, competition Strategic review of the credit spectrum.
The key risks for loans was severe in 2005.
ICGs Our strategic objective is to continue to to ICG as a business are firstly the managed funds were able to secure build a global investment firm focused inability to win new business, secondly positions, in selected transactions, by on sub investment grade debt, incurring significant losses on the emphasising the size of our appetite for intermediate finance of all sorts and existing portfolio and thirdly, in the case good credits, leveraging the relationships selected associated private equity of the fund management business, with the private equity sponsors investments.
This objective is founded regulatory risk.
developed in the mezzanine business on the strengths of ICG namely: and by capitalising on our relatively long New business track record in the market.
Skilled executives based in local The inability to win new mezzanine markets business or raise new funds could As institutional investors continue to Permanent equity capital occur for a number of reasons: grow their share of the leverage loan Long-term approach market, transaction structures are A strong investment culture Loss of staff ICG is a people business altering to reflect this new demand.
We and therefore susceptible to the loss of are seeing longer dated fixed repayment With our existing European and Asian key executives or teams of executives.
tranches increasing as a proportion of mezzanine investment businesses, the The company has in place a number of the overall transaction against the more focus is on investing on a selective incentive schemes designed to attract traditional amortising tranche, now basis to maintain our portfolio quality.
and retain high calibre executives and is representing over 50% of the structure, In the short-term this could lead, as committed to provide competitive compared with less than 25% in 1999. we have seen, to lower market share remuneration packages for such people.
The significant increase in the issuance as we choose to decline investment of second lien is also correlated with opportunities.
We should, however, Competition ICG operates in a market this rise in institutional lending, with continue to benefit from the overall where there are always new entrants funds preferring high cash yields rather growth in the mezzanine market.
In the who are attracted by the yields and than equity investment, in return for medium-term we anticipate that the security package of mezzanine.
market will become more volatile and that, as a consequence, competition will During periods when the supply of The European high yield bond market lessen providing ICG, as a long-term credit is readily available, competition saw increased levels of issuance at investor, with increased opportunities.
increases, not only for mezzanine 10 Intermediate Capital Group PLC At the end of the period our portfolio was spread across 25 sectors and 13 countries in Europe and two in Asia.
assets but also for all sub-investment cases, ICG relies on its investment As we are fully hedged, this is offset by grade debt.
During these periods ICG procedures to minimise occurrences an increase in our debt and forward will be selective as to new business of such losses and also upon its long exchange contracts.
and seek to maintain its credit experience of dealing with such discipline in spite of the risk of losing situations in the past.
The average size of each of the 88 market share.
mezzanine loans in ICGs portfolio is Regulatory risk 17m.
This is an increase over the Lack of funding ICG currently funds its The part of the business that would previous period of 3m.
ICGs 20 operations by way of equity and debt, suffer most from regulatory risk would largest companies total 667m which with a maximum ratio of one part equity be the fund management business.
ICG account for 45% of the portfolio.
ICG recognises that is authorised and regulated by the there may be times when the credit Financial Services Authority FSA and Details of our portfolio, including all new markets are closed and it would not be withdrawal of its approvals could result loans, equity and repayments, may be possible to raise finance for what might in the loss of its fund management found on pages 15 to 20 of this report.
ICG has a full time Compliance It is therefore the companys policy to Officer whose role it is to ensure that New loans and investments maintain diverse sources of mediumthe company complies with all current The financial period was a record for term finance and to ensure that it FSA regulations and who ensures the new investments, both in terms of always has sufficient committed but quality of internal and external training.
number and value of deals.
The company also has in place underwrote or provided a total of 899m thorough money laundering and knowof loans and investments in 37 new Loss of reputation Were the company your-customer procedures to comply deals of which 535m was taken for our to behave in an unprofessional manner with current legislation.
A number of these when either dealing with its fund transactions were with companies management clients or the private The portfolio where the business and management equity market, it could jeopardise future It has always been our policy to were already known to us.
To minimise this diversify risk by spreading our portfolio possibility, the company employs high by size, geography, sector and equity In addition, we reinvested 372m in calibre staff who are trained to behave sponsor.
At the end of the period our the refinancing of 11 existing loans in a professional manner and deal with portfolio was spread across 25 sectors and investments, increasing our net third parties accordingly.
and 13 countries in Europe and two exposure by 14m.
A full breakdown of both Existing business geographical and industry sectors is We invested steadily throughout the Significant losses on the existing shown on page 18. period, primarily in small to medium portfolio could arise from: sized deals which is the heart of our Our strongest markets continue to be business.
The majority of these were in An economic downturn A severe France and the UK, with 35% and 28% the UK and France, with six and 15 economic recession could have an respectively of the portfolio.
However investments were adverse effect on the portfolio quality, completed throughout Europe, with five which would impact interest income, During the period, we continued our in the Nordic region, two in Germany, gains on investments and the level of practice of taking small to medium-sized five in the Benelux countries and one impairment provisions.
In order to equity participations in order to enhance in each of Italy, Spain and Poland.
minimise the effects of any such our overall returns.
We invested 88m In Asia, we completed one transaction downturn, ICG has a policy to diversify in such equity.
At the end of the period, in South Korea.
its portfolio in terms of geography, the total amount of such equity sector and size and has in place amounted to 221m.
ICG was the lead investor in 17 of these disciplined credit procedures both transactions and is agent on 25 of before and during the period of The majority of our portfolio is them.
All but one of these deals were in investment to protect its portfolio.
denominated in Euros, although we do respect of buyouts, with the other hold loans in other currencies.
Specific company factors There will the period, the Sterling Euro exchange be occasions when the company rate moved within a fairly narrow range Repayments incurs a loss for specific reasons.
and thus the impact of currency Excluding the refinancing of existing Such reasons may be industry specific, movements during the financial period deals, during the period 335m was country specific or be due to fraud was relatively small.
Our portfolio repaid in respect of 26 companies.
In these increased in sterling terms by 9m.
Of these repayments, 18 were as a Intermediate Capital Group PLC 11 During the period, we Business and raised a new fund of financial review e400m, bringing to Continued seven the number of sub-investment grade structured funds.
result of exits, through either flotation or Shares and warrants High yield and leveraged a trade sale, and eight were as a result As a result of our mezzanine lending, loan fund management of refinancing of the mezzanine loans ICG holds unquoted shares and During the period, we raised a new fund with cheaper debt.
Importantly, todays warrants in companies to which it of ?400m, bringing to seven the number buoyant debt market enabled the lends.
Where the value of these of sub-investment grade structured repayment of a number of loans that, instruments can be reliably measured, funds that we manage.
This new fund, in previous years, may not have been for example, by reference to a the Eurocredit Opportunities I Fund, able to be repaid.
In addition, a nascent substantial or forthcoming transaction invests in a diversified portfolio of subsecondary market in mezzanine also in a similar instrument, the value is investment grade debt and has a very gave us the occasional opportunity recognised in the balance sheet, flexible structure, including the ability for to sell underperforming assets.
with any movement in value being tap issues, that has been well received accounted for through either the by fund investors.
Impairment income statement in the case of It is our policy to make a charge to warrants and through reserves for the The total amount under management impairment against any loan where, remaining assets.
At the end of March, in these seven funds was in excess of in the judgement of the Board, there is there was 28m of such unrealised ?2.5bn at the end of the period, with evidence of a fall in value as a result of value included in the balance sheet, all funds being fully invested with the an event that has had an impact on the of which 21m had been taken exception of the most recent fund estimated future cash flows.
Such through the profit and loss account.
where a tap issue after the period end evidence will depend upon the specific in May gave it further capacity.
investment, its country, its sector and In respect of shares and warrants whose other factors although there are some value cannot be reliably measured, the ICG continues to utilise its balance more generic impairment events, such directors estimate the value of such sheet to warehouse assets for these as a payment default.
instruments over their cost was within and future funds, accruing income the range of 50m 125m.
but also taking any capital profits or Each quarter, we review every company losses.
At the end of the period, 30m in which ICG invests in order to keep a Fund management warehoused assets were held on close watch on under performing loans Mezzanine ICGs balance sheet.
and to determine the overall quality of During the period, the Mezzanine Fund the portfolio.
As part of this exercise, 2003, which takes 40% of all mezzanine Borrowings and debt facilities we assess the future cash flows of all opportunities where the amount At the end of the financial period, our investments except for warrants on available to ICG exceeds ?18.75m, borrowings stood at 981m compared which there has been an impairment invested ?471m in new loans and to 848m at the beginning of the event and the carrying value of those investments.
The increase in debt was lower loans is adjusted accordingly.
had been raised as part of securitising than the growth in the loan portfolio its portfolio which, with the initial due to the high level of retained profits During the period, a small number of ?450m of debt, amounted to total during the period.
Gearing stood at companies in the portfolio continued debt facilities of ?750m.
the comparatively low level of 2 times, to suffer from depressed trading compared to 2.3 times at the beginning conditions and, as a result, we made At the end of the period, the amount of the period.
provisions against three of them, invested by the Mezzanine Fund 2003 totalling 24m.
In addition, incremental was ?1,002m and it had been In April 2005, we consolidated and net provisions were made against the repaid ?97m during the period.
increased all our banking facilities into carrying value of a further seven loans The amount invested in our other one large committed revolving facility of and investments.
mature mezzanine funds decreased by 845m.
The banks leading the facility ?185m during the period due to the included Barclays, Commerzbank, During the period, an asset against high level of exits and repayments.
Dresdner, HBoS, Lloyds and Royal which a substantial impairment provision As a result, the amount invested on Bank of Scotland.
had been taken in previous years, behalf of all our third party mezzanine repaid the majority of its loan enabling fund increased during the period We continue to have substantial a writeback to be taken of 8m.
amounts of private placement debt raised in the US 338m at the period The net charge of specific provisions to During the period, our Mezzanine Fund end as well as 268m e384m raised the income statement amounted to 1998 achieved its target return to by securitising part of our portfolio in 27m compared to a net charge of investors, thereby triggering the payment 2003.
During the period, 42m 28m last year.
of carry to ICG and its executives.
US$73.3m of private placement debt 12 Intermediate Capital Group PLC At the end of the period, our shareholders funds had increased by 113m to 493m.
As a result, at the end of the annualised basis, taking twelveFee income financial period we had unutilised fourteenths of this periods profits as a Total fee income fell by 13% to 28m facilities of 470m, compared to 155m base there being no seasonal aspect for the period.
This was in part due to at the beginning of the period.
the inclusion of underwriting and agency fees as part of the EIR calculation rather Shareholders funds Pre-tax profits increased substantially than in fee income but also to a lower At the end of the period, our by 72% to 190m and, although core level of arrangement fees.
shareholders funds had increased by income rose strongly by 22%, the 113m to 493m primarily as a result of main driver this period was the Fund management fees rose from 17m retained profits of 96m, 2m from the record level of gains on investments last year to 23m.
Fees from managing exercise of share options during the which doubled last years number and mezzanine funds increased from 11m period, 5m from the fair value of equity which had, in turn, more than doubled to 13m, including 2m 2005 2m investments and the remaining 10m from the previous year.
This increase being net transition adjustments from reflects both the fee structure on the UK GAAP to IFRS.
The pre-tax return on average Mezzanine Fund 2003, where fees are shareholder funds amounted to 37%.
charged on amounts committed rather Note 20 shows the movements in Profit after tax amounted to 125m than invested, and on the increased level shareholders funds during the period.
compared to 62m the previous year.
This was offset, however, Undiluted earnings per share amounted by the decrease in fees earned on older Included in shareholders funds for the to 179p, compared to 89p last year.
mezzanine funds which suffered heavy first time is 28m of certain unrealised repayments during the period.
shares and warrants whose value is The constituent parts of ICGs profits are: measurable.
Fees from the management of nonCore income mezzanine funds increased from 7m Results for the period Core income is the key component of to 10m as more funds came under Our results for the period are ICGs profitability and consists of net management.
summarised on page 1 of these interest income, plus fees, less related statements, with the income statement administrative expenses.
This increased Expenses being on page 39.
This period, for the by 22% to 106m for this financial Total administrative and operating first time, the results are prepared period.
The impact of derivatives, expenses increased by 18m to under IFRS including IAS 32 and IAS excluding any interest accruals and 46m for the period.
The results for this period are not spot F X translation movements, are significant part of this expense relates directly comparable to those of last shown as a separate component of to salaries and short-term bonuses, year as we took advantage of the the income statement.
which together rose from 13m to exemption from applying these two 20m, reflecting the continuing growth standards retrospectively.
Extracts of Net interest income in staff numbers and the need to the transitional statement are set out Interest income and expense on loans ensure that staff receive the appropriate on pages 65 to 72 of these accounts.
and debt held at amortised cost are rewards across the group.
measured using the effective interest Although the financial statements have rate EIR method, which allocates the Costs of the medium-term incentive been prepared under different standards, interest income or interest expense over scheme included in core income rose to we have decided to maintain the existing the relevant period.
The EIR is the rate 13m from a restated 6m for last year.
presentation by splitting out core income, that discounts estimated future cash The increase reflects rolled-up interest net gains on investments, impairment payments or receipts through the accrued in the period, on which an provisions and, for the first time, expected life of the loan or debt and accrual is made for the incentive movements on derivatives.
The analysis includes underwriting and agency fees scheme, although the actual payment is of income, split between core income received or paid.
dependent upon the amount of rolledand other income, is shown in note 4 up interest received in cash.
Net interest income increased by 42% from 75m to 125m excluding Non-payroll costs increased by 8m The group has changed its year end derivatives.
This increase reflects the to 13m, as a result of increases in a from 31 January to 31 March and growth of our loan book over the past number of areas of professional therefore, for these financial statements two years, the continuing use of rolledexpenses and the extended accounting only, the results are prepared for a up interest in deal structures and the period.
Overall, total expenses excluding fourteen month period.
All percentage effect of retained earnings due to the bonuses represent 24% of core income, increases, however, are shown on an high level of profits this period.
compared to 23% in the prior year.
Intermediate Capital Group PLC 13 Business and financial review Continued Gains on investments Impairments The gross level of gains on investments The charge for the period fell from for the period increased from a record 28m net of write backs of 2m to 63m to a new record of 145m, 27m net of write-backs of 8m.
reflecting the continuing good market for This was as a result of a benign credit exits.
138m of this was received in environment, a sound investment policy cash, while the balance represented the and the sale of an impaired asset.
movement in the value of reliably measurable warrants taken to profit.
The Derivatives gains on which cash was received were All of our derivatives are fair valued, with in respect of 29 investments of which any changes going through the income one was a flotation, five were sales of statement.
Hedge accounting is not quoted shares from previous flotations available to us, despite our being and 23 were trade sales or secondary completely economically hedged.
14 of these gains arose in the As a result, the derivatives were fair UK, six in France, four in Scandinavia valued against current interest rates for and one in each of Ireland, Germany, the first time, which has given an South Korea, Switzerland and Spain.
additional decrease in the value of such Included in this figure is 26m in respect derivatives of 7m in the period.
of listed shares acquired in past years from flotations of portfolio companies.
The costs of the Medium Term Incentive Scheme increased from 14m to 27m as a result of the record level of gains on investments.
