Emerging markets Outstanding underlying revenue growth in BUSINESS AND emerging markets was driven primarily by the opening of nine franchised stores during the year, including stores in Istanbul Turkey, FINANCIAL REVIEW Warsaw Poland, So Paolo Brazil, Jeddah Saudi Arabia, Riyadh Saudi Arabia, Abu Dhabi UAE, Dubai UAE, Mumbai India and Cancun Mexico.
BUSINESS REVIEW Channels Performance varied by distribution channel.
Retail Consistent with the Groups emphasis on building sales through its directly operated stores, the retail channel achieved the strongest gain.
Retail sales increased 11% on an underlying basis, 20% reported, driven by contributions from newly opened and existing stores.
Reported revenues were affected by the Taiwan Acquisition and Spain retail conversion, which shifted sales from the Groups wholesale channel to its retail channel.
In August 2005, Burberry acquired the operations of its distributor in Taiwan, which included 12 retail locations.
In February 2006, the Group began the conversion of 72 womenswear doors in department stores of Burberrys largest customer in Spain into Burberry operated retail concessions.
Retail sales resulting from the Taiwan Acquisition and Spain retail conversion contributed approximately five percentage points to the reported sales gain.
In determining underlying performance, the financial effects of the relevant businesses are excluded from both reporting periods.
By region, double digit sales growth in the US, Burberrys largest retail market, was driven by new and refurbished stores with a moderate contribution from existing stores.
The majority of Continental European markets achieved strong underlying gains driven by new stores and solid gains from existing stores.
While the UK was generally soft, trends improved in the second half of the year.
Asia achieved robust underlying growth, with gains in Hong Kong and South Asia partially balanced by a modest increase in Korea.
Retail investment continued on plan.
During the year, the Group opened six Burberry stores including two replacement stores, six outlet stores and a net nine concessions.
In addition, seven stores Burberry delivered solid financial results for the year to 31 March 2006. underwent major renovation during the year.
In total, on a year on In the context of a period marked by strategic investment and transition, year basis, average selling space increased approximately 8%, diluted EPS before costs associated with Project Atlas, increased 9% excluding the effect of the Taiwan Acquisition and Spain retail on a 4% revenue gain.
Return on capital for the period was 33%.
At 31 March 2006, Burberrys retail portfolio consisted of This performance reflects the continued execution of Burberrys core 65 stores, 165 concessions and 30 outlets.
strategies in combination with strategic and operational transition in certain businesses.
Highlights of these factors are discussed below.
Wholesale Wholesale sales decreased by 4% on an underlying basis, 8% reported.
The US market experienced a decline for the year as a Regions result of Burberrys ongoing adjustment of the brands wholesale retail Burberry maintained steady progress across its trading regions.
balance, as well as caution on the part of certain wholesale customers.
US Revenue rose 5% underlying, 9% reported, with strong retail Soft demand in Spain produced a mid single digit sales decline in that growth driven by new and existing stores partially offset by the market during the period.
While trends varied by country, in aggregate, expected reduction in wholesale sales.
The Group opened seven stores other Continental European markets performed well.
The UK was soft during the year, including those in Naples Florida, Palm Beach throughout the year.
Sales in Asia decreased slightly in the year as a Gardens Florida, San Antonio Texas, San Diego California and three second half decline, primarily driven by shipment timing differences outlet stores.
Five major renovations were also completed in the year.
between periods, offset first half gains.
Boosted by the opening of nine new franchise stores, emerging markets achieved outstanding gains Europe Underlying revenue was flat in the region.
Soft sales in the during the year.
The Taiwan Acquisition and Spain retail conversion UK and Spain offset strong retail and wholesale performance in the accounted for approximately five percentage points of the decrease in remainder of Continental markets.
During the year, the Group opened reported wholesale sales.
a replacement store in Zurich, seven concessions, three outlet stores and completed the renovation of the Frankfurt and Munich stores.
Licensing Licensing revenues increased 6% underlying, 3% reported.
In Japan, which accounted for approximately 70% of licensing Non-Japan Asia Pacific Revenue increased 6% underlying, 13% revenue, sales volumes declined primarily as a result of a soft apparel reported.
Underlying growth was led by strong retail performance in market for much of the year as well as Burberrys ongoing programme Greater China Hong Kong and mainland China.
In Korea, new retail to enhance brand positioning in that market.
This programme involves space drove modest growth for the year, notwithstanding a licence transitions cancellations, improving distribution and upgrading challenging consumer spending environment.
Solid gains in South products in terms of design and quality.
Royalty rate increases on Asian markets resulted from sales growth in existing stores and certain licences offset the effect of reduced volumes.
In 2006 07, the among wholesale customers.
During the year, the Group opened a Group will begin direct sales of mens ties, scarves and silks from replacement store in Taipei and closed a net one concession in the Burberrys international collection.
Imported products will replace region.
The integration of the 12 stores in Taiwan acquired in August licensed domestic products in these categories.
In addition, a limited 2005 also contributed to the reported gain in this geographic range of Burberrys international collection of handbags and small segment.
leather goods will be selectively distributed in this market.
12 Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Burberrys product licences produced a solid result for the year.
in excess of 20m annually in expense savings by the projects third Against important product launches in 2004 05, fragrance sales were year 2007 08. comparable to the previous period.
In February 2006, Burberry 2006 07 plans commenced a major womens fragrance launch, Burberry London.
In line with the ongoing execution of its growth strategies, Burberry Marketing initiatives feature Oscar-winning British actress Rachel plans for the 2006 07 financial year include: Weisz.
The product was introduced to most large consumer markets during spring 2006, and will be followed by the launch of the Burberry Retail A minimum 10% underlying increase in average net retail London mens fragrance in autumn 2006.
Watches performed well in selling space excluding the impact of the Taiwan Acquisition and the year, strengthened by product innovation and expanded Spain retail conversion is expected.
The majority of space expansion distribution.
With respect to eyewear, Burberry entered into a new will be concentrated in the US and Asian markets.
licence with Luxottica Group in October 2005.
The first collections Wholesale First half wholesale sales are expected to be up a low under this agreement will appear in stores during autumn 2006. single digit percentage underlying and reported at constant currency relative to the comparative period based upon orders received to Products date for the autumn winter 2006 season.
Continuous enhancement of the product development process is an important objective, and the Group made good progress during the Licensing Underlying licensing revenue is expected to be broadly flat year.
Burberrys womenswear, menswear and accessory product teams relative to 2005 06: intensified efforts to coordinate development across categories and link - Revenues from Japan are expected to experience a moderate more closely their design, merchandising and sales functions.
underlying decline for the year as a result of licence transitions Continuing to respond to consumer demand for new merchandise, and Burberrys other ongoing efforts to enhance brand positioning Burberry increased the frequency of new product deliveries to Burberry in this market.
stores and to selected wholesale customers.
- Global product licenses are expected to produce strong gains.
- On a reported basis, the Group will also experience a significant Prorsum Burberry Prorsum continues to break new ground with its negative exchange rate comparison.
runway collections attracting outstanding critical acclaim.
In recognition Project Atlas For the 2006 07 financial year, Project Atlas expenses of Prorsums design excellence, Burberry Creative Director, Christopher are expected to be approximately 19m and direct profit and loss Bailey, was awarded The British Designer of the Year Award by the account benefits are currently anticipated to total approximately 6m.
British Fashion Council in November 2005.
Consumers also responded, and Prorsum sales increased substantially during the year.
Capital expenditure Capital expenditure is planned to total approximately 50m.
Womenswear In Womenswear, underlying revenues increased 3% as a soft spring 2005 season was balanced by improved autumn winter 2006 collection sales and a strong start to spring 2006.
These results reflect successful efforts to adjust the products aesthetic balance, improve fit and increase the wear-now component of seasonal collections.
In outerwear, the design teams work to reinvigorate key outerwear segments was rewarded with favourable reaction to new styles for both the autumn and spring seasons.
Womenswear generated 34% of total revenues in the year.
Menswear Underlying revenues increased 4% as the division made steady progress in the year.
Greater emphasis on more classic styling and intensifying selection in prime classifications were important contributors to this performance.
In the US, the sartorial segment of the business was boosted by successful made-to-measure events.
In selected markets, Burberry also launched marketing efforts specifically targeted at the male consumer.
Menswear represented 28% of reported revenues in the year.
Accessories Underlying revenues were flat relative to last year.
New, sophisticated handbag designs, particularly Prorsum lines, performed well in the period.
To capitalise on consumer demand for these more advanced styles, the Group broadened distribution within its own store network during the spring season and will add points of sale among wholesale customers for autumn winter 2006.
At the same time, Burberry also successfully upgraded its more classic core handbag ranges the new Haymarket line of handbags and small leather goods were a highlight of the year.
Ongoing innovation with respect to new styles and reinvention of the classics are critical to the vitality of this category.
Accessories excluding childrenswear comprised 25% of reported revenues in the year.
Project Atlas With the initial year of Burberrys five year infrastructure redesign programme complete, Project Atlas is firmly embedded in the organisation.
During the year, the team reconfigured the implementation plan in line with business processes rather than software installations.
This results in the shifting of previously scheduled initial implementation steps to later in the programme for combination with secondary stages, allowing for a single point of application for most business units.
The broad financial outline of the programme remains unchanged with an approximate 50m investment during the first three years generating Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 13 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW FINANCIAL REVIEW 1 Group results 2006 2005 Percentage Percentage Year to 31 March m of turnover m of turnover Turnover Retail 318.542.9%265.237.0% Wholesale 343.346.2%371.952.0% Licence 81.110.9%78.411.0% Total turnover 742.9 100.0% 715.5 100.0% Cost of sales 296.8 40.0% 291.3 40.7% Gross profit 446.1 60.0% 424.2 59.3% Net operating expenses before Project Atlas costs 280.5 37.8% 262.9 36.7% Operating profit before Project Atlas costs 165.6 22.3% 161.3 22.5% Atlas costs 11.1 1.5% - - Operating profit 154.5 20.8% 161.3 22.5% Net finance income 2.5 0.3% 4.9 0.7% Profit before taxation 157.0 21.1% 166.2 23.2% Taxation 50.6 6.8% 54.3 7.6% Attributable profit for the year 106.4 14.3% 111.9 15.6% Diluted EPS before Project Atlas costs 24.1p n a 22.2p n a Diluted EPS 22.3p n a 22.2p n a Diluted weighted average number of Ordinary Shares millions 477.6 n a 504.5 n a 1 Financial results are reported under International Financial Reporting Standards.
Prior year figures have been restated in line with these principles.
Turnover Net finance income Total turnover advanced to 742.9m from 715.5m in the prior period, Net interest income was 2.5m in the year to 31 March 2006 representing an increase of 4%, or 3% on an underlying basis.
compared to 4.9m in the prior period.
The decrease was due to lower Underlying figures are adjusted to exclude the financial effects of the average cash balances resulting from share repurchase activity during Taiwan Acquisition, the portion of Burberrys business in Spain affected the year.
by the retail conversion and the impact of foreign currency exchange Profit before taxation rate movements between periods.
The Taiwan Acquisition and Spain As a result of the above factors, Burberry reported profit before retail conversion resulted in a sales shift from Burberrys wholesale taxation of 157.0m in the year to 31 March 2006 compared to channel to its retail channel.
In determining underlying performance, 166.2m in the prior period.
the financial effects of the relevant businesses are excluded from both reporting periods.
Attributable profit Burberry recorded a 32.2% effective tax rate 2004 05: 32.7% on Operating profit profit resulting in a 50.6m tax charge and reported attributable profit Gross profit as a percentage of turnover was 60.0% relative to 59.3% of 106.4m for the year to 31 March 2006 compared to 111.9m in the prior period.
The increase largely resulted from stronger retail reported in the prior period.
trading in the second half including decreased levels of seasonal clearance activity for the autumn winter season relative to the previous Diluted earnings per share before Project Atlas costs increased 9% to year and an increase in retails share of the revenue mix.
24.1p compared to 22.2p in the prior period.
Including Atlas costs, the Group reported diluted earnings per share of 22.3p.
In the year to Net operating expenses before Project Atlas costs as a percentage of March 2006, the diluted weighted average number of Ordinary Shares turnover increased to 37.8% from 36.7% in the previous period.
increase largely reflected investment in people and infrastructure to support future growth, and costs associated with the expanded retail network following the conversions in Taiwan and Spain.
The Group also incurred a one-off pension related cost following the demerger from GUS.
As a result of these factors, operating profit before Project Atlas costs increased 3% to 165.6m, or 22.3% of turnover relative to 22.5% in the previous period.
Net expenses associated with Project Atlas totalled 11.1m.
Reported operating profit was 154.5m for the year.
16 Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 The table below sets out the principal components of cash flow for the years to 31 March 2006 and 31 March 2005 and net funds at the year end: 2006 2005 Year to 31 March m m Operating profit before Project Atlas costs 165.6 161.3 Atlas costs 11.1 Operating profit 154.5 161.3 Depreciation and related charges 24.9 24.4 Profit on disposal of fixed assets 1.6 1.1 Charges in respect of employee share incentive schemes 7.4 9.5 Increase in stocks 17.8 12.9 Decrease increase in debtors 2.2 7.3 Decrease increase in creditors 21.2 1.5 Cash generated from operations 148.4 175.4 Net interest received 1.6 4.7 Taxation paid 43.6 49.5 Capital expenditure 30.7 37.2 Property sale proceeds 3.6 3.1 Net acquisition related payments 23.6 - Net sale purchase of shares by ESOPs 2.4 6.9 Issue of Ordinary Share capital 3.7 4.4 Share repurchases 191.6 58.4 Equity dividends paid 32.8 24.9 Movements in net funds resulting from cash flows 162.6 10.7 Exchange rate gains 5.2 1.3 Movement in net funds 157.4 12.0 Net funds at end of year 12.5 169.9 Cash flow and net funds Historically, Burberrys principal uses of funds have been to support In connection with share option awards, the Group sold 2.4m 2004 05: 1.8m of equity from its Employee Share Ownership Plans capital expenditures and working capital growth in connection with the expansion of its business, acquisitions and share repurchases.
and received 3.7m 2004 05: 4.4m from the issue of new shares following the exercise of share based options.
Principal sources of funds have been cash flow from operations.
Burberry expects to finance the expansion of its business, capital Consistent with the 250m share repurchase programme announced expenditures including strategic infrastructure investments, shareholder in November 2004, Burberry commenced the repurchase of shares in dividends and share repurchases with existing cash balances, cash January 2005.
In the year to 31 March 2006 the Group repurchased generated from operating activities and the use of its credit facilities.
45.9m shares for a total cost of 191.6m.
Total purchases under the repurchase programme since January 2005 amounted to 250m.
Net cash generated from operating activities was 148.4m compared to 175.4m in the prior period.
Stock levels increased 17.8m, resulting The Group paid an interim dividend of 2.5p per share on 2 February from growth of the business and expansion of the Groups retail network.
A final dividend of 5.5p per share is proposed, payable in August The 2.2m decrease in debtors reflects seasonal growth of trade debtors 2006.
As proposed the total dividend for 2005 06 would increase 23% offset by the change in business structure resulting from the Spain retail to 8.0p per share 35.6m aggregate amount.
The 21.2m decrease in creditors includes payments of profit related fees in respect of prior acquisitions and the settlement prior to the demerger of amounts outstanding with GUS.
Capital expenditures of 30.7m included net purchases of fixed assets of 26.8m relating primarily to continued investment in the Groups retail operations and infrastructure, and Project Atlas investment of 3.9m.
Proceeds from the sale of certain surplus properties during the year amounted to 3.6m.
Net acquisition related payments comprised 19.2m deferred consideration with respect to a previous acquisition and 4.4m as partial consideration for the acquisition of Burberrys distributors in Taiwan.
In line with its risk management policy, Burberry has continued to hedge its principal foreign currency transaction exposures arising in respect of Yen denominated royalty income and Euro denominated product purchases and sales.
Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 17 used as an integral part of our product design and to promote the BUSINESS AND brand.
We plan to continue to vary the manner in which we use the Burberry check as a design feature and to develop marketing initiatives FINANCIAL REVIEW to minimise its risk of over exposure.
Our operating results are subject to seasonal fluctuations and RISKS vary based on the weather Our business, particularly with respect to apparel, broadly operates on a seasonal basis spring summer and autumn winter and we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, substantial seasonal fluctuations in sales and operating results.
In particular, our results vary based on the weather because of the large proportion of outerwear products we offer and the effect of the weather on retail markets generally.
As a result of these fluctuations, comparisons of sales and operating results between different periods within a single financial year are not necessarily meaningful.
In addition, these comparisons cannot be relied on as indicators of our future performance.
An economic downturn could affect consumers purchases of discretionary luxury items which could adversely affect Burberrys sales In common with all our competitors, there are many factors which affect the level of consumer spending on discretionary luxury items.
During recessionary periods, when disposable income is lower, a downturn in our key markets may adversely affect Burberrys sales.
A significant amount of our sales are generated by customers, in particular Japanese, Chinese and other Asian customers who purchase our products while travelling either overseas or domestically.
As a result, shifts in travel patterns or a decline in travel volumes could materially affect our trading results.
Burberry is exposed to foreign currency fluctuations We derive a significant percentage of our profits from our Japanese licensing arrangements.
As a consequence, we are exposed to a significant risk associated with the Yen to Sterling exchange rate.
We manage a significant proportion of these exposures by the use of forward exchange contracts.
Currency fluctuations affecting the Yen will nevertheless affect our results and profitability.
The management of the business and the execution of the Groups growth strategies are subject to a number of risks, the occurrence of We also engage in foreign exchange hedging designed to reduce the any one of which may adversely affect the management of the Group impact of currency fluctuations on the trading transactions of some of and the execution of growth strategies.
The key business risks affecting the Group are set out below.
The Terrorism A major terrorist attack, particularly in central London, New steps the Company takes to address these risks, where they are York, Barcelona or Tokyo could severely impact the operation of our matters within its control, are also described.
Such steps will mitigate businesses.
In such circumstances we cannot ensure uninterrupted but not eliminate the risks.
Some of the risks relate to external factors operation of the business, particularly in the short term, and in the which are beyond the Companys control.
The order of the risks is in longer term the operation of the business may be hindered if the no way an indication of their relative importance, and each of the risks effects of a terrorist attack have a more prolonged effect.
If more than one of the events We are dependent on the strength of our trademarks and other contemplated by the risks set below occurs, it is possible that the intellectual property rights We believe that our trademarks and other overall effect of such events would compound the possible adverse proprietary rights are fundamentally important to our success and effects on the Group.
Unauthorised use of the Burberry name, the Risks are formally reviewed by a Risk Committee of executive Burberry check and the Prorsum horse logo as well as the distribution management including the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer of counterfeit products damage the Burberry brand image and profits.
and also by the Audit Committee at least twice a year.
Key business If a third party registers our trademarks or similar trademark, in a risks are also considered generally as part of the Groups strategy country where we do not currently trade, this would create a barrier to development and ongoing business review processes.
our commencing trade under those marks in that country.
In addition, if a third party publishes harmful material using our trademarks, We face intense competition We are faced with intense competition Burberrys brand image could suffer.
in most of our product categories and markets.
We compete with international luxury goods groups.
These groups control a number of We have a dedicated team operating internationally to establish luxury and upscale brands and may have greater financial resources and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights.
and bargaining power with suppliers, wholesale accounts and Where infringements are identified, we resolve these through a mixture landlords than we do.
If we are unable to compete successfully, our of criminal and civil legal action and negotiated settlement.
operating results and growth may be adversely impacted.
Nevertheless, we cannot guarantee that the actions we have taken to The inability to anticipate and respond to changes in consumer establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights will demand and fashion trends on a timely basis could adversely be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others.
impact sales Our business depends, in part, on our ability to shape, Trademarks and intellectual property rights, while subject to stimulate and anticipate consumer demand by producing innovative, international treaties, are largely driven by national law and the fashionable and functional products.
The Burberry check has been protection of intellectual property rights varies from one jurisdiction to 18 Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 another.
We cannot therefore necessarily be as effective in all A substantial proportion of Group revenue and profits is reliant on jurisdictions in addressing counterfeit products.
In many territories we business in Japan and key global licensees A significant source of are dependent upon the vigilance and responsiveness of law profit is derived from the royalties received from licensees, specifically enforcement bodies whose priorities may differ from our own.
They are our licensee partners in Japan, and our fragrance licensee InterParfums also subject to budgetary constraints and prioritise their actions S. A.. We rely on licensees, among other things, to maintain operational accordingly.
Whilst we work closely with customs and other law and financial control over their businesses.
Should our licensees fail to enforcement bodies, ultimately we cannot direct their actions.
effectively manage their operations our income from royalties would decline.
There is a risk of over-reliance on key product manufacturers In a Failure to manage these key relationships effectively could have a number of key product categories Burberry is reliant on a small number material impact on the sales, profitability and reputation of the Group.
Where suitable alternatives exist, the Group has reduced To minimise the risks in Japan, we have established our own offices volumes with key suppliers on whom the Group is over-reliant and and operations in Tokyo.
continues to look for suitable additional suppliers to further reduce such over-reliance.
A number of our licences have been renegotiated to give us improved control over the brand, and more active product development is being A lack of flexibility in our supply chain would limit our ability to undertaken with our key licensees.
We regularly implement royalty respond efficiently to changing circumstances and fashion trends, reviews of our licensees, but we cannot guarantee that they will reveal hindering the Groups ability to take advantage of growth any non-compliance with the terms of the relevant licence.
opportunities and enabling competitors to take market share If our suppliers do not have sufficient manufacturing capacity or fail to deliver We may be unable to control our wholesale and licence products on time and or to the appropriate quality standards, sales for distribution channels satisfactorily We rely on our ability to control an entire season could be significantly adversely affected.
Further, such our distribution networks and licensees to ensure that our products are a failure could affect wholesale customers confidence which could sold in environments consistent with our luxury image.
An action by adversely affect subsequent seasons.
any significant wholesale customer or licensee, such as presenting The Project Atlas programme is designed to deliver both business Burberry products in a manner inconsistent with our preferred process improvements and the technology to provide better visibility positioning, would be damaging to our brand image.
If, due to over the supply chain.
In addition, we are strengthening resource regulatory, legal or other constraints, we are in any way unable to internally in this area to provide better management of key aspects of control our wholesale distribution networks and licensees, the Burberry our supply chain.
brand image, and therefore our results and profitability, may be adversely affected.
Burberry could suffer if its manufacturers are unable to produce goods at a competitive price, on time and to our specification In key emerging markets, particularly China, we are dependent Burberry continues to evolve its sourcing strategy, refining its selection upon third party operators with the associated lack of direct of suppliers to maintain and enhance product quality whilst improving control and transparency In key emerging markets, we operate sourcing efficiency.
There are opportunities to develop more robust through third-party franchisees.
In particular, a third-party retail supplier management processes and these will help ensure that we operation has been developed in China.
We depend upon the continue to produce merchandise of the right quality, in accordance expertise of these franchisees given our relative lack of experience in with our ethical policy, and delivered in accordance with our this region.
At an operational level, regular meetings take place with the requirements.
This process may adversely affect relationships with management of our business partners and franchisees.
existing suppliers during the transition period.
If our suppliers fail to We have a number of key customers whose business represents a ship product on time, or quality is substandard, this could lead to us substantial portion of our sales We dedicate resources to these missing delivery dates to our customers, potentially resulting in customers and maintain close relationships with such customers so we cancelled orders or price reductions.
can understand and respond to their needs.
There is a substantial change programme Project Atlas being We rely upon our licensees, suppliers, franchisees, distributors rolled out throughout the business to improve the infrastructure and agents to comply with laws We expect our licensees, suppliers, and business efficiency Whilst Project Atlas is designed to deliver franchisees, distributors and agents to comply with employment and significant business benefits, if it is not effectively managed and other laws relating to their country of operation and to operate to good resourced the benefits may fail to be delivered and it could ethical standards.
We are, however, unable to guarantee that this is the compromise business operations.
A governance framework has been case, although we are improving our processes to gain assurance that established involving Board level sponsorship and a Steering our licences, suppliers, franchisees, distributors and agents comply Committee.
External consultants are being used to supplement internal with our terms and conditions and relevant local legislation and good skills where required.
If Burberry loses key management or is unable to attract and retain the talent required for its business, its operating results could suffer Burberrys performance depends largely on its senior managers and design teams.
The resignation of key individuals and the inability to recruit people with the right experience and skills to facilitate future business growth could adversely impact Burberrys results.
To mitigate these issues the Remuneration Committee has implemented a number of schemes linked to Burberrys results that are designed to retain key individuals.
There is an ongoing recruitment programme overseen by the Human Resources Director and Chief Executive to ensure people of the right calibre are retained or are brought into the business.
Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 19 2005 06 IN DETAIL Contents 22 The Board of directors 23 Directors' report 26 Corporate governance 30 Report on directors' remuneration and related matters 41 Corporate social responsibility 46 Statement of directors' responsibilities 47 Group report of the auditors 48 Group income statement 49 Group statement of recognised income and expense 50 Group balance sheet 51 Group cash flow statement 52 Notes to the Group financial statements 94 Principal subsidiaries 95 Five year summary 97 Company report of the auditors 98 Company balance sheet 99 Notes to the Company financial statements 106 Fact sheet Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 21
