Our expertise allows us to know exactly what our customers want and deliver it.
Kensington Group plc Business and operational review Annual report and accounts 2006 07 Distribution Kensington draws on its expertise of the market to establish a clear profile of specialist borrowers and uses this knowledge to develop products tailored to meet their needs, delivered via the most suitable channel.
Risk management Built on experience and sustainability, Kensingtons credit risk model has succeeded through changing economic environments for more than a decade.
Funding efficiency A decade ago Kensington Group established the blueprint for securitisation funded mortgage origination and knows how to get the most from its funding strategy.
Partnership management Kensington knows that it cannot achieve all of its goals on its own so it builds strong and beneficial partnerships to drive the business forward.
Kensington Group plc Business and operational review Annual report and accounts 2006 08 Business and operational review continued Kensington Mortgages maintaining a leadership position in UK Specialist lending Overview of KM Results in 2006 KMs primary market of UK first charge specialist mortgage lending became very competitive in 2006.
Over 10 new lenders were launched into this market and existing lenders, particularly those owned by investment banks, have been aggressive in their pricing and risk policies.
Against this background, KM has chosen to maintain its balanced lending approach.
It has selectively invested in developing new product ranges to broaden its market reach and target attractive customer segments that will deliver the required risk-adjusted return.
This deliberate approach to balancing growth in new business, whilst managing margin reduction, has enabled KM to leverage existing distribution and also attract new distribution partners.
During 2006, KMs first charge new business completions were stable at 2.1bn and the average gross margin over LIBOR for new business fell by 0.3% to 2.7%.
Since mortgage regulation was introduced at the end of October 2004, the levels of customer redemptions and their timing have changed.
More customers are waiting until the end of the early repayment charge ERC period to pre-pay their mortgage and more products with a shorter ERC period are being sold by intermediaries.
As a result, the average income per redemption fell to 3.2% of the loan compared to 4.4% in 2005 and this, together with the reduction in margin, contributed to a lower Effective Interest Rate EIR for the mortgage portfolio as a whole.
Recent redemption data suggests that the change in behaviour has stabilised although future performance will continue to depend on changes in product mix and customer behaviour.
Kensington Group plc Business and operational review Annual report and accounts 2006 09 First charge new business completions in KM Developing the KM business KM was the first mortgage lender to win Strong intermediary relationships and the coveted Queens Award for Enterprise excellent service recognising sustained innovation in this 2.1bn KM is recognised for the strength of its specialist mortgage market over the last During 2006, KMs first charge new business intermediary relationships, underpinned five years.
It also won Your Mortgages completions were stable at 2.1bn and the by the quality of its service and products.
Best Adverse Credit Mortgage Lender average gross margin over LIBOR for new In 2006, KM continued to invest in enhancing for 2006 and was the overall winner business fell by 0.3% to 2.7%.
its distribution capability and its operational of the Credit Today Awards for specialist processes.
The new business processing lending.
centre in Reading has over 170 staff and now handles all of the offer-to-completion Delivering new income streams process as well as enabling introducers In 2006, KM successfully launched three to submit business directly to KM, as a new product ranges with encouraging early complementary channel to mortgage results including a suite of prime Buy to packagers.
Applications received directly Let and prime Self Certification products.
from brokers more than doubled in the The new product ranges are being rolled out year compared to the prior year.
to wider distribution channels in early 2007.
By adding these new product ranges KM The KM e-commerce service K-Net provides has opened up new distribution channels an on-line facility for intermediaries to submit which will provide a further opportunity for applications and track their progress all the business growth in 2007. way through to completion.
It has helped reduce the average completion time for a Research conducted with existing KM mortgage application by 15% and the fast borrowers identified an opportunity to retain track service enables same day offers to be customers after the expiry of the fixed rate confirmed to intermediaries within two hours.
A pilot study was At the end of 2006, over 14,000 users had launched in late 2006 and has delivered registered with K-Net and in November 2006 encouraging early results.
The business is it accounted for over 50% of the applications now looking to test broader distribution received into Reading.
In addition, KM strategies and cross-sell to existing customers launched the first large scale e-commerce including offering the new secured loans integration programme K-Link in the available from KPL to borrowers with the specialist lending sector.
This programme right risk profile.
enables selected intermediaries to integrate with KMs K-Net, offering brokers improved KPL was launched in late 2006 to provide service.
The K-Net and K-Link e-commerce a range of secured personal loans that developments have attracted industry-leading are initially being distributed via existing technology awards from three respected intermediaries.
In developing its products, industry publications.
These distribution KPL has adopted the same risk-based investments together with enhanced sales approach that has served KM for the strategies have led to around 3,000 brokers past 11 years, building on the existing recommending KM products for the first time experience, technology and capabilities in 2006. of KM.
The proposition has been well received by the market and is delivering innovative and tailored product features together with a strong service proposition.
Over 20 intermediaries have been trained and launched in the first three months of operation.
Kensington Group plc Business and operational review Annual report and accounts 2006 10 Business and operational review continued Risk Management core to the Balance The balance between risk and reward is one KM business model that is not easy to achieve, particularly over KMs policy of disciplined risk management a long timescale.
But Kensingtons sustained, continues to deliver risk performance informed and specialist approach to managing within management expectations despite and mitigating risk has helped to ensure the a tougher credit environment.
Lending to success of the business through a constantly the self-employed, to borrowers with changing economic environment and increasing adverse credit history and other noncompetition.
conforming individuals requires expertise, experience, discipline and care.
The KM The principle behind Kensingtons approach to striking a balance between risk and reward business model has been developed to is simple in theory, but in practice it is the understand, price, mitigate and manage culmination of years of experience and expertise the risks inherent in its market.
The businesses within the Kensington Group do not judge their customers Originating high quality new business solely on the basis of a previous track record, KMs risk policy is to avoid high loan-to-value but also look at their future ability to pay and LTV lending, to maintain good levels of their own individual circumstances.
affordability and to lend on quality properties whilst avoiding concentration in higher There are numerous factors that may affect a borrowers future ability to pay, including risk areas of the housing market.
These self-employment, adverse credit history or principles were applied in 2006 and the irregular income, and underwriters within the average LTV ratio for new business was Kensington Group are experienced in assessing stable at 77% and high LTV lending was these factors and delivering a solution that avoided with no material lending above 90% strikes the right balance.
During 2006, KM further improved its credit approach by taking advantage of new technologies including the use of customer electronic identification systems, automated fraud checks, extended credit reference checks and automated valuations AVMs as an integral part of its risk appraisal process.
These enhanced tools will enable KM to target new market segments.
KM continues to lend on good quality, marketable properties with over 85% valued between 70,000 and 250,000 and with a good spread of properties across the UK.
KM also seeks to avoid compounding risks.
Therefore, higher credit risk loans generally have higher deposits from borrowers and higher LTV loans are normally advanced to customers on lower income multiples.
Our business model allows us to strike a balance between offering competitively priced products and managing risk.
Kensington Group plc Business and operational review Annual report and accounts 2006 11 Distribution With diversification of its businesses, Kensington can target both the first and second charge mortgage markets with complementary channels to provide a balanced distribution strategy.
Risk management Kensingtons business model is built on a balance of risk and reward, providing competitive products which mitigate the risks inherent in its various markets at a price to account for that risk.
Funding efficiency A combination of securitisation and whole loan sales gives Kensington the ability to provide flexibility and balance to its funding model.
Partnership management With more than a decade of experience Kensington knows how to strike a balance between directing resource into partnerships and managing its core markets and distribution channels.
Kensington Group plc Business and operational review Annual report and accounts 2006 12 Business and operational review continued Arrears KM Portfolio performance strong and The quality of KMs mortgage special in line with expectations servicing has been re-confirmed by Fitch KM has continued to develop its approach at the highest residential mortgage special 9.1% to arrears management and has invested servicer rating in Europe granted to date.
As at 30 November 2006, the number of in technology to improve its customer accounts 90 days or more in arrears, as a management strategies to increase efficiency TML Financial Solutions TML percentage of the total number of mortgages and boost collections performance.
The TML has introduced over 1.6bn of mortgage under management, were 9.1% down from 9.6% at 30 November 2005. implementation of new dialler technology completions for KM since it was acquired enables a more efficient borrower contact in November 2002.
Over this period, the New business volumes for MPL strategy, ensuring experienced customer market conditions for direct-to-consumer management staff can spend more time distribution have changed fundamentally helping borrowers.
KM has continued to work as competition has intensified.
The cost 57% proactively with borrowers to offer a broader of generating mortgage enquiries has MPL delivered a strong performance in 2006 range of payment options in order to help increased significantly and the conversion increasing new business volumes by 57% in a highly competitive market.
them maintain regular mortgage payments.
rates of enquiries to mortgage completions The introduction of a behavioural scorecard have fallen.
To combat these challenges, in 2007 will enable KM to tailor collection TML has, over the past two years, reduced strategies for those borrowers who are its media spend and lowered its overhead potentially in more need of support.
As a result the KM mortgage originations from TML for 2006 reduced Following a modest increase in early 2006, to 189m from 322m in 2005 and arrears have reduced over the rest of the now represent less than 5% of the total year.
As at 30 November 2006, the number mortgage completions of the Group.
of accounts 90 days or more in arrears, as a percentage of the total number of Given the low contribution from TML to mortgages under management, were 9.1% the Groups new business a strategic down from 9.6% at 30 November 2005. review of the business was undertaken Repossessions and loan losses continue in late 2006.
The conclusion of that review to be within management expectations.
was that TML was no longer core to the The loss severities on repossessions for the Groups strategy and it has been decided second half of 2006 are below those seen in to sell TML.
the second half of 2005 and the crystallised losses for the second half of 2006 were As at 30 November, there was 16.1m of 12% below the first half of 2006 at 14.4m.
goodwill from the acquisition remaining on Loan losses remain well covered by balance Kensington Groups balance sheet.
has decided to take an impairment charge of 100% of this goodwill which is reflected The growth in the mortgage book, together in the results for 2006.
It is expected there with the overall increase in losses in the will be a charge of 8m in 2007 as a loss first half of 2006 has resulted in the total bad on disposal of the business.
Of this charge, debt impairment charge for KM increasing to approximately 4m relates to a property 44m up from 30m for 2005. related provision.
KM has maintained its prudent approach Money Partners Holdings Ltd MPL to bad debt provisioning and in light of the delivering incremental specialist more challenging risk environment and mortgage business the increasing number of second charge MPL delivered a strong performance in mortgages has increased its provisions from 2006 increasing new business volumes 0.65% to 0.75% of the closing mortgage by 57% in a highly competitive market.
MPL faced similar competitive pressures to KM, particularly in first charge mortgage lending and delivered 1.3bn of mortgage completions to the Group in 2006 of which 71% 914m were first charge and 29% 380m were second charge.
Kensington Group plc Business and operational review Annual report and accounts 2006 13 Over 125 mortgage intermediaries have submitted mortgage applications to MPL, and this business remains complementary and incremental to KMs distribution.
The average margin across the MPL business was 4.1% 2005: 4.9% with an average LTV of 75% 2005: 73%.
Average first charge mortgage margins reduced by 0.3% to 2.6% and second charge margins reduced by 0.4% to 7.9%.
Portfolio credit has been in line with management expectations and shows improving trends.
Start Mortgages Start leading the specialist mortgage market in Ireland Start has maintained its leading position in the Irish market as a specialist mortgage lender.
In its second year of trading it delivered a substantial increase in new business, at strong margins.
The business delivered a small profit for the year, ahead of expectations.
In 2006, Start increased its mortgage completions by around 120% to 680m 2005: 309m.
Gross margins remained high at 3.6% over Euribor 2005: 3.8% and LTVs remained low and stable at 63%.
Start has established an excellent reputation for its service and relationships with intermediaries.
It has developed marketleading broker technology with a rapid turnaround time for applications submitted on-line, which is being rolled out to larger brokers.
In total 370 brokers submitted cases to Start in 2006, up from 250 in 2005.
Start has continued to grow and develop its products and, during 2006, introduced new product lines covering Buy to Let, further advances, interest-only and near-prime mortgages.
The profile and geographical spread of business has been in line with management expectations with around 25% of the business from Dublin and over 80% of the properties being valued below 400,000.
Kensington Group plc Business and operational review Annual report and accounts 2006 14 Business and operational review continued Portfolio performance has been in line Momentum Different markets move in different cycles and with expectations with arrears of more while one market gathers momentum, another than 90 days running at under 3.5%.
may experience tougher business conditions.
Operational performance and service With increased competition in the UK first charge levels have continued to be strong and mortgage market the broader reach of the Group the transition of offers and completions will enable Kensington to continue its momentum to the in-house operation in Dublin is without compromising its principles of controlled progressing ahead of schedule.
In April 2006 and December 2006, Start The Kensington Group is committed to moving the business forward and is proactive in securitised a total of 895m of mortgages investigating new opportunities by taking the through two over-subscribed transactions.
tried and tested Kensington model to new These bonds were the first ever Irish markets.
In 2004 Start Mortgages was launched specialist mortgage-backed securities and in Ireland and, with Kensington owning a 65% they were launched with attractive pricing.
stake in the lender, it is well positioned to benefit from the burgeoning Irish market.
The Irish market remains underdeveloped and the proportion of specialist mortgages Another market with a great deal of potential to the overall market is well below levels is the specialist lending sector in Sweden and in 2006 Kensington took a stake in Bluestep, the seen in the UK.
We believe that the expected countrys leading specialist mortgage lender.
arrival in 2007 of other providers into the Irish market will lead to market growth.
In the UK, the Kensington Group has continued It is estimated that the Irish non-conforming to innovate and offer market leading products mortgage market could grow to 4bn a with the complementary business and year source: Davy Stockbrokers, from an distribution models of Kensington Mortgages estimated 1bn in 2006.
Start is well placed and Money Partners and the launch of to maintain its market-leading position Kensington Personal Loans.
and benefit from this market growth.
New business originations m Bluestep entering an attractive 2002 1,018.3 2003 2,015.5 new non-conforming mortgage 2004 2,262.5 market in Sweden 2005 3,466.6 In April 2006 Kensington acquired a 2006 4,066.0 minority stake in Bluestep, which is currently the only non-conforming lender in Sweden.
Kensington has provided expertise and input to support the growth and development of the business.
Momentum is increasing and the business is on track to deliver increased volumes in 2007 and the business is now cash flow positive and profitable.
The Swedish mortgage market is double the size of the Irish market.
With the recent government change it is expected to show healthy growth over the next few years.
Bluestep is well placed to continue to grow strongly and establish the Swedish nonconforming mortgage market.
This year we have successfully applied our business model to new market segments allowing us to increase momentum of the whole Group.
Kensington Group plc Business and operational review Annual report and accounts 2006 15 Distribution New product ranges from every business within the Group have widened the appeal of Kensington to a broader customer base through increased distribution.
Risk management Technology is becoming increasingly important in the specialist mortgage market and Kensington has harnessed technology to aid underwriting efficiency whilst maintaining a focus on human involvement for complicated cases.
Funding efficiency 2006 was a big year for funding with the largest transactions to date of loans originated by KM, Money Partners and Start.
Partnership management Such is the success of the partnership with Money Partners that the Kensington Group has increased its shareholding in the lender taking it to 57.5% in 2006, demonstrating the strong momentum of the Group.
Kensington Group plc Business and operational review Annual report and accounts 2006 16 Business and operational review continued New business offer pipeline 20% At the end of the financial year the new business offer pipeline stood at 500m, over 20% higher than 12 months before.
Kensington Group plc Business and operational review Annual report and accounts 2006 17 Prospects and risks by remortgaging their primary residence, To continue delivering profitable growth, supported by recent increases in house Kensington is addressing the ongoing risks price inflation.
and challenges which arise from competition and high levels of consumer debt.
Conclusion Kensington is delivering on its strategy of During 2006, we saw a number of new maintaining a strong presence in the UK entrants to the UK specialist mortgage specialist mortgage market and growing market, backed by investment banks and new income streams in attractive related private equity houses.
This increase in activity new markets.
from both existing and new lenders has increased pressure on gross interest rate 2006 has been the most challenging year margins in first charge mortgages.
We will for Kensington to date, against a backdrop remain focused on protecting returns by both of increased competition and continuing delivering improvements in cost-efficiency high levels of customer indebtedness.
and continuing our expansion into higher As we said in our trading statement last margin markets such as Ireland and UK November, we expect the UK specialist second charge lending.
Should price mortgage market to remain competitive competition in the UK intensify further during 2007 and that Kensington will see we would also consider increasing the lower levels of profit growth in 2007 when proportion of portfolio sales to protect compared to the growth seen in 2006. our return on capital.
We have made some important decisions As we look forward to 2007 we expect about the future of the Group including modest levels of growth in the proportion the sale of TML and also our focus on of mortgage completions and house price opportunities for growth in the higher inflation in the UK.
As a result, Kensington environment remains relatively benign in 2007 will have a significantly lower and we would expect interest rates and cost-base, with improved credit performance unemployment to continue at their relatively and with a new business offer pipeline low levels in historical terms.
However, at the end of the financial year that, at levels of consumer indebtedness remain over 500m, was over 20% higher than high and we expect arrears and losses to 12 months before.
continue to be challenging across the market, particularly in unsecured debt.
Kensingtons recent improvement in credit performance demonstrates its ability to manage risk in more challenging environments.
J N Maltby We also expect continuing growth in the Chief Executive Officer specialist mortgage market, as borrowers 29 January 2007 look to consolidate their unsecured debt Risks and uncertainties Possible Risks Potential Impact Mitigating Actions Competition in Kensington Pressure on margins increases Multi-product, multi-brand, multi-market markets intensifies Growth aspirations under pressure strategy UK from new entrants Increase proportion of whole-loan sales existing players Limit new business growth Ireland from new entrants Further cost management Sweden from new entrants Credit environment deteriorates Higher bad-debt charge Relative performance should be strong Possible incremental demand for Continue balanced approach non-conforming loans Broad-base of business and ability to re-price Reduced availability of funding Increased funding costs of new business Diversify sources of funding Reduced new business capacity Limit new business growth
