Business review Burrens business is the exploration, development and production of oil & gas.
Our commercial production at present is entirely oil: although we have significant gas resources these do not as yet have tangible commercial value.
Our focus is on four key hydrocarbon regions of the world: the Caspian, West Africa, the Middle East North Africa and India.
We are comfortable operating in developing markets, where there may be greater political and commercial risk than in more developed markets but where the opportunities and rewards may be commensurately greater.
DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS may be reinvested in exploration or in the Gas prices in the Caspian region have Burren has interests in a total of 11 licence acquisition of other assets.
Our oil production historically been much lower than in Western blocks, in Turkmenistan, Congo, Egypt, is sold under contract to BP Nebit Dag or Europe as a consequence of lack of direct Yemen and Oman.
Our investment in India is Total MBoundi at the Caspian and Atlantic supply routes to western markets.
However via a 27% holding in Hindustan Oil Exploration coasts respectively.
the gap has been steadily closing in recent Company HOEC, a company listed on the years, and in October 2006 Turkmenistan Bombay Stock Exchange, which has interests All our licences are in the form of long-term agreed a new export contract with Russia in eight blocks.
We are the operator of our Production Sharing Agreements PSAs, whereby whereby the price was increased from US$65 blocks in Turkmenistan, Egypt and Yemen the oil produced is apportioned between mcm to US$100 mcm.
We believe that the and HOEC is the operator of most of their contractor and state according to a formula trend in gas prices in the Caspian region will blocks in India.
In Congo, however, the which allows for the priority recovery of the continue upwards although the timing of any operator is Maurel & Prom.
The majority of contractors expenditure.
The effect of PSAs increases is difficult to predict.
Burrens activity is onshore: only two of our is that when oil prices fall the contractors blocks are offshore, and these are in shallow share of the oil increases and when oil prices water.
Operating and drilling costs are therefore rise it reduces: this cushions our exposure to much lower than if we were operating in a oil price movements.
BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT Burrens production comes almost equally Oil & gas markets from our two principal assets, the Burun and The oil price continued to strengthen in 2006 Balkan fields comprising the Nebit Dag PSA with dated Brent averaging US$65.1 bbl in Turkmenistan and the MBoundi field in compared with US$54.5 bbl the previous Congo Brazzaville.
Ignoring seasonal variations, we expect significant cash engine, generating free cash oil prices to remain above US$50 bbl over the flow after development expenditure which next few years.
Hywell John Legal & Commercial Director, Company Secretary 08 Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006 Click to return to contents Price inflation STRATEGY AND OBJECTIVES Objectives Over the past 12 months competition for assets Strategy Our objectives in 2007 are to: and for resources, both human and physical, Burrens strategy is to create shareholder value has continued to grow, fuelled by the continued by investing in oil & gas projects in the four Drill approximately 70 wells in total of which strength of the oil price, The growing international key hydrocarbon regions of the world: the approximately 50 will be development ambitions of the national oil companies NOCs Caspian, West Africa, the Middle East North wells, both producers and injectors, and and the ongoing search by the majors for Africa and India, primarily in onshore locations.
This includes up to replacement reserves, coupled with the healthy eight planned wells by HOEC in India balance sheets of most oil & gas companies, We consider our key strengths in pursuing have resulted in asset price inflation in the this strategy to be: Continue with the expansion of the waterregions in which Burren operates.
We do not injection programmes in Turkmenistan see these pressures abating soon to any Our experience in operating in these and Congo significant extent.
markets, developed from our six years of operating the Nebit Dag licence area in Progress discussions with the Government The demands on finite oil service resources Turkmenistan, involving the management of Turkmenistan towards commercialising have caused rig day rates and the costs of political, commercial, technical and our Turkmen gas resources of attendant drilling services to rise.
Burren logistical issues is insulated against some of these market Fully appraise the new discoveries, the pressures in that we now own seven drilling Our track record of low cost operation: Balkan field formerly Nebit Dag Deep in and workover rigs in Turkmenistan and Maurel Our operating cost per barrel in Turkmenistan and the shallow Loufika field & Prom similarly own all five rigs deployed Turkmenistan in recent years has been in Congo in Congo, although we have experienced below US$2.0 bbl inflation in other oil field service costs.
Complete seismic acquisition and or Our philosophy of working with local interpretation on four of our six blocks in Equally there is pressure on human resources partners with aligned equity interests, who the Middle East North Africa in preparation which gives rise to salary inflation and certain can assist in the building and maintenance for a programme of exploration drilling, sectors of the industry have experienced of crucial local relationships starting in 2007 and continuing into 2008 higher staff turnover.
The elements of our strategy are as follows: Continue to seek new opportunities for Political risk investment in order to make the best use Political risk continues to be an area of To grow our production and reserve base of our cash resources and unleveraged concern for oil & gas companies generally, by further development of our existing balance sheet as governments around the world look fields in order to increase the potential for ways to maximise their share of recovery rates hydrocarbon resources in the current high oil price environment.
To seek new investment opportunities within our focus regions which include There have been no recent events or actions proven reserves and production, thus in any of the countries in which Burren operates reducing geological risk, and which have that cause us to have any undue concerns on development and appraisal potential this subject at present.
Following the sudden death of President Niyazov of Turkmenistan at To constrain our exposure to exploration the end of 2006, President Berdymukhamedov risk within prudent limits was elected in February 2007.
The Minister for Oil & Gas is the same as in the previous To monetise assets where their value to a administration, and Burren has not experienced prospective purchaser materially exceeds Rebecca Sanderson any disruption in day-to-day operational activities.
our internal risked valuation Finance Team 09 Click to return to contents Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006 Business review continued Financial KPIs and the Loufika field in Congo.
The Turkmen Key Performance Indicator Units 2006 2005 2004 discoveries added a total of 15.1 million barrels of P P reserves, and are close to existing Production growth % 9 72 79 Burren-owned infrastructure.
The size of the Discount to Brent US$ bbl 5.2 7.2 5.4 Loufika discovery is still being appraised.
Production cost per barrel US$ bbl 2.5 2.5 2.5 Cash flow after development expenditure US$m 187.0 157.9 25.2 2006 also saw the initiation of water injection Earnings per share growth % 11 218 81 programmes in both Turkmenistan and Internal reserves replacement ratio 3 years % 234 Congo, with the aim of sustaining reservoir Reserves growth per share 3 years % 16 productivity and improving field recovery factors.
By year end the Burun field programme Key Performance Indicators costs on both of Burrens producing fields was showing promising early results: injection In order to monitor the Groups performance only began on the MBoundi field in late and the consequent rise in the states share in delivering its strategic objectives the of production.
January 2007 and it is still too early to make Board has established seven financial Key any assessment.
Performance Indicators KPIs and nine The reserves replacement ratio and reserves non-financial KPIs.
Group working interest production averaged growth per share, being calculated on a three-year basis, are only shown for 2006 34,240 bopd for the year, an increase of 9% a Financial KPIs on 2005, contributed as to 16,300 bopd by since Burren only became a publicly listed The results for the Groups seven financial company in December 2003 Turkmenistan and 17,940 bopd by Congo.
KPIs for the last three years are shown in the Entitlement production was 19,170 bopd, table on page 10.
The definitions of the above ratios may be down from the previous years 22,440 bopd as the state share of production increased found in the Glossary.
The rapid growth in production witnessed owing to the rise in oil prices and the in 2004 and 2005 slowed down in 2006 as achievement of full recovery of costs on b Non-financial KPIs rigs formerly used in development drilling in The nine non-financial KPIs, of which both the Burun and the MBoundi fields.
Turkmenistan were diverted to exploration, three relate to Health & Safety and six to and because of natural decline rates in Environmental matters, are as follows: existing producing wells.
Health & Safety The discount to Brent rose in 2005 due to Fatal Accident Rate, Lost Time Incident increased transportation costs in the Caspian Frequency, and Lost Time Incident Severity.
This was offset in 2006 by significantly improved terms for Burrens Congo crude Environment following a change to the blending arrangements Measures relating to crude oil consumption, at the export terminal.
natural gas consumption, water usage, greenhouse gas production, acid rain and smog Production costs per barrel remained flat precursor production and waste emissions.
over the three years owing to tight cost control despite a general inflation in the cost of oilfield Further detail on the definitions, results of, Simon Moy services and human resources.
and targets for, these non-financial KPIs is Reservoir Engineering Manager contained in the Heath, Safety, Environment Cash flow after development expenditure Turkmenistan and Community section of this report.
has risen strongly, despite an increase in Exploration expenditure on developing our existing Two exploration drilling programmes were REVIEW OF OPERATIONS reserves, as a result of increased production conducted in 2006: a deep programme In 2006 the Group drilled a record number and rising oil prices.
targeting the potential extension of the deeper of wells: 51 compared with 45 in 2005.
Burun field reservoirs immediately to the east Exploration represented a greater proportion The slowdown in growth in earnings per share of that field and a shallow programme on a of drilling activity than ever before: 21 wells in 2006 compared with previous years is due series of prospects in the eastern half of the compared with 7 in 2005 all well numbers to a number of factors, but includes the fall in Nebit Dag PSA area.
A total of 15 wells were exclude HOEC.
The exploration resulted in entitlement production in 2006, arising from drilled of which four found hydrocarbons, three discoveries: the Balkan formerly Nebit the achievement of full recovery of historic resulting in the discovery of the deep Balkan Dag Deep and Uzboy fields in Turkmenistan 10 Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006 Click to return to contents field and the much smaller shallow Uzboy field.
The first of the two new deep rigs purchased will be drilled over the next few months.
In A new Balkan development area, covering from China began operations in January 2007. addition an unsuccessful exploration well an area of 47 km, has been approven by The second rig is expected to be in operation was drilled in Q1 2007 on the Tioni prospect the Turkmen authorities.
The Uzboy field towards the middle of the year, and we intend and has been plugged and abandoned.
On is producing 115 bopd from one well.
to release the two existing contracted rigs as the Noumbi licence some 560 km of soon as practicable.
The two new rigs will bring the planned 812 km 2D seismic has been The Balkan discovery and appraisal drilling to a total of seven the number of workover and acquired and is being processed.
within the Burun field itself north and south drilling rigs owned and manned by Burren in flank resulted in a total addition to proven Turkmenistan, and will allow us to complete the Production and probable working interest reserves of development of the three fields without being Gross production on MBoundi for the full year 15.1 million bbls as at 2006 year-end.
dependent on third party rig operators.
A total of 23 wells were drilled, The total cost of the 15 exploration wells, of Forward plans broadly the same as the previous year, which seven were shallow wells drilled using a In 2007 we plan to drill around 20 development of which 19 were put on production, the workover rig, was US$43.1 million.
Under the and appraisal wells on the Burun and Balkan remainder being around the perimeter of the terms of the PSA this cost is fully recoverable fields.
We intend to recomplete 12 existing field and therefore sub-commercial.
Between against future production from the new wells as injectors and to start expanding the four and five rigs were in operation throughout development areas.
This represents a finding water injection capacity to 30,000 bwpd.
Our 2006 working interest production cost P P basis of US$2.7 bbl.
Gross production reached a record 22,250 bopd in Congo, including our share of the Kouakouala in February 2006. field, was 17,940 bopd, up 12% over 2005.
As per the terms of the PSA, all exploration areas were relinquished as of 1 February Burrens share of MBoundi production 2007 leaving four development areas reduced from 35% to 31.5% with effect from covering 200 km.
1 January 2006 as a result of the farm-in by SNPC.
We increased our holding in the Production Kouakouala field by 8.3% to 33.3% by In 2006 gross production averaged 19,940 exercising our pre-emption rights upon bopd compared with 19,200 bopd in 2005. sale by Heritage Oil Corporation in order to Working interest production, after deduction preserve our position in relation to the export of the states Initial Oil entitlement, was pipeline to the Djeno terminal, which is owned 16,300 bopd, and entitlement production by the Kouakouala partners.
After a short delay owing to the late delivery of Owing to the focus last year being on certain items of equipment, the water injection Ian Bingham exploration in advance of the licence expiry programme commenced in January 2007 with Chief Geophysicist date, only seven development wells were injection into two wells.
Congo drilled compared with 14 the previous year.
Exploration Capital expenditure was focused on water Forward plans In 2006 three exploration wells were drilled, injection and facility upgrades, the latter Four further shallow appraisal wells on Loufika one within the Kouakouala permit Boubissi-1 aimed at increasing throughput capacity by are planned to be drilled during the first half and two on the Loufika prospect to the south- 2009 to the 30,000 bopd level required to of the year, following which it is intended east of the MBoundi field, the first of which handle future production increases and to to drill an exploration well on two further resulted in a discovery in the shallow horizons bring fully in-house the processing activities Loufika-type prospects to the north-west at a depth of some 500 m. currently undertaken by Turkmenneft.
Since year end two step-out appraisal wells 2006 saw the start of the water injection In the deep programme, four further Vandji have been drilled on Loufika, the first of which programme on the Burun field: some 8,500 exploration prospects are planned to be confirmed the oil reservoir and the oil-water bwpd is now being injected via a total of nine drilled during 2007: three on the Kouilou contact but was of low permeability and so injector wells.
Initial results are encouraging: licence Nanga, Zingila and Tchivouba, and non-commercial.
The second appraisal well material increases in production rates have one on the La Noumbi licence Dongou.
was drilled outside the structure and did not been observed in two shallow producer Further 2D seismic will be acquired on encounter hydrocarbons.
The remaining four wells and one deep producer as a result Noumbi in the second half of the year.
wells in the six well appraisal programme of this injection.
11 Click to return to contents Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006 Business review continued It is intended to drill and or convert 18 wells acquisition around mid-year.
Exploration owing to the delay of a month in the opening to injector wells in 2007, and to increase the drilling is not expected to be until early 2008. of the summer navigation season in the injection capacity of the facilities from 20,000 southern Russian river system owing to bwpd to 60,000 bwpd during the year and In December Burren was awarded a licence extreme low temperatures, and operating again to 120,000 bwpd in 2008.
As a result for Block 17, an onshore offshore block with costs were higher than anticipated.
This of the drilling of injector wells, there will be an area of 19,400 km, and negotiations for business was partially divested early in the fewer development wells drilled on MBoundi a PSA will commence shortly.
year and it is Burrens ultimate intention to this year: 11 net new producers are planned dispose of the remainder.
Oman In August Burren received government approval RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Gross production on MBoundi in February to its farm-in into 40% of Block 50, an offshore The principal risks and uncertainties facing 2007 was 55,400 bopd.
block of some 16,700 km in water depths of up the Group, and the actions taken to mitigate to 100 metres operated by Hunt Oil.
2,775 km these risks, are as follows: of 2D seismic was acquired, the processing of which is nearly complete.
A decision on drilling Oil price risk will be made in later in the year.
Burren is fully exposed to volatility in the oil price since we do not have any oil price hedge Forward plans contracts outstanding.
The impact of a falling We plan to drill three wells on the East Kanayis oil price is however partly mitigated via the block in Egypt, to test both Cretaceous and production sharing formula in our PSAs, whereby Jurassic prospects, whilst on the remaining our share of the gross production increases in acreage efforts in 2007 will be primarily a falling oil price environment due to the cost focussed on seismic and mapping of recovery mechanism.
Our internal model prospects, in preparation for drilling in 2008. indicates that if the average Brent oil price had been 10% lower in 2006 our net production India HOEC: Burren 27% would have been 3% higher.
We believe that our Zahraa Dewidar A horizontal well on the PY-1 gas field in the shareholders as a body prefer to retain exposure HR & Administration Manager, Cairo offshore Cauvery basin tested successfully to the oil price, so our policy is not to hedge Middle East confirming reservoir productivity sufficient against a fall in oil prices unless this is dictated Egypt to meet contractual requirements.
The by financing or budgetary constraints or related All three wells drilled on the East Kanayis associated gas sales agreement has been to an acquisition.
licence to target the Cretaceous potential initiated with execution expected in the near were found to be dry.
The project will now, subject to acceptable Cost inflation data was acquired during the year to evaluate development costs, proceed to full field The current inflationary environment for oil-field deeper Jurassic targets and several prospects development which will involve the construction goods and services, and for skilled human have been delineated at Cretaceous levels of a production platform, a subsea pipeline, an resources, has already been described above along trend from existing fields and at the onshore terminal and the drilling of two further see Business Environment.
Under the terms Jurassic level.
of our PSAs operating and capital costs are recoverable via a priority allocation of cost On the North Hurghada Marine a high resolution Two exploration wells drilled by HOEC on the recovery oil, and so the effect of cost increases aeromagnetic survey was carried out to give an nearby Block CY-OSN-97 1 were dry.
is cushioned subject always to approval of overview of the basin.
Reprocessing of existing such increases by the state for budgetary seismic is under way and a contract has been HOEC raised US$33 million via a rights issue purposes.
Burrens ownership of all its drilling awarded to acquire 200 km of new 3D seismic in October, in which Burren was allotted slightly and workover rigs in Turkmenistan mitigates to commencing in Q2.
more than its pro-rata amount, thus taking the some extent these cost pressures.
The retention Groups stake to 27%.
A further equity raising to of key staff at an acceptable cost is addressed Yemen finance the PY-1 development is being planned.
via Burrens executive remuneration scheme, The PSA for Block 6 became effective during which has been substantially revised with the year after parliamentary ratification, and SHIPPING effect from 2007 in order to give key staff a a tender for the acquisition of 500 km of 2D The shipping business made a small profit in longer term stake in the Groups performance.
Revenues were lower than anticipated 12 Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006 Click to return to contents Political risk see the section on Heath, Safety, Environment Political risk may take many forms: examples and Community.
The Group has standard oil include nationalisation, tax changes, alteration field insurance policies, including control-ofto the terms of licences or contracts, or well cover, in place covering all its operated internal civil unrest.
Political risk is inherent in and non-operated assets.
the oil & gas business, not only in developing countries, but in more developed countries RESOURCES too tax risk.
Whilst insuring against political The principal resources available to Burren in risk is sometimes required by bank lenders, pursuing our stated strategy are our portfolio the market for such insurance for the countries of licence interests, the relationships that we in which Burren operates is relatively limited, have built up over the years in our countries and to insure the full value of our assets, even of operation, and our people.
if possible, would be prohibitively expensive.
Our view is that the political risk is balanced Our licence portfolio now numbers 11 blocks in each case by the rewards available from in five countries excluding the investment in investment, and that our shareholders accept HOEC, of which many contain significant this risk reward profile.
Geological risk Our strategy of working closely with local Exploration is inherently a risky business, with partners has led to a number of close statistically only a relatively small proportion relationships in our target countries, not of exploration wells resulting in a commercial only with local partners but also within discovery.
It is not possible to insure against government, most of which have been the risk of failure.
Burrens policy is to contain built up over many years.
this exposure within prudent limits.
The skills and experience of our staff play a vital part in the ongoing success of the Group.
Burren has offices in Ashgabat, Cairo, Sanaa and Moscow, together with an operations centre at the Nebit Dag camp in Turkmenistan.
These are supported by the London head office which numbers some 25 people.
Burren has no office in Congo since it is not the operator.
The head office team was strengthened during 2006 by the appointment of Simon Gill as Operations Director and Ian Bingham as Chief Geophysicist.
Simon Gill fills the role that Atul Gupta had been discharging prior to his becoming Brian Thurley Chief Executive Officer last September, Technical Director and Ian Binghams is a newly created role.
HEALTH, SAFETY & ENVIRONMENT Oil & gas operations carry a potentially high We consider the motivation and remuneration level of attendant risk, and the impact of an of our staff is of vital importance in order that accident can be significant in terms of human, we continue to attract and maintain the highest environmental and financial cost.
Further information about our implemented a comprehensive set of HSE remuneration policy may be found in the policies and procedures, coupled with an Directors Remuneration Report.
ongoing review system: for a full description 13 Click to return to contents Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
