BUSINESS REVIEW ISSUER SERVICES 31% 57m A STRONG YEAR FOR NEW ISSUES ON THE MAIN MARKET AND A RECORD YEAR FOR AIM We are successfully leveraging our global reputation, the quality of our markets and access to our deep pools of international capital to attract companies to a London listing.
Chief Executives Review It was a record year for primary listings on the London Stock Exchange.
Issuer Services is the division responsible for attracting companies and supporting them before, during and after listing.
This year 107 companies listed on the Main Market and five on the new Professional Securities Market PSM.
510 joined AIM an increase of 18 per cent.
409 of the new companies joining our markets were IPOs, representing 67 per cent of all those in Western Europe.
A total of 21.1 billion was raised, 136 per cent more than last year.
At 31 March 2006, there were 3,141 companies traded on our markets with a total market capitalisation of 4.3 trillion.
In the bond markets we increased our share of listed debt by nine per cent, with over 900 additional securities admitted to our markets.
London now accounts for 14 per cent of all bonds listed in Europe.
These figures reflect the step change in our product development and marketing activity which saw Issuer Services increase its focus on promoting London listings in the UK and other key markets across the world.
There are many strands to this effort explaining the benefits of a London listing to the widest possible audience: working with companies to choose the right market for their listing, before helping them maximise the value of the listing.
At the same time we are constantly liaising with regulators and governments, to ensure effective and proportionate regulation that helps make London a compelling and cost-efficient place to raise money and maintain a listing.
Unique among major international exchanges, London offers a real choice of markets.
This choice is widening: as well as the different options for listing on the Main Market and AIM we introduced this year the PSM for major corporate debt and depositary receipt issuers.
We have also successfully lobbied the Treasury for Real Estate Investment Trusts to be a Main Market listed product.
Expanding our markets and making them more efficient is a direct response to our customers requirements: that is why it is central to our strategy.
It is hard to overestimate the role of our secondary 8 LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2006 markets in attracting issuers to the primary markets.
For most companies issuing equity or debt is not only about raising money or profile, it is also about investors being able to trade securities easily.
The liquidity and fast growing volumes on the London Stock Exchange especially in smaller stocks are an important consideration for issuers.
For the Exchange there is a crucial interdependence between primary and secondary markets.
THE MAIN MARKET: A STRONG YEAR The Main Market is one of the worlds blue-chip markets, offering the highest levels of coverage, liquidity and access to the deepest pool of capital.
Virtually all of the worlds major investors are active in the Main Market and its stocks are core assets in the portfolios of pension funds, hedge funds and private investors around the globe.
The companies on the Main Market also enjoy the highest levels of publicity and media focus.
The professional investor base in London is unrivalled globally, with over US$14 trillion of total assets managed by firms based here.
Together with 75 per cent of European hedge fund assets under management in London, this huge pool of capital attracts even more investors and so makes a London listing still more attractive to issuers.
This year the Main Market attracted 107 listings, IT WAS A RECORD YEAR FOR INTERNATIONAL COMPANIES comprising 89 UK and 18 overseas issuers.
Of the international JOINING OUR MARKETS, AS OUR STRATEGY OF TARGETING companies listing during the year, seven were from Russia with GROWING ECONOMIES AROUND THE WORLD two each from India and Gibraltar.
The total number of Main CONTINUED TO BEAR FRUIT Market and PSM companies at year end stood at 1,668, a net decrease of 121.
Highlights included Britvic, one of Britains leading soft drinks businesses which raised 405 million on admission in December.
NUMBER OF NUMBER OF In February Lotte Shopping Co. became the second South NEW ISSUES NEW ISSUES Korean company to simultaneously dual-list in London and Seoul.
MAIN MARKET AIM The company raised a total of US$3.5 billion, the largest ever IPO by a Korean company.
Also in February Comstars US$ 1.06 billion offering was the second largest Russian IPO ever, after Sistemas offering also on the Main Market in February 2005 see International Strategy below.
AIM: NOW A MAINSTREAM ASSET CLASS It was an important year for AIM, the worlds most vibrant growth market, which celebrated its tenth anniversary in June 2005.
Not only did AIM continue along its impressive growth trajectory with 510 companies raising more than 7.9 billion it also widened its investor base.
The total number of companies at year end rose to 1,473, a net increase of 346 with a combined market capitalisation of 71.6 billion.
Last year AIM re-affirmed its status as a mainstream asset class, with over 40 per cent owned by institutional investors.
Almost every major institution in the UK now invests in AIM and AIM securities have become an important asset class in their own right.
The creation of the FTSE AIM100 and FTSE AIM UK 50 indices and the introduction of SETSmm to AIM has helped maintain this momentum, reducing spreads, increasing trading volume while cutting trading costs.
Value traded in the FTSE AIM UK 50 index by institutional investors has increased by around a quarter since the index constituents moved to SETSmm in December 2005.
In the UK we continue to market AIM actively through regular seminars and through our network of Nominated Advisers Nomads.
In October we announced our intention to turn AIM towards Europe, part of our long term vision of AIM as the pan European growth market see AIM Goes Global below.
INTERNATIONAL STRATEGY It was a record year for international companies joining our markets, as our strategy of targeting growing economies around the world continued to bear fruit.
There was a combined total of 149 international admissions to the Main Market and AIM, raising a total of 8.9 billion, an increase of 194 per cent.
Fees generated from new international companies grew threefold.
The International Main Market now offers multiple listing options, depending on the stage reached in the companys lifecycle and its objectives.
As well as primary and secondary equity listings, global depositary receipts enable issuers from developing markets to attract international institutional investment.
This wide choice of listing products is matched by a continued focus on developing countries characterised by high GDP growth and immature domestic capital markets.
Our key target markets continue to be China, Russia and India.
We have also been successful in South Korea, Kazakhstan and the Middle East.
Companies from these markets want to list in London because of the high standards of regulation and corporate governance, as well as access to international capital and the chance to trade on a liquid market.
London is now the market of choice for Russian companies listing overseas eight companies have raised 3.2 billion on our markets in the last two years.
Russia now accounts for 60 per cent of trading on the International Order Book IOB.
We have demonstrated our commitment to helping Russias capital PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL NUMBER market develop and to attract even more Russian companies to WESTERN EUROPEAN OF COMPANIES London, by actively promoting dual listings in Moscow and London.
IPOs As at 31 March In February we developed our Russian relationships further by For financial year 2006 signing a co-marketing agreement with MICEX, the leading Moscow exchange.
6 1 The Exchanges Asia Pacific office in Hong Kong was opened in 11 October 2004.
The Asia Pacific team targets large privatisation deals, particularly the Chinese state-owned enterprises and other 2 3 medium to large enterprises across the region.
Since the office opened we have attracted major listings, including Air China, Kumho 10 Tyre and Lotte Shopping to the Main Market and 14 companies 67 to AIM.
We now plan to open another marketing office in mainland China.
In India, REI Agro was among seven Indian companies to list in nn London London this year.
The pipeline of companies from Asia, particularly n Euronext including Alternext for China and South Korea, remains promising.
South Korea is n Deutsche Brse nnn AIM now second in terms of trading volumes on the IOB.
New entrants n Borsa Italia nn Main Market PSM Bank Muscat, Telecom Egypt and KazakhGold further add to the n Scandinavia increasingly significant international component on our markets.
n SWX n Other AIM GOES GLOBAL AIM is now a growth market with global appeal, attracting young international companies who want access to the advantages of a London market within a flexible regulatory regime.
This year we have seen increasing interest from Asia Pacific and continental Europe, as well as from North America, Australia and Israel.
Our approach is to work closely with Nomads, lawyers and accountants in these key markets.
In October we announced our ambition to transform AIM into Europes market for growth companies.
This is an important strategic move by the Exchange that places us at the heart of Europes capital markets.
Our goal is to supply the capital for Europes next generation of companies that will provide future wealth and, in so doing, help to stimulate economic growth across the continent.
We are adopting a phased approach, prioritising those countries where we expect highest demand, recruiting companies, advisers and investors to enable still more people in more countries to access the success story that is AIM.
10 LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2006 2002 2,238 641 2,879 2003 2,072 705 2,777 2004 1,901 792 2,693 2005 1,789 1,127 2,916 2006 1,668 1,473 3,141 THE PROFESSIONAL SECURITIES MARKET BROKER SERVICES In July we launched the Professional Securities Market, an Exchange-regulated market which will allow greater flexibility for companies to report according to home accounting standards.
The PSM therefore provides an ideal platform for the listing of corporate debt and depositary receipts aimed at institutional investors.
We worked closely with the UKLA in creating an attractive market and are now further developing relationships with the debt community, thus encouraging issuers and their advisers to consider the advantages of a London listing for their securities.
DELIVERING FOR CUSTOMERS 25% This year Issuer Services has continued to develop our customer service approach both in the UK and internationally.
We profile Main Market technology and healthcare companies through techMARK and techMARK mediscience to make it easier for investors and issuers to benchmark their performance.
Across the 125m UK regional managers also support listed companies with issues such as trading, liquidity and regulation, so helping maximise the value of their listing.
This provides an opportunity to showcase other Exchange offerings to a large customer base of existing and new issuers.
This approach to solving customers problems with tailor-made Exchange service solutions is also being rolled RECORD VOLUMES ON out internationally, where issuers and overseas exchanges are important potential markets for the Exchanges training and OUR TRADING PLATFORMS consultancy business.
STIMULATED BY OUR RNS, part of the Exchanges effort to promote transparency and openness on our markets, remains the UKs leading provider of FOCUS ON CUSTOMERS regulatory news disclosure and capital markets news.
This year, almost 160,000 announcements were published and distributed AND NEW TECHNOLOGY by RNS.
Over 90 in the FTSE 100 companies use RNS to release regulatory announcements, as do all major PR companies.
We are experiencing a structural shift in the way that UK equities THE MEDIA AND BUSINESS COMPLEX are traded.
SETS, our electronic order book, is experiencing strong Our strategic location at the heart of the City of London is vital growth and is at the heart of the biggest change to secondary market to companies that need a focal point to meet with investors, trading since Big Bang 20 years ago.
Chief Executives Review customers, advisors, journalists and other stakeholders.
The facilities at Paternoster Square, including our four state of It was a stellar year on the Exchange secondary markets, and in the art broadcasting studios and high spec event space, are in particular for SETS and SETSmm, our central limit electronic order great demand.
9,995 broadcasts, equating to 500 hours of live books.
In total there were 56.8 million trades on SETS and SETSmm, time reporting on company, business and market news, were with a total value of 1,190 billion up by 35 per cent on last year, delivered by broadcasters from around the globe, including itself a record.
Average daily value traded on SETS increased by the BBC, CNN, Sky News and CNBC.
351 events were held in 33 per cent to 4.7 billion while the average yield of a SETS trade the Business Complex, including results presentations, investor remained stable at approximately 1.50. road shows and product launches by companies as diverse as International Power, State Street Global Markets and Compass The total volume traded on the Exchange also increased by 31 per Group.
Events are already being booked through to 2009. cent on last years performance, to a record 89.0 million trades during the year.
The combined value traded was also a record at 5,752 billion, up 22 per cent.
As a result Broker Services, the division responsible for providing our trading platform and working with customers to help them develop their businesses saw revenues increase to 125 million.
The good market conditions and the strong relative performance of SETS, especially to both SEAQ and to other markets around the world, has made explicit what we at the Exchange have understood for some time that there is a major change taking place in the way equities are traded and in the investment strategies behind those trades.
The rapid recent development of the off-exchange UK equity derivatives market has been assisted by the increasingly efficient hedging mechanism that SETS provides.
Moreover, the historic drag of stamp duty on UK equity markets activity is being diminished over time by more tax efficient trading structures hedged on SETS.
Program and algorithmic trading, which continues to evolve rapidly and proliferate, depends on fully automated, transparent and liquid order books that are robust and above all fast.
Our current investment strategy in SETS and SETSmm technology ensures 11 LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2006 BROKER SERVICES CONTINUED that our order books meet these client and market criteria exactly.
Throughout the year new records were set, only to be broken month after month.
March alone accounted for 11 of the 20 busiest trading days ever.
On 8 March we surpassed the previous record for the highest number of SETS trades in a single day by more than 17,000, with a total of 350,689 trades.
It was also a record month for SETSmm, with the average daily value traded reaching over 400 million for the first time in February and increasing to 459 million in March.
The average daily number of trades on SETSmm during March was 56,164.
It was not just in SETS stocks that records were set.
Our International Order Book IOB, one of the worlds leading electronic trading platforms for international depositary receipts, saw record yearly volumes, with over 400,000 trades worth US$60 billion, rises of 47 and 80 per cent respectively on the previous year.
TECHNOLOGY DRIVES VOLUMES This year saw the successful implementation of two stages in the delivery of the Exchanges Technology Roadmap see Technology, page 16 : the introduction of Infolect, the replacement for LMIL in September and, in October, the capacity upgrade to SETS.
Both of these important milestones were successfully launched without THERE IS A MAJOR CHANGE TAKING PLACE IN THE any interruption to our platforms.
WAY EQUITIES ARE TRADED AND IN THE INVESTMENT STRATEGIES BEHIND THOSE TRADES Of course reliability is vital to any exchange, but so too are capacity and speed.
Between them Infolect now the fastest real time information delivery system of any exchange in the world and the trading capacity upgrade have doubled trading capacity and significantly reduced trading latency.
It is no coincidence that 19 of the 20 busiest trading days ever have occurred since this double SETS VALUE YIELD PER SETS technological upgrade in the autumn of 2005.
TRADED bn TRADE Technology not only facilitates existing business but it can also stimulate new trading.
As new, more sophisticated algorithms are developed, so trading becomes more time and price-sensitive.
Offering the lowest latency boosts volumes by improving efficiency and helping traders capture the prices they want.
So the fastest platform draws the most trading.
We now estimate that algorithmic trading accounts for over 40 per cent of executions on SETS.
TRADING SENSITIVE TO MARGINAL COSTS Technical strategies, which are aimed at making relatively small profits many times over, are especially sensitive to marginal costs.
So new activity becomes viable where the costs are reduced.
In the nine years since its launch SETS has narrowed spreads on the Exchanges markets by 70 per cent.
As volumes continue to rise, so costs are driven down again, creating a virtuous circle.
In this sense SETS makes new trading strategies possible for SETS VOLUMES our customers.
bargains million So too does the volume discount scheme, introduced in April 2004, but which this year saw even more customers benefiting as volumes surged.
There is powerful evidence that it is now one of the major factors fuelling the strong volume growth across our markets.
Broker Services teams including both Primary Account Managers and Product Managers continue to work closely with customers, analysing the patterns of their trading behaviour.
Such analyses, based on the tick data captured on our platforms, can help customers understand inefficiencies in their trading profile and so identify new ways to grow revenues and cut their costs.
Such a service makes market participants more efficient Broker Services can point to 50 million that we have helped remove from the markets cost base and also maximises our customers capacity, so drawing more business onto our markets.
Another area where we can deliver value for our customers is post-trade where, by working to promote efficiency and competition, at least 30 million of annual market costs has been removed.
12 LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2006 2002 17.4 2002 637 2003 27.5 2003 687 2004 34.7 2004 776 2005 42.8 2005 881 2006 56.8 2006 1,190 2002 2.32 2003 1.76 2004 1.72 2005 1.54 2006 1.52 EVOLVING FOR SUCCESS INFORMATION SERVICES SETSmm is perhaps the best example of how promoting transparency and liquidity can improve the whole market, creating opportunities for market participants especially member firms while powering trading on the Exchanges markets.
Introduced in November 2003 SETSmm, our hybrid midcap stock trading order book, coincided with the asset allocation trend toward mid caps and made it more attractive for investors to access FTSE 350 stocks.
It has delivered a truly global marketplace for midcap stocks listed in London.
9% SETSmm also shows how SETS can continue to grow by connecting liquidity to traders and investors wherever they are in the world.
As SETSmm has been extended down the market, so trading in the stocks it covers has been invigorated as witnessed by the 300 additional Main Market small cap stocks 94m and the AIM UK 50 where activity by institutional investors has increased by around a quarter since they were moved to SETSmm in December.
It is not just about large institutions being drawn into smaller stocks.
By breaking down barriers to trading, reducing spreads TERMINAL NUMBERS and cutting trading costs, while increasing trading volumes, SETSmm also breaks down traditional business silos.
Former CONTINUED TO GROW FTSE 250 specialists trading FTSE 100 stocks: traditional retail brokers accepting institutional business: new brokers and AS MARKET CONDITIONS investors coming onto the markets US aggregators and retail investors among them this is the SETS effect.
IMPROVE:DELIVERING NEW It is not just on the sell side that we can improve markets.
We also PRODUCTS THAT FULFIL use our understanding of how technology is evolving to help buy-side customers, such as hedge funds, grow their business.
CUSTOMERS NEEDS Direct Market Access DMA and our own FIX Gateway, in parallel, now help investors to interact directly with the order book and connect to their choice of liquidity pools.
It is our role to be at the A key factor in the Exchanges international success is the number heart of such innovative developments, using technology to and range of firms and individuals who access our information to provide access to the widest choice of counterparties along with do business on our markets.
Chief Executives Review the functionality to support multiple trading strategies.
The London Stock Exchange is the source of some of the most THE FUTURE OF TRADING widely followed and analysed data in the world.
Prices from our Over the coming years, the most efficient, most liquid markets market not only affect the trading decisions of thousands of equity will continue to exert the strongest pull on investors.
Just as markets professionals, they are also studied closely by private Infolect and the trading capacity upgrade this year helped power investors, by the pension fund industry, by hedge fund managers the volume growth on our markets, so the introduction of the new and derivatives traders, by economists, central governments and trading platform the final destination of our Technology Roadmap the media.
Information Services is the division responsible for see Technology, page 16, scheduled for the first half of 2007, broadcasting data from our markets in real time, delayed and will create exciting new possibilities for our customers and further historic reference data to the widest possible global audience.
drive the growth of volumes on the order book.
As the Exchanges primary and secondary markets continue to Regulatory developments present other stimuli to change.
grow, with more companies listing and more participants trading The implementation of MiFID at the end of 2007 is a challenge more often, so the data from the Exchange becomes still more to many European exchanges.
In Broker Services and at the important.
At year end our real-time market data was being Exchange as a whole we view it as an opportunity.
We believe received on terminals in more than 100 countries.
Over the course that MiFID enshrines the London model in particular genuine of the year terminal numbers rose by 9,000 to 104,000.
Revenues competition between liquidity pools.
in Information Services grew by nine per cent to 94 million.
Our job is to provide the most efficient and effective market for The strong performance of our secondary markets played a part people to trade on.
So we are committed to making it easier for in this though the growth in terminal numbers tends to lag behind our customers to do business, by providing direct connectivity markets but so too did the increasing diversity of individuals and on a pan-European basis.
The potential offered by a single set of organisations following and investing in our markets.
Hedge funds, trading rules, across Europe as well as across asset classes is real: specialists in Contracts for Differences and spread betters are just the most efficient, liquid and transparent market will be best placed some of these.
This year we signed some significant contracts to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by MiFID.
THE PRIMACY OF SPEED As the focus on latency or speed of data in the investment community is growing more intense, so the successful delivery of Infolect in September, an important milestone in our Technology Roadmap see Technology page 16, came at a vital moment.
13 LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2006 INFORMATION SERVICES CONTINUED Infolect now carries over 15 million messages a day to our customers terminals at speeds of two milliseconds from broadcast to delivery.
Not only is Infolect 15 times faster than its predecessor LMIL, but it is now the fastest real time information delivery system of any exchange in the world.
As firms work to minimise latency and give their trading desks the crucial advantage of superior speed, the importance of minimising network hops and taking data direct from the Exchange looks set to grow.
Market data vendors are themselves increasingly offering direct feeds, inviting customers to pay a premium for the high speed data that is so important on latency-sensitive desks, alongside their traditional consolidated feeds.
The next generation of algorithmic trading strategies are already under development and teams from Information Services are working with clients to understand their data priorities on both functionality and cost.
While investment in automated trading strategies does in some cases supplant people, investment and headcount in London and other major financial centres, key leading indicators of Information Services revenues, are both growing.
INVESTMENT AND HEADCOUNT IN LONDON AND THE INTERNATIONAL ANGLE OTHER MAJOR FINANCIAL CENTRES, KEY LEADING Just as our primary and secondary markets become more INDICATORS OF INFORMATION SERVICES REVENUES, international, so too the potential audience for our data grows.
ARE BOTH GROWING Real-time data from the Exchange is viewed in more than 100 countries around the world.
From our target primary markets of China, India and Russia to developed markets with a strong equity investment culture like the US, people are now connecting to the Exchange for both real-time and delayed data.
TOTAL NUMBER OF Information Services now works with data vendors globally, TERMINALS thousand exploring ways to distribute data and so promote trading on our As at 31 March markets.
This year we have forged a number of new alliances and tested pilot schemes to allow retail investors from other countries access to our markets.
The technological advantage that the Technology Roadmap gives us, coupled with the growing liquidity on our markets, has the potential to open the Exchange to a new class of international investors.
QUALITY DATA AND INFORMATION YOU CAN TRUST Successful algorithms depend on exhaustive mining of historic data, which highlights the Exchanges position as the source for quality trusted data.
Our Tick Data suite of products, part of our Corporate Data Warehouse, the first milestone on the Technology Roadmap, can deliver the accurate high quality historic data that writers of algorithms need, as they seek to use past behaviour to predict the future.
It is part of our purpose in Information Services to leverage our agile technology to deliver products that help our nnn Overall customers develop and refine their trading strategies and so boost nn Professional Investors market liquidity.
The SEDOL Masterfile is another example of how the Exchange can help customers improve processes and become more efficient.
It was the third full year for SEDOL, which now includes more than a million securities, across 200 markets worldwide.
With over 1.2 million SEDOL codes in circulation, linked to global ISIN and third party identifiers, the service offers a universal trusted instrument identification solution, helping customers reduce errors and the cost of failed trades and sub-optimal trading.
14 LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2006 UBS Investment Bank Equities Trading Floor 2002 96 105 2003 88 94 2004 80 90 2005 83 95 2006 88 104 SEDOL and the growing suite of Corporate Data Warehouse DERIVATIVES SERVICES products, all developed in consultation with customers, are part of the continuing diversification of revenues.
One third of Information Services revenues are now generated by businesses other than our market data terminals.
Yet all these initiatives derive from the same core instincts: to help customers trade more efficiently on our markets and so promote liquidity: and to leverage our data in ways that can help customers and solve market problems.
ACCESSING MARKET DATA Providing low-cost access to market data is another way we help customers to trade more efficiently.
Proquote, the Exchanges 13% trading and market data system, continues to enhance its data and functionality and to grow its terminal numbers.
The new Proquote International product was introduced and has increased the potential institutional buy side market for Proquote.
Proquote now provides a full global and highly competitive market data 7.7m information service.
Improving front office efficiency is a new key area and a selling point for Proquote.
The new order management functionality will allow firms using Proquote to capture, route and execute orders to any required market.
A number of integration options A RECORD YEAR IN are now available to clients, giving them instant access to up-to-date information on orders and trades.
These new trading DERIVATIVES TRADING: features will fully complement the data coverage of the information services available.
NEW MEMBER FIRMS At the year end there were 3,000 Proquote terminals.
New JOINING EDX LONDON customers arriving in the year included Henderson Global Investors, KPMG and Williams fide Bro.
The number of Retail Service Providers available for automatic execution through EDX LONDON Proquote has increased and now includes JPMorgan Cazenove, It was a record year in derivatives trading on EDX London and Canaccord and Teather & Greenwood.
its linked Exchange partners: OMX Exchanges and Oslo Brs.
The average daily volume of contracts traded was up 33 per cent The value and importance of being the source of quality and bringing the total number of contracts traded across these trusted data is further demonstrated by the performance of our exchanges to a record 126.1 million.
The site remains one of the most popular destinations for private investors and anyone Trading in equity and equity index derivatives contracts across interested in investing in our markets.
Across the year it received the exchanges was up 31 per cent to 448,621 contracts per an average of 1.6 million visits per month, with more than 1 million day.
Growth in trading in the OMXS30 Index Future was a key unique users.
The first round of InvestaQuest, the national stockcontributor with average daily volumes increasing by 27 per cent picking competition designed to promote understanding of and to almost 81,000 contracts per day.
Ericsson continued to be involvement in the Exchanges markets using the website, drew the most heavily traded derivative contract, with an average of more than 10,000 entrants: a new round of InvestaQuest was 153,606 contracts traded daily.
Of the combined Nordic markets, launched in March 2006.
EDX Londons international members traded approximately 19 per cent of total equity and index-related volumes.
Growth in FTSE fixed income and interest rate derivatives was also strong across FTSE is the Exchanges joint venture index provider that licences these exchanges, with the average daily volume of contracts and distributes globally recognised benchmarks.
Through traded up 62 per cent on the year.
innovative index design, and customised index solutions, FTSE now calculates more than 60,000 indices in 50 markets worldwide, During the period we sought to continue the development of including hedge fund and bond indices.
Issuers and investors services for the over-the-counter equity derivatives market.
recognise the FTSE 100 index as one of the worlds blue-chip However, it became apparent that the service did not justify further equity indices, thereby enhancing the Exchanges already strong investment.
Accordingly, we recognised an exceptional charge of global brand.
The continuing development of new indices, such 23.1 million, principally in respect of the impairment of goodwill as FTSE AIM UK 50, helps to improve liquidity on our markets by associated with this initiative.
creating increased transparency and profile, and further extending the range of available investment opportunities.
FTSE had a very good year, increasing its revenue by 20 per cent to 36.7 million.
15 LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2006 DERIVATIVES SERVICES CONTINUED However, EDX Londons Market Place Service, an innovative TECHNOLOGY service which facilitates large and complex orders for member firms, traded a total of 9.7 million of the 22.2 million contracts traded by EDX London, an increase of 21 per cent on the previous year.
Seven new members joined EDX London during the period, bringing the total number of EDX London member firms to 63.
COVERED WARRANTS The covered warrant market has evolved into two separate markets: covered warrants and structured products.
The latter is very much targeted at the institutional market, offering a wide AVAILABILITY variety of pay-out structures and underlying assets.
Trading has seen strong growth, despite a significant drop in the number of instruments in issue, reflecting more concentrated and better targeted issuance programmes.
Growth in the number of bargains over the last four months has been at its strongest since launch and we expect continued success in 2007.
100 % SEVEN NEW MEMBERS JOINED EDX LONDON DURING THE OUR NEW TICKER PLANT PERIOD, BRINGING THE TOTAL NUMBER OF EDX LONDON MEMBER FIRMS TO 63 INCREASED SPEED OF DATA DISTRIBUTION 15 FOLD: CAPACITY OF TRADING PLATFORM DOUBLED Our commitment to the development of cutting edge technology is a distinct competitive strength.... our new technology platform TRM is expected to provide customers with the fastest, most reliable and scalable equity trading platform in the world.
Chief Executives Review It has been a major year for the technology that underpins the markets of the London Stock Exchange.
We achieved two important milestones along the Technology Roadmap, the programme of trading platform renewal that by the first half of 2007 will have moved all of the Exchanges core systems onto agile, next-generation systems.
Infolect, our new ticker plant replacing LMIL, went live in September.
Containing approximately half a million lines of code, Infolect now distributes more than 15 million messages every business day.
Speed of data has increased 15 fold, cutting latency from 30 milliseconds to two.
One month after successfully launching Infolect, the Trading Platform upgrade was successfully implemented: doubling the Exchanges trading capacity, whilst significantly reducing latency.
These two significant Technology Roadmap initiatives have brought our customers closer to the market and provided increased trading opportunities so improving the efficiency and liquidity of our markets.
We plan to provide customers with the fastest, most reliable and scalable equity trading platform in the world.
It is no coincidence that 19 of our 20 busiest days ever have occurred since these system upgrades.
Just as important, both these major improvements were implemented while maintaining 100 per cent availability for the sixth consecutive year.
No other major global exchange can claim such a record of reliability.
16 LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2006 DESTINATION 2007 The final destination for the Technology Roadmap, now in sight, is to migrate the Exchanges trading platform onto the new technology.
Once completed, adding new capacity and business functionality including support for multiple asset classes, currencies and time zones will be quicker and more cost-efficient by a factor of ten.
The project remains on schedule and client testing begins in Q4 2006.
The new platform will go live in the first half of 2007 with implementation completion determined through client conformance testing.
Because the core technology has already been proven in Infolect, we have every confidence that the new platform will be robust and world leading.
We continue to work closely with our customers, examining how the Exchanges technology can help them deliver their business vision.
Minimising latency is a priority across the industry and we are consulting widely on offering hosted services that could all but eliminate data delay.
In all major technology projects the partners you choose are key.
NET architecture is at the heart of our Technology Roadmap.
Accenture continues to be a significant technology partner providing architecture, programme management, development and systems operations expertise.
Additionally, HP hardware, coupled with AMD processors and the network skills of Verizon and Cisco Systems all play their part in creating the Exchanges world-class technology.
WE PLAN TO PROVIDE CUSTOMERS WITH THE FASTEST, MOST RELIABLE AND SCALABLE EQUITY TRADING PLATFORM IN THE WORLD TRADING CAPACITY GROWTH Units Oct Nov Jan Oct First half 1997 2001 2003 2005 2007 SETS Go-Live Trading Capacity Upgrades New TRM Trading Unit the average system capacity needed to process a single order 17 LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2006 100 186 300 593 1,000
