Directors Report Jim Sutcliffe Chief Executive Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 04 A strategy that works Business review Chief Executives statement A year of significant international development Our strategy is based on disciplined 2006 was a year of significant international development for the Old Mutual Group, with the successful completion of our acquisition organic and acquisitive growth, of Skandia.
Reflecting the increased spread of our business, funds building value through diversity under management grew substantially to 239 billion, a 31% increase over last year.
The transformation of the overall profile of our business is apparent from the fact that nearly 60% of our life sales for the year on an Group values Annual Premium Equivalent APE basis came from Europe and over Despite our geographic and cultural diversity, we are bound three-quarters of our funds under management are now located in together by our Group values.
The Group produced a healthy earnings performance overall.
Operating profit benefited both from a better than expected result from our Skandia acquisition and good progress at our other businesses.
Act honestly and openly and be trustworthy and consistent in all We ended the year with a capital surplus of over 1 billion on an FGD that you do.
Act in accordance with the highest ethical standards.
Financial Groups Directive basis, comfortably above the required threshold.
Our strong financial position has enabled us to recommend an increased final dividend of 4.15p per share.
Treat others as you would like to be treated yourself value and Growth is evident from our net cash flow of 28 billion and increases learn from the strength of our diversity.
Actively listen to others of 185% in gross unit trust sales and of 137% in life APE sales.
and recognise that everyone has a contribution to make.
Unfavourable currency movements, particularly in the Rands and US Dollars exchange rates to Sterling, reduced our IFRS earnings per share EPS by around 1.2p year-on-year.
Take responsibility for the commitment that you make, actions In South Africa, Old Mutual South Africa OMSA, Nedbank and you perform and problems that occur.
Accept that you will be Mutual & Federal all performed well.
The three businesses also made judged on these.
good progress in their strategic co-operation programme.
In particular, there was impressive growth in the bancassurance business written by Nedbank and OMSA.
Strive as individuals, as a team and as an organisation to OMSA is managing the continuing move by customers from life break new ground and achieve higher levels of performance.
products to other investment products such as unit trusts.
Return Reach to the depth of your abilities.
on Equity maintains its high levels and this, coupled with high cash generation, reaffirms this business as our heartland jewel.
Old Mutual Specialised Finance division enjoyed excellent growth in both It is important that these values form the basis of all our margins and investment profit.
decision-making, the ways in which we work together and how we serve our customers.
In addition to the break-up of its asset management business into twelve specialised boutiques offering both active and passive How we have grown over the past five years investment opportunities, OMSA acquired Marriott, a leading property End 2001 End 2006 investment business based in KwaZulu-Natal, to broaden its portfolio, and Umbono, a black-empowered index investment house.
Aligned to Funds under management 143bn 239bn our strategy of being the best or buying the best and focusing on our Life sales in Europe nil 57% core competencies, Old Mutual Asset Managers South Africa FTSE 100 ranking 76 38 concluded an outsourcing agreement with JP Morgan Worldwide Market Capitalisation 3,274m 9,585m Securities to manage its investment administration services.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 05 A strategy that works Value of new business 2006 Chief Executives statement continued 244m 5 1 4 1 South Africa 30% 2 UK 23% 3 2 3 USA 18% 4 Europe andLatin America 15% 5 Nordic 14% Nedbank, our 53%-owned banking subsidiary, continued on its Key business drivers return to health, with a 38% increase in profit and a Return on Equity of 18.6%.
There are encouraging signs that its retail franchise Consolidation in the sector size matters is gaining market share, with an increase in residential mortgage Demographics and changing savings patterns lending as a leading indicator of this.
Its cost-to-income ratio has also continued to improve.
Baby-boomers Global pensions reform Although our South African general insurance business, Mutual & Federal, came off the cyclical highs it had enjoyed over the past few US savings growth years, sound and prudent underwriting skills and good investment performance kept the business operating at a steady level.
Mutual & Emerging markets Federal was able to return surplus cash to its shareholders during the Benefits of open architecture year through payment of a special dividend.
Technology-driven distribution Our US life and asset management businesses have begun their Transparency of performance integration programme.
While IFRS profit at the life business was on track, the embedded value performance for 2006 was somewhat disappointing.
However, sales by the life business, including those out of Bermuda, grew impressively and we are confident that the Vida, disposed of.
One of our objectives for Skandia was to business will now stabilise and build on its strong foundations.
Plans understand and assess the relationship and future of Skandia Liv, for US life to address the important and growing Hispanic market the mutual company held by Skandia AB.
This work is continuing advanced during the year.
and we expect to clarify our intentions in relation to the future of Skandia Liv during the coming year.
The investment affiliates that make up our US asset management business all performed well.
The year saw the sale of eSecLending, Our Indian and Chinese businesses have enjoyed exceptional growth our US securities-lending business, and the departure of Pacific during 2006.
While our investment in Kotak Mahindra Old Mutual Financial Research.
Notwithstanding this, assets under management Life Insurance in India is still at the present legally-permitted level of levels recovered well and exceeded levels for 2005.
During the year 26%, it is now adding significant value to the Group.
We believe its we agreed terms to acquire a new affiliate, Ashfield, a San Franciscogrowth trajectory is sustainable and intend to increase our stake as based investment boutique with $3.1 billion of funds under and when Indian legislation changes.
Our 50:50 joint venture with management.
Agreement in principle has been reached on a new the Beijing State Asset Management Company in China has also long-term incentive plan for the affiliates, which is designed to enjoyed strong growth.
We plan to support this growth and to look strengthen and motivate performance and succession.
for ways to build on our good start in this region with a view to generating cash as soon as reasonably possible.
We have launched a retail arm for our investment business in the USA Old Mutual Capital and have developed a product set for retail Our Skandia Australian business continues to grow.
During 2006, customers that was previously available only to our institutional ones.
it acquired Intech, a leading investment advisory firm, to strengthen In establishing this business, we aim to combine the depth and breadth the reach and depth of its client offerings.
of the investment capabilities of our asset management affiliates and the ever-growing distribution reach built by our life operation.
Outlook The current year has started well.
Although exchange rates, the cost Since its acquisition in February 2006, Skandia has become the of investing to achieve synergies across Europe, and costs in Sweden focus of our UK, European and Latin American operations.
We have and at our South African life business to put the business on a sound been pleased with what we have found and the cultural integration basis for the future will hold back earnings growth in 2007, we have has progressed well.
The synergy targets announced as part of our an excellent set of growing businesses and are clear about the tasks market update about Skandia in June 2006 are on track, with we must complete.
We are on track to achieve over 300 billion of some associated costs to be incurred during 2007.
Overall, Skandias funds under management by the end of 2008, which should provide businesses have exceeded expectations, although the Nordic business a solid basis for substantial future earnings growth.
is still dealing with a number of legacy issues.
The businesses have been evaluated for strategic and commercial fit and the Spanish traditional life business, Skandia Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 06 Adjusted Embedded Value at 31 December 2006 The Old Mutual Executive In addition to the Chief Executive Rosie Harris, who is joining the and the Group Finance Director, Company as Group Head of Risk 8.6bn there are eight other members of and Compliance at the end of April 7 6 the Old Mutual Executive, who 2007, will also become a member 1 5 1 Old Mutual South Africa 26% are shown below.
The Old Mutual of the Old Mutual Executive.
Executive meets monthly to address 2 USA 20% 4 strategic issues, to review the 3 Nedbank 20% Groups progress against its business 4 Nordic 12% 2 plan for the year and to discuss 3 5 UK 11% other high-level matters affecting the 6 Europe andLatin America 5% Groups performance or prospects.
7 Mutual & Federal 4% Our strategy Old Mutual is, in size and shape, a significantly different company today from that of six years ago, but our vision to become a premier international savings and wealth management business and our strategy to achieve this has not changed.
Our strategy is based on disciplined organic and acquisitive growth, building value through diversity.
The nature of the financial services industry and the Companys philosophy is a long-term one.
The transformation of the Company from a dominant South African life assurer of more than 150 years Hasan Askari Katie Bell standing to an internationally competitive, customer-focused financial Head of Asia Pacific Director, Corporate Communications services organisation since its UK listing in 1999 has been a carefully thought-through journey that is by no means finished.
With the completion of the Skandia acquisition in 2006, our portfolio of businesses is now well placed to capitalise on four global trends that are shaping financial services markets internationally.
The first of these is the move to greater choice, transparency and lower costs for customers.
More than ever, customers are faced with a bewildering array of alternatives.
The power of consumer choice for financial services puts pressure on us to respond appropriately with solutions most relevant to our customers needs.
The diversity of our Nicky Bicket Bob Head business allows us to draw widely from our own experience and Director of the CEOs office Group Director, Southern Africa transfer solutions from one part of the Company to another, quickly and efficiently.
The purchase of Skandia has given us access to its pioneering and leading open architecture platform, specifically in the UK, Europe and Latin America, which strategically and technologically provides us with a competitive advantage.
These consumer needs are being driven predominantly by a second trend, which is the increasing longevity of many populations and the growing proportion of older people who make up those populations the so-called baby-boomers.
Strategies for savings and wealth Martin Murray Michael Newman accumulation are changing globally as customers prepare for different Company Secretary Director, Group Development lifestyles resulting from longer retirements.
Old Mutual has responded to these changing needs and continues to offer new and innovative products to address these requirements.
The third trend is the move away from traditional life products towards other investment solutions supported by core and satellite investment strategies.
Our affiliate model in the USA and our boutique model in South Africa which has adopted the US approach position us well to respond to the changes being driven by our customers.
The pressure on margins all around the world has reinforced the fourth trend, which is outsourcing.
The Company has a strategy of being the best or buying the best.
If we are not able to deliver a core Scott Powers Julian Roberts Chief Executive, Old Mutual US Chief Executive, Skandia service or product at a competitive price, we will either build that Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 A strategy that works Chief Executives statement continued capability internally if that makes economic sense or outsource We are building a premier international the service or product concerned in order to benefit from scale savings and wealth management group... and competence provided by best of breed third party suppliers.
These trends, while challenging, provide us with opportunities.
More growth Less risk Increased returns Asset gathering and management have never depended on specific product types, but rather on solutions that best serve the needs of customers.
Whether these are life-wrapped or straight investment Consistent positive Balanced market Accepting that growth products is immaterial to us, and our experience across all product net client cash flows exposures and IFRS profit are lines enables us to respond quickly and imaginatively and to and strong investment not alternatives manage margins effectively.
performance for customers We plan to continue to run the Group on geographic lines, governed by a simple profit-generating formula, namely that profit is the outcome of assets times our margins less expenses.
Common... by targeting the global trends driving our industry approaches to strategy, talent and knowledge management and adherence to the Groups four values are designed to bind our Demography Increased Core and Outsourcing companies into a whole worth more than the sum of the parts.
transparency, satellite asset freedom of management Our declared strategy when we listed in London in 1999 was to choice and diversify our business geographically to avoid undue reliance on flexibility any one region.
Life sales in Europe, which did not form part of our business in 1999, now account for 57% of our volumes, while 65% of our assets under management are now located in the USA Top Leadership Forum involving around 100 of our most senior and the UK.
Earnings are still predominantly generated out of South executives from around all our businesses, where the objectives Africa, but the profit streams from the USA and the UK are beginning of collaboration and skill-sharing were advanced.
I believe that all to reflect our strategy.
of our businesses have benefited from this Group-wide approach.
We are not pursuing geographic diversity at any cost and we work We have continued to strengthen our broader contribution to the constantly to identify those markets that are growing and profitable societies in which we operate.
We retain our membership of the and where the demographics and the propensity and need to save FTSE4Good index and, locally, all our companies are engaged in are clearly evident.
More details of these activities are contained in the Corporate citizenship report later in this document.
Business models, where they demonstrate success for us in one part of the world, are applied in others.
The move we announced in South With our strength of diversity and power of focus, I am confident that Africa during 2006 to split our asset management business into a Old Mutual will continue successfully on its journey.
number of small, specialised boutiques to position themselves to address customer needs was built on the successful model operating in our US asset management business.
Jim Sutcliffe Chief Executive South Africa continues to provide world-class, low-cost technical 26 February 2007 innovation and capacity to our businesses around the world.
We are also making progress with the strategic integration of several areas of our South African businesses, both for top line sales advantage and to lower unit costs.
Our management is strong and committed.
Our development programmes and talent management systems are designed not only to grow local capability, but also to prepare a pipeline of suitably qualified managers who are able to work across cultures and transfer and build skills wherever required.
In May 2006, we held our third Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 08 Broadening our international profile A powerful set of engines Offering high quality investment management solutions to build and protect client assets South Africa USA, UK Asia Pacific and and Nordic and Europe Latin America Our life assurance business is the largest Our US, UK and European We have a number of rapidly-growing in South Africa, while Nedbank is one businesses are growing in size and businesses in exciting markets that of South Africas top four banks.
significance, helping to broaden the promise to drive growth in the longer term.
Skandia is one of the largest life Our Chinese and Indian life businesses assurers in Sweden, and has operations Assets under management have have shown exceptional growth during in a number of other Nordic countries.
grown steadily during 2006 and 2006, while our operations in Australia Approximately 20% of Skandias business these businesses are well placed and Latin America are continuing is in Sweden, where it has dealings with to continue to grow in their to expand.
one in every four households.
Performance Performance Performance Funds under management 49bn Funds under management 184bn Funds under management 6bn 1 1 1 Adjusted operating profit 1,198m Adjusted operating profit 406m Adjusted operating profit 18m Major brands Major brands Major brands South Africa USA Asia Pacific Old Mutual Acadian Asset Management Australian Skandia Nedbank Barrow, Hanley, Mewhinney & Strauss Kotak Mahindra Old Mutual Life Insurance India Mutual & Federal Dwight Asset Management Skandia BSAM China Old Mutual Financial Network 2 Nordic Latin America Skandia UK and Europe Skandia Old Mutual Asset Managers UK Royal Skandia Skandia 1 2 Before Group finance costs, other shareholders income and Results included within Europe for segmental reporting purposes.
expenses, minority interests and tax.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 09 Broadening our international profile Providing a solid foundation to the business Our operations in South Africa and Sweden are high brand and high market share businesses that have consistently delivered strong cash profits High brand and high market shares South Africa Our aim in South Africa is to be the preferred financial provider to every economically active home and business.
We see significant opportunities for further growth through cross-selling and bringing offerings by our three businesses, Old Mutual South Africa, Nedbank and Mutual & Federal more closely together.
Nordic Skandia and its mutual subsidiary, Skandia Liv, hold a leading position in the Swedish life assurance market measured by new business, with a combined customer base of 1.9 million customers in their Nordic operations.
With a full range of product offerings traditional life, unit-linked, banking, financial advisory, mutual funds and healthcare they are well positioned in a growing savings market.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 10 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 11 Broadening our international profile High growth now Over the last few years these businesses have delivered high growth.
We are well positioned in these markets for continuing growth now and in the future.
We also aim to benefit from the opportunities that changing demographic trends will bring High growth now USA In the USA, we are one of the top ten fixed annuity and one of the top five equity index annuity providers Our asset management business comprises 19 asset management houses offering diverse investment styles and products.
UK In the UK, we focus on asset management through Skandia, a provider of IFA-distributed retail investment solutions, and Old Mutual Asset Managers UK, a specialist investment boutique.
Europe In addition to its core markets of Sweden and the UK, Skandia operates in a select number of European countries offering unit-linked insurance products and mutual funds.
These include Germany, Austria, Spain, Italy, Poland, Switzerland, France and Liechtenstein.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 12 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 13 Broadening our international profile Small today Big tomorrow These are emerging businesses.
They are providing an uplift to sales now but over the longer term we will reap the benefits of strong growth High growth long-term Latin America and Asia Pacific Skandia has operations in a number of countries in Latin America and Asia Pacific.
In Latin America, it operates in Mexico, Colombia and Chile.
In Asia Pacific, Skandia has established a meaningful presence in Australia and China.
Old Mutuals life joint venture in India is also benefiting from the rapid economic growth in the region, with a strong increase in sales.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 14 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 15 Healthy performance Business review continued Strong growth in sales and assets Group Finance Directors report across all regions, including our enlarged European operation, contributed to an encouraging increase in adjusted operating profit before tax Group results Adjusted operating profit after tax and minority interests increased by 11% from 710 million in 2005 to 790 million in 2006, resulting in adjusted operating earnings per share of 15.1p for 2006.
The Group results reflect a 30% increase in the life result and a 17% increase in the asset management, banking and general insurance result, with all regions improving on a local currency basis.
The split of the Group by adjusted IFRS earnings after tax and minority interests, excluding corporate is now broadly 58% South Africa, 20% USA, 20% Europe, and 2% Asia Pacific and elsewhere, reflecting the greater diversification of our earnings as a result of the Skandia acquisition.
Adjusted Embedded Value operating profit up 22% The increase of 22% in the Groups adjusted operating profit on a European Embedded Value EEV basis primarily reflects the significant contribution from Skandia, strong new business growth, and increased profit from non-covered business in Nedbank and our asset management businesses.
The adjusted embedded value operating profit of 981 million for our Jonathan Nicholls Group Finance Director covered business was up 40% from the 701 million achieved in 2005.
This increase was driven by the acquisition of Skandia, which contributed 40% of the profit.
The contributions by the South African and US businesses were 50% and 10% respectively.
The value of new life business grew by 116% to 244 million, benefiting from Skandias contribution and growth of 16% in South Africa, partially offset by a managed volume reduction of 12% in the USA.
While operating assumptions across all businesses were strengthened, this impact was largely offset by risk margin recalibration, ranging from 10 to 30 basis points.
This was driven by the lower risk profile of our business and the impact of higher markets and interest rates, which reduced the expected cost of financial options and guarantees.
Dilution reduced Adjusted Embedded Value per share by 10%.
Adjusted Group Embedded Value EV adjusted primarily to bring listed Group subsidiaries to market value increased by 21% to 8.6 billion at 31 December 2006 31 December 2005: 7.1 billion.
The adjusted Group EV per share reduced from 174p to 157.2p at 31 December 2006.
Return on Group EV was strong, at 13.8%.
The movement in the EV per share was driven by a dilutive impact of approximately 22p as a result of acquiring Skandia and depreciation of the South African Rand and US Dollar over the year by 26% and 14% respectively against Sterling, offset by market movements and operating profit growth.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 16 Group Highlights 2006 2005 Change Profit before tax IFRS m 1,714 1,606 7% Embedded Value bn 8.6 7.1 21% Value of new business m 244 113 116% Unit trust mutual fund sales m 7,961 2,795 185% Net fund inflows bn 28 13 115% 1 Return on equity 12.0% 18.8% Return on Embedded Value 13.8% 16.5% Total dividend 6.25p 5.5p 14% 2 2 Embedded value bn Adjusted Embedded Value Senior debt gearing % Total gearing % per share EEV basis p 21% 10% 2% 8% 2006 8.6 2006 157.2 2006 6.0 2006 21.8 2005 7.1 2005 174.0 2005 6.1 2005 23.6 1 Return on equity is calculated using adjusted operating profit after tax and minority interests on an IFRS basis with allowance for accrued coupon payments on the Groups hybrid capital.
The average shareholders equity used in the calculation excludes hybrid capital.
2 Senior debt gearing is defined as senior debt over senior debt plus adjusted embedded value on an EEV basis.
Senior debt excludes debt from banking activities and is net of cash and short-term investments that are immediately available to repay debt and derivative assets relating to swaps associated with senior debt, so as to reflect debt valued on effective currency and interest rate positions.
Total gearing is similarly based, but includes hybrid capital instruments within debt.
Synergies on track The Group is in compliance with the Financial Groups Directive capital The purchase of Skandia, with its leading open architecture requirements, which apply to all EU-based financial conglomerates.
technology, builds out our European operations and provides Our FGD surplus was 1 billion at 31 December 2006. significant opportunities for organic, new start-up and acquisitive growth.
The integration and synergy benefits of 70 million per Holding company cash flow annum that we announced in June 2006 are currently on track The table below shows the cash flows of the Old Mutual plc holding to be delivered by the end of 2008. company and its satellite holding companies in South Africa, the USA and, since 1 February 2006, Europe.
We believe this provides a clearer Funds under management up 31% picture of the receipts and payments of available cash within the Old We are pleased with the increased level of our sales and assets Mutual group than the IFRS holding company cash flow statement.
The Annual Premium Equivalent APE of new business increased 137% and the Value of New Total debt at 31 December 2005 1,982 Business also more than doubled.
Net fund inflows were 28 billion, Opening liquid assets held centrally 704 representing 13% of funds under management when Skandias Operational receipts 535 opening funds under management are taken into account.
Total funds Capital receipts 356 under management were up 31% to 239 billion.
Net debt raised 387 New equity issuance 14 Capital position Operational expenses 156 The Groups gearing level remains comfortably within our target range, Acquisitions, including Skandia 1,287 2 with senior debt gearing at 31 December 2006 of 6.0% 6.1% at 31 FX adjustments and other items 18 December 2005 and total gearing, including hybrid capital, of 21.8% Cash available 571 23.6% at 31 December 2005, reflecting the funding of Skandia.
In January 2006, the Group issued 300 million of Lower Tier 2 Old Mutual plc dividend paid 281 Preferred Callable Securities as part of the public debt-raising Organic investment 214 associated with the Skandia acquisition.
Closing liquid assets held centrally 76 The Group continues to develop its economic capital programme.
Net debt raised 387 Over the year, we have observed a strengthening in our overall capital Skandias debt included at 31 December 2006 position, with available financial resources significantly in excess of the and other adjustments 114 economic capital the Group believes would be required to support its Total debt at 31 December 2006 2,483 target credit rating.
Liquid assets held centrally 76 Total net debt at 31 December 2006 2,407 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 17 Healthy performance Group Finance Directors report continued Paul Hanratty Chief Executive, OMSA 4 Total available cash within the holding companies at the end of The indicative Rand equivalent of this final dividend is 58c, making 2005 was 704m, largely being held in anticipation of financing the a total of 89c for the year, an increase of 45%.
The Boards policy purchase of Skandia.
During 2006, the holding companies received on dividends is to seek to achieve steadily increasing returns to a total of 891m of operational and capital receipts from business shareholders over time, reflecting the underlying rate of progress units, plus net debt and equity proceeds of 401 million.
and cash flow requirements of Old Mutuals businesses.
After operational expenses, acquisition payments and adjusting Old Mutual South Africa OMSA items, there was 571m in available cash, of which 281m was Business profile used to pay the Old Mutual plc dividend and 214m invested in OMSAs financial services business, comprising life and asset the businesses.
management business, has at its core one of the largest distribution capabilities in the South African industry.
This uses a combination The balance of cash remaining at the end of 2006 was 76m, which of tied agents, independent financial advisers, bank distribution, was more in line with normal expectations than the end 2005 balance, corporate advisers and direct distribution to ensure that the business as surplus cash is generally applied to reduce outstanding debt.
appears in front of a full spectrum of potential clients.
OMSAs investment and risk products, as well as its strong links with other Taxation Group businesses, positions the business to meet a full array of client The Groups effective tax rate for the year ended 31 December 2006 needs.
The business is supported by strong branding and a proven of 27% increased from 25% for 2005.
The main reasons for this reputation for providing competitive long-term returns to customers.
movement were as follows: The breadth of this business, incorporating life, health and disability increased STC Secondary Tax on Companies paid on dividends assurance, and investment and asset management in the retail, led to a 1% increase corporate and institutional markets positions us well to extract value a reduction in the amount of non-taxable income led to a 4% from our large number of well established client relationships in both increase the retail and institutional sectors.
Through the productive and growing against this, the tax rate reduced by 3% as a result of additional tied distribution force in the high, middle and low income markets, profit arising in lower tax jurisdictions.
as well as our relationships with independent brokers, the business is well positioned for future growth.
Dividend The directors of Old Mutual plc are recommending a final dividend for Retail business 3 the year ended 31 December 2006 of 4.15p per share, making a The Retail business contains a number of different business segments, total of 6.25p per share for the year, an increase of 13.6% over 2005. marketing investment and insurance products to the individual retail market including life, disability and health insurance, retirement annuities, savings and investment products.
Old Mutual has been one of the most successful South African financial services businesses in offering products across all major market segments.
We distribute our 3 products through independent brokers, personal financial advisers The record date for this dividend payment is the close of business on Friday, 11 May 2007 for all the Exchanges where the Companys shares are listed.
The last day to trade cum-dividend on the PFAs, a salaried sales force in Group Schemes, direct distribution JSE and on the Namibian, Zimbabwe and Malawi Stock Exchanges will be Friday, 4 May 2007 channels and bank channels.
and on the London and Stockholm Stock Exchanges Tuesday, 8 May 2007.
The shares will trade ex-dividend from the opening of business on Monday, 7 May 2007 on the JSE and the Namibian, Zimbabwe and Malawi Stock Exchanges, and from the opening of business on Wednesday, 9 May Our key Retail product offerings include Greenlight, a flexible and 2007 on the London and Stockholm Stock Exchanges.
comprehensive range of life, disability, and future-needs cover.
Flexible Shareholders on the South African, Zimbabwe and Malawi branch registers and the Namibian healthcare schemes for individuals are offered under the Oxygen section of the principal register will be paid the local currency equivalents of the dividend under the brand.
A range of retirement savings plans, annuities, investment dividend access trust arrangements established in each country.
Shareholders who hold their shares through VPC AB, the Swedish nominee, will be paid the equivalent of the dividend in Swedish and income products are provided through different wrappers which Kronor SEK.
Local currency equivalents of the dividend for all five territories will be determined by include the Max, Investments Frontiers and Galaxy product ranges.
the Company using exchange rates prevailing at close of business on Thursday, 19 April 2007 and will be announced by the Company on Friday, 20 April 2007.
Our Group Schemes business offers savings and funeral cover products to the low-income segment.
Share certificates may not be dematerialised or rematerialised on the South African branch register between Monday, 7 May and Friday, 11 May 2007, both dates inclusive, and transfers between the registers may not take place during that period.
The final dividend is subject to approval at the In line with international trends and the need to ensure products Annual General Meeting of Old Mutual plc, which is to be held in London on Thursday, 24 May are appropriate for todays environment, a key feature of more 2007.
Subject to being so approved, the final dividend will be paid on Thursday, 31 May 2007. recent investment and savings products is significantly lower charges 4 Based on the exchange rate at 20 February 2007 R13.9876 1. and capital requirements and increased flexibility.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 18 Old Mutual Unit Trust sells a range of diversified unit trusts to Performance during 2006 31 Dec 31 Dec individual and institutional investors.
Old Mutual Investment Services Key Performance Indicators 2006 2005 operates as a linked investment service provider, offering clients open-architecture investment products for discretionary, pre-retirement Adjusted Operating Profit Rm 5,724 6,075 and post-retirement savings.
Unit Trust Sales Rm 14,833 13,319 Life APE Rm 4,416 3,784 Corporate business Value of New Business Rm 781 614 The Corporate business markets investment, retirement, insurance Present value of new business premiums Rm 30,004 24,509 and structured products and advisory services to corporate, Return on Embedded Value covered business 13.5% 17.6% institutional and parastatal customers.
Under a life wrapper it provides Return on Allocated Capital 23% 27% underwritten investment products for retirement funds, and group life and disability insurance to retirement funds established by employers Substantial sales growth for the benefit of their employees and by trade unions for the benefit OMSA delivered another year of impressive sales.
This was buoyed of their members.
Group assurance products provide life cover to by the expanding South African economy, which drove the demand employees in the event of death, funeral cover and funeral support for investment and insurance products.
OMSA also reaped the benefits services and a full range of disability solutions.
Investment products of its investment in its retail distribution over the last three years.
are customised depending on the investors requirements.
These OMSAs higher sales force numbers and strong medium-term investment include smoothed bonus portfolios, structured solutions and annuity performance boosted growth in unit trust sales.
Despite the shift in products, as well as third party asset management.
Other asset customer preference to non-life investment products, Individual Life management solutions are offered through our asset management sales APE grew by 19% in the businesss core market.
The capabilities and we administer a range of retirement schemes for introduction of new-era products to capture this trend boosted sales corporates and umbrella arrangements.
Our Healthcare business offers growth.
Group life sales APE were up 11%.
administration to both commercial and corporate healthcare schemes.
Highlights Rm 2006 2005 Change Asset management In response to the changing factors driving investment success Life assurance adjusted operating profit 3,077 3,819 19% worldwide, and in particular the demand for core and specialist asset Asset management adjusted management capabilities, Old Mutual Asset Managers South Africa operating profit 874 801 9% was restructured in January 2007 into a new multi-boutique model Long-term investment return LTIR 1,773 1,453 22% under the renamed Old Mutual Investment Group South Africa IFRS adjusted operating profit pre-tax 5,724 6,073 6% OMIGSA.
This follows the success of the same model in Old Mutuals US asset management business.
We believe this will assist Return on Allocated Capital 23% 27% us in delivering improved investment performance to customers and Embedded Value adjusted operating in gathering assets.
In addition, our links to Group businesses outside profit of covered business pre-tax 5,752 6,352 9% South Africa enable OMIGSA to offer international investment services Embedded Value of the to the corporate and institutional market covered business 33,274 30,944 8% Return on Embedded Value of the The investment boutiques provide a range of investment capabilities covered business 13.5% 17.6% designed to meet the various needs of customers.
They include: Life assurance sales APE 4,416 3,784 17% Unit trust sales Rbn 14,833 13,319 11% a number of specialist equity and fixed-interest boutiques Value of new business 781 614 27% an index-tracker capability in Umbono Fund Managers APE margin post-tax 18% 16% a multi-manager capability through SYmmETRY, which creates SA client funds under management Rbn 424 362 17% portfolios for institutional investors blending best of breed asset Net client cash flow Rbn 29.1 18.9 managers across multiple asset classes, using sophisticated Includes income from associated undertakings portfolio construction methods.
The portfolios aim to maximise returns while controlling risk and diversifying managers Old Mutual Property Group, which provides property management and property-related asset management services within OMSA Old Mutual Specialised Finance OMSFIN, which is active in corporate advisory, corporate lending, securities lending and structured products.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 19 Healthy performance Group Finance Directors report continued An award-winning Group OMSA Alexander Forbes Asset Consultants Multi-manager survey Category SYmmETRY produced the best returns in all the equity bands in which it competes over three years in the fixed asset allocation category Winner Unit trust sales up 11% Institutional sales up 11% Retail unit trust sales grew in both our broker and agency channels, Single premium sales which tend to be lumpy in nature were 85% with sales for the year up to a record R14.8 billion, driven by specific above last years levels largely as a result of a large SYmmETRY inflow product-level marketing, our continuing investment in distribution, sales and several large schemes in the fourth quarter.
Institutional Business growth through our open-architecture platform, client preference for life recurring premiums declined mainly as a result of disappointing non-life investment products and the current positive investment Healthcare sales.
This reflected the impact of declining membership in environment in South Africa.
our Oxygen scheme following problems with the approval of new benefit options at the start of 2006.
A new 75,000-member scheme was Sales growth, although robust, tapered off in the second half of the year tendered for and won coming on stream in 2007 at the end of the year as a result of the volatile market and short-term investment performance supporting our efforts to bulk up our healthcare administration.
Excluding slippage during the first half of the year.
Again, we are confident that Healthcare, Institutional sales APE were 46% ahead of 2005. our new boutique model will address these concerns.
Institutional APE Rm 2006 2005 Change Life sales APE up 17% Savings 629 310 103% Our investment in our distribution capability benefited life sales.
Protection 99 157 37% Despite the move to non-life investment products, individual life sales Annuity 193 162 19% were up 19% and institutional sales up 11% on 2005.
Good growth Healthcare 239 420 43% was experienced across all core product categories and distribution Total 1,160 1,049 11% channels.
The sharp upsurge in life sales in the fourth quarter, which Single 788 425 85% has continued into the new year, sets us up well for 2007 as a whole.
Recurring 372 624 40% Individual Life sales up 19% Value of new life business increases and value for money Individual single premiums showed excellent growth, positively for clients improves impacted by the bullish investment environment and a strong Across OMSA, the after-tax value of new life business was R781 increase in bancassurance life sales through the Nedbank channel.
This increase is pleasing, reflecting Bancassurance sales were up 61% year-on-year and, as a proportion our continued focus on initiatives to improve value for money for of total life APE, grew from 9% last year to 13% this year.
Sales of customers, as well as the investments we made to increase our single premium savings products also showed good growth, supported distribution capacity during 2006. by strong demand for our popular Investment Frontiers and Max product ranges.
Overall new business APE margins increased to 18% from 16% in 2005.
Within this result, the Institutional business margin increased Although we enjoyed strong demand for risk products, life-wrapped from 18% to 20% and Individual business margin from 16% to 17%.
recurring premium investment products remained under pressure as These margin increases were due to a change in the mix of business a result of negative publicity around these products.
Non-life wrapped sold, with increased sales of Group Schemes and Nedlife in individual sales continued to grow, and sales of recurring premium life savings business and with-profit annuity business in Institutional business.
The products through our Group Schemes channel increased by 29% as increase in margins was despite investment in growing our sales forces a result of higher sales force numbers.
and distribution capability, the switch to lower charge less capitalintensive products, and more competitive pricing of our products.
Individual APE Rm 2006 2005 Change Savings 1,279 1,165 10% Growth of 17% in funds under management Protection 897 710 26% Funds under management increased by 17%, buoyed by higher equity Annuity 193 175 10% markets and net fund inflows.
Funds under management include R19 Group Schemes 887 685 29% billion of funds acquired as part of the acquisition of Marriott Property Total 3,256 2,735 19% and Income Specialists in July 2006.
Single 841 706 19% Net fund outflows of R29 billion were disappointing and were impacted Recurring 2,415 2,029 19% by a withdrawal of R30 billion of funds by Public Investment Corporation of the Republic of South Africa PIC in December 2006 R10 billion withdrawal in 2005 as well as, in the second half of the year, concerns over short-term performance slippage.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 20 Excluding the PIC withdrawal, net fund inflow was broadly neutral Market environment for the year as a result of management actions taken during 2006 The South African economy is strong, with prudent fiscal management to reduce the outflow of client funds experienced in 2005 and to having ensured healthy sustainable growth over the past few years.
improve inflows through our distribution initiatives.
We believe that our The emerging black middle class is a new generation of consumers new boutique structure, investment record and strong empowerment entering the market place, which has made it an attractive retail credentials position us favourably to compete for asset management market.
To serve this market, the traditional adviser-led life assurance mandates of all types.
model is changing, with new channels such as bancassurance growing strongly and non-life market-linked products slowly gaining Cash flows benefited from strong positive unit trust inflows into the ground over traditional life-wrapped smoothed bonus investment wholesale and retail market during the first six months of the year.
OMSAs relatively strong performance in bringing black management and front-line staff into the business and the Groups Good investment performance continues 2005 BEE transactions ensure that it is well positioned to capture OMAM SA continued to deliver strong investment performance over a large share in the new South African marketplace.
the medium term, maintaining its ranking of third out of the eleven institutional asset managers in the Alexander Forbes South African Risk management Global Manager Watch Large Survey over the three years to Creating long-term shareholder and customer value is OMSAs 31 December 2006.
At 31 December 2006, 81% of funds managed overriding business objective, and the business derives its approach by OMAM SA weighted by value outperformed their benchmarks to risk management and control from a value perspective.
As a result, over three years.
Asset management earnings include the results of the business manages a broad range of risk categories that include Marriott Property and Income Specialists acquired in July, which Strategic Risk and Enterprise Risk Management.
together contributed a profit of R30 million after integration costs.
Excluding the one-off gains in OMSFIN in 2005, asset management OMSA operates a risk management framework that contains a robust profit increased by 39%.
risk governance structure, risk appetites established at company level, Group-wide risk policies, and methodologies that focus on risk Earnings reduced identification, risk assessment, risk response, action control plans, Total earnings decreased by 6%, partially as a result of adjustments monitoring and reporting.
made in the third quarter in our life assurance and healthcare business.
In terms of HIV AIDS, while the incidence of infection in southern Africa is high, as the illness reaches the expected peak of the infection Also impacting on our earnings was the increased investment in curve, the potential risk to OMSA is well managed, with the business our distribution capability.
The shift to lower margin and less experiencing positive mortality experience variances due to prudent capital-intensive products subdued core earnings.
IFRS earnings were product pricing.
The business conducts HIV and other tests for also negatively affected by the effect of the rising Rand share price voluntary cover above certain levels and, where there is not testing, on accounting for employee share options.
generally has the ability to reprice regularly should experience be different to assumptions.
Asset management profits grew by 9% supported by the effects of a higher market.
LTIR, partially offset by a reduction in life assurance Underwriting risk, in line with other life assurers, is managed through profits, nevertheless rose by 22%, reflecting the growth in assets held strictly controlled underwriting principles governing product-pricing in the shareholders fund over recent years.
procedures that take appropriate account of actual and prospective mortality, morbidity, and expense experience.
Although our return on allocated capital dropped in 2006, this is still considerably above our hurdle rate, despite being affected by the adjustments mentioned above.
Strong capital position The capital strength of our South African life company remains strong, at 3.7 times coverage of the Statutory Capital Adequacy Requirement SCAR, after allowing for statutory limitations on the value of certain assets.
This compares with coverage of 2.8 times SCAR at 31 December 2005.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 21 Healthy performance Group Finance Directors report continued An award-winning Group Nedbank Banker Awards Category Emerging Markets Corporate Social Responsibility Bank of the Year Tom Boardman Chief Executive, Nedbank Group Winner The life assurance business offers minimum guaranteed investment Nedbank Group Banking returns on certain products and guaranteed annuity options on a Business profile closed book of business.
Minimum investment guarantees are subject Nedbank Group Limited, which is 53%-owned by the Group, is a to the risk of declining investment markets, while guaranteed annuity bank holding company that is one of the four largest banking groups options are subject to declining interest rates.
For fixed annuities, in South Africa.
It operates through its principal banking subsidiaries, market risks are managed by investing, as far as possible, in fixed Nedbank Limited wholly-owned and Imperial Bank Limited, in interest securities with a duration closely corresponding to those which Nedbank Group Limited has a 50.1% interest.
Market risks on policies where the terms and conditions are Limiteds shares are publicly listed on the JSE Limited.
guaranteed in advance and the investment risk is carried by the shareholders, principally reside in the guaranteed non-profit annuity Nedbank Group offers a wide range of wholesale and retail banking book.
Other non-profit policies are also suitably matched through services through three main business clusters: Nedbank Corporate, specific investment mandates.
Market risks on with-profit policies, Nedbank Capital and Nedbank Retail and a joint venture with Imperial where investment risk is shared, are managed by appropriate Holdings, Imperial Bank.
Nedbank Group focuses on operating in investment mandates and bonus declaration practices.
southern Africa, with Nedbank positioned to be a bank for all both from a retail and a wholesale banking perspective.
The principal Equity price risk and interest rate risk on the value of securities are services offered by the group are corporate and retail banking, property modelled by the Groups risk-based capital practices, which require finance, investment banking, private banking, foreign exchange and sufficient capital to be held in excess of the statutory minimum to securities trading.
Nedbank Group also generates income from private allow the Group to manage significant equity exposures.
Credit risk is equity, credit card acquiring and processing services, custodial monitored by the businesss Credit Committee, which has established services, collective investments, trust administration, asset appropriate exposure limits.
The exposure of OMSAs asset management businesses to market Nedbank Groups head office is in Sandton, Johannesburg, with fluctuations gives rise to potential impacts on revenue levels, which large operational centres in Durban and Cape Town.
These are are a function of the value of client portfolios.
Investment risk is complemented by an extensive branch and support network throughout principally borne by the client.
Compliance risks faced by these South Africa and facilities in Lesotho, Malawi, Namibia, Swaziland and businesses are monitored and reviewed by compliance and risk Zimbabwe.
These facilities are operated through Nedbank Groups eight committees established for this purpose.
The risk of loss of key subsidiary or affiliated banks, as well as through branches and employees is managed by the use of appropriate remuneration policies representative offices in London and on the Isle of Man, to meet the including long-term incentive schemes aligned with shareholder value international banking requirements of the groups South African-based targets, and by competition restrictions in employment agreements.
OMSAs full-time agents also distribute certain Nedbank products.
Outlook The outlook for savings and wealth management in South Africa Nedbank Corporate remains positive, with the following points as key contributors: Nedbank Corporate comprises the client-focused businesses of Business Banking, Corporate Banking, Property Finance, Nedbank Strong fiscal and monetary policy, which is supporting economic Africa and the specialist businesses of Transactional Banking and growth and the creation of jobs Corporate Shared Services.
These businesses focus mainly on Growing black middle class and affluent markets off the back providing lending, deposit-taking and transactional banking execution of a growing economy and Black Economic Empowerment efforts services to the wholesale banking client base of Nedbank.
Strong policy positions from government to improve household savings and retirement provisioning Nedbank Corporate has a strong client base and is well placed to Strong equity markets, which have benefited from increased global grow and optimise business opportunities both internally through demand for resources that South Africa produces.
cross-selling services offered by other divisions of Nedbank as well as the wider Old Mutual Group, and externally in the private and OMSA is well positioned in such an environment given its distribution public sector markets.
strength, broad product range and strong capital position.
In particular our Group Schemes business has a very strong market leadership position and is expected to continue to benefit from the demographic and wealth changes taking place in South Africa.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 22 Nedbank Capital Performance during 2006 Nedbank Capital comprises the groups investment banking Highlights Rm 2006 2005 Change businesses.
It consists of a number of divisions that together manage structuring, lending, underwriting, corporate finance, private equity Adjusted operating profit 6,940 5,047 38% and trading businesses.
It provides a full product spectrum in the Headline earnings 4,435 3,167 40% South African market, with an offering that stretches from equity Net interest income 10,963 8,529 29% research to the provision of long-term project financing, enabling Non-interest revenue 9,468 8,469 12% Nedbank Capital to compete effectively in the southern African market.
Net interest margin 3.92% 3.55% The division seeks to provide seamless specialist advice, debt and Cost to income ratio 58.2% 64.8% equity raisings and execution and trading capability in all the major ROE 18.6% 15.5% South African business sectors.
Principal clients include a significant ROE excluding goodwill 22.1% 18.9% number of the top 200 domestic corporates, leading financial As reported by Nedbank institutions, non-South African multinational corporates and clients undertaking major infrastructure and mining projects in Africa, and Nedbank Group maintained good momentum throughout the year, emerging BEE consortiums.
ending with a strong performance in the final quarter.
The financial results for the year were again ahead of managements initial Nedbank Retail expectations.
All business clusters recorded pleasing growth and Nedbank Retail serves the financial needs of individuals and small an improved return on equity ROE.
businesses by providing transactional, credit card, lending, investment and insurance products and services.
The division services the needs Headline earnings increased by 40% to R4,435 million.
of clients grouped into five primary client segments, being High Net Basic earnings grew by 18.2% to R4,533 million.
Worth, Affluent, Middle, Mass and Small Business.
Headline earnings per share increased by 39.3% to 1,110 cents The division is further organised around the following key product 2005: 797 cents.
Fully-diluted headline earnings per share increased areas: Card, Home Loans, Personal Loans, Bancassurance and by 36% from 791 cents to 1,076 cents, the 2006 dilution being Wealth, Vehicle and Asset-Based Finance and Transactional Banking.
impacted by accounting for BEE transactions under IFRS.
Basic earnings per share grew by 17.5%, from 966 cents in 2005 to 1,135 The Shared Services Division provides support services including cents in 2006.
Human Resources, Finance, Projects, Strategic planning and Product and Client Analytics.
Retail Risk is responsible for the monitoring The groups return on average ordinary shareholders equity ROE of compliance, credit and operational risk and providing legal services improved from 15.5% to 18.6% for the year and is now comfortably to the cluster.
Retail marketing provides marketing support to the ahead of the groups cost of capital.
ROE excluding goodwill improved business divisions and assists in co-ordinating marketing activities from 18.9% to 22.1%.
across the broader Nedbank Group.. Strong performance Imperial Bank Adjusted operating profit grew as a result of the continued positive Imperial Bank Limited is an independently regulated bank, of banking environment, increasing growth in both net interest income which Nedbank owns 50.1%, with the remainder held by Imperial and non-interest income, together with disciplined expense management.
Imperial Bank focuses mostly on motor vehicle finance.
In addition, it also offers property, medical and Average interest-earning banking advances grew by 16.5%, with aviation finance.
strong growth experienced in retail advances, particularly residential home loans.
This growth contributed to an increase in Total Assets to R425 billion.
Nedbank has started to show improvements in market share in a number of asset categories, particularly retail mortgages and other private sector loans mainly corporate lending.
This can be attributed to the brand being repositioned as a bank for all Southern Africans, increased brand awareness, price reductions in several retail banking products and the launch of a number of new retail products, together with continued strong performances from Nedbank Capital and Nedbank Corporate.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 23 Healthy performance Group Finance Directors report continued An award-winning Group Fairbairn Private Bank International Investment Fund & Product Awards 2006 Category Best Offshore Bank Group Winner Net interest income growth of 29%, Net interest margin Market environment increases to 3.92% The overall economic environment for banks remains positive despite Net interest income NII growth was particularly strong.
The margin the 200 basis points rise in interest rates during 2006.
While the increase was driven by the increased endowment together with the endowment effect of this increase has improved the groups interest higher interest rate environment, positive mix changes from the growth margin, the resultant increased level of credit stress in parts of the in higher margin retail and business banking advances, as well as a retail environment is starting to affect impairments.
Advances growth change in the advances mix within Nedbank Retail resulting from remains robust, although it is anticipated that retail advances growth growth in higher margin personal loans.
NII benefited from this will slow as a result of the higher interest rate environment.
increase in the margin together with the growth in advances of 24%.
The industry faces ongoing pressure on fees, both through increased Impairment losses on loans and advances consumerism and the Competition Commissions inquiry into bank The impairments charge rose by 25% for the year.
Nedbank continues to be one of the most affordable of the big charge to average advances improved from 0.61% for the half year four banks for entry-level banking products and supports the to 30 June 2006 to 0.52% for the full year.
Impairments were Competition Commissions inquiry.
The bank reduced its retail negatively impacted by the mix change in advances, referred to above, transactional fees by an average of over 13% in the past year.
with higher margin retail advances and personal loans attracting appropriately higher levels of impairments.
However, overall and Banks also face increased regulatory requirements with the associated particularly in the corporate division, credit experience remained good.
costs of compliance, including preparation for the introduction of the National Credit Act NCA, increased activity relating to the Financial Non-interest revenue growth of 12% Intelligence Centre Act FICA, the ongoing responsibilities under Growth in non-interest revenue NIR was mainly attributable to the Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services Act FAIS, and continued volume growth at Nedbank Corporate and Nedbank Retail, finalisation of systems ahead of the implementation of Basel II property private equity revaluations and realisations at Nedbank in South Africa.
Corporate, private equity revaluations and realisations at Nedbank Capital, strong deal flow at Nedbank Capital, strong growth in Bond Risk and capital management Choice origination fees, and new business premium growth in the Risk management has been a major component of Nedbank Groups groups bancassurance operations.
transformation over the past few years, using its comprehensive Basel II programme as the catalyst.
A vision to be world-class at managing NIR growth was affected by the price reductions at Nedbank Retail.
risk has been engrained in the organisational risk culture of the group In July 2006, Nedbank Retail reduced fees for individual current together with a clear understanding that Nedbanks core business account clients by an average of 13%.
activities involve taking financial risks and that these and other key risks, for example operational risk, must be measured, managed and Cost-to-income ratio of 58.2% optimised as a core competency.
The improvement in the cost-to-income ratio is a result of the growth in operating income and disciplined expense management.
Economic capital As expected, this ratio is above the level of 57.3% reported in June Economic capital is a scientific, consistent measurement and 2006 due to the planned investment in distribution and branding in comparison of risk across business units, risk types and individual the second half of the year.
Economic capital is now embedded in the management and performance culture of Nedbank Group, and is Strong capital position fundamental in the assessment of risk return at all levels.
Nedbank remains well capitalised, with a Tier 1 capital adequacy ratio of 8.3% 9.4% at 31 December 2005 and total capital Nedbanks economic capital framework will also satisfy a major adequacy ratio of 11.8% 12.9% at 31 December 2005.
During the component of Basel II, namely the requirement for an Internal year Nedbank executed a number of initiatives as part of the groups Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP.
This involves the continuing long-term capital management programme, which seeks groups ongoing assessment of its internal capital adequacy on to achieve an optimal and prudent capital structure, including the a true economic basis.
In addition to economic capital, Nedbank Group calculates regulatory capital requirements developed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision both under the current Basel I Accord and the new revised Basel II Accord.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 24 Key performance indicators Nedbanks return on equity ROE is now comfortably ahead of its cost of capital.
While the ROE was ahead of the 2006 target, the planned investment in distribution makes the 55% cost-to-income ratio more challenging in 2007.
Performance in 2006 Mediumto long-term financial targets from 2007 Return on shareholders equity 18,6% ROE greater than 20% and ROE excluding goodwill 22.1% excluding goodwill 10% above the groups monthly weighted average cost of ordinary shareholders equity Efficiency ratio 58.2% Maintain an efficiency ratio of less than 55% Fully diluted headline earnings 36% Growth in fully-diluted HEPS of at least average CPIX per share HEPS plus GDP growth plus 5% Impairment charge as a % 0.52% An impairment charge of between 0.55% and 0.85% of average advances of average advances Capital adequacy ratios Basel II N A Tier 1: 8.0% 9.0 % N A Total: 11.0% 12.0% Economic capital adequacy AAdequately capitalised to a 99.9% Aconfidence on an economic capital basis plus a 15% buffer Dividend cover 2.25 times 2.25 to 2.75 times cover Nedbank Group will always hold the greater of regulatory capital Nedbank Groups board approves a comprehensive Strategic Capital and economic capital for capital adequacy purposes, but primarily Plan, which is driven by and in turn integrated into the groups threeuses its internal economic capital assessment for managing the year business plans.
Included in this plan is the groups strategic and business as this represents a better overall assessment of the true tactical response to Basel II, economic capital, risk appetite and financial economic risk for risk return.
targets including risk-adjusted return on capital, long-run three-year capital planning and various proposed capital optimisation actions.
Risk appetite Risk appetite is an articulation of the risk capacity or quantum of Basel ll risk Nedbank Group is willing to accept in pursuit of its strategy, Regulators have confirmed a common implementation date of 1 duly set and monitored by its board of directors, and integrated into January 2008 for Basel II in South Africa.
Nedbank Group is well its strategy and business plans.
positioned for the introduction of Basel II and the groups estimated Basel II capital requirements have been integrated into its three-year Nedbank measures risk appetite in terms of quantitative risk business plans and its long-run capital planning within the strategic measures, which include earnings-at-risk or earnings volatility, capital plan.
Overall, no material impact is expected on the capital economic capital adequacy and risk limits.
Qualitatively, Nedbank levels of Nedbank Group ahead of Basel II implementation in 2008. expresses risk appetite in terms of policies, procedures and controls designed to limit risks that may or may not be quantifiable.
Capital management Nedbank Groups Capital Management Framework is designed to meet its key external stakeholders needs, both those more focused on the return or profitability of the group relative to the risk assumed or risk versus return and those more focused on the adequacy of the groups capital in relation to its risk profile or solvency.
The framework is based on world-class risk and capital management, integrated with strategy, performance measurement and incentives, and intended to fulfil one of the groups twelve key strategic objectives, namely to optimise risk and capital.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 25 Healthy performance Group Finance Directors report continued An award-winning Group Mutual & Federal Investment Analyst Society of South Africa Category Most improved corporate reporting by a listed company Bruce Campbell Winner Managing Director, Mutual & Federal Outlook Personal division Nedbank Groups management currently believes that performance The Personal division provides domestic household, motor, and all risks in 2007 is likely to be influenced by: short-term insurance products to individual clients through whitelabelled intermediary-branded and in-house products.
One of the ingrowth in retail advances remaining robust, but slowing, together house products, Allsure, offers clients lower premiums by combining with ongoing growth in wholesale advances household goods and motor insurance into one policy.
The division continued market pressure on retail funding volumes also offers hospital cash plans and various forms of personal accident an endowment benefit in the margin from historic interest rate policies.
Allsure is supported by intermediaries throughout South Africa, increases providing customers with excellent value, supported by a fair and fast a slight worsening of the impairment charge following signs of claims-settling service.
increased levels of credit stress in parts of the retail environment, together with fewer impairment recoveries from Nedbank Capital Risk Finance division and Nedbank Corporate The Risk Finance division has a dominant position in the South continuing effects of the Nedbank Retail price reductions and African market with a market share of approximately 25%.
The division industry fee pressure continues to enjoy a highly positive profile within the industry and pressure on revenues and costs associated with the introduction is one of the largest suppliers of risk financing solutions in Africa.
of the NCA The division offers facilities to clients on a rent-a-captive basis, as momentum from transactional banking mandates received by well as through independent cells owned by third parties.
Nedbank Corporate and a strong pipeline built up by Nedbank Capital Performance during 2006 lower positive property private equity revaluations Highlights Rm 2006 2005 Change additional operating efficiencies investment in retail distribution and continued marketing spend Adjusted operating profit 1,039 1,178 12% on the new brand position Gross premiums 8,549 8,004 7% finalisation of Basel II ahead of 1 January 2008, and Earned premiums 7,458 6,882 8% asset securitisation and continuing capital management activities.
Claims ratio 63% 62% Underwriting ratio 6.1% 8.4% Mutual & Federal General Insurance Solvency ratio 49% 74% The Group owns 75% of Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Return on capital three-year average 27.5% 27.4% Limited Mutual & Federal on a diluted basis, after taking account As reported by Mutual & Federal of Mutual & Federals BEE ownership transactions.
Mutual & Federals shares are publicly listed on the JSE Limited.
Strong performance in a softening cycle Mutual & Federal delivered another year of solid results, achieving Business profile premium growth in a softening insurance market.
The adjusted Mutual & Federal provides insurance services to the personal, operating profit was boosted by a reserve release of R215 million and commercial and corporate markets in South Africa, Namibia, was delivered despite the anticipated deterioration in trading conditions Botswana and Zimbabwe through professional and highly experienced in the short-term insurance market, which resulted in a modest brokers who are able to offer clients personal service and advice when decrease in Mutual & Federals adjusted operating profit for the year.
purchasing policies, and practical assistance in the event of a claim.
Although profitability was 12% lower than last year, Mutual & Federals The business manages its insurance operations by three broad continued close management of expenses, premium growth despite segments, which reflect the markets within which clients are serviced.
persistent pressure on premium income, and an overall relatively low level of claims reflected managements focus on the businesss Commercial division profit-levers.
The Commercial division provides a comprehensive portfolio of insurance services, including credit insurance to cover domestic and Solid premium growth at 7% export credit risk, insurance against fire, accident and motor risk and The increase in total gross premiums for the year was broadly in line crop insurance services to a diverse range of customers from small with inflation and was achieved despite more intense competition and and medium-sized businesses to large corporations, including mining continuing pricing pressure on premium income.
Where clients require specialist insurance expertise such as engineering, marine and agricultural knowledge, these are also provided by this division.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 26 Underwriting surplus maintained The company is looking to realise benefits from securing business Mutual & Federal generated an underwriting surplus of R455 million, from the previously uninsured emerging black middle class and fully down 21% from a surplus of R577 million in 2005.
The underwriting realising synergy benefits with OMSA and Nedbank.
ratio the ratio of underwriting surplus to net earned premiums was 6.1% 2005: 8.4% Managements vision for this business is to be the strongest and most successful insurer in its chosen markets.
To achieve this, it is focusing Claims ratio impacted by increased claims on a number of specific objectives, including the delivery of sustained The general level of claims increased over last year, with the claims underwriting profitability, business growth and the achievement of ratio up to 63% from 62%.
The motor account was affected by a strategic superiority.
In addition management is seeking to improve sharp increase in the incidence of motor accidents and a continued employee satisfaction and to realise significant transformation in the escalation in repair costs.
In addition, substantial weather-related workplace.
claims were experienced following hailstorms during the year.
Real growth in units will be achieved through new product Capital management development and exploration of alternative distribution channels and Mutual & Federals solvency ratio at the end of 2006 was 49%, emerging markets.
The business continues to focus on its key financial substantially impacted by the payment of a special dividend to targets of sustaining a long-term average underwriting ratio of 4% and shareholders following the detailed review of its capital requirements delivering a return on capital in excess of 20%, whilst maintaining 31 December 2005: 74%.
The special dividend was paid in service excellence to intermediaries and policyholders.
September 2006 and represented R2.1 billion or 40% of the net asset value of the company.
The current solvency level is considered These endeavours are accompanied by sustained IT development, sufficient to sustain ongoing operations, as well as to support the which is aimed at improving efficiency, raising customer service levels future development of the business.
Market environment Risk management The South African short-term insurance market is becoming Underwriting risks are controlled through a formal system of increasingly competitive.
Domestic participants are seeking to increase parameters within Mutual & Federal that is only deviated from their share of the market by means of pricing and acquisition following approval by senior management.
Reinsurance cover is set at strategies, and overseas companies are entering the market, primarily conservative levels and is in place for losses arising from catastrophic targeting the corporate market.
In recent years, several direct writers events such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, severe hail, floods have also come into the market and have secured a growing portion and fires, with retentions set at conservative levels.
The business does of the personal lines market.
Each of the major banks in South Africa not provide cover against losses from terrorist attacks, a risk that is has also formed its own insurer to provide house owners insurance underwritten by the South African Government.
These insurers are becoming more aggressive and are moving into lines other than house owners insurance and hence are Management has set a number of financial objectives for the group important competitors of Mutual & Federal.
in pursuit of Mutual & Federals corporate mission.
The following performance against these was achieved during the year: The overall underwriting return within the short-term insurance industry declined during 2006 from the record levels achieved during an underwriting surplus of 6.1%, which was in excess of the 2004 and 2005.
This decline resulted from an increase in the severity long-term objective of 4% and frequency of claims, which was particularly noticeable in the general expenses increased by 8.8%, which was broadly within motor environment.
inflation levels and in accordance with the corporate objective a return on capital in excess of 20% Competitive forces are placing significant downward pressure on following the payment of the special dividend, a solvency margin Mutual & Federals premium rates, with consequent effects on of 40% was achieved, while the company maintained a level of profitability and premium growth.
Urgent attention has already 80% of shareholders funds invested in listed equities.
been given to underperforming portfolios such as the motor account, where rates have been increased in both the Commercial The target for premium growth of inflation plus GDP plus 2% was and Personal divisions.
not achieved because of the highly competitive market, which made the pursuit of business inadvisable where this would have led to deterioration in profitability.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 27 Healthy performance Group Finance Directors report continued Outlook USA There are early indications of a hardening of rates following the decline Old Mutual has built significant asset management and life assurance during 2006.
This should assist Mutual & Federal to achieve its longbusinesses in the USA through a number of acquisitions during the term target for underwriting of 4% of net earned premiums.
Our US businesses are well placed strategically to take Management will continue to apply responsible underwriting standards advantage of demographic and other related trends as we enhance in setting rates commensurate with insurance risks and will endeavour our products and investment styles.
We have introduced a common to manage the underwriting cycle by applying strict discipline in settling management structure across the life and asset management claims and managing expenses.
Management will also continue to seek businesses and aim to implement a co-ordinated retail distribution improvements in efficiency in the payment of claims and in the strategy in 2007. administration of the operation.
Overall performance of our US businesses during 2006 Mutual & Federal remains committed to growth through continued development of the intermediary channel and further development of Highlights m 2006 2005 Change relationships with brokers and clients.
Adjusted operating profit IFRS 251 224 12% Embedded Value adjusted operating There are indications of an upward trend in inflation levels and this profit covered business 98 122 20% could adversely affect the replacement costs of motor vehicle parts Life assurance sales APE 262 290 10% and non-motor insured assets.
Management will accordingly need to Mutual fund sales 743 245 203% be vigilant in monitoring these developments and to take appropriate Net fund flows bn 16 14 14% steps to ensure that this does not adversely impact profitability.
Funds under management bn 134 132 1.5% Overall performance in South Africa during 2006 Highlights $m 2006 2005 Change Highlights m 2006 2005 Change Adjusted operating profit IFRS 465 407 14% Adjusted operating profit pre-tax 1,124 1,083 4% Embedded Value adjusted operating Life assurance sales APE 392 358 9% profit covered business 181 222 18% Unit trust sales 1,256 1,226 2% Life assurance sales APE 482 528 9% Funds under management bn 41 43 5% Mutual fund sales 1,369 445 208% Net fund flows $bn 31 26 15% Funds under management $bn 263 226 16% Highlights Rm 2006 2005 Change Excluding the impact of the sale of eSecLending Adjusted operating profit pre-tax 13,997 12,539 12% Life assurance sales APE 4,888 4,141 18% IFRS adjusted operating profit for the US businesses was driven by Unit trust sales 15,622 14,200 10% strong funds inflows, positive equity markets and excellent investment Funds under management Rbn 561 472 19% performance in our US asset management business and sustained growth in assets at US life.
Our South African businesses continued to benefit from an expanding South African economy, with GDP growth of 4.5% and growth of 38% The asset management business enjoyed a 16% increase in funds in the JSE All Share Index over the year.
under management in US$ terms, notwithstanding the sale of eSecLending and First Pacific Advisors, while US life funds under Despite the deterioration of the Rand exchange rate, adjusted operating management grew by 10% to $22 billion.
On a Sterling basis, funds profit for the South African businesses increased by 4% on a Sterling under management reflected the Dollars depreciation during 2006. basis, mainly as a result of the significant increase in Nedbank Groups results as the momentum of its recovery programme continued.
The increase in funds under management on a Rand basis, despite high outflows, reflected the impact of buoyant markets.
Several projects aimed at realising revenue and cost synergies between our three South African businesses have progressed well.
In particular, the project to leverage the scale of data and voice transmission has yielded considerable savings.
Bancassurance life sales between Old Mutual and Nedbank increased by 61%.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 28 Immediate annuities US life Immediate annuities provide regular income payments guaranteed for Business profile life or for a fixed period of time.
The immediate annuity products allow We commenced operations in the US life market in 2001 through customers the flexibility to choose the amount of income desired, the the acquisition of several established insurance companies, the largest timing of payments and their duration.
Our outsourcing model enables being Fidelity & Guaranty Life.
The business is headquartered in us to deliver cost efficiencies in the underwriting and administration of Baltimore, with a sales office in Atlanta, and offers a diverse portfolio this product, a significant advantage in the price-sensitive immediate of annuities and life insurance products to individuals in the USA.
Our operations were further strengthened in 2003 with the acquisition Variable annuities of OMNIA Life Bermuda.
This offshore variable annuity business has These products, sold through our offshore business, Old Mutual been positioned within the private bank channels, one of the main Bermuda, are US dollar-based investment policies targeted at sources of business for the offshore market, and has provided significant non-US citizens residing outside the USA.
The variable annuity sales growth since acquisition.
The business was rebranded Old Mutual product is essentially a unit-linked investment plan, offering linkage Bermuda in 2005 as part of the roll-out of unified branding for our to guaranteed rate portfolios, with distribution primarily taking place North American operations.
The US life business has experienced strong new business growth since Protection products its acquisition, backed by Group capital injections, but is on track to Our US life business offers two principal protection product lines, term become self-funding and remit dividends to the Group from 2007. mortgage protection and universal life products, which provide flexible life assurance protection in the event of death or illness.
Through the The life company assets are invested with our US asset management introduction of some novel product features such as partial return of business, which manages these on a commercial basis, with the premium benefits, and quick underwriting turnaround times, our majority of US lifes administrative functions outsourced to third party products have grown rapidly in this traditional life segment.
Performance of US life during 2006 While our products are distributed through various channels, the majority of sales are generated through established groups of managing general Highlights 2006 2005 Change agents MGAs, with the MGAs typically providing access to a range of Adjusted operating profit IFRS $m 230 193 19% annuity and life assurance products from different suppliers.
Return on equity 7.1% 6.4% Embedded Value adjusted Equity index annuities EIA operating profit $m 181 222 18% Our EIA product has been consistently placed in the top five in the Return on embedded value ROEV $m 6.1% 8.5% US product segment over the past few years, with most of our sales Life assurance sales APE $m 482 528 9% concentrated in the annual reset product.
Under this product, the Value of new business $m 83 93 11% policyholder is guaranteed a minimum return over a one-year period, New business margin 17% 18% in addition to some participation in equity index movements.
The Funds under management $bn 22 20 10% potential equity index upside is covered through the use of dynamic hedging principles, enabling us to provide better value for money 2005 restated to exclude amortisation of the present value of acquired in-force to our clients.
business Fixed deferred annuities Earnings increased in line with assets, with asset growth driven by These are fixed rate contracts that involve the business investing premiums at the planned level.
Although positive earnings growth was in a portfolio of bonds that earn a spread above the rate guaranteed achieved, this was slowed by the impact of higher interest rates, which to the policyholder.
There are two main types of deferred annuities, led us to strengthen our capitalised assumptions on our Multi-Year the principal purpose of one being to offer a tax-efficient way Guaranteed Annuities giving rise to a $24 million reduction in IFRS to save money for retirement, and the other to provide an income earnings in the third quarter of 2006 and poorer than expected stream for life.
mortality experience on Single Premium Immediate Annuities.
EEV assumptions were strengthened for the Single Premium Immediate Annuities and Multi-Year Guaranteed Annuities, as highlighted in our third-quarter results, and the usage of a penalty-free surrender option.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 29 Healthy performance Group Finance Directors report continued Premiums reached $3.9 billion, in the band around our $4 billion Risk management target, but a little lower than last year when we were at the top of Underwriting risk the target range.
Together, these resulted in a reduction in the ROEV Underwriting risk is carefully controlled through underwriting principles to 6.1% from 8.5%.
governing product repricing procedures and authority limits.
The underwriting process takes into account prospective mortality, We have also been engaged in a substantial upgrade of our systems morbidity and expense experience, with a large proportion of the and our modelling capability.
This has resulted in the EV being mortality and morbidity risk reinsured to highly-rated companies.
This has been excluded from adjusted EV earnings, and disclosed separately.
Policyholder option risk Fixed annuity policyholder option risk is managed by investing in ROE increased in line with the improvement in earnings.
fixed securities with durations within a half-year of the duration of the We maintained our targeted risk-based capital ratio at 300% and liabilities, with the exception of our longest duration liabilities, which were pleased to see statutory profit appear in the fourth quarter.
are managed within a year of the liability duration, and cash flows in any period closely aligned to ensure mismatches are minimal.
Funds under management benefited from strong net inflows, Extensive interest rate scenario-testing is undertaken, as required by particularly at Old Mutual Bermuda, which achieved inflows in regulatory authorities, to ensure that the amounts reserved are excess of $1 billion for the first time, and positive market sufficient to meet the guaranteed obligations.
The business remains on track to return cash in 2007.
The guaranteed returns provided in relation to the equity index annuity Life sales volumes in target range at good margins product are dynamically hedged to ensure close matching of option Following a strong performance in the final quarter, total life sales payoffs to liability growth, with hedging positions reviewed and were $4.2 billion on a gross basis and $482 million on an APE basis.
Sales of equity index annuities were the single largest APE contributor, representing 43% of total APE.
Credit risk Credit risk is monitored by the businesss Investment Committee, Offshore sales APE through Old Mutual Bermuda increased by 66% which has established appropriate exposure limits such that to $119 million, maintaining the strong momentum built in the first impairment levels at US life are low.
The exceptional growth reflects the strength of our relationships and overall expansion in the bank distribution network, Outlook combined with the attractiveness of our product range.
Offshore While it is anticipated that competition from other financial services annuity sales now represent a quarter of sales in our US life business.
companies will increase, our US life business maintains a significant market share of the fixed annuity life assurance market in the USA.
Margin healthy The business has been highly successful in responding to The after-tax value of new business was affected by slightly lower changing market demands through the development and roll-out margins and the reduction in new life sales.
Margin remained of new products.
healthy and within our target range, and reflected strong investment performance and overall improvement in our pricing disciplines During 2007, we intend to enter the US domestic variable annuity during 2006. market space by initially offering a product with desirable guarantees aimed at middle class investors and distributed through our existing Effective financial management and risk control general agency system.
At mid-year we intend to launch a no-load Our migration to a new actuarial and finance system was successfully product targeted at fee-based planners to broaden distribution within executed, with the new system providing enhancements to our the same market.
We believe we can position our product and internal processes.
We continue to improve the required infrastructure distribution to enter an under-served market.
to support this growing business.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 30 US asset managements product range includes the following: US asset management Through our US asset management business, we combine the Institutional accounts investment focus of boutique managers with the stability and Actively-managed investment products are offered in all the major asset resources of a large, international firm.
We have created an classes and investment styles.
The businesss investment capabilities environment where unique, entrepreneurial asset management span US and global equities, fixed income, real estate and alternative boutiques can thrive and the investment professionals within them asset classes.
Separate accounts are offered across a range of asset can do their best work for our clients.
We have capitalised on our classes and investment strategies.
Actively-managed commingled economies of scale and brought best practice risk management, accounts are also available in US equities, US fixed income and real technology, legal and distribution capabilities to our affiliates.
Our firms are free to focus their time and resources on delivering strong investment performance.
Retail accounts In October 2004, the Old Mutual Advisor Funds were launched, Business profile establishing the foundation for full-scale retail distribution.
These allow Our US asset management business, based in Boston and established individual investors access to  management in a through the acquisition of UAM in 2000, now consists of 19 distinct mutual fund format.
Individual mutual funds are currently offered in boutique firms, including asset managers that specialise in higha wide range of asset classes and investment styles.
Funds are offered quality, active investment strategies for institutional clients, high net as single-strategy mutual funds, or alternatively as diversified asset worth individuals and mutual fund investors.
Collectively, the asset allocation funds under the Pure Portfolio brand.
In addition, multimanagement business offers over 100 distinctive investment strategy funds are offered that leverage the capabilities of our firms strategies.
Individually, however, each member firm has its own as well as selected outside managers.
vibrant, entrepreneurial culture of investment managers focusing on their particular area of expertise.
Single-strategy mutual funds are currently offered by our affiliates in US equities, fixed income, international equities, emerging markets, The business has benefited strongly from its affiliate structure, offering real estate investment trusts and money markets.
a diversity of investment styles, minimising exposure to the changing preferences of investors, and benefiting from efficiency savings Performance of US asset management during 2006 resulting from the centralisation of compliance and distribution capabilities through its holding company, OMAM US.
Highlights 2006 2005 Change The businesss asset mix is heavily weighted towards value equities, Adjusted operating profit IFRS $m 235 214 10% fixed income and non-US$ international assets.
While the business Funds under management $bn 261 226 15% consists of a diverse range of affiliates, Barrow, Hanley, Mewhinney Net fund flows $bn 30 26 15% & Strauss, a value equity manager, is the largest manager with 25% Mutual fund sales $m 1,369 445 208% of the total funds under management.
Acadian Asset Management, Operating margin 28% 26% an international equities firm, doubled its size last year and now Excludes the impact of the sale of eSecLending represents 24.5% of the businesss assets.
Dwight Asset Management, a fixed income manager, accounts for another 22% Another strong operating result of the funds under management.
Over time, the largest firms within Operating earnings were strong and benefited from strong transaction US asset management may change, depending on the market and performance fees, and strong asset growth resulting from net cash environment and investment styles currently in favour.
inflows and positive market conditions.
In addition, we continue to seek opportunities to develop our portfolio Earnings were boosted by transaction and performance fees of $112 of asset managers as circumstances evolve.
We have acquired million 2005: $106 million with a sharp increase in performance Ashfield Capital Partners to boost our large cap growth capability.
In addition, we benefited from unrealised gains of $18 As part of the further refinement of our core focus, we have also million in relation to our seed capital investments in new funds.
New disposed of eSecLending, our securities-lending business, and First earnings were produced from Copper Rock and Larch Lane, which Pacific Advisors, one of the few remaining revenue-sharing affiliates.
partially offset a reduction in securities-lending revenue following the Most affiliates now operate under profit-sharing arrangements, with sale of eSecLending in May 2006. a certain percentage of operating profit, after overheads and salaries, paid to the affiliates as variable compensation.
The profit-sharing model ensures that the interests of our affiliates are closely aligned with those of our shareholders.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 31 Healthy performance Group Finance Directors report continued The improvement in operating margin came from positive operating Risk management leverage, higher average funds under management and a more favourable The exposure of the US asset management business to market mix of transaction and performance fees on a stable fluctuations gives rise to potential impacts on revenue levels, which expense base.
are a function of the value of client portfolios.
Investment risk is principally borne by the client.
Compliance risks faced by this Record net fund flows and 15% growth in funds under management business are independently monitored and reviewed by compliance Record net fund inflows of $40 billion were achieved for the year functions and committees, which are also required to meet stringent $30 billion excluding eSecLending, as Acadian international emerging US regulatory requirements.
We mitigate the risk of loss of key markets quant equity in particular continued to attract inflows.
employees through the use of long-term incentive schemes aligned with shareholder value targets, and through competition restrictions The strong growth in funds under management was driven by record embedded in employment agreements.
cash flows, strong investment performance and positive equity markets.
Excluding the disposals of eSecLending $25.4 billion and First Pacific Key Performance Indicators US asset management Advisors $10.4 billion, funds under management were up 31% 2006 2005 from 2005.
Operating Income $m 235 214 Excellent fund performance Margin 28% 25% Our affiliates continued to achieve excellent investment performance.
Net Cash Flow $m 39,944 26,289 At 31 December 2006, 90% of assets had outperformed their Annualised Revenue Full-Year Impact from benchmarks over three years.
Over the same period, 78% of assets Net Cash Flow $m 81 19 ranked in the first quartile of their peer groups.
Funds under management $bn 261 226 Average margin basis points 27.2 31.7 Building our business Average margin basis points excl.
eSec 28.1 32.9 Our Old Mutual Capital initiative gathered momentum during 2006, Return on investment 8.1% 7.2% with gross sales of $2.3 billion, an increase of 77% compared to $1.3 billion in 2005.
Of this, $1.4 billion related to mutual fund sales, Outlook up 208% on last year.
We are positioning the franchise to maximise growth opportunities.
In 2007, we will continue building a well-recognised and respected US asset management has continued to manage and balance its Old Mutual brand in the market place.
We will focus on having industryportfolio, with the addition of growth specialists, Copper Rock Capital competitive retail and institutional products as well as effective, high Partners in February 2006 and Ashfield Capital Partners in February quality multi-channel distribution.
Institutional business is the anchor 2007, and of hedge fund of funds capability at Larch Lane and of our portfolio, and in the near term is expected to provide the majority 2100 Capital.
Our retail business will create a long-term strategy for diversification and growth.
A new En Espanol retail initiative will Market environment be rolled out during 2007.
This project is developing investment and Competition in the USA is strong, with each of Old Mutuals asset financial service products targeted the US Hispanic marketplace, which management firms facing significant competition from other specialist is projected to account for 24% of the US population by 2050. providers.
The differentiating factors between firms are often investment performance and product capabilities.
Our investment managers have A trend of strong net inflows, a track record of excellent investment a record of delivering excellent long-term performance, and through our performance, and a focus on retail distribution place the business ability to leverage the diverse styles of our individual firms, are able to in a favourable position to increase funds under management and seek targeted investment opportunities to broaden our product capability.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 32 Performance during 2006 Europe Old Mutual operates in Europe mainly through Skandia, the Swedish Pro forma insurance company acquired in 2006.
With Skandia, Old Mutual has Highlights m 2006 2005 Change an enlarged footprint in Europe and has the potential to grow a strong IFRS adjusted operating profit 231 111 108% franchise.
The business model of Skandia centres around three Embedded Value adjusted operating main elements, distribution, product and investment management profit covered business 394 328 20% in three geographies, UK & Offshore, Europe & Latin America ELAM Life assurance sales APE 881 781 13% and Nordic.
Mutual fund sales 4,306 2,715 59% Value of New Business 127 113 12% Selestia, the Old Mutual life assurance platform that was launched Net fund inflows bn 6.3 in 2001, is being merged with the Skandia offering.
Return on Invested Capital 8.1% Return on Embedded Value For distribution, Skandia looks for the most effective distribution covered business 13.5% channel in the markets where it operates.
This is primarily through Funds under management bn 52 44 18% independent financial advice, but there is also an in-house sales force in Sweden and Colombia and bank distribution in Sweden and Latin All current and prior-year numbers reflect 11 months of results and are adjusted America.
to Old Mutual accounting policies.
Prior-year embedded value numbers are on a Skandia basis, but allow for group expenses.
Skandia now operates in 20 countries and is growing in nearly all of them.
Sweden and the UK are its principal markets.
In other markets, Strong business performance Skandia targets specific niches, which enables it to adapt quickly and Our European business continued to deliver very satisfactory flexibly to changing conditions in those individual markets.
Skandia is performance on the back of strong sales, net client inflows and the steadily increasing its presence in Continental Europe at the same time increasing scale of operations in the UK & Offshore and ELAM divisions.
as it is experiencing a high degree of activity in its selected growth APE sales and margins in the fourth quarter improved significantly over markets in Asia, Latin America and Australia.
the third, when volumes were lower due to seasonal effects.
Our European business now forms a very significant part of the Groups Most revenue is currently generated by unit-linked sales in Nordic, operations, and is on track to achieve the 2008 targets announced in the UK and Continental Europe, with mutual funds being dominant June 2006.
In line with our estimates announced then, 16 million was in Latin America.
In Sweden and other parts of Europe, Skandia spent on integration costs, realising 12 million of synergies in 2006. concentrates on traditional life products.
Adjusted operating profit for the eleven months to 31 December Core to our Skandia proposition is open architecture, under which, 2006 increased to 231 million, building on growth in funds under although we may offer free choice, sub-advisory or select funds, management and strong sales volumes, which delivered higher we do not manage money ourselves.
We believe that this model is fundand premium-based income growth.
Value of new business a winning one, where low dependence on capital and freedom of grew by 12%, driven by an increase in APE.
This also contributed choice for customers have great appeal.
positively to the return on embedded value of 13.5%.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 33 Healthy performance Group Finance Directors report continued Nick Poyntz-Wright Chief Executive, Skandia UK Market environment and Outlook UK & Offshore Industry demand increased strongly in 2006 compared to 2005.
Skandia UK includes four business units: Skandia Life, Selestia Skandia The pensions market in 2006 was dominated by single premium Multifunds, Skandia Investment Management SIML, and Skandia transfers, following regulatory changes in April 2006 designed International.
With over a million customers and 35 billion under to simplify the UK pensions regime.
Industry pension sales had management, Skandia is one of the fastest growing UK savings increased by more than 35% by the third quarter of the year, companies.
with notable growth in SIPPs.
Skandia UK focuses on long-term savings.
It offers unit-linked Industry sales growth is likely to slow in 2007 to a more normalised investments through an open-architecture fund platform enabling 6-7% as the effects of A-day unwind.
Looking forward, management access to a wide range of funds from external managers and SIML.
is positive about Skandias prospects.
Its strong IFA franchise and Skandia solutions are distributed via independent financial advisers multi-manager proposition should enable the company to grow sales only, targeting affluent customers.
Investments in Skandia are and assets faster than the UK industry average.
unit-linked, backed by over 400 external funds selected by advisers and their clients.
Competition is intensifying as traditional players build their own open-architecture offerings.
This is especially evident in the new Skandias success in the UK has been framed around a few simple partnerships that are being formed between fund platforms and attributes.
It has established a strong IFA franchise through excellent traditional life companies.
It has excelled in the high growth open-architecture segment of the UK market, and has consistently Selestia Skandia Multifunds brought innovative ideas to market.
By combining with Selestia, Business profile Skandia has the opportunity to continue setting the industry standard This business is a combination of Skandia Multifunds and Old in UK savings.
It offers a choice of over 800 funds from external fund managers and SIML.
Skandia Life SLAC Business profile Selestia Skandia Multifunds achieved strong performance in 2006 SLAC is the core engine of Skandia UK, accounting for approximately with net client cash flows of 1.5 billion.
Growth was driven by a 50% of Skandia UKs 35 billion of assets under management.
SLAC record Individual Savings Account ISA season, increased use of operates in three product segments: pensions, investment bonds and platforms across the industry, and the launch of Selestias Collective protection.
Pensions and bonds comprise 95% of SLACs sales on Retirement Account.
Market environment and Outlook Pensions Investor sentiment is robust and the mutual fund industry has recorded SLAC provides a range of pensions to meet the retirement planning strong growth in 2006, with record tax year-end sales.
Retail needs of individuals, employers and trustees.
This range is investment reached over 8 billion in the first six months of 2006, complemented by the Skandia self invested personal pension equal to the total for the whole of the previous year.
SIPP, which offers wider investment choices.
Skandia pensions are unit-linked, and contributions are invested in an extensive range As an extension of the supermarket phenomenon, demand for wrap of external funds and funds from SIML.
services in the UK market is also growing.
Wrap competition is increasing, but no single provider has yet managed to combine Bonds unrestricted investment choice and financial planning tools with SLACs MultiBond range, which are not fixed-interest securities, operating efficiency.
The platform that best delivers this within the but tax-efficient single premium plans, provide unit-linked investments next two years has the potential to achieve market leadership.
with the opportunity to make tax-efficient withdrawals of capital.
Protection products Skandia does not offer generic protection products, such as term assurance linked to mortgages.
It participates in the premium segments of protection, offering two main solutions: unit-linked whole life and critical illness cover.
Protection accounts for approximately 5% of SLACs sales.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 34 An award-winning Group Skandia UK Money Marketing Awards 2006 Category Company of the Year Winner Market environment and Outlook Skandia Investment Management SIML Skandia Internationals business is geographically diversified, with sales Business profile in Europe, the Middle East, the Far East and Latin America, as well as SIML is a dynamic asset management company focused on providing in the UK.
innovative investment products to professional intermediaries by creating blended solutions from external managers.
Since SIMLs Historically, non-UK business has been sourced predominantly from launch in March 2003, funds under management have grown from Englishspeaking expatriates, with some local nationals on a selective around 750 million including funds held on behalf of other Group basis such as in Finland.
Expatriate business is expected to continue, companies to 4.8 billion.
with higher growth from local nationals as economies develop and Skandia becomes an increasingly local brand.
The number of funds has expanded from 10 to 35 within three years, leading to greater diversification and appeal to a wider client base.
Risk management The key to SIMLs financial success, however, has been innovation Skandia UKs risk framework is common across all its business units.
Launch of the innovative Global Best Ideas fund Risks are considered in the context of business plan and are managed has taken SIMLs proposition to a new level.
The fund, which is run in accordance with the Old Mutual Groups risk governance principles, by ten of the industrys best fund managers who each select their ten which are described in more detail in the Directors Report on Corporate best stock ideas, was positively received by the marketplace when it Governance and Other Matters later in this document.
SIML has since added a UK Best Ideas fund and the two funds have attracted 371 million of inflows Performance during 2006 including intra-Group premiums in the first six months.
The Global Best Ideas fund has performed in the top decile since its launch.
Pro forma Highlights m 2006 2005 Change Skandia International IFRS adjusted operating profit 128 34 276% Skandia International includes Royal Skandia, based in the Isle of EV adjusted operating profit Man, and Skandia Life Ireland, based in Dublin.
From October 2006, covered business 208 100 108% it was joined by Skandia Leben, Liechtenstein.
Life assurance sales APE 558 480 16% UK life assurance sales APE 396 261 52% Business profile Unit trust sales 3,039 1,456 109% Operating across borders in over 20 countries, Skandia International Value of new business 55 44 25% is the hub of Skandias offshore business.
Recent growth has been New business margin 10% 9% strong due to strength of the brand, the flexible Portfolio Bond offering, Net fund inflows bn 4.8 and increasing use of offshore products for inheritance tax planning.
Funds under management bn 35 29 29% Funds under management exceed 8.9 billion.
The business has All current and prior-year numbers reflect 11 months of results and are adjusted high growth potential and achieves higher margins than domestic to Old Mutual accounting policies, prior-year embedded value numbers are on a UK businesses.
There is also further growth potential for this business Skandia basis, but allow for group expenses.
through improved co-operation with Skandias operations across Europe and the Nordic region and, longer term, across the wider 2006 was a year of significant achievement for the UK division, Old Mutual Group.
characterised by strong sales, strong net fund inflows and ongoing recognition from our distributors.
Life sales growth was better than Royal Skandia, based in the Isle of Man, is the key company in average in the UK market with pension sales, driven by A Day, up Skandia International.
It provides products that allow UK and 65% to 230 million and overall life sales, including offshore, non-UK investors to enjoy tax-free growth.
In November, Skandia UK was awarded its 26th leading offshore investment location with valuable client protection Financial Adviser 5-star award in 16 years, which this year included through tight regulation and policyholder compensation provision.
the Company of the Year award.
The financial results also showed significant improvement over 2005, with strong growth in both In line with all Skandia UK products, the International range offers IFRS and EEV adjusted operating profit for the year.
MultiManager choice and flexibility, with access to a range of funds run by external managers and SIML.
The flexibility of products and services enables clients not only to invest in virtually any fund in the market, but also via different currencies and trust arrangements.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 35 Healthy performance Group Finance Directors report continued Growing IFRS profit Unit trust sales up 109% to 3 billion Adjusted operating profit for the UK division was driven by a higher Our Selestia and Skandia Multifunds businesses continued to benefit level of funds under management, the maturity profile of the book from IFAs shift to open-architecture investment platforms as the and effective operational leverage.
The process to capture synergies preferred strategy for the management of clients assets.
Expenditure has commenced, and will increase over the of the Skandia-manufactured Best Ideas funds improved net fund coming months in line with our June 2006 market update.
Involving inflows across the group, generating gross direct subscriptions an extensive outsourcing arrangement, the business is in the process exceeding 300 million.
of significant re-engineering to enable efficient and cost-effective straightthrough processing.
Margins improved, with new business growing significantly Life new business APE margins post-tax at a product level improved The underlying performance of the mutual funds business continued by 10% for the year.
The delivery elements of our integration to improve during the second half of 2006.
The integration of the two programme are now well advanced to deliver the synergies required fund supermarkets Skandia Multifunds and Selestia is progressing in to reduce administrative costs per policy significantly with a view to line with expectations.
achieving our target margin in the 11-12% range from mid-2008.
Strong underlying EV performance The value of new business improved by 25% to 55 million, Embedded value adjusted operating profit before tax was 208 million, due to strong sales growth across our core products.
driven by good growth in new business, strong experience variances and operating leverage.
Our experience variances Bankhalls successful turn-around were positive, driven by higher fee income and favourable 2006 has seen Bankhall concentrate on its core services to ensure surrender experience.
that its proposition was meeting the needs of the intermediary market fully.
The refocusing of activity has returned the business Strong growth in funds under management and net fund inflows to profitable growth, while reducing income and expenses, the latter Net fund inflows were 4.9 billion for the year, representing 14% of to a greater extent.
The favourable position was supported by positive market movements giving rise to significant growth in funds Europe & Latin America ELAM under management during the year.
Our Skandia Europe & Latin America division ELAM now operates in 14 countries and is experiencing high growth momentum.
Strong new business growth in UK life and mutual fund sales We focus on being a market-leading niche player in long-term The UK divisions open-architecture platform, helped by our strong savings by providing unit-linked and mutual products through openreputation in the industry and the favourable economy and equity architecture platforms.
Our strategy, which is to grow the business markets, continued to deliver strong new business growth, with both life in each country organically towards scale and beyond, has proved sales on an APE basis and mutual fund sales up strongly in the eleven successful.
We aim to strike a balance between keeping business months to 31 December 2006.
Sales in the UK were particularly local, while at the same time benefiting from cross-divisional strong, boosted by A Day effects, and were up 52% at 396 million synergies.
Business profile Pension sales substantially higher ELAM has operations in 11 European countries Germany, Austria, Overall new business levels in the course of 2006 were broadly Italy, Spain, Switzerland, Liechtenstein, France, Poland, Portugal, in line with managements expectations with the exception of UK the Czech Republic and Hungary and three Latin American countries pensions business, where high levels of activity continued even Colombia, Mexico and Chile.
All operations specialise in long-term after Pensions A Day.
UK pensions business grew in the year by savings solutions with high levels of service and innovation.
mutual fund platform, Skandia Global Funds, is also included in the ELAM structure.
Toward the end of the year there was further growth in the sale of life bonds, mirroring improved investor confidence arising from equity market appreciation.
Offshore business, in line with management expectations, remained flat against 2005.
UK-sourced offshore sales were muted by uncertainty surrounding the tax treatment of trusts in the early part of the year, but improved in the latter part of the year as greater understanding developed of the implications of the new legislation.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 36 Rafael Galdn Chief Executive, Skandia Europe & Latin America Many of the divisions operations were started in the late 1990s and Performance during 2006 have grown significantly over recent years.
Funds under management Pro forma have grown from around 6 billion in 2003 to 13 billion at the Highlights m 2006 2005 Change end of 2006.
The operations today are at different levels of scale, from start-ups in Chile and the Czech Republic to operations with IFRS adjusted operating profit 48 9 433% significant scale, such as those in Colombia and Germany.
To a large EV adjusted operating profit extent this has been achieved by a common business model and by covered business 116 169 31% leveraging cross-border efficiencies between the ELAM countries.
The Life assurance sales APE 282 231 22% success of the division has been assisted by an entrepreneurial Mutual fund sales 1,629 1,629 0% approach and leadership style and having the right people in the right Value of new business 55 33 66% place at the right time.
New business margin 19% 14% Net fund inflows bn 1.7 In Europe there is a strong dominance of unit-linked products Funds under management bn 13 12 8% distributed via IFAs as well as via sales organisations and networks, All current and prior-year numbers reflect 11 months of results and are adjusted while in Latin America most of the business is focused on individual to Old Mutual accounting policies, prior-year embedded value numbers are on a and corporate pension savings, written as mutual funds and Skandia basis, but allow for group expenses.
distributed via Skandias tied financial planners.
Strong operating profit The majority of ELAMs clients are individuals who are saving for IFRS adjusted operating result reflected strong organic growth in life financial security in various phases of their life, but there is also a and mutual fund business, coupled with expense discipline.
growing echelon of corporate clients, for example in Germany and Mexico.
A recent and continuing trend has been to move from a EEV adjusted operating profit of 116 million was 31% below that product focus to more of a customer orientation.
The decrease was primarily attributable to significant and to best serve our clients and distribution partners, we develop different positive operating assumption changes in 2005, which were solutions for different customer segments, all dependent on the local marginally negative in 2006.
The underlying growth, however, market situation.
was strong due to the increase in new business, resulting in a significant improvement in the value of new business.
Unit-linked Within unit-linked, ELAM offers a wide range of funds in various Life new business sales end on a strong note classes.
Risk protection is offered in co-operation with third parties.
All Particularly strong sales of single premium products in Europe and funds, including those offered by Skandia Global Funds, are managed recurring premium business in Poland were recorded during the year.
externally, and managers are selected and tracked using our unique evaluation process.
We have a high level of product innovation within Mutual fund sales flat unit-linked, where we can offer structured products aligned with In Latin America, where our pension products are reported as mutual customers individual risk appetite, age and life situation.
funds business, we performed strongly during 2006, particularly in the mandatory and complementary pension segments in Colombia and in Unit-linked is sold as regular premium products, mainly in Germany institutional mandates awarded in Mexico.
In Europe, sales in 2005 and Austria, creating a steady flow of premium income and high were inflated by exceptionally successful institutional mutual fund embedded value.
Countries like France and Italy are dominated by inflows in Spain.
As anticipated, these inflows in Spain decreased single premium products, creating large, but more volatile, net flows.
notably in 2006 because of the sale of Skandia Vida, offsetting the growth experienced throughout the rest of the division.
Mutual funds The mutual fund business is to a large extent similar to the unit-linked Funds under management up 8% business by outsourcing distribution and fund management.
In many Net fund inflows, 14% of opening funds under management, were of our markets, notably in Latin America, the business is long-term experienced during the year and account for 1.7 billion of the pension business with tax privileges, however without an insurance increase, with unfavourable market movements accounting for 0.7 wrapper and thereby reported as mutual funds.
The overall revenue-generating quality of the funds under medium-term business to complement our unit-linked offering based management improved over the course of the year.
on strong capabilities in fund selection.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 37 Healthy performance Group Finance Directors report continued An award-winning Group Skandia ELAM Spain Expansin Category 1st Mutual Funds Portfolios Winner Margin in line with target In Latin America, the market for long-term savings has also been The value of new business was ahead of last year, reflecting particularly favourable and our distribution capacity has been strengthened.
good growth in sales and market share in a number of countries and In Colombia, our market share in the complementary pensions the increasing economies of scale of our operations.
market continues to improve and exceeded 27% in the period up to September 2006.
The post-tax profit margin of 19% achieved for the eleven-month period was ahead of our medium-term target range of 16-18%, principally Risk management reflecting the good new business growth in higher margin markets and Financial markets risk increased economies of scale in sales activities.
The unit-linked and mutual fund business model transfers most of the financial market risk to the policyholder.
Guarantees or The year ended positively, with strong life assurance sales growth protection cover are low or offered via external parties.
However, recorded for the period, delivered through expanded distribution, the risk for Skandia consists in lower asset-based fees, lower profitable products and helped by generally positive equity market retrocession and lower new sales or surrenders due to market sentiment.
One way of managing this risk is to offer customers well-composed investment portfolios through asset allocation tools In 2006, we continued our expansion into new market segments, to create less volatile revenue streams.
distribution channels, IFA networks and products.
We also continued our drive for greater efficiency, and used the existing German back Other market risks office to launch into Hungary and the Czech Republic.
In the years ahead, the market will be affected by a number of legislative changes in Europe relating to consumer protectionism and 2006 has been another year when our businesses have been increased pressure on fees.
One way of mitigating these risks is our recognised in their local markets as excellent service providers continuing work on transparency.
Insofar as the businesses depend and strong innovators of financial solutions.
Notable growth was on tax benefits, changes in local tax legislation are closely monitored.
experienced in the French, Polish and Mexican markets.
Toward the end of 2006, Austria and France each achieved the landmark Outlook of 1 billion of funds under management, demonstrating that more From a market perspective, long-term trends in the Europe and Latin and more of our young businesses are achieving scale.
America region favour our business model, with ageing populations who are expected to live longer after retiring and state retirement Sale of Skandia Vida, Spain systems that are increasingly struggling to provide meaningful In December 2006, we announced we have reached an agreement to retirement income.
In Europe, the second and third pillars corporate sell Skandia Vida, our traditional life business in Spain.
The successful and private, respectively are becoming increasingly significant sources completion of this transaction is in line with Skandias core European for retirement income throughout Europe.
Market and government strategy to focus on mutual fund and unit-linked business.
reforms are generally supporting the development of these pillars by providing a favourable retirement savings environment, although there Market environment are strong indications that the added benefit of tax incentives for longWe have seen a development in Europe toward greater customer term savings generally are decreasing.
IFAs are gaining increasing awareness and preference for open-architecture solutions, government importance as a distribution channel, and banks are also looking to initiatives to move away from state-funded pensions, and a favourable penetrate the open-architecture space themselves.
economic environment with good equity performance and low inflation rates.
Especially during the first four months of 2006, equity In Latin America the privatisation of the pension systems, together performance helped strong net inflow of new business in several with improved tax incentives for complementary savings, have led European countries, with single premiums dominating.
At the same to increased second and third pillar savings.
Demand for international time we have widened and invested in our distribution capacity in investment funds and equities continues to increase, particularly as Europe.
In France, unit-linked sales were also supported by changes local regulations remove barriers for local distribution.
As a result, in tax legislation and strengthened recognition on the IFA market.
increased investment opportunities and requirements have increased The German unit-linked market started to pick up after a weak period the demand for investment advice.
One challenge for ELAM going forward will be to leverage synergies between the different ELAM operations, in terms of both cost efficiencies and revenue enhancements.
We will also continue to develop our start-ups during 2007, and invest in delivering synergies.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 38 Key performance objectives for Skandia as announced by the Company in June 2006 Delivery of 70m Mid-end 2008 p. a. of synergies Funds under management Growth of 15% p. a.
Total return on EV 15% by 2008 UK margin target 11-12% in 2008 ELAM margin target 16-18% in 2008 Nordic margin target 22-25% in 2008 Unit-linked assurance Traditional life Nordic As the markets largest life company, Skandia Liv is active in both the Skandia and its mutual subsidiary, Skandia Liv, hold a leading position private and occupational pensions segments of the Swedish traditional in the Swedish life assurance market measured by new business, with life market.
Skandia Liv provides insurance products with a security a combined customer base of 1.9 million customers in their Nordic profile featuring long-term savings with a guaranteed yield plus operations.
With a full range of product offerings traditional life, unitprotection coverage.
The traditional life products are an important part linked, banking, financial advisory, mutual funds and healthcare of the integrated product offering on the Swedish market.
Skandia Liv they are well positioned in a growing savings market.
has one of the highest solvency levels of any life company in the Swedish market.
At 31 December 2006, it was 169% and funds Business profile under management amounted to SEK293 billion.
Skandia has been in the Swedish market for over 150 years and its business in Sweden offers a full set of financial products.
We also Mutual funds have a growing unit-linked and life business in Denmark, as well as Skandia also offers mutual fund products via its banking subsidiary, healthcare and banking.
In Norway, we have a successful banking SkandiaBanken.
Skandia Fund Products offering is accessible for operation and we also offer healthcare products.
unit-linked savings, direct savings, individual pension savings IPS via SkandiaBanken and for premium pension savings via the PPM system.
Our strategy is to be a waterfront business in Sweden by being the most committed partner for financial security through life.
Banking The integration between Skandia, Skandia Liv and SkandiaBanken From having been a niche player in the Nordic banking market, has continued during the year.
There are strong potential synergies SkandiaBanken is now established as a full range online bank.
So far, its in terms of scale, brand and cross-selling.
During the coming years customer focus has been private individuals.
Through the new online we will be improving and developing our customer interface, enriching platform, customers gain access to a broader range of insurance services our product offering and making our products available to all via the internet.
The bank has won several awards in Norway and customers via different channels.
Skandias products are widely Sweden for its outstanding service and internet platform.
Total lending, distributed in Sweden, with sales through IFAs and brokers, its own mainly mortgages, increased during 2006. sales force and online.
Private Healthcare Swedes are avid savers and 31% of net savings are invested in Skandia offers companies and their employees private healthcare unit-linked.
Corporate pensions are the dominant segment of the solutions as an adjunct to the national healthcare systems.
Interest in Swedish life market, a sector where Skandia has traditionally been complementary and alternative solutions to national healthcare systems very strong.
There are strategies in place to increase new sales in the remains great in the Nordic countries.
However, competition in this area private segment as well.
Especially within unit-linked we have seen has intensified considerably.
mounting competition from online players, among others.
Performance during 2006 Skandia Liv offers life and pension insurance in the traditional life Pro forma market.
The company is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Skandia, but Highlights SEKm 2006 2005 Change is a mutual company.
It operates within a strict local legal framework IFRS adjusted operating profit 995 971 2% that does not provide its holding company power to control it in such EV adjusted operating profit a way as to access the benefits usually associated with share covered business 1,447 1,530 5% ownership which instead accrue to Skandia Livs policyholders.
Life assurance sales APE 1,769 1,954 9% Consequently, Skandia Liv is not consolidated in the Groups accounts.
Mutual fund sales 2,144 1,986 8% Due to proposed changes in applicable legislation governing Swedish Value of new business 479 618 22% mutual traditional life companies, Skandia will be considering the New business margin 27% 32% most appropriate form of association for Skandia Liv and expects to Net fund inflows SEK bn 3.5 provide further information on this during 2007.
Funds under management SEK bn 106 95 12% Unit-linked All current and prior-year numbers reflect 11 months of results and are adjusted Within unit-linked, Skandia Nordic offers a wide range of funds in to Old Mutual accounting policies.
Prior-year embedded value numbers are on various classes and with varying risk profiles.
All funds, including a Skandia basis, but allow for group expenses.
those offered by Skandias own fund companies, are managed externally, and managers are selected and monitered using our unique evaluation process.
Client funds in the Nordic unit-linked business amounted to SEK86 billion at the end of 2006, of which 59% was invested in equity-based funds.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 39 Healthy performance Group Finance Directors report continued An award-winning Group Skandia Nordic Norsk Kundebarometer SkandiaBanken Norway Category Most Satisfied Customers in All Industries Winner Increased operating profit driven by higher level of funds Market environment under management The Nordic economic environment was stable during 2006, with good The increase in adjusted operating profit for the Nordic business equity performance and low inflation rates.
During the year, interest is attributable to a higher level of funds under management and rates increased, albeit from low levels.
This environment helped positive net client cash flow in the Swedish unit-linked business.
increase volumes in the banking business, but at the same time increased pressure on interest margins.
With increased competition Life assurance sales and new sales at the Kapital pension level, Skandia Swedens APE The sales of the Kapital pension product boosted life sales on an sales for unit-linked decreased during 2006.
However, Skandia and APE basis temporarily in 2005, and 2006 saw volumes drop back.
Skandia Liv have maintained their leading position in the Swedish New sales of occupational corporate pension schemes TPS, our overall life assurance market in terms of new business.
largest product, increased compared to last year.
During 2006 the renegotiation of the ITP agreement has been a Denmark recorded strong growth of 101% in life sales on an APE core focus.
The ITP agreement is a collective agreement for corporate basis compared to prior year following favourable market pension savings for white-collar workers and includes approximately developments in Denmark and an improved product offering.
700.000 salaried employees within the private sector.
The new agreement will come into force on 1 July 2007.
Sales in 2007 are likely to be lower as the tax effectiveness of the Kapital pension product was removed in February this year and In line with the markets development, Skandia introduced a new Skandia is only on the panel for the new ITP agreement through commission model for the remuneration of its IFAs from October Skandia Livs products.
2006, which reduces up front commissions in return for higher trail commissions.
The new model has been developed in co-operation Strong growth in funds under management with brokers to ensure a shared view of the incentive structure.
Funds under management increased following an improvement in market conditions, higher net inflows from customers and a strong Risk management fourth quarter after the traditionally slow third-quarter holiday season.
Financial market risk The unit-linked business model transfers most of the financial markets Margin and EEV risk to the policyholder and guarantees are low.
However, the risk for Life new business margin was 27%, compared to 32% for the 11 Skandia consists in lower asset-based fees, lower retrocessions and months to 31 December 2005.
This was attributable in part to lower lower new sales due to market sentiment.
One way of managing this new sales of the Kapital pension.
EV adjusted operating profit declined risk has been the introduction of the new commission model.
This decrease in EV adjusted operating profit on a pro-forma basis was caused by the lower value of new Other market risks business, and a small negative operating assumption change in 2006, In the years ahead the market is likely to be affected by a number partially offset by higher fee income compared to strong positive of legislative changes impacting tax neutrality between savings with assumption changes last year.
and without insurance wrap, transfer rights and a new ITP agreement.
Regarding the new collective ITP agreement, we see an increased Continued growth in banking business level of uncertainty on further development of the corporate segment Our banking business continued to strengthen, with lending and among brokers, employers and insurance companies.
deposits achieving good growth during the year.
Lending increased to SEK49 billion, up 19% on the prior year, mainly due to strong Outlook mortgage lending in Norway.
SkandiaBanken continued to attract new Various factors will affect the earnings from Skandia Nordic in 2007. customers and create valuable synergies with the rest of the Nordic Firstly, we have decided to alter the arrangements between Skandia business.
Operating profit was lower than 2005, which was impacted Liv and Skandia AB so that there is complete clarity that Liv by some positive one-offs.
This was also in line with expectations for policyholders interests continue to be separated from the shareholder 2006, when IT projects and expenditures for Basel II implementation interests.
This should ensure that the long-standing debates about were planned.
governance of Skandia Liv are resolved.
We have commenced discussions with the Skandia Liv board and hope to complete these in the near future.
This will result in greater new business strain borne by our shareholders SEK150 million in 2007, and some additional administration costs SEK100-150 million per annum, but will 5 Source: Risk & Frskring no 14 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 40 enable us to grow profitably in 2008 and beyond.
Skandia Liv is an Asia Pacific and Other integral part of our strategy, and we believe it is important to ensure Business profile and Market Environment that the highest standards of governance are observed.
Secondly, Our operations in India, China and Australia continued to benefit the IT systems of Skandia require significant improvements, both during 2006 from our strategy to take our business skills into other to improve service standards and to allow us to improve our products, developing markets.
and we shall be investing in these over the next eighteen months.
This will cost approximately SEK100 million in 2007.
This was In India, a range of both individual and group life assurance products well understood at the time of acquisition and does not relate is offered by Kotak Mahindra Old Mutual Life Insurance Company Ltd, to the synergies, which are being sought at the same time.
A new a joint venture between Old Mutual and Kotak Mahindra Bank Limited.
organisational structure for Sweden is being put in place and we The Group currently owns a 26% stake in this joint venture, with an are confident about the strength of the underlying Skandia option to increase this to 49% when applicable local legislation permits.
The Groups business in China is a joint venture established by During 2007, major changes will be taking place in the Swedish Skandia in 2004 in conjunction with Beijing State-Owned Asset savings market.
To meet these challenges in the marketplace, we Management Co. BSAM, one of Beijings largest companies.
The will make investments in IT and administrative solutions.
Other key joint venture operates under the name Skandia BSAM.
It provides areas of focus during 2007 are to develop a new unit-linked portfolio unit-linked assurance solutions for high net worth individuals and system investment tool and to implement Basel II.
We will also has licences to operate in Beijing, Shanghai and Jiangsu Province.
continue to foster new business sales on the internet, develop our Distribution is handled by third parties including banks, securities corporate web platform further, and maintain our position in the houses and brokers.
Skandias business model is unusual in the public sector segment.
Chinese market, which is dominated by traditional local companies operating through a network of tied agents.
Chinas unit-linked Earnings growth during 2007 will be held back by this investment, market is at an early stage of development and has promising with synergistic costs, changes to commission structures and potential in the longer term.
unwinding of the existing Skandia Liv agreement also likely to have a negative impact.
Skandia BSAM built on its leading role in Beijings unit-linked market during its second full year of operation and continued to build its More generally, we believe that macro-economic factors and transfer distribution base by opening a second office in Shanghai.
Plans are of responsibility from public authorities to the individual creates an underway to apply for at least two further branch licences before the opportunity to distribute our products on a wider basis.
In addition, end of the year and to open two sub-branches in other major cities the rising need for advice, favourable demographics and customer in Jiangsu Province.
preferences for freedom of choice and flexibility show that we are well positioned with our platform offering.
Australian Skandia Limited ASL has been operating in the retail Australian market for five years as a unit-linked multi-manager Our higher than average exposure to baby-boomers in our European principally targeting the independent sector.
Intech, a research markets provides a real opportunity.
In the UK, we will capitalise on operation focusing on the institutional market, was acquired in late the market trend to wrap products with the launch later in 2007 2006.
Both ASL and Intech will benefit from a larger combined of our new supermarket platform.
The underlying need for advised investment research team, providing the enlarged entity with top-class pension savings remains, and these changes are receiving the proprietary research and wider distribution across both retail and committed attention of senior management.
In the ELAM division institutional markets.
we shall be expanding distribution capacity further during 2007.
The Australian financial services industry is highly regulated and is based on a platform of superannuation contributions of 9% of salary.
Abolition of the superannuation surcharge in May 2005 spurred industry growth, which continues to outperform the general economy.
Other significant drivers of growth include increased investment returns, rapid technological change and product innovations.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 41 Healthy performance Group Finance Directors report continued An award-winning Group Old Mutual Asset Managers UK Standard and Poors Fund Awards 2006 Category Best Specialist Group 1 year Winner OMAM UK is a specialist asset management boutique firm that offers Australia a range of equity, fixed income and multi-asset funds.
These include Funds under management by our Australian business at the end of retail unit trusts, hedge funds, funds-of-hedge funds, multi-asset funds 2006 were AU$14.2 billion 2005: AU$3.7 billion, consisting of and structured products.
retail ASL AU$5.1 billion and institutional Intech AU$9.1 billion.
Old Mutual International, based in Guernsey, provides offshore OMAM UK investment products and services for international investors.
2006 was a year of investment and of developing the platform for Products and services include unit-linked life offerings, unit trust future growth at OMAM UK.
The business reported adjusted offerings, discretionary portfolio management, offshore trusts and operating profit of 13.1 million 2005: 10 million.
Gross sales for the year exceeded 1.6 billion 2005: 1.1 billion, Palladyne Asset Management, a specialist asset management firm representing a year-on-year increase of 45%.
Full-year closing based in the Netherlands, offers asset management services for the funds under management increased by 23% to 5.7 billion retail market through a network of independent financial planners.
Performance during 2006 2006 saw the launch of three single strategy hedge funds and three multi-strategy hedge funds.
Highlights 2006 2005 Change From January 2007, executive responsibility for OMAM UK has Adjusted operating profit m 18 20 10% been transferred to US asset management.
Funds under management bn 12 7 71% Unit trust mutual fund sales m 1,657 1,072 55% Palladyne KMOM India APE INRm 5,321 2,659 100% Palladynes funds under management increased by 54% to 576 Skandia BSAM APE RMBm 53.8 6.8 691% million during the year.
From January 2007, executive responsibility Includes results of Australian Skandia and Skandia BSAM China for 11 for Palladyne has been transferred to Skandia ELAM.
months This represents 100% of the businesses.
The Group owns 26% of KMOM Outlook and 50% of Skandia BSAM.
The key long-term objective for our Asia Pacific businesses is to develop a credible Asian operation in terms of both size and India profitability.
As well as focusing efforts on building presence in Kotak Mahindra Old Mutual has continued to make robust progress, our existing markets, we plan to enhance distribution capabilities with gross premiums for the 9 months ended 31 December 2006 of and product ranges, develop asset management capability in the INR5,047 million, a 96% increase on 2005 in line with the Kotak region, and consider opportunities for geographic expansion as and Mahindra Group, KMOM has a 31 March year end.
Net losses for the when they arise.
9 months ended 31 December 2006 were INR482 million.
We expect our Australian business to continue to grow profitably in China 2007, and we will continue to provide working capital to our Indian Our life joint venture in China also showed strong sales growth during and Chinese operations to support their further expansion.
For the year ended 31 December 2006, the venture reported a loss of RMB59 million.
Despite its recent entry into the market, out Jonathan Nicholls of the 25 foreign-owned joint venture insurance companies in China, Group Finance Director Skandia BSAM had the tenth-largest gross premium flows.
26 February 2007 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 42 Forward-looking statements Priorities This Business Review contains certain forward-looking statements South Africa with respect to Old Mutual plcs plans and its current goals and Pursue a combined strategy for our three major businesses to provide expectations relating to its future financial condition, performance and financial solutions for all South African individuals and companies results.
By their nature, all forward-looking statements involve risk and Drive growth build productive retail distribution uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances Achieve consistent top-rated investment performance through multiboutique asset management operations that are beyond Old Mutual plcs control, including, among other Focus on business and public sector banking things, UK domestic and global economic and business conditions, Champion new-era savings and investment products market-related risks such as fluctuations in interest rates and exchange Transform the businesses to meet new customer requirements rates, policies and actions of regulatory authorities, the impact of USA competition, inflation, deflation, the timing and impact of other uncertainties or of future acquisitions or combinations within relevant Build brand industries, as well as the impact of tax and other legislation and Expand asset management capacity regulations in territories where Old Mutual plc or its affiliates operate.
Maintain focus on multi-boutique style Build products for baby-boomer and Hispanic needs As a result, Old Mutual plcs actual future financial condition, Grow onshore variable annuities and mutual funds performance and results may differ materially from the plans, Europe goals and expectations set forth in Old Mutual plcs forward-looking Deliver Skandias full growth potential statements.
Old Mutual plc undertakes no obligation to update any Deliver synergy targets forward-looking statements contained in this Business Review or Upgrade IT to achieve a straight-through processed model using SA any other forward-looking statements that it may make.
technology and outsourcing in the UK, and replace sales and product platforms in Sweden Clarify relationship with Skandia Liv Asia Grow our fourth leg quickly more agents, more cities Acquire a further stake in our Indian JV when possible Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 43
