Royal & SunAlliance 16 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Emerging Markets business review Exposure to faster growing, high potential markets we improved the overall underwriting result by 83% to 11m, m 2006 2005 demonstrating the strength of the Emerging Markets portfolio.
Net written premiums 531 440 Latin America delivered a 26% increase in premiums, reflecting Underwriting result 11 6 strong underlying growth and the successful integration of our Combined operating ratio COR 97.3% 96.4% 2005 acquisition of Cruz del Sur in Chile.
We are focused on driving growth in market segments where we have strong During 2006 we brought together our businesses across positions and a competitive advantage.
In Brazil, our marine Latin America, the Baltics and Asia and the Middle East, to franchise continued to perform strongly, growing premiums by strengthen our strategic focus on these fast growing markets 50% in 2006 and we are building on this regional expertise with and fully realise the operations profitable growth potential.
the launch of Carga Royal in Colombia.
Expanding distribution Emerging Markets delivered an excellent 21% increase in net was a key driver of growth in Venezuela where we added 420 written premiums and a combined operating ratio of 97.3%.
new agents during the year.
Overview of major strategies The additional reinsurance and one-off integration costs noted Emerging Markets is our fastest growing business.
We see above, impacted the Latin America result, increasing the COR to significant growth potential in both Commercial and Personal 103.7% for the year.
In Commercial, strong Gross Domestic Product GDP Asia and the Middle East delivered another excellent result with growth is driving a greater requirement for risk transfer and in a COR of 83.1%.
The business delivered underlying double digit Personal, a more affluent population, with more assets at risk is premium growth after adjusting for the disposal of the Japanese leading to a greater propensity to insure.
We are focused on business in 2005.
Motor was a key driver of growth in the region, delivering profitable growth through expanding distribution, particularly in the Middle East, where we have increased volumes disciplined underwriting and improving operational performance, after web-enabling our brokers, allowing them to transact more and will complement organic growth with acquisitions that efficiently with us.
accelerate the delivery of our strategic objectives.
Our joint venture in India increased premiums by 38% over the By 2010 we expect to double net written premiums from 2005 year.
We are focused on accelerating the development of this levels in the Baltics, Latin America and Asia and the Middle East, business, and would look to increase our shareholding should the and to increase gross written premiums in India to 200m.
Indian government lift the 26% cap on foreign direct investment.
Business progress against strategies The Baltics continue to deliver strong net written premium growth In 2006 there were floods in Chile, storms in Mexico and with premiums up 31% to 114m, driven by strong performances increased reinsurance costs in Latin America following hurricanes in both Personal and Commercial lines.
The COR was 92.2% Emily, Katrina and Wilma.
Despite the impact of these events, Santiago, Chile Chile is one of the most vibrant and stable economies in Latin America benefiting from a mineral rich environment, low inflation and high levels of foreign trade.
In 2007 GDP growth is forecast to exceed 5% and Chileans spend more per head on insurance than any other Latin American country.
We are the clear market leader following our acquisition of Cruz del Sur in 2005, with 17% market share.
Our business is headquartered in Santiago which is home to around 40% of the Chilean population.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2006 17 compared with 90.1% in 2005.
In Latvia, new car sales increased industry in the region, through the introduction of call centres, by 53% in 2006 and we now have agreements in place with over centralised claims handling and more sophisticated pricing 50% of major car dealerships in the country.
We are focused on writing business profitably in all of our markets and in 2007, have increased prices and introduced Market and economic conditions deductibles in Latvia to combat strong claims inflation.
Our Emerging Markets business covers 20 countries with economies at differing stages of development and growth.
In the second half of 2007 we will launch our Estonian operation.
Premium volumes are growing strongly in the Middle East and Leveraging the expertise of our existing Baltic operations, we are Baltics, and in Latin America there are some signs of increasing confident of building a strong franchise to realise the growth rates following the hurricanes in 2005.
In Asia, increased capacity potential we see in this exciting market.
is creating downward pressure on rates.
We have taken a number of actions designed to improve the Other initiatives performance of our Latin American operations, including the We are building a senior team at the centre with specialist appointment of a new CEO, CFO and Risk Director at the regional technical knowledge to drive product development and growth level, and a new CEO in Mexico.
Following these actions, we expect across the business.
This team is supported by key appointments an improvement in the Latin American underwriting performance at a regional level including a new CEO for Latin America.
In the Baltics, we have implemented a number of operational We will continue to leverage the technical expertise and operational efficiency initiatives including automatic renewals on our motor, efficiency initiatives of the R&SA Group to build competitive accident and property portfolios.
These actions increase customer advantage and strengthen profitability.
In preparation for the retention and free our agent network from administrative tasks Indian detariffication which was implemented on 1 January 2007, allowing them to focus on new business sales.
we significantly enhanced our pricing capability.
Although tariffs were not fully liberalised, our enhanced segmentation and risk Net Promoter Score surveys, which measure customer advocacy, selection capability provides us with a real competitive advantage.
have been successfully piloted in the UAE, Hong Kong and Latin America and will be rolled out more widely across Emerging The Emerging Markets region is exciting, with high growth Markets in 2007.
We are committed to ensuring that our potential.
With the strength of the R&SA Group, our businesses customers have positive experiences when dealing with us, and are well positioned to deliver on the profitable growth implementing improvements advocated by them should lead to opportunities that this region presents.
We are committed to stronger retention and increased cross selling opportunities.
underwriting discipline and continuous operational improvement to continue to drive sustainable profitable performance.
Outlook Our Baltic operations are leading the modernisation of the Net written premiums 531m Underwriting result Net written premiums 83% 21% Latin America 314m Baltics 114m Asia & Middle East 103m
