Royal & SunAlliance 14 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 International business review A strong portfolio of businesses focused on maximising opportunities for profitable growth in mature markets Business progress against strategies m 2006 2005 Our business in Scandinavia is the largest in the portfolio Net written premiums 2,334 2,221 accounting for 55% of International premiums.
We are the third Underwriting result 149 122 largest insurer in the region and are driving the business as a Combined operating ratio COR 93.1% 93.9% pan-Nordic organisation with a portfolio of very strong local brands, principally Codan in Denmark and Trygg-Hansa in Sweden.
These brands each have a prompted brand awareness International brings together our businesses in Scandinavia of almost 100%.
Sweden, Denmark and Norway, Canada, Ireland and Italy enabling us to drive strategies for growth in mature markets The Scandinavian business performed strongly again in 2006, on a regional basis.
International delivered excellent results with 4% growth in net written premiums on a local basis and an in 2006, with a 5% increase in net written premiums and a 18% increase in the underwriting result.
In Commercial, we have focused our sales teams on specific Overview of major strategies customer segments and developed tailored customer value We continue to focus on driving sustainable profitable growth propositions.
As a result, growth rates have increased significantly, ahead of the market and building market share in our target particularly in the Marine and Health Insurance portfolios.
We are delivering this through a combination of We continue to strengthen our market positions in Personal organic growth and acquisitions in existing territories.
lines in Scandinavia and have increased net written premiums We are successfully driving growth by exploiting alternative by 6%.
We have expanded our distribution capacity, signing distribution channels, taking a segmented approach to our target additional agreements with car dealers in both Denmark and customer base and developing new customer propositions.
We now have access to 27% of the Swedish new car are sharing best practice and looking for cost synergies across market and around 30% of the Danish market and continue the region.
Long term expense management is a key priority to grow our market share.
In Denmark, our bancassurance and all businesses are delivering on this important element of partnerships give us access to over two-thirds of banks in our strategy.
The geographic spread of our International businesses allows We continue to build our platform in the Norwegian market.
us to access markets at different points in the rating cycle.
We acquired White Label Holding AS Group and Duborgh This diversification is a key component in the sustainability Skadeforsikring AS, who are leading specialist providers of of our results.
Personal and Commercial affinity products in Norway.
These Global marine proposition We are a top three marine insurer in Canada and Scandinavia.
Building on the marine expertise within International and UK businesses, we have launched One Stop Cargo a comprehensive global offering.
This product has been developed to provide small and medium sized businesses and general merchandise cargo owners with access to leading expertise, global capabilities and competitive pricing.
It has flexible cover options and can be purchased online or through R&SAs global network.
One Stop Cargo was initially launched in Ireland, Asia and the Middle East and will be rolled out more widely across the Group during 2007.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2006 15 businesses also have a growing presence in Sweden and are In line with our strategy of targeting specific segments, we expanding into Denmark.
In 2007, we expect these businesses acquired EGI Holdings Ltd in Ireland during the year.
This to generate premiums of around 50m.
established business, with strong positions in selected liability and motor lines, extends our range of expertise and product offerings.
Canada has again delivered excellent results, with a 15% increase in net written premiums reflecting a strong performance Italy outperformed the market in terms of top line growth, and by Johnson, our direct Personal business and Commercial.
The delivered a strong increase in underwriting profit.
We continue Canadian business delivered a 2.8 point improvement in the COR to invest in our broker extranet, which is increasing the efficiency to 92% and increased the underwriting result by 85% to 48m.
Electronic broker transactions increased This reflects the benefits of our disciplined risk selection, claims by 126% during the year.
Our non-tied agent recruitment is on management and the continued delivery of cost savings.
track with a further 35 appointments during the year.
The Commercial business delivered a 27% increase in net written Outlook premiums.
Strong new business growth across all regions was We are experiencing strong competition in all our markets but, for supported by the launch of innovative products and quoting the most part, pricing discipline is holding.
We continue to maintain tools, including the continued roll out of RapideQuote which a rigorous approach to improving our sales effectiveness and is now used by over 425 brokers.
are starting to see the benefits of this in a robust pipeline of new business.
We also remain open to further strengthening our Johnson increased net written premiums by 25%, reflecting both portfolio by acquisition.
strong organic growth and the successful integration of the Morgex and Shillington acquisitions.
New affinity deals were signed during We have undertaken a range of initiatives to improve operational the year and Johnson now has access to sponsorship groups efficiency and are exploiting the many sales and operational and credit unions representing 2.9 million members.
Johnson advantages that the web provides.
In addition, we are on track to continues to develop a strong pipeline of bolt-on acquisitions.
deliver 40m of cost savings, which represents Internationals share of the Group target.
As a result of these initiatives and our In the Personal Intermediated business, we signed 82 new developing pipeline, we anticipate steady improvements in the contracts with brokers, taking the number of new broker contracts expense ratio.
In 2007, we expect International to represent an increased Ireland produced another good result in a competitive proportion of the Groups underwriting result and our market.
We continue to hold the number one market position Scandinavian business to deliver an improved combined in household.
Enterprise, a local telephone-based service operating ratio of 91-93% 2006: 93.9%.
offering for brokers, underpinned a positive commercial lines performance.
Net written premiums 2,334m Underwriting result Combined operating ratio 22% 93.1% Scandinavia 1,280m Canada 662m Other Europe 392m
