Our objective is to be a pre-eminent provider of active asset management services to institutional and retail clients worldwide and in doing so reward our shareholders by growing returns on a sustainable basis over the long term.
We believe we are strongly placed to meet this objective.
In 2006, we generated net inflows into European equity strategies of 3.3bn Schroders is a leading global, independent short-term deposits.
Longer-term savings are Schroders asset management company, with over two generally held in equities, fixed income and hundred years of experience in the worlds alternative investments.
While we do manage Business review financial markets.
short-term savings for our clients, Schroders principal role is to enable savers to meet their We serve institutional, retail and high investment goals on longer-term savings.
net worth clients with a broad range of investment products.
We operate across a number of 4 5 different client segments Our business proposition is underpinned Our core skills in devising, producing and by some key beliefs: delivering products for clients across the full range of asset management activities allow That the interplay between market us to meet the needs of a broad spectrum economics and long-term trends in of clients.
demographics, investments and savings offers interesting opportunities and We group these clients into three main exciting growth prospects for the asset categories reflecting the current structure of the savings industry: management industry: That our research-based approach allows Institutional where we manage assets, us to identify and exploit inefficiencies in pooled or segregated form, on behalf inherent in the marketplace, using a of large corporate, local authority, central disciplined investment process to add government and charitable entities, including value to client assets: both defined benefit and defined contribution pension funds.
Schroders has a long That our exclusive focus on asset history in this market with Institutional funds management minimises conflicts of under management accounting for more interest and aligns our objectives with than 60 per cent.
of our total funds under our clients objectives.
Schroders role is to help clients Retail where we manage assets on behalf with their savings of individuals via mutual funds and investment Savings have a critical role in the global trusts, delivered in a variety of user-friendly economy, both as a store of wealth and as forms.
This business has become increasingly a source of financial capital for industry and important in recent years and accounts for commerce.
Savings are controlled both by 33 per cent.
of total funds under management.
institutions governments, charitable bodies, It uses similar investment disciplines to our commercial organisations and by private institutional business, with a greater emphasis individuals and are accumulated to meet a on short-term performance and products with variety of different needs.
The majority of higher risk reward characteristics.
We have these savings are temporary in nature and developed strong relationships with financial are held in the form of bank accounts and intermediaries, from local banks and financial Our share of the UK retail market increased with record gross sales of 4.5bn intermediaries to global banks and insurance Institutional clients will often come to us and risk reward characteristics.
Our approach companies, through which we distribute a through their own advisor or consultant.
is research-based using an extensive group range of Schroder branded or sub-advised The assignments we are given are typically of analysts located around the world in the mutual funds around the globe.
highly specific and dovetail with their other markets in which we invest, combined with investments in a range of asset classes and state of the art computerised quantitative Private Banking where we manage assets with the other managers they employ.
We research, modelling and risk management.
on behalf of high net worth individuals and are judged in relation to performance against family offices.
We provide a full range of client objectives and the quality of the client Fixed Income securities in all major currencies products including deposit-taking, cash service and advice we provide.
including sovereign debt, high-grade corporate management, custody and execution bonds, high-yield instruments and emerging services, advisory and discretionary asset In our Retail channel we work very closely with market debt.
Todays fixed income markets management and specialised lending.
Our banks, insurance companies or independent demand a deep knowledge of credit markets.
private bankers use input from our economics financial advisors.
These intermediaries advise We have built a global credit team located on and investment strategy teams, and use both the ultimate client on meeting their financial the ground in Asia, Europe and America to proprietary Schroder investment products goals: we support them by providing the support our fixed income fund managers.
and external funds in structuring our clients information they need to judge the suitability Alternative asset classes such as property, portfolios.
commodities, private equity and hedge In Private Banking we advise wealthy funds.
These asset classes and the trading We serve our clients in different ways but there are aspects of our service that are individuals directly.
Our high net worth clients strategies associated with them are increasing common to all are looking to maintain or grow their assets in popularity with our clients.
Their attraction Clients come to us as a trusted manager after taking into account inflation, taxes, fees is based on the opportunities that they offer and because we offer the essential service and other charges.
We work with them in to provide new, uncorrelated sources of that they are looking for.
At its most basic, realising their goals using the full range of returns for portfolio diversification purposes that means the right service at a competitive Schroder capabilities combined with thirdand the prospect of generating superior risk price and with competitive performance.
highly competitive industry where clients have many choices, we must exceed these basic We provide our clients with the flexibility The breadth of our product range is designed requirements and go further.
We have to to invest across a wide range of to accommodate for a wide range of investor excel in client service and we have to offer a products, including: needs and risk appetites.
Our product range partnership of real value to the client over and A range of Equity products covering most extends from benchmark products with above the immediate product we are providing.
regions, industry sectors, investment styles limited risk, designed to deliver returns Our new balanced fund, Diversified Growth, has won on average one new institutional client a week since launch.
moderately in excess of standard market dealing activities.
It plays a key role in product Schroders indices to high alpha products designed design, concentrating particularly on the to exceed benchmarks by a greater margin risk reward features of each product and Business review but with higher associated risk.
We also is responsible for delivering reliable and provide unconstrained products designed to sustainable investment performance, deliver returns independent of benchmarks reflecting specific investment objectives.
and absolute return products that focus on wealth protection as well as growth.
Distribution which is responsible for 6 7 delivering products to institutional and We operate on a global scale retail clients.
Operating in 26 countries, through 35 offices, We look to build successful, long-term gives us a wide geographic coverage.
This relationships with clients across a wide spread allows us to access clients in the traditional of locations and markets by understanding areas of the UK, Europe, US and Japan their investment requirements and ensuring where the demand for asset management that we provide suitable investment solutions.
services is long established, and the fastThis process is supported by sales and client growing savings pools in the emerging and service teams who deliver across the full range of strategies, market segments, more recently developed economies in the distribution channels, products and Middle East, Asia Pacific and Latin America.
To meet the challenge of successfully delivering across a diverse range of Private Banking where we provide clients, products and geographies, services to wealthy individuals and families.
we are organised as: Private Banking comprises dedicated Investment where we manufacture relationship management and investment products to meet client needs.
functions, whilst our Private Banking Service All investment activities are managed Centre provides the integrated infrastructure within a single division with a clear objective resources to support this business.
of delivering performance which meets or exceeds client objectives.
This area contains all our portfolio management, research and International Investment Centres Local Investment Operations All offices provide sales and distribution services Bermuda Buenos Aires Amsterdam Lisbon Paris Beijing Shanghai Cayman Islands So Paulo Copenhagen London Rome Hong Kong Singapore Mexico City Frankfurt Luxembourg Stockholm Jakarta Sydney New York Geneva Madrid Vienna Melbourne Taipei Philadelphia Guernsey Milan Zurich Seoul Tokyo Toronto Jersey Padua In addition to these parts of the business, Market performance in 2006 The table below shows the movement in a we have two further groupings.
2006 saw our operating environment number of recognised stock market indices affected by a number of economic and over 2006 : Infrastructure which is responsible for the market factors operational platform and ensures quality As an asset manager with a majority of our Local Stock markets assurance, control and efficiency.
assets under management being held in FTSE 100 10.7% increase This area provides and maintains the equities, our business has a high degree S&P 500 13.6% increase operating platform and services necessary to of sensitivity to growth levels in the global Nikkei 225 6.9% increase deliver our products to clients whilst ensuring economy and the associated movements Broad Market Indices that we meet the high standards of quality in the worlds equity markets.
MSCI World 13.5% increase assurance and control expected by our MSCI Europe ex UK 18.9% increase clients, shareholders and other external In 2006 equities strongly outperformed fixed MSCI Pacific 9.6% increase stakeholders such as regulatory bodies.
income, with the major world stock market Its responsibilities range from Operations, indices seeing rises across the year in local Meanwhile, Alternatives fared well after a Information Technology, Human Resources currency terms.
This produced positive shaky second quarter, while Fixed Income and Facilities to Finance, Tax, Legal, Risk investment returns for our clients.
In addition, it manages This positive market performance had a all of the Groups major projects and The following tables show the movement in a number of key drivers, including: outsourcing arrangements.
number of benchmarks for a number of these Prices within equity markets in 2006 other asset classes : Private Equity where we concentrate reflecting a widely held view that neither our interests in the specialist private the US nor world economies would fall Fixed Income Bonds: equity asset class.
This view was 10 year benchmark clean prices This division delivers private equity fund underpinned by expectations for 2007 UK Gilts 5.6% decrease of funds solutions to our clients, as well as that inflation would stabilise around US Treasuries 3.6% decrease maintaining an investment portfolio in the current levels, US interest rates would Japan Treasuries 1.1% decrease Groups current and legacy private equity not rise dramatically thereby maintaining products.
We also use our experience in US consumer spending levels and that Alternatives this area as a basis for offering administrative oil prices would fall from the peaks UK Property Index, Capital Growth 12.4% increase services to third-party private equity funds.
seen in 2006: Credit Suisse The ongoing strength of corporate earnings Tremont Hedge Fund Index 13.4% increase growth: operating earnings in Standard & Poors 500 companies were 21 per cent.
31 12 06 close vs 31 12 05 close: in local currency terms.
higher for Q3 2006 compared to Q3 2005: Company liquidity remained strong with companies using the strength of their balance sheets to make acquisitions or return cash to shareholders.
Our Multi Manager Cautious Portfolio has been best in class since launch in 2005.
Looking forwards into 2007 we continue to Revenue growth Schroders expect slower growth in the US and world 631.3 808.0 967.2 economies without entering into recession.
Business review 1,200 The effect of this, plus some reduction in 20% interest rates by the US Federal Reserve, 1,000 should be positive for equity markets, even 28% 156.1 allowing for a slowdown in the rate of 800 140.2 corporate earnings growth.
The main threat 8 9 600 to this viewpoint would be a slowdown in 110.5 US consumption driven by reducing growth 400 levels or falling house prices.
520.8 667.8 811.1 200 Our financial performance was 0 strong in 2006 2004 2005 2006 Income and margins Other Asset Management Overall income performance in 2006 saw a 20 per cent.
growth in revenues and an 18 per cent.
growth in gross profit compared Gross profit margins on average funds under management have continued to grow.
2006 they were 59bp 2005: 54bp for Asset Revenues in Asset Management increased by Management and Private Banking combined.
with growth in both Institutional 19 per cent.
This Gross profit margins for Asset Management was driven by a combination of market were 55bp, an increase of 4bp from 2005. growth, growth in our retail business, higher margins and increases in performance Asset management gross profit margins fees earned.
46 51 55 56 Private Banking revenues increased by 33 per cent.
This increase 54 was across both the banking and asset 52 management areas of Private Banking.
50 48 Revenue from Private Equity decreased by 23 per cent.
Our revenue potential 46 in this area remains strong with a net increase 44 of 42.8 million in unrealised gains recognised 42 in reserves in 2006, including 10 million in 40 relation to our investment in SVG Capital.
2004 2005 2006 In a turbulent market we achieved strong performance and low volatility in our new Commodity fund.
Basis points Revenue mn Costs The primary drivers of increased nonWe have maintained our levels Whilst the overall cost base has grown in compensation costs in Asset Management of investment performance the year, the ratio of total costs to operating during the year were marketing and Funds performance revenues has fallen to 73 per cent.
in 2006 increased operational costs following the Investment performance from 79 per cent.
in 2005. termination of the JP Morgan outsourcing contract, as well as spending on infrastructure Percentage of Institutional and Retail assets above and below benchmark Overall compensation costs have risen this replacement projects.
3 years to 31 December 2005 year by 35.4 million 11 per cent.
reflecting in part increased headcount during 2005 Private Banking costs increased as a result Institutional Retail and 2006, however, the ratio of total of expenditure on a project to centralise compensation costs to operating revenues operations in Zurich.
This project is expected to has reduced to 47 per cent.
2005: 51 per lead to lower costs in the second half of 2007. cent.
In the long term this ratio is targeted Group costs were lower due to a decrease in to reduce further to 45 per cent.
spending on financial systems against 2005 and reduced provisioning for vacant space in our London offices, partially offset by higher Total costs: operating revenues ratio % staff costs.
82 79 73 3 years to 31 December 2006 Institutional Retail 90 Profit before tax 80 Headline profit before tax grew strongly by 70 16 per cent.
on an underlying basis, excluding 40% 60% 32% 68% 50 the effect of the one-off payment received in 2005 on the discontinuation of the JP Morgan 40 outsourcing contract.
30 20 51 51 47 Profit after tax 10 Below benchmark Above benchmark Profit after tax also increased strongly, up 0 overall by 15 per cent.
The segmental analysis of results is shown Compensation Non-compensation in more detail in note 2 on pages 53 to 55.
in 2006 is similar Non-compensation costs amounted to to the tax rate for 2005.
This is lower than the Looking across our range of funds, 64 per 26 per cent.
of operating revenues in the current UK corporate tax rate of 30 per cent.
of fund assets have performed above year.
We have continued to invest in both principally because of the level of profit arising their three-year benchmark in 2006, our product and infrastructure capabilities.
in low or nil tax jurisdictions.
Cost as percentage of operating revenue 2006 saw recognition of our success across asset classes, client segments and geographies.
Schroders Awards included: Business review Team Award Sponsor Opus Credit Best Performing Fund Hedge Fund Reviews of Hedge Funds Specialist European Hedge Funds Awards 2006 Schroders Australia Australian Equities Fund Manager Australian Fund Manager Awards 2006 Best Overall Fund Manager 10 11 UK Institutional Business Development Financial News Awards 2006 Team of the Year Schroders Argentina Fund Manager of the Year 2006 Standard & Poors Schroder Recovery Fund UK All Companies Best Fund Moneywise Fund Awards We continue to enrich our product range Sales We have launched a number of successful Sales to Retail clients saw net inflows of funds in 2006, including: 3.8 billion 2005: net inflows of nil with European Special Situations Fund strong sales performance in UK and European BRIC Brazil, Russia, India, China Fund retail products.
Diversified Growth Fund Sterling Broad Market Fund Sales to Institutional clients saw net outflows Agricultural Commodities Fund of 8.0 billion 2005: net outflows of 5.9 billion European Real Estate Fund of Funds with the main outflows in UK balanced mandates and Japanese equities.
During 2006 we built up the life assurance company established in 2005 to help meet Private Banking achieved net sales inflows the demands of the defined contributions of 0.4 billion 2005: 0.6 billion.
As at 31 December 2006 this company was responsible for over Net new business for the year was a net 1.5 billion of funds under management.
outflow of 3.8 billion 2005: net outflow of 5.3 billion.
Our acquisition during the year of NewFinance Capital enhanced our capabilities in the hedge The estimated annualised revenue effect of funds of funds product area.
net new business in the year is an increase of 28.9 million.
We announced during the year the intended acquisition of Aareal Asset Management.
The profits we generated were used This acquisition, which completed in February in a number of ways 2007, extends our coverage of the property We distributed funds to shareholders sector across continental Europe.
120 million of the funds earned in the year were distributed to shareholders via the payment of dividends and the repurchase of our own shares.
Our Global Quantitative Equity product achieved its 7th consecutive year of out-performance.
Schroder Global Quantitative Core Composite relative to MSCI World NDR The dividends declared and paid in 2006, September 2006, managing seven property Other investment capital 477 million being the final dividend for 2005 and the funds across European markets.
This 2005: 468 million interim dividend for 2006, came to 22 pence acquisition, which provides the platform This comprises investments to support per share or 63.4 million, an increase of to extend our successful UK property existing products and businesses via short- 3.9 million on 2005.
Share buybacks net business across Continental Europe, term seed capital investments as well as of inflows from the exercise of share options completed on 28 February 2007. longer-term investments in hedge, property totalled 56.5 million in the year.
These are managed We maintained our pool of working against limits defined for each type of A final dividend of 17.5 pence per share or and investment capital investment.
The return for the year on these 49.7 million has been recommended.
Schroders has a substantial pool of capital to investments reflected in the income statement support the business, derived from retained was 15.8 per cent.
2005: 17.3 per cent.. We invested in organic growth earnings and the proceeds from the sale of In addition, unrealised profits from this area We are continually looking at ways of its investment banking business in April 2000, added a net 32 million to shareholders improving our product offering, investing divided between: equity in 2006 2005: 2 million.
in our people and increasing operational efficiency.
During the year we increased Regulatory and working capital The strength of our capital position not only average headcount across the business 654 million 2005: 463 million enables us to maintain our credit ratings but by 163 as well as spending 42 million on This represents the Groups investment in also provides our clients and investors with infrastructure projects.
the underlying operating companies and continued confidence in the resilience of our the capital required for the day to day business over the long term and gives us the We invested in acquisitions management of the business together with flexibility to consider acquisition opportunities In 2006 we acquired NewFinance Capital, retained profits awaiting distribution to the as they become available.
a London-based manager of funds of Group holding companies.
The increase in hedge funds, for an initial consideration the year is made up of: We are a People Business of 57.4 million.
This added 1.4 billion Our employees continue to be the most of funds under management at acquisition.
Increase in regulatory capital 29m important asset of the Group.
We have great The business was amalgamated with our Increase in retained profits 54m talent throughout Schroders and it remains existing funds of hedge funds business Effect of new business 64m a priority for us to develop, manage and retain so as to ensure a consistent level of Other 44m this talent in order to deliver our potential as institutional quality for our clients.
Since the Total 191m an organisation.
Schroders is a place where acquisition our revenues in this area have talented professionals can develop their skills seen a strong increase and funds under Investment capital made up of: and experience throughout a rewarding and management ended the year at 1.9 billion.
Liquid funds 312 million 2005: 412 million In December 2006 we announced the The lower risk tranche of investment capital, We aim to recruit and retain outstanding purchase of Aareal Asset Management designed to give flexibility to react to the people and we invest in their professional GmbH AAM and related companies, changing requirements on the business.
Our recruitment, a pan-European property asset manager is managed against a target return of LIBOR.
performance review and development based in Germany.
AAM had assets The return on these assets in the year was planning processes are designed to find, under management of 1.9 billion as at 4.3 per cent.
2005: 4.3 per cent.. train and motivate people to achieve the best results for Schroders and for our clients.
Our Emerging Markets equity team increased assets under management by 83 per cent.
to 4.8bn We employ more than 2,600 people in five concentrated in a few key centres London, Schroders continents and our aim is to be an employer Singapore, Luxembourg and Switzerland.
of choice wherever we operate.
For us, This ensures a wide reach across the globe Business review this means ensuring that our employees while delivering economies of scale in both understand the strategic aims and objectives front and middle offices and the associated of the Group and are clear about their role in operations and administration platforms.
It also means that we work to ensure that employee policies and The Schroders brand, supported by sub- 12 13 treatment reflect current legislation and branding as appropriate, is used in all our best practice within each of the countries product areas and geographies and is in which we operate.
In 2006 we focused on the identification We continue to invest in our infrastructure and development of our talented people at to roll out the Target Operating Model TOM all levels of Schroders.
Initiatives included: defined in 2005 at the time of the termination of our outsourcing arrangements with JP Establishing a clear framework of Morgan, which required the renewal of a competencies to underpin all performance number of the core components of our systems architecture as well as enhanced management and development activities: process automation.
Making available a broad range of training courses to build the competencies identified: Implementation of the TOM commenced Delivering intensive development during 2006, the major project being the programmes for our most talented people replacement of our existing portfolio systems including observation, feedback, coaching with a single Book of Records, which will and personal development plans.
support all aspects of our investment business, from portfolio accounting to client Our infrastructure is continually reviewed reporting.
This strategic solution is expected against the needs of our business to take three years to implement and will Our organisational model is designed provide a platform capable of supporting to ensure efficiency across the business.
Schroders business development across the next 10-15 years.
Our unified investment function allows the sharing of investment and research Other projects in the pipeline include excellence and disciplines across the enhancing performance measurement and organisation, and ensures a common attribution analysis, automating reconciliation understanding of best practice.
processes, streamlining the flow of data between systems and enhancing our We have three key international investment derivatives capabilities.
centres located in the UK, US and Singapore.
Our administrative systems are similarly NewFinance Capitals Opus Credit Fund won Best Performing Fund of Hedge Funds Specialist at the Hedge Fund Reviews European Hedge Funds Awards 2006.
Another major project is the migration fund longer-living retirees.
This will have a These people will want to build up enough of the local support for our London and major impact on the cost of state-provided capital to support them in retirement and will Guernsey based Private Banks to Zurich.
pensions, and suggests that few individuals increasingly require investment solutions that This is expected to complete during the first in developed economies will be able to rely are not only tailored to match their risk return half of 2007 and will deliver an integrated solely on government pension schemes to profiles now, but can potentially adapt to their service centre for Private Banking, reducing fund their retirement.
profiles as they change over time.
complexities in the operating platform, increasing automation and raising At the same time as feeling the impact of the Additionally, retail investors in the postbusiness efficiency.
prospective increase in the longevity of their retirement phase will control an increasing members, the weak equity markets in 2000- proportion of total savings.
If savings products Across our business we are seeing 2003 and changes in accounting practices are required to provide individuals with a number of long-term changes have left many company defined benefit the ability to use their savings to fund a Key global demographic trends are changing pension schemes under-funded and exposed comfortable retirement, then reliable capital the outlook for savings and therefore the to risks they find difficult to control.
Many growth pre-retirement and income and capital long-term outlook for Schroders.
company schemes have been closed to new preservation post-retirement will be key members and others have ceased altogether features.
In the major western economies alone to provide benefits.
Parallel developments are appearing already average life expectancy has increased Unable, therefore, to rely on the state or their in the residual defined benefit portion of the by over 10 per cent.
in the period 1960 employers to provide adequate  market, where trustees are to 2005, with further increases expected.
Taking a retirement age of 65, life related defined benefit pensions for them showing a greater desire for products which expectancy post-retirement has nearly in retirement, many of todays workers are match their liabilities and give them greater tripled in this period.
increasingly obliged to take personal certainty over required funding levels, Birth rates are falling across the major responsibility for their savings through reducing risk and volatility for their corporate western economies.
Allied to increased defined contribution systems.
sponsors, rather than focusing purely on life spans this will dramatically increase long-term capital growth.
the ratio of non-working age individuals These changes have significant implications to those of working age 20-65 in the for the nature of both institutional and retail The market for retirement products is already next 30-40 years.
the largest driver of growth in financial services.
In Europe this market is worth an estimated Increased life expectancy will require savers Long-term trends in savings offer 43 billion in pre-tax profits to providers every to accumulate even more assets before a number of opportunities year, and it is projected to grow 10 per cent.
retirement in order to generate income that In our view, the pre-retirement market for annually over the next five years.
will last them through their retirement years.
retail investing will contain a growing number At the same time reduced birth rates will of individuals who have been placed at the decrease the supply of new workers to help centre of the decision-making process.
Our US Smaller Companies fund is 5 star rated by Morningstar and has performed in the top 20 per cent.
of its peer group over three years.
We are well placed to take advantage Looking forwards to 2007 our continuing Schroders of these opportunities investment across the business will focus We have expanded our product range, in on a number of areas.
Business review both Retail and Institutional, to give us an offering that we believe meets the needs In the Retail channel we plan to extend and of our current and future client base.
deepen our distributor relationships in a number of geographies and sub-channels.
As well as equity and bond products, our These include US intermediaries, bank 14 15 Retail product suite includes yield-based and intermediaries in Japan, private bank inflation plus products across fixed income, distributors in Asia Pacific and the retail property and equity as well as a range of retail branch networks of bank distributors in structured products.
These products allow Continental Europe, whilst in the UK we individual investors greater exposure to a will focus on developing further the submore diversified product range and new advisory channel.
These initiatives are investment strategies, allowing them to intended to grow business volumes as well maximise their savings consistent with their as ensuring that, through the intermediaries personal risk profiles.
We have also been in these channels, we secure enduring business relationships with end investors that working with intermediaries to enhance are less vulnerable to large-scale redemptions the packaging of combined investments to provide a range of lifestyle savings products driven by changes in asset allocation policy by designed to suit different stages of life and wholesale distributors.
In the Institutional channel, clients are looking Our Institutional range has been extended for increased exposure to alternative asset beyond traditional equity and bond single classes a demand we are well placed to focus funds to include products such as meet with our property, hedge fund, the Diversified Growth Fund which provides commodity and private equity capabilities.
investment exposure to a range of asset Our strength in a wide range of asset classes classes, including alternatives, in such a way plays well to the increasing market as to diversify asset class risk while enhancing requirement to manage long-term pension total expected return.
Products such as liabilities within structured investment plans these, combined with a significant upgrade combining fixed income, derivative and in our derivatives capabilities, help us to meet diversified alpha excess return products.
the growing demand for liability driven and Alongside these newer products, we continue specialist products for pension fund trustees to see growth in demand for our services in and plan sponsors facing a new and global equities and fixed income as well as challenging environment.
key regional asset classes such as European In Asia, excluding Japan, we generated gross sales of 7.1bn Equities.
We are also looking to offer more Setting clear objectives and measuring Product risk quantitative equity products to our institutional success in the annual review process allow The ongoing desire to anticipate changing clients, where our investment approach has us to clearly identify employee development client requirements by developing and a proven track record of excess return over initiatives required to deal with our changing delivering new products needs to be many years and complements our environment.
balanced with the existence of an already fundamental, research-driven active Additionally, in 2006 we have been complex product range with over 150 management services.
broadening the skills base in the company products and over 300 investment models.
via a programme of high-level technical We are clear that the challenge of We have a number of specific business education for staff in Investment.
This dovetailing product development with risks which we manage actively programme is continuing through 2007. an agreed view of client needs requires As with any successful business we are ongoing dialogue between the exposed to a range of risks.
Some of them, Investment risk Investment and Distribution divisions, like the risks inherent in taking active The risk that poor investment decisions lead ensuring that the Group has a focused investment decisions on behalf of clients, to under-performance in funds and a resultant policy in this area.
are the risks we are in business to take.
reduction in our income and reputation.
We have a dedicated product Our focus here is on managing risk rather Individual fund performances and risk development team with clear product than eliminating it.
Others, like regulatory profiles are monitored on a regular basis approval procedures which combines and compliance risk, are risks that we seek through the year, allowing issues in these representation from Investment, actively to avoid.
areas to be tracked and remediated as Distribution and Infrastructure.
We monitor performance across more than Recognising that not all products will Business continuity risk 20 company-wide risk categories throughout perform all of the time, we offer a Underpinning our whole proposition is the the year.
Risks are managed in a variety of diversified product set which reduces the need to ensure that in a global marketplace different ways, depending on the nature of concentration of risk on the performance we are able to continue to operate in difficult the risk and the areas potentially affected, to of any one fund or asset class.
ensure that wherever appropriate, their Continuity planning is in place across the impact is mitigated.
Project risk business with clear identification of key Ineffective project implementation which staff and their involvement in business Our key risks include: could lead to sub-optimal solutions being resumption plans, as well as regular testing delivered on our key projects.
Employee risk We have a dedicated Change While the increase in the concentration The increasing requirement for scarce, Management Team overseeing all major of global systems presents further risks, specialist skills in our employees as our projects, ensuring that a consistent additional resilience and contingency product offering deepens and our Group-wide rigour is brought to the arrangements are in place including the investment strategies move forward into initiation, approval and monitoring of relocation of the key computer servers more complex areas.
The increase in profits in recent years We are not prepared to put projects into Group-wide insurance is held against has enabled us to provide competitive live production until we believe that they business interruptions that cause a loss compensation plans, with appropriate will deliver.
deferred benefits, targeted at key staff.
Year on year, assets under management in Brazil more than doubled.
As an organisation the management of risk Schroders is embedded in our corporate culture, in the way we operate and the way we manage Business review all aspects of our business.
The senior management team, supported by a number of central advisory and independent review functions, takes the lead role in ensuring 16 17 that proper controls are in place across the business to maintain the quality standards expected by our clients, by our various regulators across the globe and by ourselves.
Key to our model is a philosophy that management by itself can only lead and inform in this area.
It is the responsibility of all employees across the Group to ensure that the control culture of Schroders is embedded within our working practices and is central to everything that we do.
Summing up Schroders in 2006 2006 was a year of strong performance where we achieved 26 per cent.
growth in underlying profits, the second most profitable year in our 202-year history and the most profitable since the sale of our investment banking operations in 2000.
We saw improved performance in our core business areas with increased gross margins in Asset Management and the resumption of sales growth in our Retail business, coupled with strong growth in revenues and profits from banking and asset management in Private Banking.
Our programme of investing in the business, both organically and via acquisitions, will continue in 2007 and we believe that the Group is well positioned to meet the challenges that the future will bring.
