Business Review People We are a diverse organisation.
Our employees represent over 100 nationalities globally and there are more than 50 among our most senior 500 employees Standard Chartered employs almost 60,000 people in over of service.
We set minimum global standards and track its 50 countries and territories.
Demographic changes, competition success quarterly for every country and business.
Day One and our own rapid growth mean that our ability to attract, Readiness is a key measure to assess if an employee has develop and engage our talent is firmly on the Groups agenda.
everything they need to do their job on their first day.
Readiness has improved by nine per cent and employee turnover within the Meeting our growth aspirations first three months has reduced by two per cent, with significant In 2006 we saw a 15 per cent net increase in the number of improvements in our key markets of China, India and Korea.
people we employ through organic growth alone and we have welcomed almost 8,000 new employees through acquisitions.
Our International Graduate Programme selects, nurtures and challenges our future leaders.
The graduate programme is one The markets we operate in are increasingly competitive, particularly of the most international in the world, celebrating original thought in key growth markets such as China, India and Korea.
and diversity the qualities we look for in future leaders.
We had Standard Chartered is alive with career opportunities and we over 70,000 graduate applications in 2006 compared with over are thinking creatively about how we attract and retain talented 50,000 in 2005.
We have increased our intake of International individuals.
In 2006 we reinvigorated our employee referral Graduates by over five times over the last five years, increasing programme to encourage employees to introduce family or friends 37 per cent in 2006.
We will maintain our focus on recruiting a to the Group for a cash incentive.
Employee referral is known to pipeline of future leaders of the Group, with recruitment for 2007 be one of the most effective resourcing channels.
The programme increasing by a further 26 per cent.
We have begun to recruit was implemented in Hong Kong, Singapore, United Arab Emirates MBAs on a global basis and over 150 candidates are currently and India and resulted in over 1,000 successful appointments in 2006. participating in the selection process.
The global programme will be launched in early 2007.
Diversity through inclusion We have improved the way we welcome new employees.
The Our markets, customer groups and talent pools are changing as Right Start programme implemented in 2006 begins before an is the Group in its size and reach.
Standard Chartereds success employee joins and takes them through their first nine months depends on its ability to manage these changes, and our approach Leading the way in Korea Meet a D&I Champion Living the values Kim Seon-Joo is SC First Banks first female In addition to her busy day job as Value Henry and Joseph, our Seeing is Believing executive and the most senior in Korean Centre General Manager of Unsecured ambassadors, travel the world and live the Banks financial services.
As Executive Vice President Lending, Naana Abban is Ghanas Diversity values through teamwork and partnership.
Living and Head of Shared Distribution she is leading and Inclusion Champion.
With the help of her the values is also expected of all Standard the progress of women at SC First Bank.
D&I Council, Naana has improved awareness Chartered employees.
At the beginning of the We also promoted a 32-year-old to become of D&I in Ghana.
year, each employee has a discussion with their Koreas youngest bank branch manager.
manager about how they will live the Groups These appointments help us to be an employer values Responsive, Trustworthy, Creative, of choice in Korea and attract the best talent.
International, Courageous in their role.
In 2006, 98% of employees received a rating according to how well they had lived the values.
18 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Employee engagement Source: The Gallup Organization, 2006 I am satisfied with Standard Chartered as a place to work I know what is expected of me at work The mission and purpose of my organisation make me feel my job is important At work I have the opportunity to do what I do best every day My supervisor or someone at work cares about me as a person In the last six months someone has talked to me about my development 020 40 60 80 100 2004 2005 2006 % of employees who agreed with the statement to Diversity and Inclusion D&I is integral to our journey.
D&I Programme, and throughout the year over 9,000 managers will lies at the heart of our values and is already a natural strength.
share and learn from ideas, stories and best practice to improve Our commitment is simple to get the best out of the broadest how they manage and drive engagement in their teams.
We focus on inclusion to ensure that each Managing our talent individual feels valued for what they bring to the Group.
D&I is To build our capability to attract and develop people, we have a long-term priority for the Group and we all have a shared a global, systematic approach to talent management.
In 2006 responsibility to foster an inclusive culture.
we have focused on identifying and developing talent at a junior level to build the skills we need for the future.
We have increased We are already a diverse organisation.
Our employees represent the number of less experienced high-potential employees by over 100 nationalities globally and over 50 within our most senior 500 employees.
Overall female representation is broadly equal 47 per cent and held one-day career development workshops for high-potential employees across the Group.
Only three per cent to male, and 16 per cent of our senior managers are women.
We of our leavers are identified as high performers or high potential.
continue to focus on increasing this proportion.
The Groups initial focus is on three strands of diversity gender, nationality and We also leverage our global footprint to provide international disability, with particular reference to visual impairment.
We currently have over 700 employees on international assignment.
SC First Bank employees in Korea Creating an inclusive culture took up more than 50 international assignments in 2006.
Over 300 people are involved in driving D&I across the Group.
Jaspal Bindra, General Manager, South East and South Asia, Coaching for high performance was appointed Chairman of our D&I Council in early 2006, We believe the key to high performance is ensuring employees reflecting the strong support and sponsorship of D&I from know what is expected of them.
In 2006, 98 per cent of our Group Management Committee.
We also created a D&I employees had both a recorded performance rating and talent Ambassador role for a number of senior employees with the classification through our bi-annual performance review process.
sole purpose of raising awareness of D&I across our business.
Annual performance survey results show that 94 per cent of employees had a discussion with their manager about their Many D&I issues are market specific.
To address this, we performance in 2006 and 95 per cent understand how their appointed 50 D&I Champions across 48 markets and territories objectives will contribute to the continued success of the Group.
and established 28 Country Councils to support the Champions.
Our market-specific approach identifies, tracks and resolves We reward our employees competitively for their contribution issues locally rather than adopting a one-size-fits-all approach.
As part of our total reward philosophy, we In 2006 we listened to employees to determine local issues offer employees the opportunity to share in the Groups success.
through a review and action-planning process.
In 2007 we will In 2006, over 3,000 employees were awarded shares as part of implement the plans and monitor our progress.
We also want to continue to improve the way we work by Resourcing, D&I, employee engagement and managing talent creating a more flexible working environment so that employees remain key elements of our drive for sustainable performance.
can balance their work and personal commitments, maximise their potential and perform to their best.
Building winning teams To find out more about our approach to people management We have measured employee engagement globally for six years and career opportunities at Standard Chartered, please log with a voluntary participation rate of 97 per cent in 2006.
com sustainability continue to see an increase in engagement each year.
SC ourpeople First Bank completed the survey for the first time in 2005 and recorded 98 per cent participation in that year and in 2006.
Team-specific data helps each team to design an action plan to enhance engagement.
Managers play an important role in increasing employee engagement.
In 2007, we will launch the Great Manager www.
