Business Review Performance The key to our performance in 2006 was organic growth.
To improve performance, we must innovate and diversify to meet the needs of our customers and clients In 2006 Standard Chartered built on its record of consistent broad-based, consistent growth across all client groups.
Client performance, once again achieving strong financial results for income growth was strongest in key strategic markets such shareholders while investing for the future.
as China, Hong Kong, Korea, India and the Middle East.
This transformation is reflected in the 2006 deal league tables.
As in previous years, the key to the Groups performance We rose to first place in Asia-Pacific syndicated loans and was organic growth from its existing businesses.
At the heart entered the top 10 in Asian bonds both excluding Japan and of driving sustainable organic growth are diversity and innovation Australia for G3 United States Japan Germany currencies.
in products and services, combined with balance in geographies Wholesale Bankings progress attracted outside recognition with and increasing scale.
more than 70 awards across its product groups.
The Group combined organic growth in 2006 with investments Growth in China and acquisitions to achieve scale and create future growth The rapid development of our business in China demonstrates in key markets, in line with its stated strategy of seizing these the strength of our organic growth strategy.
opportunities when they add to shareholder value.
We have operated uninterrupted in China for almost 150 years Innovation and transformation and our business there continues to thrive as China emerges Standard Chartered operates in some of the worlds fastestas an economic power and opens its financial markets.
At the growing and most dynamic markets in Asia, Africa and the Middle end of 2006 we had 11 branches, eight sub-branches and three East.
To improve our performance in these markets, we must representative offices, giving us one of the largest networks innovate and diversify to meet the needs of customers and clients.
of the international banks in China.
In 2006 Consumer Banking had a bumper year of product We have made rapid progress in Wholesale Banking in China, launches, and Wholesale Banking continued its record of based on our deep local relationships with companies and groundbreaking transactions.
In 2006 income grew strongly and we established an onshore corporate advisory service.
Consumer Banking has diversified by building wealth management, personal loans, services for small and medium enterprises SMEs and consumer finance onto its traditional mortgage and credit card product range.
In 2006 the pace of change accelerated with more than 230 new wealth management product launches compared with 120 in 2005.
We completed the branding of Standard Chartered Private Bank to serve high net worth clients.
The service was launched in Korea in November 2006 and will be extended to other key markets in 2007.
Innovative SME products that helped drive Consumer Bankings performance included the XtraSaver savings account in Singapore with its flexible cashback feature and the rolling One-of-a-kind managers conference In August 2006, 900 branch managers from out of SME Express Trade, a one-stop trade finance service, 31 countries travelled to Jeju Island in Korea across the network.
to take part in Standard Chartereds first Global Branch Managers Conference as a platform for Wholesale Banking has been transformed in recent years by discussions, debates and sharing of best practice.
adding more sophisticated, higher-value services such as credit The conference incorporated an Ironman triathlon, derivatives and corporate advisory to its long-standing cash in which the managers were challenged to go the distance in the same way that Standard Chartered management and lending business.
employees go the extra mile for customers.
We believe the conference is the only one of its kind In 2006, strategic and value-added services continued to in the world among financial institutions.
increase as a share of income, and Wholesale Banking achieved 12 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2006 In 2006, Wholesale Banking was named as one of two Standard Chartered bought SC First Bank in Korea, another key North East Asian market, in 2005.
The business is performing pioneer market makers for renminbi futures contracts at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, the largest regulated market well as it introduces new products and services.
In 2006 SC First Bank launched 104 new wealth management In 2007, opportunities will open up in Consumer Banking as products and gained about 400,000 new accounts.
SC First Bank has revolutionised the market for SMEs in Korea with China eases limits on providing services such as mortgages, Business Instalment Loans and has sold $686 million of these credit cards and wealth management to Chinese citizens in products, the highest sales in the Group.
In December 2006 we were the first international bank to apply for local incorporation a key step towards Wholesale Banking has a huge opportunity in Korea to provide approval to offer these products.
more sophisticated services for local and international companies.
SC First Bank has gained new corporate clients and these In October we gained approval to provide Qualified Domestic generated 75 per cent of income in 2006.
Institutional Investor QDII services to Chinese investors seeking to invest in overseas investment products.
In December we Standard Chartered also became one of the first market makers launched our first QDII product, which broke new ground by for Korean won futures at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange.
allowing investors to allocate assets actively.
Other Asian growth markets To complement our organic growth strategy, in 2005 we took a Asian markets across our network showed strong growth as their 19.99 per cent stake in China Bohai Bank, the countrys first new economies expanded and Asia-linked trade flows increased.
national joint-stock commercial bank since 1996.
China Bohai In 2006 the world woke up to the confidence and dynamism of Bank opened in February 2006 and now has seven outlets and India as foreign direct investment surged and Indias companies is making good progress.
India presents many opportunities Expansion in North East Asia for Standard Chartered, which opened in Calcutta in 1858 and China increasingly trades with other markets in North East Asia and is Indias biggest international bank in terms of branch network.
in 2006 we became the leading international bank in the region.
Both Consumer and Wholesale Banking achieved strong income Standard Chartered fulfilled a long-held ambition to expand in and profit growth in India, based on product innovation and Taiwan by buying Hsinchu International Bank in December for increased client income.
The acquisition gives us an additional 83 branches Wholesale Bankings performance was led by strategic products and over 3,300 Mandarin-speaking employees in this key market, such as transaction banking, rates and foreign exchange.
The with its young population and growing trade links with China and corporate finance business is advising on acquisitions as Indian Hong Kong.
companies expand overseas, including Tata Steels takeover of Hong Kong, our biggest market, achieved strong growth with Thailands Millennium Steel in 2006. income increasing in both businesses.
Consumer Banking showed Consumer Banking in India opened 30 consumer finance centres, renewed momentum, fuelled by a strong performance in wealth management and expansion in SME services.
We led the way in 18 automated teller machines ATMs and a branch in Mumbai.
customer service as the first bank to announce six-day opening.
The growth of the business was fuelled by wealth management, SMEs and personal loans.
Wholesale Banking in Hong Kong achieved strong income growth and invested in client relationships in the fast-growing Global In 2006 we led the way in urging the United Kingdom UK to Markets business and increased its client count by 25 per cent.
support a free trade agreement between the European Union EU Enhanced Web Bank 24-hour service assurance Credit card evolution Standard Chartereds Web Bank transaction As part of its drive to enhance customers The first-in-market Standard Chartered Platinum banking clients were given enhanced features, experience, Standard Chartered launched Access card marked a step forward in the including single sign-on access and user-friendly a first-of-its-kind customer service initiative evolution of the Singapore credit card market navigation, markedly improving the internet in India by promising to provide assistance in response to changing consumer trends.
Web Bank provides one within 24 hours of receiving an SMS text card automatically converts any purchase above channel across client segments, geographies message from the customer.
If an enquiry S$100 into a two-year fixed instalment plan, and products, offering cash, trade, supply chain is not dealt with after 24 hours, the customer giving customers flexibility and control over and securities, rates and foreign exchange receives compensation.
initiation capabilities for companies to better manage their working capital.
com 13 Business Review Performance and India as part of a wider drive to promote trade liberalisation In 2005 the Group increased its capital by $140 million in Nigeria, between Britain, the EU and Asia.
We were part of British Chancellor the second-biggest economy in Sub-Saharan Africa, with its rich reserves of oil and gas.
Gordon Brown MPs delegation to India and we hosted the Rt.
David Cameron MP, the UK Standard Chartered in Nigeria has doubled profit before taxation Conservative leader, at a seminar for business leaders in Mumbai.
for three successive years and is now the second-biggest In Singapore we had positive momentum throughout 2006. contributor to Africas annual profit, up from 10th in 2003.
Consumer Banking performed strongly as it grew in SMEs and Zambia, Ghana, Kenya and Botswana also performed well in wealth management, and Wholesale Banking delivered strong 2006. performance resulting from investment in new product capability.
We are the only international bank with a strong presence in Asia The Group is increasingly diverse and well balanced geographically and Sub-Saharan Africa and are therefore well placed to benefit with many more markets acting as substantial profit drivers than in from increases in trade and investment between the regions.
Standard Chartered now has seven markets that produce December we launched a desk to service SME clients looking to more than $100 million of profit compared with five in 2003. do business between China and Africa and hosted a networking seminar in Shenzhen for Chinese and African businesses.
Malaysia is one such market and produced a strong performance in 2006 based on innovation in Consumer Banking and marketTo tap further into Africas expanding investment flows, we leading transactions in Wholesale Banking, with particular took a 25 per cent stake in First Africa, a pan-African corporate progress in the growing market for Islamic banking services.
finance adviser, with a view to increasing our holding in future.
Along with United Arab Emirates UAE and Pakistan, Malaysia is Organic opportunity in MESA one of our regional Islamic banking hubs.
In 2006 we launched Middle East and Other South Asia MESA has become an Islamic Business Instalment Loans and home loans in Malaysia.
increasingly important part of the Group as its economies have As well as being a business opportunity, Islamic banking brings grown and wealth has been reinvested in the region.
Both financial products to those whose beliefs can exclude them from businesses showed strong organic income and profit growth mainstream services.
in 2006 while accelerating investment for the future.
In Indonesia, Standard Chartereds consortium with PT Astra Consumer Banking grew in SMEs, wealth management, cards International increased its holding in PT Bank Permata to and personal loans.
Innovative Consumer Banking services 89 percent by buying an additional 25.9 per cent stake in the included the first mobile ATM and sales centre in UAE and the bank, strengthening Standard Chartereds position in this Cricket Card, Pakistans first sports affinity card.
Wholesale Banking increased client income strongly by providing African trade flows additional services and innovative products to deepen client Standard Chartereds markets are increasingly trading with each penetration, particularly in UAE, our biggest market in the other, both within and between regions, and new trade corridors Middle East.
are a key element of the Standard Chartered growth story.
Other Middle Eastern markets are growing quickly as they reinvest Africa plays an important role in these trade corridors by trading petrodollars or seek to diversify their economies.
In Qatar, we were with Asian markets, and is an important part of the Groups one of the first banks to be granted a commercial banking licence strategy.
Standard Chartereds business in the region performed by the Qatar Financial Centre regulatory authority.
In September we bought 95.4 per cent of Union Bank of Pakistan for $487 million the countrys biggest banking acquisition consolidating our position as the largest international bank in this fast-growing market.
Drawing on our experience of integrating SC First Bank in Korea, we rebranded Union Banks 65 branches overnight.
Boosting the brand In competitive markets, the trust placed in the Standard Chartered brand is important.
In 2006 we launched the new corporate brand campaign, which included television advertising focused on teamwork and partnership, featuring our Seeing is Believing ambassadors Henry Wanyoike and Joseph Kibunja.
Data shows that across the majority of markets measured, Global commodity derivatives desks brand awareness has increased over the year.
As part of the continued growth of its global rates and foreign exchange business, Standard Chartered The brand is showcased in our sponsorship of nine marathons has established commodity derivatives desks in across our markets, including the Greatest Race on Earth, Singapore, Dubai and London.
This adds another a series of four Standard Chartered marathons in Nairobi, fast-growing service to Wholesale Bankings client offering for corporates and institutions across Asia Singapore, Mumbai and Hong Kong in which teams compete and demonstrates Standard Chartereds drive to for the biggest prize pool in world athletics of $1.5 million.
offer clients enhanced risk management capabilities.
Research in 2006 showed that the marathons had a significant positive effect on our brand in those markets.
14 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Organic growth in China Africa-China Trade Corridor Branch of the future The Group set up its first branch in Shanghai Standard Chartered launched the Africa-China The state-of-the-art branch in VivoCity is by far in 1858 and has an unbroken history of banking Trade Corridor service to offer financial solutions the largest investment in a branch in Singapore.
At the end of 2006 Standard Chartered to small and medium enterprises in China and The VivoCity branch boasts many industry firsts had one of the largest foreign bank networks Africa venturing abroad.
Standard Chartered such as the Qmatic advanced queueing system in China with 22 outlets in 14 cities.
With China is the only international bank with a strong to reduce customer waiting time, self-service opening its Consumer Banking market, Standard presence in China and Sub-Sahara Africa.
With eKiosks with Internet Banking at the touch of a Chartered plans to have about 40 outlets in China this initiative, we can further leverage on button, and all-in-one automated teller machines.
by the end of 2007, subject to regulatory approval.
our network strengths and expertise and provide advanced banking services to SME customers looking to do business internationally.
Our sponsorship of Afghanistans cricket team was highlighted measurement for making life easier for employees, improve when the team toured the UK in 2006, competing against county productivity and operational excellence, and introduce the key sides and making many friends with their adventurous play.
elements of Outserve Plus into daily practices.
Our operations in the Americas and the UK are important Technology plays an important role in our drive to improve service elements of our business.
Our New York business is a leading for customers by enabling us to develop new products and dollar clearer, providing an important service to corporate clients speed up service.
and financial institutions trading in our markets.
We introduced service guarantees for cash and trade finance The Groups businesses in Latin America position Standard in nine major markets in 2006, promising delivery within a certain Chartered to benefit as economies such as Brazil trade with time period.
In each market, this initiative increased volumes countries in other regions.
and also attracted higher-value business.
Turnaround times for Business Instalment Loans were reduced to one day from The UK is a hub for the Groups global account management four days.
of European businesses and positions us competitively as these companies increasingly seek to trade in Asia, Africa and the In 2005 we joined with Singapore Management University to Middle East.
In 2006 we completed four projects, including the development of the eKiosk which features in the The Group Head Office provides governance and regulatory VivoCity branch in Singapore.
We are working on more than 20 standards across the Group as regulation of the financial services additional projects.
industry is tightened through initiatives such as the Basel II capital accord.
Standard Chartered has always been based in the City Improvements in technology also create efficiencies that allow us of London and in 2006 we again sponsored the Great City Race, to invest in the business.
Group Technology and Operations costs one of the biggest sporting events for the City of Londons as a percentage of income have fallen each year from 2003. financial services industry.
We made good progress in 2006 on our journey towards Drive for service excellence becoming the worlds best international bank but there is much Standard Chartered promises to be The Right Partner to its more that we must do.
customers and believes that service excellence is a key differentiator in competitive markets.
At a time of rapid expansion, we have redoubled our efforts to improve the way we work to be The Right Partner to our At the heart of the Groups service drive is Outserve Plus, a customers, employees and communities.
We believe these continuation of the Outserve initiative launched in 2003 to make activities will distinguish us from competitors and form the Standard Chartered renowned for its customer service.
bedrock of our future growth.
Outserve Plus will provide the framework for instilling a culture of continuous improvement and operational excellence across For more information about us and our wide range the Group.
of innovative products and services, please log on to In 2007 we will demonstrate progress against targets for www.
com customer loyalty in Consumer Banking and for being a core bank to Wholesale Banking clients.
We will also establish a baseline www.
