R e s a e p n t h n d o t e n m g s m n i a i n b r t l k o c e e r e i t t s i v o n e n r l g l e P i n g s e E c i m v r S p e C i l e s o n e o l i y v a n e i m e g c e G i s n s O m t V Business Review Sustainability Social contribution, environmental protection, economic development and good governance are fundamental to ensuring our business is sustainable In previous annual reports we have discussed corporate Sustainable lending responsibility doing business in an ethical way as a business Our business activity can have both a positive and negative imperative.
The language and substance of corporate impact on communities, economies and the environment.
We responsibility are changing, reflecting the need for organisations want to be a force for good to promote change in our markets.
to take a long-term view of the consequences of their actions Identifying and managing sustainability considerations in lending to build a sustainable business.
are important parts of our risk evaluation.
In 2006 we articulated our Building a Sustainable Business In 2006 we reviewed how we assess social and environmental strategy.
This is a response to a rapidly changing world, multiple risk associated with sectors such as forestry, shipbreaking, palm stakeholder needs and global challenges such as climate change oil and mining.
In 2007 we will adopt formal policies based on and poverty.
the results and provide closer guidance for relationship managers.
Our social contribution, environmental protection, contributing to The Equator Principles are guidelines adopted by financial economic development and good governance are fundamental institutions to address environmental and social concerns in major to ensuring the sustainability of our business.
We helped prepare the revised Equator Principles and renewed our endorsement of them in July 2006.
In 2006 we continued to work with key stakeholders, including The Group approved 20 Equator Principle projects in 2006 governments, socially responsible investors and not-for-profit compared with 18 in 2005. organisations and non-governmental organisations NGOs.
These relationships have helped focus our attention on where Training and raising awareness of potential impacts of our lending we can make the greatest difference.
We trained 1,500 employees as part of the sustainable lending training programme and 280 graduates took part in social, environmental and economic training.
Sustainable business priorities Tackling financial crime Corruption and financial crime outpace international efforts to fight them, with annual estimates for the amount of money laundered exceeding $500 billion.
These crimes harm economic growth and damage communities by fuelling poverty and inequality.
In 2006 we upgraded our anti-money laundering systems in the UK and the US and we will extend the upgrade to other markets in 2007.
Increasing access to financial services In 2006, 80 per cent of the worlds population did not have Sustainable Sustainable Sustainable access to credit or basic financial services.
Limited access to lending lending financial services can be a root cause of poverty, conflict and damage to the environment.
By offering services to groups who are financially excluded we can support sustainable economic growth.
A key priority is microfinance small loans to people starting or building a business.
Our involvement in the microfinance sector is a commercially sustainable initiative.
We have developed 35 strategic alliances with microfinance institutions across Africa and Asia.
The Group recently renewed a commitment to microfinance at the Clinton Global Initiative by pledging to channel $500 million over five years to microfinance institutions in Africa and Asia.
22 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2006 a A B o m n L u l e u l e i n n e o n i t t v t t i e s y n e s g r i e n c g c A e m i D r i L G c v i H e l v r r e a t i e i s a n i o l c t t g a y n h t w a & w & n i o I p t S n r h l a c f k a g l e H u n t c I s i y l i V e k o c n a T Commitment to sustainability Extending Living with HIV Seeing is Believing the next phase Standard Chartered joined the Global Roundtable We have made a commitment to extend our So far, we have raised enough money to contribute on Sustainable Palm Oil in Singapore, reflecting Living with HIV peer education workshops to to one million sight restorations in 10 countries.
our commitment to ensuring that our business with reach one million people over the next three years.
We have now set a new target to raise $10 million this sector is done in the most responsible manner.
We will achieve this by strengthening our existing by World Sight Day 2010 to make a difference to partnerships, including those with customers, the lives of 10 million people across 20 countries.
Responsible selling and marketing Seeing is Believing, our programme to help eradicate avoidable Competition can cause selling and marketing of products to blindness, achieved its first target in 2005 a year ahead of become too aggressive, eroding trust between companies and schedule by raising funds for one million sight restorations.
We aim for our marketing and selling to reflect our The second phase of Seeing is Believing was launched in 2006. core values of being Trustworthy, Responsive and Courageous With our partners we now want to restore the sight or prevent to protect our reputation and build a sustainable business.
blindness for 10 million people across 20 countries by 2010.
Protecting the environment In 2006 we announced that all employees would be able to Many of our markets are subject to changing environmental take two days a year for community volunteering.
Examples include air pollution in Hong Kong, water employees took part in the programme in 2006 and we will quality in China and flooding in India.
Our Global Environmental ensure many more take the opportunity in 2007.
Management System has been rolled out to 43 eligible offices, We launched two new programmes with resonance in our markets.
up from 36 in 2005, and has increased its employee coverage GOAL is a project to empower women through sport to fulfil their by 36 per cent.
We also started Nets for Life with a $1 million commitment We have grown our renewable energy financing and advisory to help distribute one million malaria nets in Africa.
In 2006 this included a 50 million investment in the More information Climate Change Capital Fund, to which we are an adviser.
The Building a Sustainable Business strategy will guide the Treatment of employees Groups programme of work for the next three years and will We are working to create an inclusive workplace in which provide a reference point for measuring and reporting success.
employees can develop as individuals and teams.
Ensuring A copy of the strategy is available on the recently re-launched the wellbeing and security of employees and increasing sustainability section of our website.
understanding of HIV AIDS are examples of how we can build We have also published our third review on sustainable a healthy, informed workforce.
development which builds on previous corporate responsibility Community investment and environmental reports.
The review reflects the evolution In 2006 our community contribution was $21.2 million.
This of the companys corporate responsibility programmes into includes cash, employee time, management costs and gifts in sustainable business practices.
The review details our progress kind.
The figure was slightly below the $22.4 million we recorded against the seven sustainable business priorities outlined above.
for 2005 but the difference was due to the introduction of a more We are committed to building a sustainable business.
rigorous process for tracking employee time.
We invest in initiatives aligned with our core business so that the Group, its employees and communities gain maximum benefit.
Please log on to the recently re-launched sustainability section We aim to lead by utilising our core expertise, networks and of our website: www.
com sustainability resources to help communities develop and economies grow.
for a copy of the Building a Sustainable Business strategy and Sustainability Review 2006.
Living with HIV is our campaign to help our employees and wider communities prevent and deal with HIV AIDS.
In 2006 we signed the Clinton Global Initiative pledge to educate one million people about HIV AIDS by 2009. www.
