TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC BUSINESS REVIEW The Directors of the Company have pleasure in presenting to the Shareholders their Business Review for the year ended 30 April 2006.
To the extent that any parts of this Business Review provide forwardlooking information on the Company, shareholders should be aware that it is difficult to make any assumptions on future performance based on this information, particularly as the Company invests in emerging markets.
Further information is provided in the Chairmans Statement on page 8 and in the Managers Report and Portfolio Review on pages 15 to 17.
Nature of the Business The Company was established on 18 May 1989 as an investment trust whose principal objective is to provide long-term capital appreciation for its investors through investment in companies operating in emerging markets or whose stocks are listed on the stock markets of such countries.
The Board views long term for emerging markets to be at least five years.
The Board has appointed Templeton Asset Management Limited as the Investment Manager to carry out day-to-day investment management.
The Investment Manager reviews the portfolio allocation and performance with the Board at each quarterly Board Meeting.
The Company is listed on both the UK and New Zealand Stock Exchange: however virtually all of its shareholders are based in the UK.
TEMIT is the largest emerging markets investment trust in the UK with a market capitalisation of 1,663 million as at 30 April 2006.
The top five markets invested in are Brazil, South Korea, China, Turkey and Thailand.
Investment Process Management Company The directors have appointed Templeton Asset Management Ltd TAML as Investment Manager of the Company.
TAML, part of the Franklin Templeton Group with $504.3 billion in assets under management as of 30 April 2006, has over 18 years of investment experience in emerging markets and approximately US$30.3 billion in assets under management.
TAMLs Managing Director, Mark Mobius, has spent over thirty years working in Asia and other emerging markets.
Supporting Mark, TAML has 53 employees, consisting of 32 portfolio managers analysts from 19 nationalities.
They are located in 11 emerging markets: Moscow Russia, Warsaw Poland, Istanbul Turkey, Johannesburg South Africa, Hong Kong, Singapore, Shanghai China, Seoul South Korea, Mumbai India, Rio fide Janeiro Brazil, and Buenos Aires Argentina.
TAMLs Emerging Markets Team receives support from the employees of Franklin Resources Inc. its ultimate parent company and its subsidiaries.
Investment Style The Investment Manager employs a bottom-up, value oriented, long-term approach to investing.
It focuses on the market price of a companys securities relative to the Investment Managers evaluation of the companys long-term earnings, asset value and cash flow potential.
As it looks for investment, it focuses on specific companies and undertakes in-depth research to construct an action list from which it makes its buy decisions.
Before a purchase is made, it looks at the companys potential earnings and growth over a five-year horizon.
During its analysis, it also considers the companys position in its sector, the economic framework and political environment.
The portfolio will frequently be over weight or under weight against the indices.
This is consistent with its investment approach of long-term value investing.
The Investment Manager evaluates investment opportunities with updated financial ratios on a daily basis, and adjusts the portfolio to seek optimal exposures to stocks which are assessed to be best bargains in global emerging markets.
9 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC BUSINESS REVIEW continued The Manager searches for well-managed companies assessed as under valued, especially those that are out-of-favour among investors.
On the other hand, the Manager sells companies that in his opinion are over valued, typically when the earnings prospects or underlying net asset values are fully recognised by other investors.
The Investment Managers investment research and portfolio construction processes may be summarised in five steps: 1 Identify Opportunities A master list is compiled which is screened for stocks that meet certain market capitalisation and liquidity criteria as determined by the Investment Manager: 2 Analyse Companies A detailed analysis of the stocks industry and financial accounts is undertaken along with a visit to the company to interview management, assess its quality of product or services, analyse customers and competitors and ascertain competitive advantage: 3 Construct Action List Each stock on this list has a specified buy and sell target point.
The section list is a dynamic list that is monitored continually: 4 Allocate Portfolio On a weekly basis, the portfolio is reviewed for consistency and to ensure that the portfolio complies with investment committee guidelines: and 5 Evaluate and Monitor Portfolio Once the portfolio has been constructed, each investment within the portfolio is reviewed against price targets set for the securities.
These targets are continually updated, with comparisons made with the sector that the security operates in.
Contact is also maintained with the company and its suppliers and staff.
As a result of detailed research and investigation, TAML has created a master list of securities.
Compiled by the emerging markets team over the past eight years, this list is a proprietary database of over 17,000 emerging market companies and forms the basis of the decision as to whether to invest in these companies.
The fact that the country and sector analysts are based in many of the emerging market countries in which the Company directly invests, should offer distinct competitive advantage.
This creates both country and sector specialists.
Before investing in any company, the financial details of that company are subject to a rigorous review.
The analysts also visit the company to conduct an on-site tour enabling them to interview management, assess quality of products or services, analyse customers, consider corporate governance processes and ascertain whether the company has any distinct competitive advantage.
The Companys top ten holdings as at 30 April 2006 are disclosed on page 24.
Investment Outlook The Investment Manager considers that many emerging countries are implementing appropriate fiscal and monetary policies as well as social reforms.
These efforts are expected to bear fruit and thus lead to stronger economies and greater investor confidence in the markets with a general long-term improvement in corporate earnings.
The Investment Manager seeks to identify those companies selling at the greatest discount to future intrinsic value, which over time will produce the greatest returns.
In this context, the Investment Manager has recently identified key investment themes that currently reflect major underlying trends for the near future: 1 Consumer product and services companies are increasing their sales because of rising per capita incomes.
2 Commodity prices remain high and although there may be corrections, commodity companies should still have good profitability going forward.
3 Convergence in regions such as Asia between China and its neighbours or Eastern Europes convergence with the European Union, will continue to provide good opportunities for companies.
4 Corporate Governance is very important in investing: companies who do not treat shareholders fairly will be avoided.
10 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC BUSINESS REVIEW continued The economies of individual emerging countries differ from developed economies in such respects as Gross Domestic Product growth, inflation rates, interest rate movements and balance of payments position.
In addition, the economies of many emerging countries are dependent on international trade and, accordingly, may be adversely affected by protectionist measures and a slowdown in global trade.
With respect to any emerging country, there is the possibility of political changes, government regulation, social instability or other developments such as terrorism that could adversely affect the Companys investments in those countries.
Key Performance Indicators Although the Investment Manager employs a value investing strategy in relation to TEMITs portfolio, the Companys performance is benchmarked against appropriate indices.
The following are considered to be key performance indicators for the Company: MSCI Emerging Markets Index The MSCI Emerging Markets Index is a free float-adjusted market capitalisation index that is designed to measure equity market performance in the global emerging markets.
As of May 2006 the MSCI Emerging Markets Index consisted of the following 26 emerging market country indices: Argentina, Brazil, Chile, China, Colombia, Czech Republic, Egypt, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Israel, Jordan, Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, Morocco, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Russia, South Africa, Taiwan, Thailand, Turkey and Venezuela.
The objective of MSCI, with respect to its Equity Index Series, is to construct global benchmark indices that contribute to the investment process by serving as relevant and accurate performance benchmarks and effective research tools, and as the basis for various investment vehicles.
Price indices measure market price performance only, and are calculated at least on a daily basis.
Each index measures the sum of the market capitalisation weighted returns of all its constituents on a given day.
In constructing these indices, MSCI consistently applies its equity index construction and maintenance methodology across regions and developed and emerging markets.
This consistency of approach makes it possible to aggregate individual country and industry indices to create meaningful regional and composite benchmark indices.
This has resulted in it becoming a well-recognised industry benchmark, which is widely used by the institutional investor.
TEMIT outperformed the MSCI EMF Index 75.1% vs. 71.1% during the year.
Since inception, the net asset value of TEMIT has risen by 948.4%, compared with a rise of 556.0% for the MSCI EMF Index.
S&P IFCI Composite Index The S&P IFCI indices are designed to measure the type of returns foreign portfolio investors might receive from investing in emerging market stocks that are legally and practically available to them.
Constituents for the S&P IFCI series are drawn from the S&P IFCG stock universe based on size, liquidity, and their legal and practical availability to foreign institutional investor.
The S&P Emerging Market Indices are calculated daily using data received from correspondents in local markets are widely recognized as one of the most comprehensive and reliable measures of the worlds emerging markets.
The indices and their underlying database, which Standard & Poors acquired from International Finance Corporation IFC in 2000, have been maintained since 1975.
As a result, the indices contain a very comprehensive history for the Companys benchmarking purpose.
TEMIT outperformed the S&P IFCI Index 75.1% vs. 73.5% during the year.
Since inception, the net asset value of TEMIT has risen by 948.4%, compared with a rise of 503.9% for the S&P IFCI Index.
11 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC BUSINESS REVIEW continued Shown below is TEMITs NAV movement in comparison to its benchmarks.
TOTAL RETURN Share Price Discount For the year to 30 April 2006, global emerging markets have continued to perform strongly.
During this time period, the Companys NAV gained 75.1%, which was in line with peer group returns.
The Companys share price gained 85.5% over the 12 months, which was slightly ahead of the peer group average and reflected a narrowing of discount over the year.
As the strong performance of emerging markets continued, the general emerging market funds experienced a degree of discount re-rating.
The peer group average began the period on 13% discount and had narrowed to 8% by 30 April 2006.
As at 30 April 2006, the Companys discount was 10.9%, compared to a peer group average of 8%.
TEMIT continues to be the largest and most liquid trust in the peer group.
Shown below is the Companys share price discount for the last five years.
SHARE PRICE DISCOUNT TO NET ASSET VALUE 12 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC BUSINESS REVIEW continued Principal risks and uncertainties The historic performance of TEMIT and the markets in which it invests can provide no guarantee of future performance.
Although the number and spread of investments in TEMITs portfolio is intended to reduce the degree of risk, investors should be aware of the risk associated with TEMITs investment objectives.
Many of the companies in which TEMIT does or may invest are, by reason of the locations in which they operate, exposed to the risk of political or economic change.
In addition, exchange control, tax or other regulations introduced in any country in which TEMIT invests may affect its income and the value and marketability of its investments: currency fluctuations may also affect the value of its investments and the income derived therefrom, and investors in emerging markets can face settlement and custodial problems.
Furthermore, companies in emerging markets are not always subject to accounting, auditing and financial standards which are equivalent to those applicable in the United Kingdom and there may also be less government supervision and regulation.
These risks can increase the potential for losses in the Company and affect its share price.
For these reasons, a long-term approach to investing in emerging markets is taken.
In addition, the Company may invest a greater portion of its assets in the securities of one issuer, securities domiciled in a particular country, or securities within one industry group than other types of fund investments.
As a result, it may be more sensitive to economic, business, political or other changes affecting similar issues or securities, which may result in greater fluctuation in the value of the portfolio.
It is important to recognise the effect of currency movements on TEMITs performance.
In general, if the value of Sterling increases compared with a foreign currency, an investment traded in that foreign currency will decrease in value because it will be worth fewer UK pounds.
This will have a negative effect on the Companys performance.
Conversely, when sterling weakens in relation to a foreign currency, an investment traded in that foreign currency will increase in value, which can contribute to Company performance.
The information in this report reflects analysis, opinions and portfolio holdings as of 30 April 2006, the end of the reporting period.
The way the Investment Manager implements TEMITs main investment strategies and the resulting portfolio holdings may change depending on factors such as market and economic conditions.
These opinions may not be relied on as investment advice or an offer for potential security.
The information is not a complete analysis of every aspect of any market, country, industry, security or the Company.
Statements of fact are from sources considered reliable but the Company and the Investment Manager make no representation or warranty as to their completeness or accuracy.
Further information on the risks that TEMIT is subject to is also detailed in Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
Financial position of the business Financial Results As at 30 April 2006, the net assets of the Company were 1,866.20 million, compared with 1,065.96 million at 30 April 2005, an increase of 75.1%.
The majority of this can be attributed to market appreciation of securities held during the year.
The following points should also be noted: Investment income has increased by 36.7% over the same period last year as a result of a higher proportion of income being earned on the increased portfolio.
The Total Expense Ratio has fallen from 1.50% at 30 April 2005 to 1.41% at 30 April 2006.
This is due to an increase in the size of the Company, as fixed expenses become a smaller proportion of the total net assets and a reduction in administration fees from 0.25% to 0.20% with effect from 1 February 2006.
Sales of investments during the period crystallised realised net gains of 88.75 million.
Invested portfolio funds at 30 April 2006, had a value of 1,851.59 million against a cost of 819.35 million.
The Company has not geared its portfolio.
13 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC BUSINESS REVIEW continued Cash Flows As at 30 April 2006, the Company held 25.8 million in cash, representing 1.4% of total net assets.
It is the general policy of the Board to be fully invested.
For the period to 30 April 2006, the Company had the following significant cash inflows and outflows: Payment of annual dividend totalling 14.31 million: Purchases of securities for the period were 198.4 million: Sales of securities for the period were 190.4 million.
Accounting Policies TEMIT has prepared its financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS for the first time.
This has resulted in a change to a number of accounting policies, which are detailed on pages 42 to 43.
