qxd 9 3 07 11:01 pm Page 7 Witan... Business Review The review which follows is designed to provide Companys shareholders with information about your equity.
Central Companys business and results in 2006.
All of the to the provision matters previously dealt with in the Chief Executives of liquidity is Not another programme about English sportsmen.
Not another programme about English sportsmen.
Report are now included in this review which covers the proactive wisdom the following: management of Proven, experienced teams, and world-class managers that get results.
Sounds too good to be true, doesnt it?
Objectives and strategy Witans discount Management arrangements in terms of level 0800 082 81 80 www.
14398 Please remember that past performance is not a guide to future performance.
The value of your shares and the income from it can rise and fall, so you may not get back the amount originally invested.
Issued and approved by Witan Investment Services Limited.
Witan Investment Services Limited of 4 Broadgate, London EC2M 2DA is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority to provide investment products and services.
We may record telephone calls for our mutual protection and to improve customer service.
Manager review process Your Company buys back its own shares when they Buy-back policy stand at a substantial discount.
This both provides Witan Investment Services liquidity and enhances the net asset value of the Principal risks Company.
In addition, Witan implements an Key performance indicators ongoing marketing programme designed to stimulate Your Boards priorities for 2007 demand for and encourage new investment into the Outlook Companys shares.
This programme reaches out to both the private and professional investor using a Witans Objectives and Strategy blend of targeted marketing disciplines.
Witans objective is to be the first choice for wealth creation through equity investment.
From an In everything Witan does, the aim is to provide the investment perspective this means that Witan will best possible return to shareholders.
With this in seek to outperform global stockmarkets consistently, mind, your Board applies strict controls to cost.
adding value in the long term for its investors.
In addition Witan must encourage new investors to buy Management Arrangements the Trusts shares in order to provide ongoing The management of Witans assets is almost entirely liquidity for shareholders.
These are two clear and outsourced to third parties.
The Company maintains simple strategic aims and the Witan approach to a small executive team, comprising four full-time each is described below.
employees including the Chief Executive plus a part-time assistant, to manage and control these Witan aims to outperform by using a multi-manager outsourced relationships, to run Witan Investment best of breed investment structure.
Your Board aims Services and to advise the Board on investment and to control risk in line with investor expectation, but business strategy.
will be prepared to enhance performance by employing innovative investment techniques and In addition, in December 2006, the Board chose diverse asset classes if and when these are Mellon Capital Management Corporation, one of the appropriate.
As an investment trust, Witan can worlds leading currency managers, to manage borrow in order to improve performance in rising actively approximately half of its overseas currency markets.
Furthermore Witan is committed to growing exposures.
This has been achieved by investing in a its dividend at least in line with the rate of ination.
UBS loan note, the returns from which will mirror Mellons currency performance after fees.
Currency Your Board places great importance on the need to risk is inherent in your Companys portfolio as a provide constant liquidity in Witans shares to the result of its international investments.
Shareholders must be allowed to sell at teaming up with Mellon, Witan is looking to exploit a price that reects prevailing market value while this risk to enhance returns.
potential investors must have easy access to the 7 17274 Text.
qxd 9 3 07 11:01 pm Page 8 Business Review continued The following table shows the current equity investment management arrangements: INVESTMENT MANDATE BENCHMARKINVESTMENT GEOGRAPHY MANDATE MANAGER TOTAL RETURN STYLE UK Mainstream Equities Henderson Global FTSE 350 ex investment Enhanced Investors companies Index UK Smaller Companies Henderson Global Hoare Govett Smaller Growth at Investors Companies ex investment an Attractive companies Price Global Equities Southeastern Asset FTSE All-World Quality at a Management Discounted Valuation Global Equities MFS International FTSE All-World Growth at an Attractive Price Continental Equities Wellington Management FTSE World Europe ex UK Fundamental Europe Company Research USA Equities Henderson Global Investors FTSE World North America Enhanced Index Japan Equities Brandes Investment Partners FTSE Japan Value Far East Equities APS Asset Management FTSE All-World Asia Pacic Fundamental ex Japan Research Your Company has also appointed third parties for major country stock indices failing to rise by at least the various supporting services it requires.
The best returns were achieved in Asia outside important of these are BNP Paribas Securities Services Japan and in the emerging markets where returns in SA for global custody, BNP Paribas Fund Services UK excess of 30% were not uncommon.
The worst Limited for investment accounting and performance from the worlds major equity markets administration, Henderson Global Investors for was in Japan which managed a return of only 6.6%.
company secretarial services and Lloyds TSB Registrars as Witan Wealthbuilder plan That, however, was not the experience of UK based administrators.
From time to time, and as required, investors like Witan as currency movements had a Witan also buys in services for legal, compliance, major impact on returns in 2006 relative to sterling investment consulting, financial and tax advice.
the US dollar fell by 14% and the Japanese yen by over 15% thereby reducing substantially returns from these Although multi-manager arrangements can prove regions and from many Asian and emerging markets expensive, Witans careful cost control has resulted in whose currencies are linked to the US dollar.
For a UK a total expense ratio of 0.47%, one of the lowest in investor, the region with, on average, the greatest total the investment trust industry and much lower than return was Europe 20.3%, primarily because the any multi-manager unit trust.
This, in turn, has euro was almost as strong as sterling.
The UK equity allowed Witan to continue paying rising dividends.
market, as measured by the FTSE All-Share Index, returned 16.8%.
The return on world equities as a Portfolio Review whole in sterling terms compared favourably to the 2006 was another good year for equity investment.
returns on other investments such as conventional and Most markets in local currency terms managed to indexed-linked bonds and cash, so providing more achieve decent positive returns, with only four pain to those investors who cut their equity exposure Thailand, Japan, Pakistan and South Korea of the 34 following the post dotcom boom crash.
qxd 9 3 07 11:01 pm Page 9 Witan... Over the last four years equity markets have Fund and performed spectacularly with the UK returning Wadworth, 18.1% per annum and the world 15.1% per annum.
neither of which Whilst to a certain extent this represents a recovery had a strategic THE HOT POTATO from the aforementioned lows, it is a rate of progress role in the wisdom that cannot continue in perpetuity.
portfolio since the How cool would it be if politicians were as good at their jobs, as we are at looking after peoples investments?
Nstatesman 17 11 06 C Witans shareholders also saw good returns with a of the new Please remember that past performance is not a guide to future performance.
total return from holding the shares during the year management of 12.1%.
Witans net asset value per ordinary share structure.
rose by 10.1% over the year, 1.7% ahead of the overall benchmark as laid out in the key Below is a more detailed review of the portfolio by performance indicators on page 3.
contributions to this came from buying back shares at a discount to net asset value, the Boards gearing UK policy, the overweight allocation to Europe and Asia, The UK portfolio is managed in two parts: the UK the underweight allocation to the US, and the mainstream portfolio is managed by the Henderson outperformance of MFS and Hendersons UK smaller Global Investors UK Enhanced Index team and companies team.
The underweight allocation to the provides Witan with a relatively low risk exposure to UK, the overweight position in Japan and the underthe UKs largest companies: the UK smaller performance, in particular, of APS, Brandes and companies portfolio is actively managed by the Wellington detracted from the relative return.
Henderson Global Investors Smaller Companies team.
This combination gives Witan a strategically The geographical breakdown of the portfolio is laid overweight position in smaller companies, an area out on page 18.
This reects the strategic asset which tends to outperform in the long term.
allocation of the Board and also the stock selection of our two global managers who seek to nd the most The UK mainstream portfolio was marginally ahead attractive stocks they can irrespective of geography.
of its benchmark in 2006 see table on page 14.
Page 18 also shows the breakdown of the portfolio by Over the course of the year investors moved away industrial sector and page 19 lists the fty largest from the economically sensitive cyclical stocks in holdings in the portfolio.
These holdings represent sectors such as energy and mining and towards almost half the portfolio by value and will be the stocks undergoing an element of change such as main drivers of Witans performance going forward.
Sainsburys, Cable and Wireless and BT, and more Whilst, as a result of the Companys chosen defensive consumer staples companies such as management structure, this list inevitably includes Diageo drinks, Reckitt Benckiser household many of the UKs largest companies, holdings such as products and Alliance Boots chemist.
Additionally, DirecTV, the US cable television company, Dell, the merger and acquisition activity continued to computer company, Walt Disney, Fairfax Financial, a inuence both individual stock and also sector Canadian insurance company, and Olympus, the returns during the year.
In this environment, the Japanese optical company, underline the global and portfolios overweight positions in transport stock specic nature of Witans portfolio.
companies such as Arriva, First Group and Go Ahead performed well, particularly after Stagecoachs sale of The Board was successful during the year in selling its its London Bus business to Macquarie Bank.
The holdings in two unquoted companies, Esprit Capital I portfolio also benefited from takeover activity both 9 17274 Text.
qxd 9 3 07 11:01 pm Page 10 Business Review continued real and putative in BAA, the London Stock whilst reasonable no longer appear cheap and Exchange, Stanley Leisure, Legal & General and ITV.
earnings growth will be constrained by rising interest On the other hand, the holding in Isoft and being rates, a weak US dollar and high commodity prices.
A generally underweight in defensive companies held major prop for small and mid-sized companies will back returns.
remain high levels of corporate activity.
Additionally there remains scope for bottom-up investors to add 2006 was another very strong year for UK small value through focused stock selection.
The Henderson Global Investors portfolio returned 31.7%, outperforming the Hoare Govett Global Smaller Companies Index ex investment companies We have two global managers, Southeastern who at which produced a return of 28.0%.
The portfolio had the end of 2006 managed 203.5 million for Witan a number of strong winners including Carter & Carter, and MFS who managed 142.6 million.
They have a training and consulting business, Capital & very different approaches to managing these Regional, a retail property investor, Robert Walters, the portfolios as can be seen from the manager recruitment company, and WSP, the consulting descriptions on page 8.
Southeastern might be loosely engineering group.
The common feature of these described as a value manager, although they will winners was their ability to exceed market earning invest in growth companies provided they expectations over the year through strong business understand the business dynamics and the price can momentum.
The portfolio also benefited from a be justied by their exacting criteria.
MFS is classied number of take-overs including Systems Union, a as a growth manager but will only invest in growth financial software company, Incisive Media, a business at the right price.
publisher, SHL, a psychometric testing company, and Both are stockpickers, paying little, if any, attention House of Fraser, the department store group.
to index weightings, geography or currency and as a result both will see their performance deviate from The major transaction in the UK portfolio was the indices for long periods of time.
And, indeed, over sale of the holding in Henderson Strata Investments.
the short period of time that they have been This investment trust no longer tted comfortably in managers for Witan we have had that experience.
the Witan investment structure when it amended its MFS were initially somewhat adrift of their mandate to include larger companies.
benchmark but a good 2006 performance when they returned 10.6% versus a FTSE All-World return of Overall, Henderson see 2007 as presenting similar 7.2% has meant that they are now outperforming opportunities to 2006.
We believe that the UK since inception.
Southeastern have also had some Equity market is reasonably valued, with companies exceptionally good periods but in calendar 2006 continuing to generate good cashows.
We continue returned only 6.0% and are still behind the to see a range of interesting opportunities and this benchmark since inception.
As stated earlier both of leaves us confident for returns in 2007.
Having said these returns were substantially reduced by the that, we do believe that markets will continue to be strength of sterling Southeastern point out that the characterised by risk aversion shocks of the nature return of their portfolio in local currencies was 20%.
of that seen in May-June 2006 and this underlines the need to sustain a disciplined attitude towards Interestingly, as noted last year, both managers risk.
After four years of strong gains for UK smaller despite their different styles and relatively short stock companies, Henderson still believes that the outlook lists have holdings in Dell and Walt Disney.
Dell for 2007 continues to look favourable.
However they detracted from the managers relative performance.
expect returns to be less spectacular than in the Faced with increased competition, Dell missed recent past.
Small and mid cap valuation levels earnings forecasts for two consecutive quarters, which 10 17274 Text.
qxd 9 3 07 11:01 pm Page 11 Witan... the company attributed to aggressive pricing by favour with competitors.
Dell announced a number of changes to investors.
Stock revive growth, including cutting prices, simplifying selection in pricing structure and improving customer service.
financial services Both managers believe that Dells direct sale model Julius Baer and wisdom will be the most competitive over the long run and Goldman Sachs Our investment philosophy has been in vogue since 1909. that the operating problems related to consumer and in healthcare support and gross margins are temporary.
Shares of Schering, Fisher 0800 082 81 80 www.
Mweek 01 09 06 C Please remember that past performance is not a guide to future performance.
Walt Disney, however, appreciated substantially scientific and during the year as the media giant posted record Actelion, a biotechnology company also added to revenues, net profit and cash ow on strong performance.
performances from its lm business, media networks including ABC and ESPN, theme parks and licensed Whilst Southeastern never make a judgement on the merchandise.
outlook for markets, merely noting that margin debt is at its highest level for six years whilst at the same Indeed for Southeastern three of their top four time as market volatility is near record lows, they do outperforming stocks were media companies, an area suggest that the current environment presents a that had been disappointing in 2005, as DirecTV and challenge.
MFS, on the other hand, note that equity Comcast, like Walt Disney, increased their revenues market valuation levels appear reasonable, but and cash ows above expectations.
Their other investors' risk appetite is high.
After strong relative biggest contributor to performance was General performance, many stocks with small capitalisations, Motors which successfully sold 51% of its consumer or those domiciled in emerging markets or that credit company GMAC and signicantly reduced its operate in more cyclical areas of the economy, are annual labour costs.
Southeastern believe that the trading at high valuations versus their history.
two major drivers of value at General Motors GMAC and the overseas car business are on stronger US footings today than a year ago.
Although 2007 will The North American portion of the portfolio was bring labour contract negotiations for the North marginally behind its benchmark in 2006, returning American car business, Southeastern expect that the 1.6% versus 1.7% for the index.
outcome will have little impact on their valuation of the company, as they currently ascribe no value to Performance of the North American equity market, this division.
and to a large extent the portfolio, was marked by the sharp correction in May and June, when Over the last twelve months Southeastern sold two investors reacted to the prospects of potentially businesses whose prices approached their valuations: higher ination, driven by rising oil prices, low Hasbro, the toy manufacturer, and Saks, the retailer.
unemployment and high capacity utilisation rates, Cheung Kong, a Hong Kong holding company with along with a concern that global growth may be interests in property, ports and house building, was slowing.
After a period of digestion, the risk aversion the one new purchase in 2006. was replaced by confidence that the US economy would engineer a soft landing and that falling oil MFS out-performance in 2006 can be attributed to prices would cushion consumers concerns about quality but relatively defensive companies such as lower house prices.
Diageo, the producer of Guinness and many wellknown spirits, and Reckitt Benckiser, the leading After a positive start, returns suffered from profit household cleaning company, coming back into taking in previously successful positions and a move 11 17274 Text.
qxd 12 3 07 12:20 pm Page 12 Business Review continued away from perceived risky investments.
One of the should coincide with a return to more normal levels successes in the Henderson North America of valuation dispersion, which they suggest should be investment process has been discovering undervalued positive for their relative performance.
These stocks, such as CB Richard Ellis, a commercial real estate company Wellington had most success during the year within and the longest active position in the fund, Freightcar the materials, industrials and consumer staples America, which makes railway carriages, and sectors.
Stocks in these sectors benefited from the Intercontinental Exchange, which trades oil futures, markets appetite for increased global demand, were all marked down in the rotation away from consolidation through mergers and acquisitions and growth and cyclical names in May.
In materials, Arcelor was however, continued to meet expectations on acquired by Mittal and Wellington continue to own profitability and recovered somewhat during the the combined entity as they believe it to be one of latter part of 2006.
Additionally, positions in the most undervalued steel makers in the world.
convertibles also worked well for the portfolio in the Lafarge also recovered in 2006 after lagging in 2005 second half of the year.
The final quarter also as sales and earnings came in better than consensus witnessed a strong turnaround as positions in the expectations and the stock was revalued.
In mining and media sectors delivered positively.
industrials, Alstom was a positive contributor as strong orders and restructuring initiatives began to Henderson say we were pleased to recover a lot of feed through to margin improvement.
In consumer performance following weakness in May, although it staples, Belgian food retailer Colruyt outperformed, as was disappointing to nish the year marginally continuing strong earnings growth helped the stock behind the benchmark.
Looking forward, we go into begin to re-attain its historic valuation premium.
2007 with strong momentum after four positive During the year, the portfolio also benefited from months and we are encouraged by the opportunities being underweight in energy stocks.
we see across all our strategies.
Having said that, we do believe that markets will continue to be characterised Underperformance during the year came primarily by risk aversion shocks and this underlines the need from stock selection within the consumer to sustain a disciplined attitude towards risk.
discretionary, telecom and nancials sectors, and from the overweight allocation to technology.
The Continental Europe consumer discretionary stocks continued to lag Continental European equities recovered during the generally.
In Wellingtons view this area remains one third and fourth quarters, following a dip in the of the more fertile grounds for nding unexploited second quarter.
For 2006 as a whole, Continental stocks that still have both margin and valuation European stocks returned over 22% in euro terms, upside, and they have added to positions here.
In extending the equity rally to nearly four years.
Strong telecoms, Deutsche Telekom and France Telecom profits, moderate economic growth, and low long began to bounce back in the fourth quarter, but were term interest rates supported the advance.
The disappointing in the first part of the year.
In portfolio underperformed its benchmark in 2006 nancials, the Italian banks did well but the other returning 16.4% against 20.3% for the index.
Over the holdings lagged following a strong end to 2005. past four years, European corporate profits have risen dramatically, carrying along most stocks on a rising Looking forward, Wellington say nearly four years tide.
Going forward, Wellington expect to see more into a market advance it is less easy to discover variability in underlying corporate performance as unexploited investment opportunities.
Nevertheless, well as more volatility in stock price movements.
This there are a number of stocks and areas where we 12 17274 Text.
qxd 9 3 07 11:01 pm Page 13 Witan... believe investors are too cautious on fundamentals, company at least on a relative basis.
We take health care and telecoms are the areas where the a long term market has been quite negative and where we are perspective and... and the drought in the South looks set to continue... and the drought in the South looks set to continue... beginning to see some positive fundamental believe that none wisdom momentum.
Within cyclical companies, technology or very little of Come rain, come shine, we help people all over the country make the most of their savings from landed gentry to the great unwashed.
stocks have generally been ignored.
We have added the short term to these three areas recently.
On the ip side we are market news 0800 082 81 80 www.
14391 Please remember that past performance is not a guide to future performance.
underweight in areas where profitability has provides much achieved new peaks and expectations are high useful information to patient investors.
In all market areas like basic materials and industrials.
environments, we search for and hold what we believe to be fundamentally sound companies Japan trading at discounts to our estimates of their fair The Japanese equity portfolio gave a negative return values.
We believe this strategy will provide patient of -11.8% in 2006 versus -7.4% for the benchmark.
The portfolio benefited most from its exposure to the pharmaceuticals industry.
Holdings such as Daiichi Asia Pacic excluding Japan Sankyo, Tanabe Seiyaku and Ono Pharmaceutical For 2006, the Asia Pacic ex Japan portfolio were among the best performers.
On the other hand returned -0.9% against an index return of 17.1% in positions in the consumer finance industry and in sterling terms.
Both gures, as indicated above, were commercial banks detracted from performance with substantially higher in local currency terms.
The companies such as Promise, ACOM both consumer main driving force for this rise in the market was not finance, Yamaguchi Financial and Bank of Iwate profits growth which, on average, was moderate, but both commercial banks generating the biggest falls the surge of liquidity into Asia which resulted in an in the portfolio.
increase in valuation multiples, particularly for large liquid investments.
Another dominant factor during Brandes style is bottom-up and value orientated and the year was strong commodity prices.
These two this can be seen in their attitude to consumer finance factors impacted signicantly on APSs portfolio companies.
The consumer finance industry in Japan which in the main is invested in small to medium is being threatened with legislation which is likely to manufacturing companies that suffered from rising lower the maximum lending rate and limit consumer raw material costs.
Although APS do not make debt levels.
Japanese investors have shunned these macro-economic forecasts they do believe that companies, frightened by the short to medium term commodity price rises will not last forever.
Brandes believe, however, that in the long term these companies can grow at 15% to 18% The top performing stocks in their portfolio were per annum and that in the meantime they are Minara Resources an Australian nickel producer, conservatively nanced.
Brandes is very comfortable Catcher Technology a Taiwanese manufacturer of buying out of favour companies and holding on to magnesium casings for laptop PCs, mobile phones, them patiently until others see them as attractive.
MP3 players, etc which are very much in demand for their looks and lightness, Foxconn Technology a As far as the outlook for Japanese equities is Taiwanese manufacturer of magnesium components, concerned, Brandes have no view.
They say While again benefiting from the trend towards lighter we monitor short term developments in markets, our products and Hon Hai Precision Industries another investment philosophy focuses on company by Taiwanese electronic components manufacturer.
qxd 9 3 07 11:01 pm Page 14 Business Review continued Among the poor performers were Kia Motors which they were still appropriate for your Companys suffered from the relative strength of the Korean objectives.
This was not just a geographic review, but Won, Hi-P International a Singaporean contract also considered other asset types as well as the manufacturer with facilities in China and Basso proportion of return expected to be generated by Industries manufacturer of one of the worlds largest markets beta and manager skill alpha.
This review pneumatic fastening tools nail guns based in led to the appointment of a currency manager in Taiwan.
Looking to the future APS say We will not buy the In addition, the Board held thirteen review meetings winners of the past.
As we are entering the late stages with the investment managers.
At these meetings the of a bull market, the fifth year, to be precise, we managers were asked, among other things, to: think the laggards have a better chance of success than the current stars.
At APS, we will favour stocks explain their choice of investments, which enabled whose valuations are attractive and whose earnings the Board to check that these were within Witan are resilient or recovering.
guidelines and in accordance with the managers own investment philosophies: Manager Review Process provide a detailed analysis of their performance to During 2006, as in previous years, the Board date and the reasons behind it: reviewed both Witans benchmark and the report on any significant changes to the investment management structure to ensure that organisation: Performance for the year ended 31 December 2006 and from inception to 31 December 2006 Investment Manager Value of % of Witans Performance Benchmark Performance Benchmark Funds under Assets under in the period Performance in the period Performance Management Management 31.12.05 to 31.12.05 to 30.09.04 to 30.09.04 to m at 31.12.06 at 31.12.06 31.12.06 31.12.06 31.12.06 31.12.06 annualised annualised Henderson Global Investors UK mainstream 546.5 40.1 16.7 16.7 20.6 20.3 Henderson Global Investors UK smaller 75.7 5.6 31.7 28.0 29.5 29.6 Southeastern Asset Management Global 203.5 14.9 6.0 7.2 13.0 16.8 MFS International Global 142.6 10.5 10.6 7.2 17.5 16.8 Wellington Management Company Europe 141.5 10.3 16.4 20.3 20.6 25.8 Henderson Global Investors USA 123.8 9.1 1.6 1.7 11.2 10.8 Brandes Investment Partners Japan 61.3 4.5 -11.8 -7.4 10.7 15.4 APS Asset Management Far East 68.8 5.0 -0.9 17.1 16.9 27.6 excluding cash balances held centrally by Witan and the unquoted investments.
Source: The WM Company In recruiting these managers we were looking for rms that had a strong investment philosophy... that had a clear, rigorous and disciplined investment process... and for rms that had a long-term record of outperformance.
extract from the CEOs Review 2004 14 17274 Text.
qxd 9 3 07 11:01 pm Page 15 Witan... re-afrm their investment strategy and philosophy.
Is performance out of line with If the Board had felt any dissatisfaction on any of the managers THEYRE NOT BEHIND YOU!
these points then this would have led to the formal own historical review described below.
wisdom If so, is there a At Witan, we pack a punch when it comes to investment expertise.
Our 1.5bn multi-manager fund aims to consistently produce steady returns from the stock market.
Now that we are into the third year of the current good reason for 0800 082 81 80 www.
14392 management arrangements, the Board judges that it this?
Please remember that past performance is not a guide to future performance.
The value of an investment and the income from it can fall as well as rise as a result of currency and market fluctuations and you may not get back the amount originally invested.
Issued and approved by Witan Investment Services.
Witan Investment Services of 4 Broadgate, London EC2M 2DA is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority to provide investment products and services.
is now appropriate to make this formal review Do we still process applicable to all the managers, even if there believe in them?
is no dissatisfaction with the manager.
This will Are there attractive alternative managers available?
involve an assessment of what each of the Do we want to arrange a beauty parade?
investment managers has achieved for Witan since Do we want to include the incumbent?
their appointment and what the alternatives might be.
Only a foolish fund manager would believe that There will, however, be no presumption on what the he she owns all of the most attractive shares he she outcome of these reviews might be.
should always be searching for something better whilst recognising that ultimately this may prove to Buy-back Policy be a fruitless task.
Similarly, Witan is always on the Your Board believes that it is in shareholders look-out for the best fund managers, irrespective of interests to buy back the Companys shares when speciality, as this may give a guide to a better way of they are standing at a substantial discount to net structuring the entire portfolio.
Any purchase of shares at a discount to speciality your Company is also trying to recruit the their net asset value will lead to an increase in that best fund managers available.
However, we also need net asset value and will support an increase in the to accept the role that luck both good and bad Companys share price, all other things being equal.
plays in fund management, so should try to avoid appointing fund managers who have just had a In 2006 the Company bought back and cancelled a lucky run or sacking those who have been unlucky.
total of 34,215,264 of its ordinary shares at a cost of Furthermore, the Board must remain cognisant of 145.0 million, including stamp duty.
The result of the not inconsiderable costs of changing investment this in terms of performance enhancement was to managers.
The Board intends to subject all of the add just under 1.2% to the net asset value per share existing managers to a peer group review over the at 31 December 2006. coming months and years, starting with those about whom it has some concern.
Thereafter, it intends Witan Investment Services WIS that each manager, irrespective of its performance, Witan Investment Services Limited WIS is a wholly will be subjected to such an assessment review on at owned subsidiary of Witan Investment Trust plc.
It least a rolling three year basis.
was established in March 2005 and became regulated by the Financial Services Authority in April 2006.
Among many matters these reviews will address the following questions: WIS has two discernable channels of income by which its performance and profitability may be Why did we appoint the manager?
These are, rstly, revenues from transaction Excluding performance, have they done what we fees and annual management charges relating to its expected?
savings plan business and, secondly, executive 15 17274 Text.
qxd 9 3 07 11:01 pm Page 16 Business Review continued management and marketing fees paid by its corporate the role of marketing and the Witan Wealthbuilder clients, Witan Investment Trust plc, Witan Pacic savings schemes and discount control policies, as Investment Trust plc, and Tribune UK Tracker plc.
well as wider industry trends.
The platform which provides savings plans to WIS Finally, there are operational and regulatory risks, and clients is called Witan Wealthbuilder.
It currently has the unavoidable risks of errors and omissions.
These over 30,000 customers with assets of some 220 are regularly and extensively reviewed by Witans audit million invested.
Ongoing success will be indicated committee.
Witan Investment Services and its by growth in these gures.
The major cost incurred marketing activities are also regulated by the Financial by WIS is its fee to Lloyds TSB Registrars, the Services Authority and the subsidiary is subject to its administrators of the Witan Wealthbuilder platform.
own operating rules and regulations.
Your Board WIS is intended to be a profit centre in its own right takes its regulatory responsibilities very seriously and and now that the migration of the savings business reviews the main points of compliance against from Henderson Global Investors is complete, it is requirements on a quarterly basis.
Your Board also expected to contribute positively to Witan takes professional legal, accounting and tax advice in Investment Trust during 2007. advance if there is the slightest doubt concerning any proposed activity of your Company.
Principal Risks Operationally, the multi-manager structure is a fairly Because Witan is essentially a vehicle for UK and robust one as each of the investment managers, the overseas equity investment, your Board is unlikely, in custodian and the fund accountants keep their own normal conditions, to allow the invested level to drop records which are reconciled on a monthly basis.
The prime risk, therefore, of investing in addition, the Witan executive monitors the activities of Witan, remains a fall in equity prices.
The other generic all third parties and escalates any issues to the Board.
risks associated with any international equity portfolio Comprehensive contractual obligations and are those of strategy and of country, currency, indemnification provisions have been put in place industrial sector and stock selection.
There are also risks with each of the third party service providers.
associated with the choice of investment managers.
Your Board seeks to manage these risks through the Key Performance Indicators appropriate application of gearing, liquidity and asset Your Board assesses its performance in meeting the allocation policies and by monitoring the stock Companys objective against the following key selection activities of your managers.
Moreover, the performance indicators: adverse effects of a failure, however dened, by an individual investment manager are reduced net asset value return signicantly by the multi-manager structure, and the share price return application of nine different investment management performance against the overall benchmark mandates including the currency manager.
Further annual dividend growth your Board regularly reviews the competency of the discount to net asset value investment managers.
the level of buy-back activity total expense ratio In addition, your Company also faces the risk that its growth in the number of private investors objective and strategy become inappropriate in a rapidly changing financial services and savings The board also reviews both absolute and relative market.
This is a matter which is reviewed regularly volatility and risk statistics for the portfolio and by the Witan and the Witan Investment Services evaluates employee performance.
These reviews focus on investment policies, 16 17274 Text.
qxd 9 3 07 11:01 pm Page 17 Witan... Witans performance in 2006 against these indicators taking off again is shown on page 3 and is discussed in the and, if continued, Chairmans Statement.
this may lead to a further rise in Your Boards Priorities for 2007 interest rates and wisdom Every year in the early summer your Board sets aside a hard landing Weve been helping people make the most of their savings for ages.
So, before the pensions crisis really starts to bite, why not ask us how we can help you invest for the future?
Food for thought time to decide its priorities for the next twelve further out.
In June 2006 the Board agreed to appoint a one can say is 0800 082 81 80 www.
14367 Please remember that past performance is not a guide to future performance.
currency manager, subject to its treatment under that, despite International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, central bankers best efforts, the amount of credit in and to put in place a formal and far reaching review the world economy has probably never been greater of each of the investment managers.
A currency even Continental Europe may be acquiring the manager has been appointed and the procedure for habit.
So while quoted equities in general look reviewing the managers longer term role has been soundly nanced, investors should reect on the fact established, as described elsewhere in this document.
that consumers, private equity fund investments, During 2007 the Board will undertake this widehedge funds and even governments may not be.
ranging review of some of the investment managers Whilst equity markets tend to climb a wall of worry, while continuing with its ongoing monitoring of the i. e. the time to sell is when there is nothing to worry others.
It will continue to seek out any opportunities about, it is not clear at the moment that markets are to improve the performance of your Company and factoring in these risks.
The premium for risk is will also be looking to develop Witan Investment currently very low as can be evidenced from the low Services both through adding new investment trusts interest rate differentials between corporate debt and to the Wealthbuilder platform and through government debt and between emerging market debt increasing the number of savers that invest in Witan, and developed market government debt and the Witan Pacic and Tribune.
historically high valuations for small companies and emerging market equities.
Most commentators Outlook expect equities to rise by around 5% to 10% in 2007.
Since the management arrangements were put in That appears to be a sensible forecast but, given the place in 2004 equity markets have performed far current appetite for risk, we can expect some better than most expectations.
During this period turbulence during the year.
your Board has maintained a modestly geared position in equities and this has been to your Given the environment described above, the Board Companys benefit.
At the time of writing, believes that the current investment portfolio is well corporate balance sheets of quoted companies positioned.
remain strong and the prospects for dividend growth remain rosy.
By order of the Board Nevertheless, there are clouds on the horizon.
UK G S Rice interest rates were increased in January 2007, much For and on behalf of to the surprise of most commentators.
The US Henderson Secretarial Services Limited, economy which was expected to execute a soft Secretary landing in the first part of this year appears to be 7 March 2007 17
