Filename: 824560 02.3d Time: 14:33:15 Date: 20 05 06 Checksum: 206863539 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW The Business review is divided into the following sections: 7 Introduction to the Business review 7 Our customers 8 Our strategy 8 Outlook 8 Pursue profitable growth in new wave markets 11 Maximise the return from our traditional business 12 Transform our networks, systems and services for the twenty-first century 12 Create long-term partnerships with our customers 13 Acquisitions and disposals 13 Regulation, competition and prices 16 Relationship with HM Government 17 Legal proceedings 17 Resources 19 Our commitment to society 20 Group risk factors Please see Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements on page 133.
6 BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 Operating and financial review Filename: 824560 02.3d Time: 14:33:16 Date: 20 05 06 Checksum: -1937084849 INTRODUCTION TO THE BUSINESS REVIEW Major corporate customers BT Group plc is one of the worlds leading providers of Our core target market is 10,000 multi-site organisations communications solutions and services operating in 170 including major companies with significant global requirements, countries.
together with large organisations in target local markets.
We Our vision is for BT to be dedicated to helping customers aim to provide them with networked IT services and a complete thrive in a changing world.
Our mission is to be the leader in range of managed solutions.
We are committed to In the 2006 financial year, major corporate revenue increasing shareholder value by transforming the customer increased by 16% to 6,880 million, with new wave revenue experience through service excellence, by the effective increasing by 35% and traditional revenue declining by 4%.
The management of our powerful brand, and by leveraging our large increase in new wave revenue for major corporate customers scale networks and our existing customer base.
We aim to nd globally was driven by networked IT services, broadband and new and mutually-rewarding ways of engaging with around 20 mobility.
New wave revenue accounted for 59% of our total million customers, to capitalise on the possibilities of revenue in the major corporate market, compared with 51% in convergence, to offer global reach combined with the service the 2005 financial year.
values associated with local delivery, and to continue to provide The continued migration of our customers from traditional innovative services and solutions.
voice and data services to networked IT services enables us to Our principal activities include networked IT services: local, build closer, high-value relationships with these customers, national and international telecommunications services: and enabling them to manage their businesses more effectively and broadband and internet products and services.
We have ISO gain competitive advantage in their markets.
Such relationships 9001 certication the international quality management system will, we believe, deliver long-term, profitable revenue, more standard for most of our operations in the UK and worldwide.
than offsetting the decline in our traditional business revenue.
We are committed to enhancing our positive impact on As well as local, national and international communications society through leadership in CSR corporate social services and higher-value broadband and internet products and responsibility, and our policy is to achieve best practice in our services, we offer a comprehensive portfolio of networked IT standards of business integrity in all our operations, in line with services focused on messaging and conferencing, CRM our published statement of business practice The Way We customer relationship management, convergence, outsourcing Work.
We also offer consultancy services to help organisations understand network performance, operate their How BT operates networks and applications efficiently and transform their BT consists principally of four lines of business: BT Global businesses to gain advantage in the digital networked economy.
Services, Openreach, BT Retail and BT Wholesale.
Our extensive global communications network and strong Openreach was established on 21 January 2006 in response partnerships enable us to serve customers in the key to Ofcoms strategic review of telecommunications.
It operates commercial centres around the world using a combination of the physical as opposed to the electronic assets of the local direct sales and services capabilities and strategic partners.
access and backhaul networks and provides the services which use these networks to communications providers, both Business customers internally and externally.
See Regulation, competition and At 31 March 2006, in the UK we had around 1.5 million prices For financial reporting purposes Openreach remained business customers, with more than eight million exchange part of BT Wholesale until the end of the 2006 financial year.
will be reported as a separate line of business in the 2007 In the SME small and medium-sized enterprises market financial year.
typically companies with up to 500 employees, our strategy is Openreach, BT Retail and BT Wholesale operate almost to provide customers with tailored IT and communications entirely within the UK, where BT is the UKs largest products and services that enable them to manage their communications service provider, by market share, to the businesses more simply and efficiently.
residential and business markets, supplying a wide range of In the 2006 financial year, 23% of revenue was from new communications products and services, including voice, data, wave activities, compared with 19% in the 2005 financial year.
internet and multimedia services, and offering a comprehensive However, we face challenging market conditions and, overall in range of managed and packaged communications solutions.
the SME market during the 2006 financial year, revenue In the 2006 financial year, 87% of our revenue was derived reduced by 5% to 2,324 million, primarily reecting the from operations within the UK.
impact of CPS carrier pre-selection and WLR wholesale line BT Global Services addresses the networked IT services needs rental.
of multi-site organisations both in the UK and internationally.
In April 2006, we announced that we had acquired dabs.
com plc, one of the UKs leading internet retailers of IT and OUR CUSTOMERS technology products.
com has around one million customers throughout the UK, and this move strengthens our Revenue by customer segment year ended 31 March 2006 online IT and digital products sales and service presence for SME and consumer customers.
Wholesale Consumer customers Consumer UK and global carrier 27% 26% At 31 March 2006, we had over 18 million UK consumer customers with around 20 million residential customer lines exchange line connections.
In the 2006 financial year, 12% consumer revenue declined by 5% to 5,296 million, primarily 35% Major corporate Business reecting the impact of CPS, WLR and regulatory price reductions in mobile termination rates.
Operating and financial review BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 7 Filename: 824560 02.3d Time: 14:33:18 Date: 20 05 06 Checksum: 2099952966 In the consumer market we aim to provide customers with a range of services that help them communicate more effectively, Long-term be entertained and manage their lives.
By increasing revenue partnerships from broadband, mobility and internet services, we intend to with our reduce further our dependence on revenue and profit from customers traditional, xed-line voice services.
We also aim to maximise Grow the returns from our traditional business and defend market Defend new wave share vigorously, through service offerings backed by innovative traditional marketing and excellent quality of service.
Consumer new wave revenue grew by 55% from 412 million Twenty-first in the 2005 financial year to 638 million in the 2006 financial century year, driven principally by broadband.
Residential broadband network customers increased by 52% to more than two million.
21CN Wholesale customers In the UK wholesale market, we provide network services and OUTLOOK solutions to over 700 communications companies, including Our performance underpins our confidence that we can xed and mobile network operators, ISPs internet service continue to grow revenue, EBITDA, earnings per share and providers and other service providers.
We interconnect with dividends over the coming year.
Revenue growth will continue more than 150 other operators, as well as carrying transit trafc to be fuelled by new wave services: the EBITDA improvement between telecommunications operators.
will be driven by the continued growth in BT Retails In the 2006 financial year, external revenue from our profitability and an acceleration through the year of the EBITDA wholesale activities increased by 13% to 4,996 million.
growth in BT Global Services.
In the UK, external revenue from our wholesale activities was We are confident in our ability to improve shareholder 4,226 million in the 2006 financial year, compared with returns and accelerate the strategic transformation of the 3,820 million in the 2005 financial year.
See Group risk factors on page 20 and 21 New wave revenue was 1,033 million, up 56% on the 2005 financial year.
This increase was driven by the success of PURSUE PROFITABLE GROWTH IN NEW WAVE MARKETS broadband as well as a strong emphasis on building innovative In the 2006 financial year, 32% of our revenue was from new network solutions that help our wholesale customers grow their wave activities networked IT services, broadband and businesses and reduce their costs.
We have a long and successful tradition of delivering network-based connectivity to the carrier and intermediate Build on our networked IT services capability telecommunications markets throughout the UK, and have Our strategy in the networked IT services market is to reinforce developed value-enhancing services and solutions.
We have a BTs position as a global player capable of competing with the number of agreements with service providers and mobile worlds best in selected markets.
Our portfolio of services operators to upgrade their IP capability.
In addition, we have includes IP infrastructure, CRM, security, applications, managed used our expertise and geographic reach to provide bespoke mobility, hosting and outsourcing.
In recent years, we have developed a track record of winning In our global carrier business, revenue was 691 million in and delivering complex, large-scale networked IT services the 2006 financial year, compared with 565 million in the contracts for large business customers and other organisations 2005 financial year.
This strong growth was mainly driven by including the public and government sectors around the world.
revenue from Albacom which we acquired in February 2005.
We have shown that we have the experience and expertise to Our global carrier business customers include other xed-line help our customers succeed in a world in which business telecommunications operators, mobile operators and selected applications are increasingly being networked and networks are ISPs outside the UK.
seen as increasingly vital to productivity and competitive advantage.
OUR STRATEGY We are, for example, playing a prominent role in the NHS Our strategy is to: National Programme for IT, delivering: s pursue profitable growth in new wave markets s the national broadband network N3 we successfully s maximise the return from our traditional business installed more than 14,000 connections on the N3 ahead of s transform our networks, systems and services for the twentyschedule first century s the spine transactional and messaging database which now s create long-term partnerships with our customers.
has about 200,000 registered users The successful delivery of this strategy depends on the s the London local service provider IT systems we deployed commitment of all BT people and our continued ability to the first patient administration system specically designed manage their development and reward them.
for the NHS National Programme.
The key performance indicators against which we measure In March 2005, we announced that BT had won a contract the success of our strategy are earnings per share before worth up to 1.5 billion over eight and half years to provide and specic items see Earnings per share in the Financial review manage secure data networks for Reuters products and on page 35, free cash ow see Financing in the Financial services worldwide.
In accordance with the contract, the parties review on page 36 and customer satisfaction see Create longhave tested a number of Reuters products over the BT term partnerships with our customers.
IP-enabled MPLS multi-protocol label switching network and have started its migration process in a number of countries.
8 BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 Operating and financial review Filename: 824560 02.3d Time: 14:33:19 Date: 20 05 06 Checksum: -844471922 In May 2006, we were awarded a three-year extension worth We continue to look for commercially viable ways of bringing around an additional 270 million to the existing contract to broadband to those customers for whom availability remains an deliver Unilevers voice, data and mobile services around the issue.
We are, for example, exploring the feasibility of installing world until 2012.
The original contract, announced in broadband equipment at locations closer to the customer than November 2002 and with an estimated value of 670 million the BT exchange, as well as the possibility of delivering over seven years, was the first comprehensive global broadband over existing bre cables.
Both trials will run until telecommunications outsourcing contract won by BT and is one summer 2006. of our largest and most significant global deals.
As a demonstration of our commitment to delivering higher In the 2006 financial year, we secured networked IT services speed broadband to UK consumers, 59% of wholesale orders in the UK and internationally worth 5.4 billion, broadband lines were 2Mbit s at 31 March 2006, compared including a number of major contracts: with 17% a year earlier.
s in June 2005, we signed a contract worth approximately Having conducted trials of broadband speeds of up to E175 million over a seven-year period with leading global 8Mbit s in association with a number of service providers, we brewer InBev, for the outsourcing of its communications launched BT ADSL asymmetric digital subscriber line Max and infrastructure data and voice around the world BT ADSL Max Premium broadband services nationally with s in July 2005, we signed a two-year contract to manage effect from 31 March 2006.
By upgrading more than 5,300 Microsofts OneCall call centre routing initiative.
Under the exchanges across the UK to support this service, we are agreement, we will design, build, deploy and manage a providing the UK market with a stable, high-speed broadband solution to unify the majority of Microsofts contact centres service across the widest national footprint in the world.
around the world into a single, networked contact centre Although the broadband speed that can be supported on an environment individual line is governed by a wide range of physical factors, s in December 2005, we reached agreement with the our trials suggest that 78% of BT phone lines should support Department for Work and Pensions DWP on the rates of at least 4Mbit s. In addition, we have enhanced simplication of the contracts that the Department inherited broadband line stability to ensure that customers can run more when it was created from the former Department of Social bandwidth-hungry applications, including video, gaming and Security and the Department for Education and music downloads, at the same time as sending receiving e-mails Employment.
Under the agreement, we will supply services and surng the internet.
based on modern, reliable IP communications that take advantage of our 21CN programme to deliver consistent and Broadband for consumers exible services which will, we believe, lead to substantial We offer a family of broadband packages designed to meet the efficiencies and new capabilities for the DWP and its clients diverse needs of our customers, simply and cost effectively in a s in February 2006, we completed an agreement to become highly competitive market.
In October 2005, in partnership with Fiats supplier of global telecommunications services in 40 Yahoo!, we simplied our broadband packages into four options, countries, in a deal worth approximately E450 million over each of which offers new and existing customers a premium almost five years.
See also Acquisitions and disposals in Yahoo!
broadband experience, enhanced security features and the 2006 financial year the option of cheap internet telephony.
BT is listed in the leader quadrant in the Gartner Magic We are helping to define next-generation television which Quadrants for Global and pan-European NSPs network service is being made possible by the convergence of digital broadcast providers, and in 2005 was listed for the first time in the leader TV and broadband technology.
During the 2006 financial year, quadrant for Asia Pacic NSPs.
Gartners reports evaluate the we put in place a number of the key building blocks designed to NSPs operating in the various regions for their completeness of enable us to launch the BT Vision broadband TV service in vision and ability to execute, and BT was consistently ranked in autumn 2006.
Microsoft will help to provide the software the top five.
The NSPs that score well are those that go the platform over which BT Vision will run and the set top boxes will extra mile to deliver superior service quality through their panbe provided by Philips, Europes largest electronics company.
regional networks, local service and support and service level The service aims to combine access to digital terrestrial commitments.
channels, an extensive video-on-demand library, catch-up TV Networked IT services revenue for the 2006 financial year and a range of interactive services, offering customers choice, was 4,065 million, a rise of 33% on the 2005 financial year.
convenience and control over their home entertainment.
Other services which should be available at launch or shortly Deliver on broadband afterwards will include: personal video recording: more than 30 In the 2006 financial year, we continued our drive to enhance digital terrestrial TV channels: communications services the awareness, availability and attractiveness of broadband.
As instant messaging, chat and video telephony on the TV, and at 31 March 2006, in the highly competitive retail market, our interactive services online gaming, retail opportunities and market share of consumer and business DSL digital subscriber community services all without the need to pay an up-front line and LLU local loop unbundling broadband connections in subscription.
the UK was 33% 2.6 million connections.
We have signed content deals with BBC Worldwide, Paramount, Warner Music Group, Endemol, i-concerts, Eagle Broadband for wholesale customers Rock, Cartoon Network, National Geographic Channel, HIT In early April 2005, we reached our target of five million Entertainment and Nelvana.
broadband lines one year ahead of schedule.
At 31 March We are also playing a lead role in the development of 2006, we had 7.9 million lines, including those provided via BT internet telephony or VolP voice over IP.
International calls Retail and LLU.
In total, 5,501 exchanges had been upgraded made with BT Communicator which enables customers to by 31 March 2006, making broadband available to 99.7% of make voice calls over the internet using a PC or laptop are the UKs homes and businesses.
proving cheaper than those offered by many other suppliers.
BT Communicator comes with Yahoo!
Messenger which provides Operating and financial review BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 9 Filename: 824560 02.3d Time: 14:33:20 Date: 20 05 06 Checksum: 1950139182 access to a range of features including instant messaging, At 31 March 2006, our BT Openzone customers had access to e-mails and texts.
BT Broadband Talk enables customers to around 8,400 hotspots throughout the UK and Ireland and make and receive broadband calls using an ordinary phone.
aim to introduce an enhanced VoIP offering, featuring highRevenue in the mobility market in the 2006 financial year denition sound quality, in June 2006. was 292 million, an increase of 42% on the 2005 financial year.
Broadband for business customers Broadband is increasingly critical to the success of small and Mobility for consumers medium businesses and BT Business Broadband remained the In the consumer mobility market our strategy is to build a leading internet service provider for SMEs in the UK.
At the end foundation for the delivery of xed mobile convergent solutions.
of the 2006 financial year, we had 453,000 BT Business BT Fusion launched in June 2005 is the worlds first Broadband customers.
intelligent mobile service that switches calls to a BT broadband We recognise that businesses need solutions that combine line when the user is at home, offering customers the fast and reliable access with superior support and a range of convenience of mobile in combination with the cost and quality business applications and services.
Many of these customers opt advantages of a xed-line phone.
BT Fusion brings with it a for such value-added services as the Internet Security Pack and range of mobile services including text and picture messaging.
Users can connect PCs, laptops, games consoles, printers and In October 2005, as part of our drive to encourage broadband wirelessly via the BT Hub that comes with BT broadband take-up in the SME market, we launched our most Fusion.
At 31 March 2006, there were 24,000 consumer BT comprehensive broadband package for business to date, Fusion connections.
offering reduced prices, increased value and higher levels of In July 2005, the 3G network we built and operate for 3 in support than were previously available, including support for the Republic of Ireland was launched.
The contract with 3 LAN local area network and IT equipment that customers requires the development of 700 new radio sites to achieve its connect to their broadband line.
At 31 March 2006, we were coverage targets.
At 31 March 2006, the network for advanced providing remote support for 24,000 PCs for SME customers.
3G services covered more than 70% of the population of the Customer feedback has been extremely positive, with an Republic of Ireland.
BT Ireland is building on its success in this average 99% satisfaction level.
market to offer wholesale services to other mobile operators in In the 2006 financial year, we invested in platforms that will Ireland.
enable us to offer a wider range of services using Microsofts In November 2005, we joined forces with Nintendo to Connected Services Framework.
BT Business E-mail was the provide Wi-Fi access to users of Nintendos DS wireless games first service to be launched on this platform and provides console, a move which will enable users to play games around anywhere access to critical business information, supported by the world for free and will, we believe, bring Wi-Fi to a mass advanced security and collaboration features, and there were market.
12,000 users of this service at 31 March 2006.
In January 2006, we launched BT Business Broadband Voice, our first at Mobility for business and major corporate customers top internet telephone or VoIP call package for broadband Our strategy is to integrate traditional xed, mobile and IP customers.
services to offer a single communications solution to our customers both through commercial packaging and through Create convergent mobility solutions the exploitation of technological convergence.
In a convergent world, individuals and businesses increasingly In addition, we provide a range of managed mobile services need to connect and communicate whenever and wherever they to UK and global customers who either outsource their mobile happen to be, using whatever devices they choose.
communications entirely or rely on BT to provide specic Our aim is to offer all our customers the right combination of managed services.
the quality, reliability, cost advantages and bandwidth During the 2006 financial year, we launched a number of associated with xed-line communications, and the new services designed to integrate customersxed and mobile convenience, personalisation and exibility associated with communications services, including: mobile communications.
s BT Business Plan with Mobile, launched in March 2006, BT is both an MVNO mobile virtual network operator and a offers small and medium businesses one bill, an annual 5% service provider in the business and consumer mobility markets.
discount on combined xed and mobile calls, capped rates At 31 March 2006, BT Mobile had over 340,000 GSM and BT on xed-line calls and preferential rates on mobile-to-mobile Fusion business and consumer connections.
The package also includes BT BT Openzone is one of the leading providers of Wi-Fi Billing Analyst, which helps businesses to monitor and services in the UK and Ireland.
We operate our own network of control their call spend high-quality sites and offer more wholesale and roaming s in February 2006, we launched a version of BT Fusion for connections than any other UK Wi-Fi network operator.
SMEs, enabling them to benefit from the convenience of a Recently awarded the Brainheart European Wi-Fi award in mobile phone while enjoying rates similar to those for xed recognition of its contribution to the growth of the European lines.
Wi-Fi industry, BT Openzone offers customers a high-speed, wireless broadband connection over which they can access the Mobility for wholesale customers internet to work, talk or play.
In the 2006 financial year, we saw continued growth in the UK We have already built BT Openzone networks in wholesale mobile arena increasing the volume and value of Westminster and Cardiff and we have announced our intention wireless-originated trafc over our network.
to Wi-Fi enable a further ten cities by the end of the 2007 In February 2006, we announced that Virgin Mobile will be financial year.
the first operator to sign up to the BT Movio broadcast digital TV and radio service, making it the first mobile operator in 10 BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 Operating and financial review Filename: 824560 02.3d Time: 14:33:20 Date: 20 05 06 Checksum: 1878415536 Europe to offer its customers digital TV and radio content on a s we manage around 64,000 public payphones, including mobile device using broadcast technology.
more than 800 multimedia kiosks and more than 1,000 We have also developed a strategic relationship with textphones throughout the UK.
We remain committed to Microsoft to enable a secure and efficient environment for ensuring that public payphones are available in communities delivering broadcast services on a mobile handset.
Future growth opportunities will focus Windows Media technologies will enable BT Movio to deliver on maximising returns from existing sites and capabilities, high-quality audio and video content over a DAB digital audio including hosting Wi-Fi services and mobile antennas.
broadcast network using minimal bandwidth.
The BT Movio service also incorporates Windows Media DRM digital rights Traditional services for business and major corporate management technology to ensure secure delivery of premium customers video and music content.
We continued to enhance BT Business Plan.
From June 2005, BT Movio is the first wholesale mobile broadcast TV offering for example, we cut the cost of calls for business customers by of its kind in Europe and we plan to make it available to all reducing the cap on landline-to-mobile calls lasting less than mobile operators in the UK.
one hour from 30 pence to 25 pence.
At 31 March 2006, BT In June 2005, selected mobile phone users in Cardiff became Business Plan had over 513,000 locations, up 15% on the 2005 the first in the UK to benefit from our innovative new mobile financial year.
delivery system, Microconnect Distributed Antenna part of our Our BT Local Business initiative helped to secure BTs growing portfolio of low-power, mobile coverage solutions for position as a key player in the SME market.
At the end of the mobile operators, designed to minimise the visual impact of 2006 financial year, BT Local Business was active in 83 masts and cabinets in city centres and heritage sites.
3 became locations around the country, managing 1.2 billion of annual the first mobile operator in the UK to take advantage of the billed revenue.
system that enables operators to share small antennas, and in December 2005, Selfridges London store became the first in Traditional services for wholesale customers the UK to use the Microconnect In-Building service.
We continued to sell a wide range of capacity and call-based products and services including regulated interconnect services: MAXIMISE THE RETURN FROM OUR TRADITIONAL BUSINESS access products such as WLR and LLU: and new, non-regulated We face continued challenges in our traditional markets as a products and services.
result of regulatory intervention, competition and a shift in our During the year, the sale of WLR services continued to grow, customers buying patterns, as we provide them with higherreaching a total of 2.9 million lines by 31 March 2006.
Rental specication, high-value, new wave products.
charges for consumer lines were reduced by 50 pence a month Total xed-to-xed voice call minutes in the UK market as a from 1 August 2005 and a further 35 pence from 1 March 2006. whole declined by 3% in the 2006 financial year.
This was The monthly charge for business lines was reduced by 78.3 driven by customers making use of alternatives such as mobile pence from 1 March 2006. calls, e-mail, instant messaging, corporate IPVPNs internet WLR and LLU products will be reported within Openreach for protocol virtual private networks and VoIP, continuing the the 2007 financial year.
However, the call minutes measure is becoming less Transforming our costs important to BT as customers increasingly opt to sign up for We remain focused on financial discipline and on delivering pricing packages and take other non-PSTN public switched efficiency programmes that will generate sustainable cost telephone network services.
We continue to benchmark ourselves against the best in the Traditional services for consumers industry and aim to achieve savings of at least 400 million in We continued to develop the services we have traditionally each of the next three years.
In the 2006 financial year, offered in order to make them more attractive to consumers.
efficiency programmes delivered savings of over 400 million, Examples included: enabling us to invest in growing our new wave activities.
s at 31 March 2006, more than two million customers had A key area of focus has been enhancing the ways in which signed up for BT Together Options 2 and 3 and 67% of customers can deal with BT, simultaneously saving costs and consumer call revenue was under contract improving customer service.
Programmes have targeted the s at 31 March 2006, 3.7 million customers had signed up for cost of failure by, for example, minimising the number of times BT Privacy, a caller display service which enables customers a customer call is transferred before resolution and reducing the to preview incoming call numbers and lter out unwanted amount of call waiting time through better call routing.
All BT Privacy customers are automatically added to The number of transactions via bt.
com grew by 28% in the the Telephone Preference Service register which lters out 2006 financial year, and we now have approximately 2.3 million most unsolicited marketing calls customers receiving e-bills half a million of whom do not s between January and April 2006, actor Tom Baker was the receive a paper bill.
voice of BT Text, the text-to-speech service that enables We have also been reducing the complexity of our systems users to send and receive texts on their home landline and processes and intend, for example, to transform our billing phones.
BT Text volumes increased by 94% in the 2006 function rationalising more than 90 systems and at the same financial year.
At 31 March 2006, 268,000 BT customers time improving the end-to-end customer experience.
were registered on the service and around 1.2 million text Other programmes relate to innovative procurement and messages were being sent to landlines every week sourcing.
Our IT team, for example, has moved to global s since autumn 2005, over one million customers have sourcing and 90-day delivery cycles, and implemented hot registered to have their Friends & Family calling circle housing principles bringing customers and suppliers together automatically updated to ensure that the numbers they dial in an intense design session at the beginning of a project, most frequently attract maximum discounts reducing risks and driving up benets.
Operating and financial review BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 11 Filename: 824560 02.3d Time: 14:33:20 Date: 20 05 06 Checksum: -222708994 We continue to look at ways of streamlining our organisation Following extensive technical trials in the 2006 financial year and eliminating duplication.
The integration during the 2006 including successfully carrying more than six million voice calls financial year of the BT team serving major corporate customers over a trial IP network we developed a comprehensive national in BT Global Services previously part of BT Retail should migration and roll-out plan, which is currently subject to enable more effective account management for our global industry consultation.
As the first stage of the mass migration of customers to We also continued to reduce overheads such as 21CN, we will be rolling out the new network to business and accommodation, using buildings more efficiently and residential customers in Cardiff and the surrounding area, introducing exible working practices.
In the 2006 financial including many served by other telephone and internet service year, we vacated around 135 buildings and installed an providers and mobile operators.
We anticipate that the full, additional 250 exible workstations which can be shared by national roll out of 21CN will be substantially complete by multiple users.
A number of other programmes are underway, including We are committed to building open, transparent and structural changes in our network management and planning inclusive relationships with the rest of the industry and launched divisions.
Some of these are related to our 21CN initiative and Consult21 in the 2005 financial year in order to promote a will, we believe, help achieve the significant reduction in shared understanding of the 21CN vision and the progress we operational and capital expenditure that we expect from this are making towards it.
Since then, many of our wholesale programme in the next few years.
customers have contributed to what is now the largest voluntary industry consultation programme of its kind anywhere in the TRANSFORM OUR NETWORKS, SYSTEMS AND SERVICES FOR THE communications world today.
TWENTY-FIRST CENTURY Our UK network today What 21CN will mean for customers BT has the most comprehensive communications network in the 21CN will mean the ability to customise, personalise and UK, with around 5,600 exchanges, 680 local and 103 trunk change in real time services based on the convergence of voice, processor units, more than 121 million kilometres of copper mobility, video, data and content.
Ultimately, it is expected to wire and more than eight million kilometres of optical bre, and support the introduction of many more new services than are the most extensive IP backbone network in the UK.
The network currently available, offering greater customer choice.
services we provide include frame relay, ATM asynchronous Corporate and public sector customers will be able to work transfer mode and IPVPN.
more efficiently with suppliers, structure their internal processes, enhance customer service and drive down costs by Our global reach today deploying integrated networked IT solutions across their entire We have one of the broadest IP-enabled networks in Europe and supply chains.
our network-based services extend to and across North and South America and the Asia Pacic region.
CREATE LONG-TERM PARTNERSHIPS WITH OUR CUSTOMERS As at 31 March 2006, our agship MPLS network service We believe that our relationships with our customers are key in provided coverage and support to over 90 countries from more a market going through major transformation.
Understanding than 1,200 points of presence.
Our MPLS revenue grew by 34% customers needs and responding to them exibly, during the 2006 financial year, exceeding 400 million.
comprehensively and with insight is critical in helping to Global customer service is provided via service and network differentiate us from our competitors.
That is why we aim to management centres around the world, 24 hours a day, seven put the customer at the heart of everything we do days a week.
strengthening that relationship and building trust and delivering what we promise.
This will encourage customers to move from Twenty-first century network short-term contracts based on individual transactions, to longerWe believe that our 21CN programme is the most ambitious term arrangements under which they sign up for packages of business transformation programme in the global services.
telecommunications industry today and one of the largest ever Keeping a relentless focus on improving customer investments by a private company in the UKs infrastructure.
satisfaction is also key to these long-term partnerships.
An end-to-end, next-generation IP network, 21CN is In the 2006 financial year, our aim was to increase the designed to consolidate BTs complex network and systems number of customers who are very satisfied and extremely infrastructure to ensure that the delivery of the next generation satisfied with the service they receive from BT by 5%, while of converged services is fast, efficient and highly cost effective.
ensuring that we maintained the reductions achieved in In the 2006 financial year, for example, we developed the first previous years in levels of customer dissatisfaction.
new 21CN services based on re-usable capabilities.
Rather than For the 2006 financial year, the average score for customers being product-specic, re-usable capabilities form the basis for very satisfied and extremely satisfied was 3% higher than in a range of products and applications, enhancing the customer the 2005 financial year, although the customer dissatisfaction experience by reducing product development and launch times score was slightly worse than in the 2005 financial year.
and proving more cost effective for BT.
The 2006 financial year was particularly challenging for the In April 2005 we announced the preferred suppliers that will delivery of customer satisfaction because many of our new wave help us build the 21CN.
Following one of the largest products and services require complex customer interactions.
procurement programmes ever undertaken in the During the year, we recruited a further 900 engineers to ensure communications industry, formal contractual agreements were that we could meet customer demand.
reached with all eight Alcatel, Ciena, Cisco, Ericsson, Fujitsu, We recognise that the quality of service we offer customers Huawei, Lucent and Siemens.
The first equipment orders have is key to driving up customer satisfaction levels and much of our been placed under these contracts.
training and development activity remains focused on removing any barriers to the delivery of excellent customer service and a 12 BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 Operating and financial review Filename: 824560 02.3d Time: 14:33:20 Date: 20 05 06 Checksum: -206578147 high-quality customer experience.
Our core people engagement public sector and service provider customers and Cara Group a initiative, the my customer programme, aims to enable all BT provider of communications solutions to business and public people to deliver great customer service through teamwork.
In sector clients in the island of Ireland.
the 2006 financial year, my customer included: s a back to the oor event for 1,100 senior managers REGULATION, COMPETITION AND PRICES s more than 4,500 BT people participating in customer BT operates in an increasingly competitive and dynamic satisfaction improvement programmes commercial environment, both in the UK and around the world.
s the introduction of a customer connected programme for The 2006 financial year saw the most significant change to the BT people who do not interact with customers directly but UK regulatory regime since BT was privatised when, in response who, nevertheless, play a critical role in delivering customer to Ofcoms strategic review of telecommunications, we satisfaction.
proposed a number of legally-binding Undertakings under the Enterprise Act 2002 the Enterprise Act.
These Undertakings ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS were accepted by Ofcom and came into force in September Acquisitions and disposals prior to the 2006 financial year 2005.
See BTs Undertakings under the Enterprise Act The BT of today was largely created by a radical restructuring of The Undertakings are intended to deliver clarity and the company in the 2002 financial year.
This restructuring certainty to the UK telecommunications industry, leading to involved the UKs largest-ever rights issue raising 5.9 billion, regulation being focused on the deepest point in the network at the demerger of O2 comprising BTs wholly-owned mobile which competition is feasible, and rolled back elsewhere.
assets in Europe, the disposal of significant non-core This is mainly being achieved through the creation of a new businesses and assets, the unwind of Concert our joint venture Openreach line of business to manage our access and backhaul with AT&T and the creation of customer-focused lines of networks and their associated portfolio of Openreach products business.
Apart from any exceptions agreed with Ofcom, In the 2005 financial year, we acquired Infonet, one of the these products and services are to be made available in exactly worlds leading providers of international managed voice and the same way to all communications providers who wish to use data network services, for 520 million, including acquisition them including BT itself under the same timescales, terms costs.
Excluding Infonets net cash balance, the net value of the and conditions including price and using the same deal was 315 million.
We also acquired the 74% of Albacom processes, with the same information available to all.
that we did not already own for a total acquisition cost of By offering services equivalently, BT anticipates deregulation 131 million.
Albacom provides data transmission, voice and and the benets this will bring to consumers and others in the internet services to the Italian business communications marketplace as part of enhancing the competitive process.
In October 2004, there was an IPO initial public offering of the Singapore telecommunications and media Regulation in the UK company, StarHub, in which BT held an 11.9% stake.
We Our policy is to comply fully with the regulatory framework in disposed of our entire holding through the IPO for net proceeds which we operate.
For example, we are committed to meeting of 77 million.
In December 2004, we completed the sale of the obligations imposed under the Communications Act 2003 our 15.8% stake in Eutelsat to GS Capital Partners an the Communications Act and BTs Undertakings to Ofcom investment partnership afliated with Goldman Sachs for net under the Enterprise Act, and complying with generally proceeds of 356 million.
applicable legislation such as the Competition Act 1998 the Competition Act, while competing fairly and vigorously within Acquisitions and disposals in the 2006 financial year the rules.
A number of acquisitions and disposals were completed in the We continue to work closely with compliance professionals in year, including: the telecommunications and other regulated industries in the s in April 2005, we completed the acquisition of Radianz, the UK and the EU European Union to establish best practice.
We leading financial services extranet provider, from Reuters for publish an annual compliance report which does not form part a total consideration of 143 million.
The purchase of of this report at Radianz is another vital step in our transformation into a http: www.
htm global provider of networked IT services s between July and September 2005, the conditions enabling Ofcom BT to redeem the exchangeable bond over our shares in LG The Ofce of Communications Ofcom was set up under the Telecom were fullled.
As a result, virtually all the Ofce of Communications Act 2002 to provide a single, bondholders exercised their right to convert their bonds into seamless approach to regulating the entire communications LG Telecom shares, enabling us to dispose of all our shares.
Its functions were dened by the Communications Act.
The transaction gave rise to a bond redemption gain of In carrying out its functions, its principal duty is to further the 27 million interests of citizens in relation to communications matters, and s in February 2006, we acquired Atlanet, a Fiat subsidiary secondly to further the interests of consumers in relevant providing domestic telecommunications services to Fiat and markets, where appropriate by promoting competition.
In other non-Fiat business customers throughout Italy, for performing its duties, it must have regard to a number of approximately E80 million, further reinforcing our position in matters, including the desirability of promoting competition and the Italian market.
the use of effective self-regulation, encouraging investment and We also completed a number of smaller acquisitions in the innovation, and encouraging the availability and use of high- 2006 financial year, including CW Business Solutions Cable speed data services including broadband.
and Wirelesss retail operation in Spain, SkyNet Systems an Regulation takes the form of sets of conditions, mostly laid independent LAN solutions provider focused on the education, down by Ofcom, and directions made by it under these health, local government and media markets, Total Network conditions.
Some conditions apply to all providers of electronic Solutions, a provider of business solutions to UK corporate, communications networks and services: others apply to Operating and financial review BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 13 Filename: 824560 02.3d Time: 14:33:20 Date: 20 05 06 Checksum: 1404907795 individual providers which are designated to have the USO Following a number of market reviews by Ofcom, BT has been universal service obligation or, following a review of the deemed to have SMP in certain xed telecommunications relevant markets, are found to have SMP significant market markets, including the markets for xed narrowband retail power.
Other general obligations are set out in the services, xed narrowband wholesale exchange lines, call Communications Act.
origination and conveyance, wholesale broadband access and wholesale local access.
Conditions applying to all providers of electronic communications networks or services Enforcement under the Communications Act General Conditions Where a breach of a condition is not remedied following The General Conditions made by Ofcom under the preliminary notication by Ofcom, Ofcom may take legally Communications Act generally apply to all providers of enforceable action under the Communications Act and or electronic communications networks or services.
Although these impose a penalty of up to 10% of relevant revenue.
In addition, conditions are concerned primarily with consumer protection, a person who suffers loss or damage as a result of a breach they also address issues such as general access and may, with Ofcoms consent, sue for damages.
In the case of interconnection obligations, standards, emergency planning and serious and repeated contraventions, Ofcom may restrict or numbering.
A separate condition regulates the provision of suspend the providers entitlement to provide networks or premium rate services.
The Communications Act provides for appeals against regulatory decisions, including appeals on the merits, to the Electronic Communications Code conditions Competition Appeals Tribunal.
The Electronic Communications Code applies to communications providers authorised to carry out streetworks BTs Undertakings under the Enterprise Act and similar activities for network provision.
Its application is The key Undertakings given by BT are to: subject to conditions made by the Secretary of State for Trade s establish a new access services division to operate BTs local and Industry.
access and backhaul networks, and to provide services over those networks to the UK communications industry on the Other general obligations basis of equivalence we established Openreach for this Other obligations contained in the Communications Act purpose on 21 January 2006 include: s deliver equivalence of input for key wholesale products, and s the payment of administrative charges broadly the increased transparency for others equivalent of licence fees under the old framework s introduce new rules on access to, and sharing of, certain s the provision of information to Ofcom when required.
restricted information in particular the commercial information of Openreach and BT Wholesale Conditions applying to BT specically s restrict the exercise of inuence by other parts of BT on the Universal service obligation conditions commercial policy of both Openreach and parts of BT BT is the designated supplier of universal service for the UK, Wholesale excluding the Hull area where Kingston Communications is the s ensure fair access and migration to BTs next-generation designated provider.
network 21CN for other communications providers The services covered by the USO are dened in an order s publish and make available to all BT people a code of issued by the Secretary of State for Trade and Industry.
Our practice explaining what they must do to comply with the primary obligation is to provide a single narrowband connection Undertakings to the xed telephone network which, in addition to voice s create an Equality of Access Board EAB to monitor, report services, must support functional internet access, to anyone and advise on BTs compliance with the Undertakings and who reasonably requests it.
Additional conditions relate to the code of practice.
The EAB was established on issues such as schemes for consumers with special social needs, 1 November 2005.
The EAB Annual Report 2006 which does and the provision of public payphone services.
not form part of this report is available online at Ofcom intends to review the cost and benefit of the USO in www.
2007 and if it considers the net cost of the USO to be an undue The Undertakings include a number of things to be achieved burden, it could look at alternative ways of funding it.
As at 31 March 2006, we had achieved all the milestones required by that date, and we are working hard significant market power conditions to ensure future milestones are achieved.
Ofcom is required by the European Commission EC to define, analyse and regularly review markets, and to determine whether Enforcement under the Enterprise Act any communications provider has SMP, which is aligned with In the case of a breach of the Undertakings, Ofcom has the the competition law concept of dominance.
Economic right to seek an injunction through the courts.
However, the regulation can only be imposed following a market review and a Undertakings set out a process for Ofcom to issue a direction, nding of SMP.
which we would normally expect it to do rather than instigate Where Ofcom nds that a provider has SMP in a market, it court proceedings.
A third party who suffers loss from the must impose such additional SMP conditions as it considers breach may take action in the courts against BT for damages.
appropriate, as specified in the Communications Act.
These Whether or not it took enforcement action, Ofcom would be may include obligations to meet reasonable requests to supply able to refer BT to the Competition Commission.
See certain services to other communications providers, not to Enterprise Act BTs recourse against an Ofcom decision in discriminate unduly and to notify price changes and obligations relation to the Undertakings would be an application for judicial relating to regulatory accounting.
In some cases, extra review.
obligations such as price controls have also been imposed.
14 BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 Operating and financial review Filename: 824560 02.3d Time: 14:33:21 Date: 20 05 06 Checksum: 278782970 Competition Enterprise Act Competition and the UK economy The Enterprise Act aims to give more independence to the The growth of mobile telephony over the past decade has been competition authorities, reform insolvency and bankruptcy laws, a major factor in shaping the UKs telecommunications and tackle trading practices that harm consumers.
Mobile now accounts for around 30% of total UK Under the Act it is a criminal offence, punishable by voice minutes.
BTs share of the UK voice market, including imprisonment and or a ne, to engage in cartel activity.
In mobile, is estimated to have fallen by about 3% in the 2006 addition, where companies infringe UK or EU competition law, financial year to approximately 37%.
The mobile and xed-line their directors can be disqualified from being involved in markets are currently treated as separate and regulated managing a company for a maximum period of 15 years.
The Enterprise Act also gives the Ofce of Fair Trading We anticipate that competition in the UK xed power to refer issues relating to the possible restriction of telecommunications market will intensify as a result of the competition in particular markets for investigation by the UKs Undertakings as services are provided equivalently and the Competition Commission.
In relation to communications take-up of Openreach products increases.
markets, this power is exercisable by Ofcom.
BTs share of the residential xed-voice calls market declined to an estimated 58% for the 2006 financial year, compared Pricing regulation with estimates of 64% and 70% for the 2005 and 2004 Fixed network financial years respectively.
CPS carrier pre-selection has been Our xed network services in the UK are subject to price one of the contributors to the loss of share in the xed-voice controls formulated by Ofcom at the retail and network market.
Lower network charges benefit both BTs retail We estimate that BT had 41% of the market for business businesses and other communications providers.
xed-voice calls in the 2006 financial year, compared with estimates of 42% and 44% in the 2005 and 2004 financial Retail price controls years respectively.
We are subject to retail price controls covering public-switched We also estimate that BT supplied around 74% of exchange telephony call charges and exchange line rentals.
The price lines in the UK at the end of the 2006 financial year, compared control is based on a formula calculated by reference to the UK with 79% and 82% in the 2005 and 2004 financial years RPI Retail Prices Index and a factor, known as X.
For services respectively, with cable operators being the primary alternative covered by the controls, average prices cannot increase in each providers.
year beginning 1 August by more than the annual change in RPI Current and future wholesale line rental arrangements will minus X. enable BTs xed-line customers to move PSTN lines to other The retail price control applies to services used by the 80% operators which are expected to be the source of more of our residential customers with the lowest bills.
The value of X competition in the future.
changed in December 2005 from RPI to zero giving BT a small Since 2000, we have been required to provide LLU local increase in pricing freedom up to the end of the current control loop unbundling which enables other operators to use the lines period on 31 July 2006.
Ofcom is consulting on whether a new connecting BTs local exchanges to our customers, and to install retail price control will be required after July 2006. equipment in our exchanges.
In addition, BT has given an assurance that we will adhere to There are two types of unbundled line: a RPI 0% price cap until 30 June 2006 for retail analogue s a fully unbundled line gives other operators the exclusive use private circuits and 8 Mbit s digital private circuits.
of the copper line s a shared access line only gives other operators the use of the Network charge control high-frequency channel used for broadband.
The line will We operate under interconnection agreements with most other also be used by the customers xed-line voice provider.
Our charges for a range of interconnect services are Take-up of LLU a key Openreach product continued during controlled by Ofcom, under the NCC network charge control the 2006 financial year, with the total number of unbundled regime.
These controls are designed to ensure that our charges lines exceeding 350,000 at 31 March 2006.
We anticipate a are reasonably derived from costs, plus an appropriate return on substantial increase in the number of unbundled lines in the capital employed.
Depending on the degree of competition, 2007 financial year.
Communications providers benefited from charges are cap-controlled each year by RPI minus X for services lower prices for both connection and rental resulting from cost Ofcom considers unlikely to become competitive in the near studies carried out by Ofcom during the period.
future, and safeguard cap-controlled ie no increases above RPI for services likely to become competitive.
The current NCC Competition law period began on 1 October 2005 and will last until 30 In addition to communications industry-specic regulation, BT September 2009.
For the current charge control, Ofcom has is subject to the competition law provisions of the Competition determined different levels of X for services covered by the Act in the UK and of the European Community Treaty.
These range from RPI11.5% to RPI 0.75%.
At the of UK or EU rules could lead to fines of up to 10% of a same time, Ofcom determined that BT no longer had SMP in companys worldwide revenue in its previous financial year the markets for inter-tandem transit and conveyance.
and or claims for damages in national courts.
A company may BT must notify Ofcom and other operators if it intends to also be ordered to cease an infringing activity.
amend existing charges or offer new services.
In 2004, Ofcom launched an investigation into allegations that BT had abused a dominant position in relation to its pricing Number portability of consumer broadband products.
Ofcom sent BT two Number portability charges are covered by an RPI minus X statements of objection to which we responded, arguing that formula with X set at 5%, until 31 July 2006 when the price our pricing does not amount to an abuse of dominance.
is expected to issue a decision in the first half of 2006.
Operating and financial review BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 15 Filename: 824560 02.3d Time: 14:33:21 Date: 20 05 06 Checksum: -1111685964 Wholesale access charge reductions We continue to press incumbent operators and their national As part of the strategic review and to encourage competition, regulatory authorities around the world including the EU for BT agreed that our wholesale access residential price would be cost-related access to their networks where appropriate.
The first was a reduction of 50 pence a month 1.50 per quarter implemented on 1 August 2005.
The Other significant changes and issues second reduction followed the publication of Ofcoms statement Regulatory valuation of copper-based local access network on setting and reviewing charge ceilings for WLR wholesale line In August 2005, Ofcom reduced the current cost regulatory rental on 24 January 2006.
From 1 March 2006, our rates have asset value of the copper-based local access network.
This been as follows: valuation is used only for regulatory purposes.
Ofcom estimated s residential analogue lines: new line installation 88, that the net current cost carrying value of these assets for transfer 2 a line, and annual line rental 100.68 regulatory purposes at the end of the 2006 financial year will be s business analogue lines: new line installation 88, reduced by about 879 million.
It also extended the periods transfer 2 a line, and annual line rental 110. over which certain access network assets will be written off from the 2007 financial year onwards.
Partial private circuit charge control Ofcom estimated that the combined effect of reducing net PPCs partial private circuits are leased lines that BT sells to current cost regulatory asset value and extending asset lives other network operators.
On 1 October 2004, Ofcom would reduce costs used for regulatory price setting relating to introduced a PPC charge control to replace the annual BTs copper access lines by about 300 million in a full year, determinations previously carried out by Oftel.
excluding the impact of any change to the allowed return on The control is a four-year, three-part RPI-X formula: capital employed.
These changes were reected in revised s low bandwidth RPI-4% prices for wholesale line rental and unbundled local loops s high bandwidth RPI-6.5% announced in late 2005. s equipment RPI-8.9%.
Additionally, as part of our Undertakings, we have agreed to Cost of capital make a new form of wholesale private circuit services available In August 2005, Ofcom determined what it believed were via Openreach, subject to demand from other communications appropriate rates for BTs cost of capital for regulated products providers.
These are TILLAP traditional interface leased lines and services.
This rate is used only as a reference against the access product and TILLBP traditional interface leased lines regulatory current cost values of BTs regulated products.
overall rate for BTs cost of capital was assessed as 10.9% on a pre-tax nominal basis, compared with a rate of 13.5% set in Non-UK regulation 2001.
The reduction was a result of lower interest rates, a BT must comply with the regulatory regimes in the countries in change in Ofcoms assessment of the premium associated with which we operate and this can have a material impact on our investment in shares, and a revised view of BTs overall risk business.
prole compared with the market as a whole.
This overall rate was split by Ofcom into a lower rate of 10% European Union for local access services ie those now managed by Openreach, The degree to which European Commission directives relating and a higher rate of 11.4% for the rest of BT.
The local access to electronic communications have been implemented varies rate was reected in the revised wholesale prices proposed in from country to country.
Although the general move towards 2005 by BT for both unbundled local loop and wholesale line the new regime continues, in some countries this is happening rental products.
more slowly than, for example, in the UK.
BT does not have universal service obligations outside the IPStream and Datastream UK, although in certain member states we may be required to In June 2005, we reached agreement with Ofcom that rental contribute towards an industry fund to pay for the cost of prices for IPStream and Datastream the most popular meeting universal service obligations in those countries.
wholesale ADSL broadband access products currently used by The European Commission is formally investigating the way service providers will not reduce until there are 1.5 million the UK Government has set BTs property rates and those paid unbundled lines in the UK, with certain exceptions.
The Commission is examining whether the Government has complied with European Funds for liabilities Community Treaty rules on state aid in assessing BTs rates.
Under the terms of the Electronic Communications Code, an BTs rates were set by the Valuation Ofce after lengthy electronic communications provider with apparatus on or in the discussions based on well established principles in a transparent public highway is required to make financial provision to cover process.
In our view, any allegation of state aid is groundless any damage caused by work it carries out, and for the removal and we are confident that the Government will demonstrate the of its network in the event of liquidation or bankruptcy.
fairness of the UK ratings system.
A nding against the UK The conditions require the company to provide Ofcom Government could result in BT having to repay any state aid we annually with a certicate that, in the opinion of its board of may be determined to have received.
directors, it has fullled its obligations to ensure the availability of the required funds.
Rest of the world The vast majority of the markets in which we operate around RELATIONSHIP WITH HM GOVERNMENT the world are regulated, and in most of these we have to meet The UK Government, collectively, is our largest customer, but certain conditions and obtain licences or other authorisations.
the provision of services to any one of its departments or The degree to which these markets are liberalised varies widely.
agencies does not comprise a material proportion of our Our ability to compete fully in some countries is therefore revenue.
Except as described below, the commercial constrained.
16 BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 Operating and financial review Filename: 824560 02.3d Time: 14:33:21 Date: 20 05 06 Checksum: -1187250787 relationship between BT as a supplier and the UK Government s heart we believe in what we do.
as customer has been on a normal customer and supplier basis.
During the 2007 financial year, we will be delivering a We can, however, be required by law to do certain things comprehensive communications plan to ensure that all and provide certain services for the UK Government.
General stakeholders understand the implications of our new vision, conditions made under the Communications Act require all mission and brand positioning.
providers of public telephone networks and or publicly available telephone services, including BT, at the request of and in Motivating our people and living the BT values consultation with the authorities, to make, and if necessary Our commitment to meeting our customers needs presents the implement, plans for the provision or restoration of services in 104,400 people employed by BT at 31 March 2006 with connection with disasters.
The Civil Contingencies Act 2004 opportunities to develop innovative solutions, generate new contains provisions enabling obligations to be imposed on business, drive efficiencies and experience personal growth.
providers of public electronic communications networks, Our aim is to create a team of high-performing, engaged including BT, in connection with civil contingency planning.
In and motivated people who can make a difference for customers, addition, the Secretary of State has statutory powers to require shareholders, the company and themselves.
Only by living our us to take certain actions in the interest of national security and values will we deliver our strategy, keep our promises to our international relations.
customers, seize new opportunities in new markets and maximise the return from our traditional business.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS BT does not believe that there are any pending legal Motivating leaders proceedings which would have a material adverse effect on the The quality of leadership in BT is key to the successful delivery financial position or operations of the group.
of our strategy for transformation and growth.
We are focused There have been criminal proceedings in Italy against 21 on ensuring that leaders at all levels understand what is defendants, including a former BT employee, in connection with expected of them, have access to appropriate development the Italian UMTS universal mobile telecommunications system opportunities and are able to benchmark their performance auction.
Blu, in which BT held a minority interest, participated against that of their peers.
We have, for example, rigorously in that auction process.
On 20 July 2005, the former BT dened the capabilities we expect our leaders to exhibit and employee was found not culpable of the fraud charge brought have introduced a 360 degree feedback tool to help them by the Rome Public Prosecutor.
All the other defendants were measure their performance.
The Public Prosecutor is in the process of appealing the courts decision.
If the appeal is successful, BT Engaging and motivating our people could be held liable, with others, for any damages.
The Our annual employee attitude survey was conducted most company has concluded that it would not be appropriate to recently in February 2006 and attracted a more than 75% make a provision in respect of any such claim.
The survey generates around 5,000 feedback reports for managers and their teams across RESOURCES the business, helping to promote effective team working.
Corporate reputation and brand strength Employees are kept informed about our business through a BT has a strong, integrated brand that is widely recognised wide range of communications channels, including our online both in the UK and around the world.
news service, bi-monthly newspaper, regular e-mail bulletins Our brand helps to shape our relationships with all our and senior management webchats and webcast briengs.
stakeholders, including shareholders, customers, suppliers and We have a record of stable industrial relations and enjoy employees.
It is vital that they all have a clear understanding of generally constructive relationships with recognised unions in what BT stands for, and that all their interactions with us the UK and works councils elsewhere in Europe.
In the UK, we contribute to a consistently positive image of BT.
recognise two main trade unions the Communication Workers As a vital asset, the BT brand needs to be developed, Union and Connect.
We hold regular meetings between protected and managed with the same rigour that we bring to management, employee trade union representatives and other other assets, both tangible and intangible.
And as the world and groups of employees in order to ensure that their views are the markets in which we operate change, so our brand needs to taken into account in any decisions affecting employees reect this, becoming more confident, dynamic and forward interests.
We also operate a pan-European works council the looking.
Our Chief Executive and other senior executives have Towards the end of the 2006 financial year, we completed a regular meetings with the BTECC and other employee thorough review of our brand, as a result of which we developed representatives.
Our vision for BT is to be dedicated to helping customers Rewarding and recognising achievement thrive in a changing world.
We continued to provide our employees with opportunities to Our mission is to be the leader in delivering converged acquire a stake in the company.
Under the BT Employee Share networked services.
By ensuring that the services we offer Investment Plan ESIP, BT can provide free shares to customers are consistently focused on meeting their needs, employees and employees can buy shares in BT from their straightforward and easy to use, we will help those customers pre-tax salaries.
succeed in their business and personal lives.
In the 2006 financial year, 22 million was allocated to The review concluded that the BT brand values remained t provide free shares to employees under the ESIP.
Consequently, they are unchanged: outside the UK receive a cash payment equivalent to the value s trustworthy we do what we say we will of the shares.
This allocation of profits was linked to the s helpful we work as one team achievement of corporate performance measures determined by s inspiring we create new possibilities the Board.
In addition, employees can buy shares at a discount s straightforward we make things clear under our savings-related share option plan.
Operating and financial review BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 17 Filename: 824560 02.3d Time: 14:33:21 Date: 20 05 06 Checksum: -1395990367 More than 98% of eligible employees participate in one or more We continue to create a working environment that actively of these plans.
supports all our employees regardless of gender, race, sexual orientation, religion beliefs, disability or age.
Pensions Most of our employees are members of the BT Pension Scheme Research and development a dened benefit scheme or the BT Retirement Plan a money The GCTO Group Chief Technology Ofce sets and drives the purchase scheme, both of which are controlled by independent open innovation and technology strategy for BT.
The BT Pension Scheme was closed to new members a global technology intelligence scouting unit, teams focused on on 31 March 2001.
The majority of new employees are eligible innovative new wave service opportunities, an innovation to join the BT Retirement Plan.
See Pensions in the Financial strategy and media team, strategic technology analysis units, a review network and systems architecture team and world-class research and venturing facilities in Adastral Park England, Health and safety Malaysia and the USA.
The health and safety of our people is of paramount importance In the 2006 financial year, we invested 727 million in and we are implementing a group-wide initiative to reduce research and development R&D to support our drive for levels of accidents and ill health amongst our workforce.
This investment comprised capitalised software have reduced the number of accidents leading to absence from development costs of 401 million and R&D operating costs of work from 8.6 cases in every million working hours in 2001 to 326 million.
This compares with 522 million in the 2005 2.8 cases in every million working hours at 31 March 2006. financial year, which comprised 265 million of capitalised Specic initiatives addressed lifting and working at heights and software development costs and 257 million of R&D operating we continued to enhance our occupational road risk costs.
In addition, the 2006 financial year includes an amortisation In the 2006 financial year, we ran major initiatives on charge of 160 million 2005 95 million in respect of lifestyle change focusing on exercise, diet and giving up capitalised software development costs.
This increase in R&D underpins our increased focus on developing innovative products and services for a converged, Learning now and for the future networked world.
We believe that people, particularly at the start of their careers, We continue to focus our innovation work on key areas will increasingly want to work for companies that commit to the which support our business and technology strategies, ling long-term development of their employees.
patent applications for 141 new inventions in the 2006 financial Our successful company-wide re-accreditation to Investors in year and maintaining a total worldwide portfolio of 7,700 People in February 2005, first achieved in 1998, demonstrates patents and applications.
our continuing commitment to the effective alignment of our We have successfully launched eight innovative, independent communications, training and development with our business start-up companies through the corporate venturing partnership strategy.
unit New Venture Partners, in which we are a limited partner.
We have created a learning governance model to ensure our These start-ups generate value by launching innovative learning and development objectives and practice align with the solutions as high-technology businesses in the global key strategic objectives of the business.
from all parts of BT sit on the Learning Executive Council and senior learning and development representatives form the IT support Learning Council.
Both bodies provide strategic and operational Our dedicated IT professionals have a strong track record in the guidance for the whole of BT to ensure that all learning and development and delivery of systems and solutions and in development activity is co-ordinated across all lines of business.
managing a secure and resilient infrastructure.
In March 2006, we upgraded BT Academy, our web-based Over the past year, we continued to enhance our approach corporate learning portal, to a new platform and renamed it to systems development through our One IT programme, which Route2Learn R2L.
R2L a group-wide system is evidence of aims to deliver year-on-year reductions in base costs.
Our our continuing investment in lifelong learning and education for objective is to transform the various IT units throughout BT into all BT people.
Providing all BT employees with an extensive a single team, rigorously focused on customer requirements.
range of learning programmes and facilities, it is one of the Our IT strategy is about speed of response and the focusing largest corporate learning management systems in Europe.
of resources in selected areas at the end of the 2006 financial In the 2006 financial year, the BT Academy Learning System year, there were fewer IT systems running in BT than at the delivered over 250,000 online and nearly 38,000 instructor-led beginning of the year.
At its heart is the radical rationalisation course completions.
of our systems portfolio, strict adherence to 90-day delivery cycles and an intense focus on improving the customer Embedding exibility and diversity experience.
The changing nature of the markets in which we operate, our focus on cost leadership and our investment in new services Property have impacted the shape of our permanent workforce.
At 31 March 2006, we occupied approximately 6,500 During the 2006 financial year, in the UK more than 6,600 properties in the UK and approximately 1,500 properties 2005 3,903 people joined BT, natural attrition was running around the world.
at 3% 2005 2.6% and 2,169 2005 2,685 people left BT The majority of these UK properties are owned by and under our voluntary paid leaver package.
leased back from the Telereal Group, which is part of the We are committed to helping our people optimise their William Pears Group.
At the end of March 2006, for example, These properties mainly house exchange equipment and are around 11,000 people were working from home.
needed as part of our continuing activities.
Other, general 18 BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 Operating and financial review Filename: 824560 02.3d Time: 14:33:21 Date: 20 05 06 Checksum: -1178383889 purpose, properties consist chieyofofces, depots and against these are published in our annual social and computer centres.
We anticipate that our changing working patterns will Our CSR team co-ordinates and monitors CSR performance, continue to reduce property costs.
identies potential issues and opportunities that could affect the business and supports BTs commercial activities.
OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIETY Corporate social responsibility Social, environmental and ethical risks Managing social, ethical and environmental issues in a way that During the 2006 financial year, we further developed our grows shareholder value and helps BT and our customers be knowledge and understanding of our CSR risks.
In the context more sustainable is very important to us.
of CSR, our most significant risks continue to be: The Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes rank companies for s breach of the code of business ethics their success in managing social, ethical and environmental s climate change factors for competitive advantage.
During the 2006 financial s diversity year, BT was ranked as the top telecommunications company in s health and safety the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the fifth year in a row.
s outsourcing We also hold the Queens Award for Enterprise in s privacy recognition of our contribution to sustainable development and s supply chain working conditions.
we were ranked equal 4th in Business in the Communitys 2005 Each of these risks has an owner and mitigation strategy in Corporate Responsibility Index.
place more detail on these risks can be found in our online This section of the report, together with the broad statement social and environmental report.
These risks are not regarded on social, environmental and ethical matters included in the as material in relation to the BT group and, consequently, are Report of the directors, provides information in response to not included in Group risk factors.
the Association of British Insurers disclosure guidelines on social responsibility.
CSR business opportunities More detailed disclosures on BTs implementation of social, We have measured the link between customer satisfaction and ethical and environmental policies and procedures are available CSR performance for a number of years and our current online in our independently-veried Social and Environmental customer satisfaction models indicate a positive correlation.
Report 2006 which has been prepared in accordance with the Customers who believe that BT takes its responsibility to society 2002 Global Reporting Initiative GRI sustainability reporting and the community seriously are more than twice as likely as guidelines and assured against the AA1000 Assurance other customers to be very or extremely satisfied with BT.
Long-term sustainability trends are creating market opportunities for us the use, for example, of teleconferencing CSR governance and exible working to reduce the need to travel and provide The Board reviews our CSR strategy, performance and risks more exible lifestyles.
annually and is kept informed of new developments that may Increasingly, BT has to address social and environmental impact on its duties.
matters when bidding for business.
In the 2006 financial year, A Board committee the Community Support Committee bids to the value of 1.3 billion required us to demonstrate oversees community, charitable and arts expenditure and the expertise in managing these issues.
strategy for maximising our contribution to society.
The committee, chaired by Sir Christopher Bland, consists of Procurement representatives from BT businesses, three non-executive Through our supply chain initiative, Sourcing with Human directors and two independent members who have a reputation Dignity, we seek to ensure that the working conditions in our for excellence in this eld.
supply chain meet internationally recognised human rights An executive committee, the Corporate Social Responsibility standards, and to investigate potential social and environmental Steering Group, oversees the implementation of our CSR shortcomings.
We monitor and set published targets for our strategy and programme.
This includes risk assessment, target relationships with suppliers: in the 2006 financial year, for and objective setting and public accountability.
BT also takes example, 89% of suppliers were satisfied with their working advice from an independent panel of CSR experts.
During the 2006 financial year, our CSR strategy was substantially revised and updated to focus on three principal Environment issues climate change, sustainable economic growth and an During the 2006 financial year, we achieved re-certication inclusive society.
Embedding CSR into our commercial under the revised ISO 14001 standard the international operations remains an important part of our strategy.
As part of standard for environmental management systems for our this process, we have carried out a number of health checks in operations in the UK and Spain.
We requested withdrawal of our commercial operations to identify specic social, our certication in Ireland, pending reorganisation and will seek environmental and ethical risks and opportunities.
re-accreditation during the 2007 financial year.
We have important relationships with a wide range of Although BT is one of the largest consumers of industrial and stakeholders around the globe, including employees, customers commercial electricity in the UK, and the growth of broadband and suppliers and engage with them in a number of different continues to increase our electricity use, our electricity ways.
consumption increased by less than 1% in the 2006 financial As part of our CSR performance measurement, we have 12 year.
The green energy contract we signed in the 2005 financial CSR KPIs key performance indicators which cover our year means that almost all our UK electricity needs are met relationships with our stakeholders, as well as our from environmentally friendly sources, including wind environmental performance and our contribution to digital generation, solar, wave and hydroelectric schemes.
Details of our performance Operating and financial review BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 19 Filename: 824560 02.3d Time: 14:33:22 Date: 20 05 06 Checksum: -344726676 The following table shows BTsCO emissions as dened in the ChildLine on a campaign to ensure that every childs call for 2 Greenhouse Gas Protocol and therefore includes not only CO help is answered.
2 emitted directly by BT, but also that emitted in the production Our response to major world disasters included sending a of the electricity purchased by the Group.
specialist team to the Pakistan earthquake disaster zone to install emergency satellite telephone equipment.
CO emissions 2 Disability services 2006 2005 2004 2003 Our age and disability action team promotes equal access to a Total UK only million tonnes 0.64 0.76 0.92 0.96 wide range of products and services.
We work directly with % below 1996 60% 53% 42% 40% older and disabled people and their representatives to raise Tonnes per 1m revenue 33 41 50 51 awareness of BTs inclusive approach and are continuing to develop our processes to ensure that new products and services During the 2006 financial year, we received an income of are accessible by as many disabled people as possible.
3.2 million from our recycling activities, offset against the Our age and disability action website, for example, now 8 million we spent managing our waste contracts, recycling includes information about broadband in British Sign Language.
our waste and sending waste to landll.
BT is the first commercial organisation to provide online information in this format, opening up access for deaf people.
Waste GROUP RISK FACTORS 2006 2005 2004 2003 In common with all businesses, BT is affected by a number of Total waste tonnes 102,005 110,622 107,303 117,688 risk factors, not all of which are wholly within our control.
Total waste recycled tonnes 42,340 37,421 27,626 27,809 Although many of the risk factors inuencing our performance % recycled 42% 34% 26% 24% are macroeconomic and likely to affect the performance of businesses generally, others are particular to our operations.
During the 2006 financial year, our commercial eet still one This section highlights some of those particular risks but it is of the largest in the UK increased by 1.7%, but our fuel not intended to be an extensive analysis of all risks affecting the consumption decreased by 1%.
Some risks may be unknown to us and other risks, currently regarded as immaterial, could turn out to be material.
Transport All of them have the potential to impact our business, revenue, profits, assets, liquidity and capital resources adversely.
2006 2005 2004 2003 They should also be considered in connection with the Number of vehicles UK only 32,516 31,969 32,663 33,979 statement on internal control and risk management in the Fuel consumption million litres 51.38 51.97 53.85 56.12 Report of the directors Internal control and risk management on page 45, the forward-looking statements in Digital inclusion this document and the Cautionary statement regarding Following research that showed that, if not addressed, the forward-looking statements on page 133. digital divide would, by 2025, become even wider, particularly among older and disabled people, we are working with Age Regulatory controls Concern to support their digital inclusion strategy.
This includes If our activities are subject to significant price and other providing support to develop further their network of Silver regulatory controls, our market share, competitive position and Surfer clubs and providing training for volunteers and staff.
future profitability may be affected.
The EverybodyOnline initiative continues in a number of the Most of BTs xed network activities in the UK are subject to most deprived communities around the UK, successfully significant regulatory controls.
The controls regulate, among demonstrating that digital inclusion makes a positive difference.
other things, the prices we may charge for many of our services Internationally, our Lifelines India initiative helps developing and the extent to which we have to provide services to our world farmers access essential advice and information over a competitors.
In recent years, the effect of these controls has digital network.
been to cause us to reduce our prices.
We cannot assure our shareholders that the regulatory authorities will not increase the Community investment severity of the price controls, nor extend the services to which We commit a minimum of 1% of our UK pre-tax profits to controls apply including any new services that we may offer in activities which support society.
We provided a total of the future, nor extend the services which we have to provide to 21.3 million designed to benefit society in the 2006 financial our competitors.
These controls may adversely affect our year, of which 2.5 million was charitable donations.
market share, the severity of competition and our future Our community investment strategy aims to help individuals profitability.
In response to Ofcoms strategic review of and communities make a better world through communications telecommunications, we proposed a number of legally binding skills and technology.
Examples include an education Undertakings under the Enterprise Act 2002.
These programme which provides free resources for teachers, pupils Undertakings were accepted by Ofcom and came into force in and parents, and in-school activities with drama groups and BT September 2005.
In the case of a breach of the Undertakings, volunteers, both in the UK and internationally.
To date, we have Ofcom has the right to seek an injunction through the courts or involved over two million pupils at more than 12,000 schools.
Third parties who suffer losses as a result of We also helped Comic Relief, Children in Need and the the breach may also take action against BT in the courts for Disasters Emergency Committee run successful telethons which damages.
The timescales for achievement of a number of the raised millions for good causes around the globe.
milestones in the Undertakings are very challenging.
Further ChildLine, a UK charity, answers 2,500 calls every day but details on the regulatory framework in which BT operates can many hundreds more go unanswered.
We are working with be found in Regulation, competition and prices.
20 BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 Operating and financial review Filename: 824560 02.3d Time: 14:33:22 Date: 20 05 06 Checksum: 258552837 Competition in UK xed-network services areas, with a consequential impact on future revenue and We face strong competition in UK xed-network services.
Ofcom considers that we have significant market power in various parts of the UK xed telecommunications market.
In Major contracts these areas Ofcom can enforce obligations to meet reasonable Our business may be adversely affected if we fail to perform on requests to supply services to other communications providers, major contracts.
not to discriminate unduly, to notify price changes and in some We have entered into a number of complex and high-value cases it can also impose extra obligations such as price controls.
networked IT services contracts with customers.
Our pricing, Ofcom has promoted competition in the xed-network area cost and profitability estimates for major contracts generally by measures including local loop unbundling, carrier include anticipated long-term cost savings that we expect to pre-selection making it easier for BT customers to route some achieve over the life of the contract.
or all of their calls over our competitors networks and the These estimates are based on our best judgement of the introduction of wholesale access products.
efficiencies we plan to deploy.
Any increased costs, delays or Reduction in our share of the xed-network market may lead failures to achieve the anticipated savings could make these to a fall in our revenue and an adverse effect on profitability.
contracts less profitable or loss making, adversely impacting our Unlike our competitors, we continue to be obliged by the profit margins.
current regulatory regime to serve customers in the UK, In some cases, our products and services incorporate whether or not such provision of service is economic.
software or system requirements from other suppliers or service There is also competition for voice and data trafc volumes providers.
Our ability to meet our commitments in a timely between xed-network operators and those operators offering manner may depend on the ability of these suppliers and service VoIP and mobile services.
providers to meet their obligations.
Failure to manage and meet The impact of all these factors may be to accelerate the our commitments under these contracts may lead to a diversion of our more profitable customers without being able reduction in our future revenue, profitability and cash to reduce our costs commensurately, which may cause adverse generation.
effects on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects.
Networks and systems failures Our business depends on our ability to transfer substantial Technological advances volumes of data speedily and without interruption.
Any Our continued success depends on our ability to exploit new significant failure or interruption of such data transfer as a technology rapidly.
result of factors outside our control could have a material We operate in an industry with a recent history of rapid adverse effect on the business and our results from operations.
technological changes and we expect this to continue We have a business continuity strategy in place, designed to new technologies and products will emerge, and existing deal with such catastrophic events including, for example, major technologies and products will develop further.
terrorist action, industrial action, extreme computer virus We need continually to exploit next-generation technologies attack, hurricane or ooding.
A failure to deliver that strategy in order to develop our existing and future services and may result in a material loss and there can be no assurance that products.
material adverse events will not occur.
However, we cannot predict the actual impact of these future technological changes on our business or our ability to Pensions provide competitive services.
Declining investment returns and longer life expectancy may For example, there is evidence of substitution by customers result in the cost of funding BTsdened benefit pension using mobile phones for day-to-day voice calls in place of scheme becoming a significant burden on our financial making such calls over the xed network and of calls being resources.
routed over the internet in place of the traditional switched As a result of the triennial actuarial valuation of the BTPS at network.
31 December 2002, BT agreed to make annual deficiency If these trends accelerate, our xed-network assets may be payments of 232 million.
The triennial actuarial valuation at used uneconomically and our investment in these assets may 31 December 2005 is currently being reviewed in the context of not be recovered through profits on xed-network calls and line recent regulatory developments and the impact of the Crown rentals.
Guarantee granted on privatisation in 1984.
The complexity of the 21CN programme may also result in The results of future scheme valuations will be impacted by delays to the delivery of expected benets.
Impairment the future performance of investment markets, interest and write-downs may be incurred and margins may decline if xed ination rates and the general trend towards longer life costs cannot be reduced in line with falling revenue.
expectancy, as well as regulatory changes, all of which are outside our control.
Transformation strategy Our strategy for transformation includes the targeting of significant growth in new wave business areas.
This may result in changes to our products, services, markets and culture.
If this transformation strategy is unsuccessful there is a risk that future revenue and profitability will decline.
In particular, we have targeted significant growth in new business areas, such as networked IT services, broadband and mobility.
In view of the likely level of competition and uncertainties regarding the level of economic activity, there can be no certainty that we will meet our growth targets in these Operating and financial review BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2006 21
