Business and financial review ESAB ESAB Laser-hybrid welding machine in action ESAB is a world-leading manufacturer and supplier of welding consumables and equipment welding, and cutting and automation solutions.
ESAB has a very broad range of welding consumables, which includes electrodes, cored wires, solid wires and fluxes for submerged arc welding, and covers welding processes for a variety of materials from mild steels to advanced alloys.
ESABs welding equipment range is similarly comprehensive, from simple welding transformers or inverters to fully programmable welding power sources.
The cutting and automation business provides complete cutting and welding solutions, particularly for customers requiring the most advanced technology or large turn-key systems and production lines.
ESAB has a leading position in processes and technologies, including cored and solid wire welding, aluminium welding, submerged arc welding, friction stir welding and advanced cutting solutions.
Europe accounts for almost one-half of ESABs revenue.
ESAB also has significant operations in North and South America, and is increasing its presence in China and elsewhere in Asia.
8 Charter plc Annual Report 2006 What does the ESAB brand stand for?
The ESAB brand, with its Swedish engineering heritage, is synonymous with good designs, reliability and over 100 years of experience since Oscar Kjellberg first invented the coated welding electrode back in 1904.
Since then, ESAB has become a world leader in welding and cutting with sales, technical support and know-how available across the world, providing customers with complete confidence.
Today, ESAB produces consumables and equipment for virtually every welding and cutting process and application.
ESAB's subsidiaries and distributors work in partnership to find the optimum solution for customers businesses wherever in the world that may be and however large or small the requirement.
2006 highlights Turnover for the year was 828.4 million 2005: 720.1 million, an increase of 15.0 per cent, reflecting strong volume growth.
2006 2005 Increase ESAB achieved an operating profit in 2006 of 98.9 million m m % 2005: 74.4 million, an increase of 32.9 per cent, and Welding 698.6 607.8 14.9 its operating margin increased from 10.3 per cent in 2005 Cutting and automation 129.8 112.3 15.6 to 11.9 per cent in 2006.
Revenue 828.4 720.1 15.0 As part of a programme to increase its capacity for the Welding 88.7 65.5 35.4 production of welding consumables by 20 per cent between Cutting and automation 10.2 8.9 14.6 mid 2006 and mid 2007, ESAB: Operating profit 98.9 74.4 32.9 opened a new consumables plant in the Jiangsu province of China in July 2006: and Share of profits of associates post tax 4.3 3.4 added further capacity to existing factories in Central Europe and South America.
Capital expenditure 20.6 16.8 Good progress was made in growing the equipment business Depreciation 10.5 11.9 during the year.
Operating margin 11.9% 10.3% ESAB opened a new research and development centre in Chennai, India.
Employees 6,788 6,507 New sales offices were established in the Ukraine, Kazakhstan and the Baltics Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia.
Charter plc Annual Report 2006 9 Business and financial review ESAB continued Global welding and cutting sales by region Global welding and cutting sales by end-user segments Market size $15.5 billion Market size $15.5 billion 1 Europe inc. Russia and CIS 1 Shipbuilding and offshore 2 North America 2 Construction 3 South America 3 Transport 1 4 China 4 Pipeline and pipe mills 1 5 7 5 Rest of world 5 Energy 6 Oil, gas and process 2 7 All other 6 3 4 2 5 4 3 Source: ESAB estimates Source: ESAB estimates Overview of performance Major global end-user segments are: ESAB recorded another excellent performance in 2006 with sales shipbuilding and offshore industries, which are amongst of 828.4 million 2005: 720.1 million, an increase of 15.0 per the largest and most demanding users of both welding and cent, and operating profit of 98.9 million 2005: 74.4 million, cutting products: an increase of 32.9 per cent.
Operating margin improved to 11.9 per cent 2005: 10.3 per cent.
construction, where welding plays an important role in the fabrication of buildings, bridges, railways, and everything The sales growth of 15.0 per cent reflected continued strong needed to support expanding infrastructure.
This is particularly demand for ESAB products.
Volumes were up in most product growing in the worlds emerging markets: areas, particularly welding consumables and standard equipment, continuing the trend seen in the first half of the year with increased transport including automotive and mobile machinery, which demand from shipbuilding, oil and gas and other industries.
requires technically demanding welding solutions within highly Currency movements accounted for less than 1 per cent of this automated production environments.
This sector also includes increase.
Sales growth was underpinned by a robust performance off-road vehicles such as excavators, dumpers, and in Europe, with faster growth occurring in certain emerging agricultural equipment, which also require high levels of markets.
The substantial increase in operating profit and margin welding: achieved by ESAB in 2006 reflected the strong underlying demand for ESAB products and ongoing operational efficiency oil and gas and process industries, which include refineries, gains, including recent capacity additions in lower cost locations petrochemicals, pulp and paper and food.
These use many around the world.
types of material, including stainless steels and alloy materials that require technically demanding welding solutions: Industries and segmentation The global welding and cutting market revenues are estimated the energy sector, which uses considerable quantities to amount to in excess of US $15.5 billion per annum.
The more of welding consumables in the construction of nuclear and mature markets of Europe and North America account for just other energy generating plants.
Wind towers are a rapidly under half of the global market, but this is matched by the share growing sub-segment of the electricity generating industry, of the more rapidly growing emerging markets within China and the construction of which uses relatively high levels of welding the rest of the world.
consumables: and The welding and cutting of steel and other metals takes place pipelines and pipe mills.
This industry segment is related to to some extent in most industries.
The most familiar applications the oil and gas industry, but is focussed on the production and for ESABs products are in the production of capital goods and installation of oil and gas pipeline networks across countries infrastructure assets such as ships, trains and bridges.
Process and continents, for example from Siberia to Europe.
industries such as food, drink, paper, plastics and energy make extensive use of plant and machinery, the manufacture of which can involve a significant amount of welding.
Although steel remains the most widely used metal, advanced alloys are being increasingly used in the shipbuilding, automotive and certain other industries.
10 Charter plc Annual Report 2006 Worldwide weld metal consumption by region Worldwide weld metal consumption by weld process North America Europe Asia Other Electrodes Solid wire Sub arc wire Flux cored wire Thousands of metric tonnes Thousands of metric tonnes 6,000 6,000 5,000 5,000 4,000 4,000 3,000 3,000 2,000 2,000 1,000 1,000 0 0 1998 2001 2004 2007f 2010f 2013f 1998 2001 2004 2007f 2010f 2013f Source: ESAB estimates and forecasts Source: ESAB estimates and forecasts Industry overview Competitive environment Demand ESAB operates in a competitive environment, consisting of Demand for welding and cutting products is determined a relatively small number of companies that operate on a largely by worldwide consumption of steel and, to a lesser multinational basis, and a much larger number of smaller but growing extent, of other metals, such as aluminium, which companies which operate in regional or product niches.
is increasingly used in shipbuilding, transport and the fabrication ESAB estimates that it has an 11 per cent share of worldwide of capital equipment.
sales of the welding and cutting industry.
Globally, ESAB is one of The International Iron and Steel Institute estimates world output the two leading suppliers of welding consumables and, excluding of crude steel in 2006 at 1,239.5 million metric tonnes mmt, North America where it ranks behind the two market leaders, an increase of 8.8 per cent compared with 2005.
China it is the clear industry leader.
produced 418.8 mmt 2005: 353.4 mmt, an increase of 18.5 per ESAB aims to maintain and strengthen its competitive position cent, and accounted for 33.8 per cent of global steel production by being able to provide comprehensive, technically advanced 2005: 31.0 per cent.
The rest of the world increased production and cost effective solutions to customers welding and cutting by 4.4 per cent with North America and the European Union demands.
ESABs brand and its Swedish engineering heritage registering increases of 3.0 per cent and 5.9 per cent respectively.
are important factors underpinning ESABs relationships with ESAB estimates that worldwide consumption of weld metal existing and new customers.
Given the relatively high costs amounted to in excess of 4 mmt in 2006, of which some 70 per of transporting welding and cutting materials, the location of cent was consumed in Asia.
Worldwide growth is expected to welding consumables and equipment factories close to endcontinue for the foreseeable future, led by increased consumption users is also an important factor in maintaining competitiveness.
in Asia and particularly China.
The welding market continues to experience process conversion whereby end users migrate from the use of welding electrodes and simple power sources to higher productivity welding processes, which use continuous consumables such as solid or flux cored welding wires, and require more advanced power sources.
Whilst this conversion process has reached close to maturity in markets such as Europe, North America and Japan, it will continue for the foreseeable future at varying rates within the worlds emerging markets, particularly in China and elsewhere in Asia.
Charter plc Annual Report 2006 11 Business and financial review ESAB continued Russia and the CIS continued growth ESAB has been supplying equipment for welding automation and specialised consumables into Russia for many decades.
At the end of the 1990s, it established a sales company in Moscow and acquired its first Russian electrode production unit, a joint venture based in St Petersburg.
Subsequently, ESAB established a widespread distribution network, which has helped to more than double sales revenues since the turn of the millennium.
ESAB is now one of the biggest foreign participants in the Russian welding equipment and consumables market, and  base in Russia.
ESAB has strong distribution coverage, customer relations management and sales and marketing programmes.
New sales offices were established in the Ukraine and Kazakhstan in 2006.
Future plans to increase market share in Russia include continuing to develop electrode manufacturing capacity, opening a new flux plant in St Petersburg in 2007 and continuing to expand the distribution network.
ESAB supply chain Human resources Manufacturing locations ESAB has been strengthening its management team and key Europe remains ESABs most important region in terms technical roles in the last 12 months by identifying opportunities of production capacity, as well as sales.
In recent years some to bring on board talented individuals and to enable the company of the welding consumables production lines, and the to achieve its long term goals.
manufacturing of certain standard equipment ranges, have been ESAB has worked with Henley Management College to develop relocated within Europe from higher cost Western European a leadership development programme designed to provide locations to Central and Eastern Europe, which are conveniently ESABs high potential employees with the opportunity to develop situated in relation to end users and where production costs are their careers and to resource growth ambitions from within.
In North America, some production has also been relocated In total 31 staff from around the organisation have now been from the USA to Mexico.
ESAB is increasing its welding and enrolled in the programme since its launch in 2005. cutting manufacturing capacity in Asia, with new factories having been opened in China in 2005 and 2006, and with further ESAB recruits specialist technical staff and engineers from increases in capacity planned in future years.
For ESABs new R&D centre in Chennai, India, a team of 22 researchers, engineers, and technicians All of ESABs automated welding installations are manufactured were hired to work on ESABs global technology initiatives.
Cutting machines are manufactured at Karben in Germany, Florence in the USA and at the recently Throughout the period ESAB recruited a number of production opened cutting factory in Shanghai, China.
personnel to meet the increase in production levels.
ESAB provides its production employees with a high level of job specific Raw materials training, for example through apprenticeship schemes.
The principal raw materials used in the manufacture of welding consumables are various grades of steel and, to a lesser extent, Intellectual property aluminium alloys, chemicals and minerals, most of which are A key component of ESABs supply chain is its technology.
normally available on the open market.
However, certain of For example, the formulation of the electrode coating or cored ESABs more specialised welding wires require bespoke orders wire filling produces the unique welding properties of each from the steel mill.
ESABs international development team has a market leading competence and significant experience in these In the case of welding equipment, automation and cutting, areas.
Similarly, manufacturing process knowledge is critical the most significant items purchased are electronic components, to achieving optimal product characteristics as well as maximising copper and aluminium alloys.
production efficiency, by which the customer benefits through Whilst energy costs are less significant than raw material costs superior products and lower manufacturing costs.
in ESABs own manufacturing process, they are significant costs ESAB is strongly focused on providing customers with complete in the production of steel, aluminium and copper, and therefore process solutions, and has built a number of process centres indirectly impact upon the cost of goods sold.
throughout the world where experienced welding engineers combine their knowledge with ESABs broad range of welding and cutting products to develop the optimal solution for each customer.
12 Charter plc Annual Report 2006 QSet ESAB launched a new technology that is revolutionising the way welding parameters are optimised for short-arc welding.
When changing to weld different objects, often with different angles, thicknesses of material or different shielding gases, traditional MIG MAG welding equipment normally requires significant welder intervention to select a suitable program including welding currents and wire feed speeds.
ESABs response is the intelligent QSet system, which after the press of a single button and a short test weld, automatically optimises the welding parameters.
All the operator has to do the next time is select a wire feed speed and QSet will do the rest.
To the customer, QSet offers significant set up savings, improved and repeatable weld quality and reduced post weld cleaning, all of which help to ensure maximum levels of productivity.
ESAB: revenue by destination 2006 2005 Increase m m % Europe 398.9 345.4 15.5 North America 210.2 197.1 6.6 South America 106.2 90.3 17.6 China 20.9 14.9 40.3 Rest of world 92.2 72.4 27.3 Total 828.4 720.1 15.0 Europe Revenue 398.9m Growth 15.5% North America Revenue 210.2m China Growth 6.6% Revenue 20.9m Growth 40.3% South America Revenue 106.2m Growth 17.6% Rest of world Revenue 92.2m Growth 27.3% Charter plc Annual Report 2006 13 Business and financial review ESAB continued Why do customers buy ESAB products?
A recent customer survey identified the following reasons: ESAB is able to solve customers welding problems.
ESAB provides innovative and dependable solutions.
The reliability of ESABs products provides customers with peace of mind.
ESAB provides excellent technical support to customers worldwide.
ESABs ISO 14001 accreditation underlines its environmental responsibility.
TIG welding using a ESAB Caddy TIG 150i Revenue and cost analysis Regional overview of performance During 2006, ESABs sales were 828.4 million 2005: 720.1 In 2006, Europe and North America together accounted for million, an increase of 15.0 per cent.
73.5 per cent of its total sales 2005: 75.3 per cent.
During 2006, ESAB once again experienced sales growth in all five regions.
Of this amount, welding sales, which comprise predominantly welding consumables and welding equipment, were 698.6 Regional markets million 2005: 607.8 million, an increase of 14.9 per cent, and Europe represented 84.3 per cent 2005: 84.4 per cent of ESABs total Europe including Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent sales.
Cutting and automation sales were 129.8 million 2005: States CIS remains ESABs most important region, representing 112.3 million, an increase of 15.6 per cent, and represented 48.2 per cent of its total sales during the year.
15.7 per cent 2005: 15.6 per cent of ESABs total sales.
In Europe, ESAB experienced sales growth in 2006 of 15.5 per The selling prices of ESABs products remained generally stable cent, with particularly strong growth in the Nordic and Germanic throughout the year.
ESAB increased its operating margins due regions, and also in France.
Russia and other emerging European to the strong underlying demand for its products.
This demand markets also performed extremely well, and ESAB continues to led to higher utilisation rates at its factories and better overhead expand its sales presence and strengthen its manufacturing and recovery rates.
Margins also benefited from ongoing operational logistics operations in these markets.
The shipbuilding, offshore, efficiency gains, including recent capacity additions in lower cost energy and industrial segments continue to grow strongly, locations around the world.
whilst in emerging European markets, continued investment in infrastructure meant that construction and related industries In respect of raw materials, prices for wire rod were flat in the also performed well.
first half of the year and showed a slight increase in the second half.
ESAB was able to mitigate increases in the market price Increased volumes were seen across most types of welding TM of stainless products through fixed price contracts.
The ESAB Marathon Pac system and TM transport costs rose during the year due to oil price movements.
the AristoRod copper free wires showed particularly strong growth.
Sales offices have been established in the Ukraine, Kazakhstan and the Baltics Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia.
In addition, a Romanian office will be opened in early 2007.
A number of new product launches during 2006 in MIG and TIG welding machines and a new marketing initiative focussed on Germany and Poland contributed significantly to the growth in standard equipment sales.
Demand for fully automated welding processes remained robust, whilst the cutting business generally performed well, and experienced particularly good growth in medium range machines and the aftermarket.
14 Charter plc Annual Report 2006 Providing fresh water in the Middle East As the worlds population grows, so does the demand for fresh water.
As a result those areas, like the Middle East, that do not have enough sources of fresh water depend on industrial desalination of seawater.
In building desalination plants, specialist welding consumables and welding procedures have to be selected to ensure metal joints are corrosion resistant to the salt water used in the desalination process.
ESAB has developed a full range of welding products to meet the demands of this growing market.
North America Production capacity for welding wire is being further increased ESAB Group Inc. has a leading presence in the North American in Argentina with new equipment set to be commissioned welding and cutting industry.
In 2006, sales in North America in spring 2007. were 210.2 million 2005: 197.1 million, an increase Sales of Eutectic products, which are made under licence by ESAB of 6.6 per cent.
in Brazil, increased markedly in some part due to a large contract Sales of welding consumables and equipment generally performed signed with one of the largest iron ore producers in the region.
Most industries that are significant users of welding China products have been strong, the principal exception being 2006 saw significant progress in ESABs strategy of establishing the domestic automotive industry that is experiencing well a meaningful manufacturing and sales presence in the country.
Sales for the year were 20.9 million, up 40.2 per cent from 2005.
This result was achieved notwithstanding a strike over working In July, ESABs newest consumables factory was officially practices at the plant in Hanover, Pennsylvania, resolved opened in Zhangjiagang in Jiangsu province.
Capacity at the in November 2006, which disrupted production.
The facility Zhangjiagang facility has been commissioned since July in line continued to operate throughout the strike period and production with the plan.
Sales to local customers have commenced as well levels are recovering.
Significant management attention is being as sales to the wider Asian region.
Product from the new factory paid to customer service to avoid any significant long term impact is also being exported to meet high levels of demand in Europe on market share.
The equipment and cutting businesses continued to grow Further expansion of ESABs capacity to manufacture welding at generally the same rate as seen in 2005. consumables is being planned to meet the continuing growth South America in the Chinese manufacturing and construction industries and During the year sales grew by some 17.6 per cent, reflecting global demand.
increased volumes and also an appreciation of the Brazilian ESABs cutting operation in China has provided significantly Real against Sterling, partly offset by weakening selling prices increased sales in 2006, and the volume of cutting machines in some product areas.
shipped in 2006 also increased significantly compared to the The appreciation of the Brazilian Real against the US Dollar and previous year.
At the end of the year orders on hand were other key currencies reduced the international competitiveness at record levels.
of the Brazilian economy and led to a general softening of Rest of world demand and price erosion in certain product areas.
In the light Asia excluding China of these developments, ESAB has increased production of In 2006, ESAB performed well, mainly due to volume driven sales certain items at its Argentinean facilities, which saw improved growth from key shipbuilding and oil and gas customers.
future growth will target the most dynamic industries such as the Despite economic factors, certain market sectors, including sugar automotive, shipbuilding and energy sectors.
Particularly strong and alcohol and the Brazilian automotive industry, remained performance was seen in Singapore, Malaysia and Australia.
However, shipbuilding, the offshore energy industry and agricultural equipment weakened during the year.
Charter plc Annual Report 2006 15 Business and financial review ESAB continued ESAB opens new research and development centre In October 2006, ESAB officially opened its new research and development centre in Chennai, India.
This state-of-theart facility supports ESABs worldwide research and innovation programmes.
Researchers and engineers work with their global partners in areas like welding equipment, cutting systems, welding processes and consumables to further enhance ESABs technology.
Middle East and Africa 2006 technical developments and new products In the Middle East, ESABs revenue has seen continued strong Welding growth in 2006, led principally by increasing sales to the UAE Consumables product development for cored wires, solid wires, and Qatar, reflecting the strength of the energy and construction fluxes and stick electrodes resulted in new product offerings and sectors in those areas.
The cored wire product range has been expanded with a number of products for use particularly ESAB delivered a substantial quantity of stainless materials for in the repair of concast rollers in steel mills and a broadened large liquefied natural gas projects in Qatar and is supplying both range of robotic quality wires with superior operability.
The flux welding consumables and equipment to a high profile offshore development programme produced new products for pipe mills contract in Dubai.
Considerable efforts and resources were and for high speed welding.
focussed on expanding the ESAB business in Saudi Arabia with substantial success in 2006.
In relation to welding equipment, ESAB introduced a number of new products related to the tungsten inert gas TIG welding Sales to certain countries were affected by political uncertainties process, including a number of power sources supplying up in the region.
to 300 amperes and a new range of TIG torches which provide Associated undertakings better arc performance, easier operation and better ergonomics ESABs share of the post tax profits of associates was 4.3 million for the welder.
ESAB also launched specialised equipment 2005: 3.4 million, an increase of 26.5 per cent.
for welding the frames for wind tower manholes at far greater weld deposit rates than possible before.
India ESAB owns 38 per cent of ESAB India Limited which reported During the year, ESAB opened a research and development improved revenues and profits in favourable market conditions.
facility in Chennai, India for consumables and process centre activities and for welding equipment and cutting systems.
A new equipment assembly factory is being built by ESAB India in Irungattukottai, Chennai, which should be fully operational Cutting and automation in 2007.
In 2006, the key cutting developments focussed on improving value and productivity for the end user.
These included reducing South Korea the M Plasma cutting and marking machines start up time and ESAB owns 50 per cent of ESAB SeAH Corporation, which Production Profiling Software for planning, tracking, reporting made an increased contribution to the results for the year.
and monitoring which allows the user to control numerous control functions in real time.
ESAB is already a leader in welding equipment for integration with robots and other welding automation systems.
ESABs new design of automated welding packages for robotic applications brings productivity benefits to customers from the higher volume production of manual inverter based welding power sources.
16 Charter plc Annual Report 2006 Future developments and longer term growth prospects New products and applications Market expansion A key element in ESABs growth plans is the continuous To support longer term growth, ESAB is developing its presence development of new welding products which reflect trends in certain key markets, in particular China, Central and Eastern in the global industry, and in particular customers seeking higher Europe, South America and South East Asia, where it sees productivity from a generally less skilled workforce.
This often excellent prospects for the full range of its welding, cutting involves the welding of increasingly sophisticated materials and automation products.
The completion of a programme of which require suitably stronger welding materials of the projects in these areas, which will increase ESABs total capacity same composition.
for the manufacture of welding consumables by around 20 per A number of new welding consumable products have recently cent between June 2006 and June 2007, is in sight.
Beyond that, entered the customer testing phase, including new submerged further expansion in capacity, particularly in China, is anticipated arc welding fluxes for high speed welding and new cored which will be utilised to meet demand for ESABs products in wires and hand welding electrodes for the offshore and Europe and North America as well as throughout Asia.
ESAB is also developing new products developing markets, such as certain former CIS countries and for applications including nuclear power, offshore wind-farms the Middle East, ESABs presence is being enhanced through and desalination plants.
the opening of new sales offices and distribution centres.
Co-operation continues with various institutes, universities and Global demand is strong and ESABs factories are operating steel producers in the search for weld metals to match properties at high levels of capacity utilisation.
To meet this demand, of new materials, with fields of research ranging from high the capacity of existing facilities has been raised through the strength steels to advanced corrosion resistant alloys and introduction of additional shifts and increased manning levels, high temperature grades.
and through targeted investment programmes.
The growing demand will increasingly be supplied with product manufactured Lean manufacturing in ESABs factories in lower cost locations.
Following the success of the pilot programmes in 2005, ESAB accelerated the drive to become a Lean-manufacturing organisation.
During the first half of the year, model lines were set up at Vamberk, Czech Republic and Lax, Sweden.
The new consumables plant in China is being started up as a Lean facility.
The programme is being rolled out to all ESAB factories globally.
In 2007, additional manufacturing sites, along with some support functions, will be added to the programme.
