CHEMRING GR OUP PLC Business Review This Business Review, together with the Statement by the Countermeasures Chairman, the Review by the Chief Executive and the The Group is the worlds leading producer of expendable Review by the Finance Director set out on pages 3 to 15, decoy countermeasures for protecting air, sea and land provides a fair review of the Groups business development, platforms against guided missile threats.
Our countermeasures performance and position at the end of the financial year: its products can be categorised as follows: strategy and likely future developments: key performance indicators: and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business.
Air Countermeasures Conventional MTV Flares Special Material Decoys Group Operations Chaff Chemring Group PLC is an international leader in expendable countermeasures and energetics, with Naval Countermeasures manufacturing operations in the UK, the US, Europe RF Decoys and Australia.
IR Decoys P 16 FIN ANCIAL ST A TEMENTS 2006 Energetics The Group is a centre-of-excellence for the design, development and production of energetic materials and sub-systems for military, OEM and safety customers.
Our energetics products can be categorised as follows: Military Pyrotechnics Smokes and Flares Distraction and Screening Grenades Markers Smoke Payloads Battlefield Simulation Products Impulse Cartridges and Cartridge Activated Devices Demolition Stores RF and Hard-wired Electrical Initiators Percussion Initiators Detonators Charges Minefield Clearance Systems Energetics Sub-Systems Propellants and Rockets Fuze and Safe Arm Units Flight Termination Systems Pyro-mechanisms and Actuators Warheads and Charges Primers Detonators and Explosive Chains Marine Pyrotechnics Smokes and Flares Rockets Line Throwers P 17 CHEMRING GR OUP PLC Business Review - continued Strategy Strengths and Resources Group strategy The Group has core competencies in the design and The Group strategy remains focused on our two core sectors manufacture of energetic materials: the development of of operations - Countermeasures and Energetics.
highly reliable and safe products: and volume manufacturing.
Market position and reputation Our vision is to be the leading The Group is the worlds leading manufacturer of countermeasure decoys, with over 50% market share.
The producer of countermeasures special material decoys manufactured by our US and energetic materials for the countermeasures business are unique to the Group, and we global defence market.
are currently leading the field in the development and manufacture of spectral decoys.
Countermeasures strategy In our growing Energetics division, we are developing a The core strategy for the Countermeasures business is to prominent position in several niche market areas, and maintain and improve our market share, and carefully exploit building on the Groups reputation as an expert manufacturer the continuing market growth over the next few years.
We of products containing energetic materials.
intend to increase our investment in new products and to build on our leadership in both special material and spectral Customer relationships decoys.
We also intend to invest in new automated The Group has an extensive customer base, comprising production facilities, to further drive manufacturing governments, armed forces, prime contractors and OEMs efficiencies and to maintain our lead role in the development across the globe.
The US Department of Defense is our of new products for the next generation of fixed wing and largest single customer.
We have an extensive distribution rotary aircraft.
network and, with worldwide market access, our businesses currently supply to over seventy countries.
Energetics strategy We intend to continue the expansion of our Energetics Manufacturing operations division, with new acquisitions in both the US and Europe.
The Group continues to benefit from significant efficiency We will focus on becoming a key supplier of energetic improvements achieved through enhanced automation and materials to the major prime contractors for munitions.
We rationalisation of manufacturing capabilities across the Group, intend to build on our expertise in explosive ordnance and we have an ongoing investment plan for new plants and disposal EOD and develop the capability to become a technologies.
Our operational structure is now geared to specialist prime contractor.
We also plan to invest in new benefit strongly from future sales growth.
products to expand our pyrotechnic business and develop clear leadership in both the detonator and cartridge activated Solid financial base device market.
The Group enjoys healthy operating margins across its businesses.
Our focus on working capital management in Our geographic strategy also remains unchanged.
We intend recent years has manifested itself in excellent cash conversion to manufacture in the US for the US market and in Europe and produced a sound balance sheet for the Group.
We will then use our excellent worldwide sales network to export from both the US and Management Europe.
We will also develop our capabilities to bundle third Management resource and expertise has been strengthened party products and offer a broader supply chain management at all levels across the Group during the last two years, and service to our export customers.
we continue to develop our operational skills to ensure that we remain a world class manufacturer.
We have an experienced team working on business development and acquisitions, and we are focusing heavily on our post-acquisition plans to ensure that we achieve maximum value from our growth strategy.
P 18 FIN ANCIAL ST A TEMENTS 2006 Operating Performance and Key Performance Indicators Operating performance during the year Continuing 2006 2005 Operations 000 000 Revenue Countermeasures 118,384 90,768 Energeticscontinuing operations 42,058 30,195 -acquired 27,291 - -total 69,349 30,195 Total revenue 187,733 120,963 Operating profitcontinuing operations 33,433 22,908 -acquired 4,346 - Total operating profit 37,779 22,908 Profit before tax 31,760 19,216 Basic earnings per ordinary share 70.33p 46.63p Key performance indicators The Groups strategy is underpinned by focusing on a number of key financial performance indicators.
The key indicators that the Board utilises to assess Group performance are set out below.
Similar indicators are used to review performance in the two divisions.
Orders received and order book Orders received Order book Continuing 2006 2005 2006 2005 Operations 000 000 000 000 Countermeasures 173,663 93,112 130,431 89,734 Energetics 95,166 29,599 84,185 32,442 Total 268,829 122,711 214,616 122,176 The closing order book at the year end of 214.6 million represents a 75% increase on the previous year end.
This reflects the significant increase in demand for the Groups products during the year, and provides a solid base for performance in the current financial year.
P 19 CHEMRING GR OUP PLC Business Review - continued Operating profit Principal Risks and Uncertainties As described on page 38, the Board is responsible for the Operating profit before Groups systems of internal control and its risk management unallocated head office costs systems.
The Board has constituted a Risk Management Committee, which meets quarterly, to review the key risks Continuing 2006 2005 associated with the achievement of the annual budget and the Operations 000 000 five year plan for each business, and the risk control Countermeasures 33,876 24,808 procedures implemented.
The Committee reports biannually Energetics 10,361 2,331 to the Board, and through this process, the Board has identified the following principal risks currently facing the Total 44,237 27,139 Group.
The Group mitigates its risk exposure through an insurance programme that covers property and liability risks, The operating profit on continuing operations before where it is appropriate and cost-effective to do so.
unallocated head office costs increased by 63% during the year, reflecting the strong operating performance of both divisions.
Health and safety risks The nature of the Groups operations, involving energetic Return on sales materials, is such that the Board considers health and safety to be a key area of focus in managing risk.
Accordingly, health Return on sales and safety is included on the agenda at every Board meeting and is an important area of discussion at the monthly Group Continuing 2006 2005 Executive Committee meeting.
The Board believes that Operations % % responsibility for the delivery of world class safety standards is an integral part of the operational management Countermeasures 29 27 Energetics 15 8 accountability.
Accordingly, quarterly health and safety meetings are held in Europe and the US, chaired by the Total 24 22 Managing Director of the Energetics division and the President of the US operations respectively.
These supplement The return on sales increased by 9% during the year.
This the regular health and safety meetings held at site level, growth is driven by improved automation, increased process which are chaired by the President or Managing Director of efficiencies, and rationalisation of manufacturing facilities.
A review of the top five manufacturing process risks at each business is undertaken by the Group Executive Committee at its monthly meetings, and our stated aim is to Interest cover achieve zero injuries and to reduce health and safety risks, Interest cover where they cannot be eliminated altogether, to a level which is as low as reasonably practicable.
Our planned automation 2006 2005 of production facilities at all sites, to include remote operations where possible, is assisting this process, and will Total 6.2 times 6 times feature significantly in our future capital investment projects.
Continual training of employees is also a key priority.
Interest was covered 6.2 times by operating profits at the year end.
The Board aims to keep interest cover at a prudent level.
During the year, a white illuminating hand flare manufactured by the Group caused serious injury to a Operating cash flow member of the public when fired.
A detailed investigation concluded that the flare involved had deflagrated due to a Operating cash flow rare production fault, and all of these types of flares were therefore recalled in May 2006.
A provision of 0.5 million 2006 2005 was made in the Groups accounts to cover the costs of this 000 000 product recall, which is now substantially complete.
Extensive Total 45,629 21,141 tests established that the fault would not affect any other product manufactured by the Group.
However, the incident did lead to a review of production control procedures across Group operating cash flow increased by 116% to the Group, aimed at mitigating the risk of an incident such as 45.6 million during the year.
This represents a conversion rate of operating profit to operating cash of 121%.
this reoccurring in the future.
P 20 FIN ANCIAL ST A TEMENTS 2006 Further details on the Groups approach to health and safety Eastern countries.
These contracts provide for the supply of are set out below.
an extensive range of our own and third party military products over the next three years, and require a particular Introduction of new products type of programme management expertise.
Dedicated The Groups innovative approach and continued research and programme managers have been appointed during the year, development activity ensure that we are continually adding with a reporting chain through to the Group Executive new products to the range.
Over the last year, our position Committee, which undertakes a regular high level review of has been further strengthened in this area by the demand for programme status and supply chain issues.
our countermeasures on a range of new platforms.
However, in order to satisfy these requirements, we need to ensure that Disaster recovery and crisis management new product development is completed to a standard which The Board recognises that a significant incident at one of its allows us to undertake volume manufacturing, and to sites could result in that business being inoperable for a produce products against high reliability and safety criteria.
In sustained period of time.
New crisis management procedures a number of cases, new manufacturing facilities need to be have been adopted in the Groups European operations built to accommodate the production of these new products, during the year, and these will be replicated in the US and in other areas, there is a need to provide significantly businesses over the next six months.
A review of the business increased capacity on our existing production lines.
This continuity plans in operation at each site is planned for the necessitates careful management of contractors - where forthcoming year, and a best practice process will be adopted construction work is being undertaken, suppliers - where across the Group.
This risk is also being mitigated as we new components have to be qualified for use in our products, increase the number of manufacturing sites in the Group, and and employees - where training in new skills is required.
The build in flexibility to transfer production from one site to management resource within the Group has been another.
strengthened during the year to facilitate this.
In addition, Six Sigma techniques are being introduced as appropriate Corporate Responsibility within the organisation to improve our manufacturing Corporate responsibility management capabilities.
and accountability The Board fully acknowledges its obligation to ensure the Product design changes responsible operation of the Groups businesses at all times Many of the Groups products are required to be modified with due regard to the interests of shareholders, customers, and updated on a regular basis to meet our customers employees and the wider community.
The Board has overall changing requirements.
There is inevitably risk associated responsibility for establishing and maintaining the Groups with the implementation of product design changes, and policies in this area, and the Chief Executive is accountable whilst a review of the design change and product to the Board for ensuring that the Groups businesses adhere modification process in operation at each site has been to these policies.
undertaken during the year, further process improvements will continue to be driven by the Group management.
Business conduct The Group has adopted a Code of Business Conduct, which Technology transfers requires our employees and our businesses to comply with The formation by the Group of  for the applicable laws and regulations in all of the countries in production of energetic materials has generated considerable which we operate.
The Managing Directors of each business interest from major prime contractors in both the US and are required to report to the Chief Executive on compliance Europe, who are looking for strategic partners.
Progressing with the Code of Business Conduct on an annual basis.
the development of these relationships and securing the transfer of technologies from these large prime contractors is Arrangements exist by which employees may, in confidence, a key objective for the Group over the next five years.
raise concerns about possible improprieties.
Accordingly, the Group is recruiting new personnel to manage these activities, and reviewing manufacturing Health, safety and environment capabilities and investing capital where necessary, to ensure The Board recognises that the highest levels of safety are required in order to achieve growth and maintain leadership that we mitigate the risk associated with the technology transfers and maximise the opportunities that are presented.
in the Groups chosen markets.
The Board believes that all injuries are preventable, and management systems and a long Management of prime contracts term strategy have been adopted to ensure that we The Energetics division secured several substantial prime continually improve our performance and reduce risk within contracts during the year from Middle Eastern and Far the constraints of what is reasonably achievable.
All accidents P 21 CHEMRING GR OUP PLC Business Review - continued We expect employees to report potential hazards, to be Lost Time Accident Rate per 100,000 hours involved in implementing solutions, and to adhere to rules 2 and procedures.
Employee attitude surveys have been carried out at one site during the year, and were followed up with 1.5 workshops aimed at identifying opportunities to improve.
We intend to carry out similar surveys in most other 1 businesses in 2007.
0.5 The Groups health, safety and environment performance is reported monthly to the Board.
A number of key 0 performance indicators, including lost time accident rates and Quarter Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 recycling rates, are reported to the Board quarterly.
We 2005 2006 continue to liaise closely with regulators in order to ensure legislation is fully implemented at all operating sites.
and near misses are investigated, steps taken to prevent Employees recurrence, and lessons learnt shared across the Groups The Board recognises the valuable contribution that the businesses.
During the year under review, the Group achieved Groups employees make to its success, and aims to provide a a 21% reduction in lost time accidents from 0.96 per 100,000 working environment that reflects this.
hours in 2005 to 0.76 in 2006, as illustrated in the graph above.
The Group pursues a policy of employee communication through meetings including team briefings and works The Board believes that environmental protection will help councils and in-house magazines by which employees are to secure the long term future of our businesses.
The Groups made aware of the progress of the Group and the companies Health, Safety and Environment Policy states that we will in which they work.
control pollution, minimise the quantity of material burnt at each site, consume resources efficiently, and use materials that The Group employs disabled persons wherever circumstances minimise the environmental impact of our operations where permit, and full and fair consideration is given to applications practicable.
The Group recycled approximately 76% of its for employment by disabled persons having regard to their waste during the year, and our businesses are currently particular aptitudes and disabilities.
Disabled persons in considering how to further increase their recycling employment receive equal treatment to that afforded to other proportion.
All operations are working towards achieving employees, in line with the Groups philosophy of equal ISO14001 standards, and we are aiming for the majority to opportunities for all employees, irrespective of race, be certified by the end of 2007. nationality, gender, disability or age.
The Group is committed to meeting, at a minimum, the labour rights and legislation The Board requires that all businesses systematically manage requirements in each country in which it operates, and in their health, safety and environment hazards: set objectives: practice, often exceeds these.
monitor progress by regular measurement, audit and review: and take additional action when necessary.
Each Managing Community Director is responsible for the management of health, safety The Board recognises that each of the Groups businesses has and environmental issues within their business, and for an important role to play in its local community.
providing adequate resources to satisfy the Boards requirements.
The Group management and all business heads At locations where our operations may inconvenience have regular meetings to ensure that these requirements are neighbours through product proofing, we liaise with local being met.
Audits and inspections are carried out annually by residents to minimise any impact.
the Group at all operating sites to check that delivery is effective.
The Group increased the number of dedicated The Group supports charitable fund-raising activities through health, safety and environment professionals employed at its cash donations and allowing employees to undertake operational sites by more than 50% during 2006. voluntary work in the local community where appropriate.
In addition to local initiatives, the Group also supports selected The Board emphasises the importance of individual national charitable causes with a focus on the armed services.
responsibility for health, safety and environment at all levels of our organisation.
We expect managers to enforce procedures and to provide leadership and commitment that promote and embrace a positive culture in this area.
