Financial review continued Corporate Responsibility Pensions All significant foreign exchange transactions are approved by Six focus areas identified The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension the parent company.
In addition to the currency borrowings, schemes, the most significant being the Cobham Pension a number of financial instruments are used to manage Staff safety reportable Plan.
The most recent actuarial valuation for this scheme transactional foreign exchange exposure, such as forward injuries down from 75 to 73 was carried out as at 1 April 2006 and was updated for rate contracts and options.
Details of the most significant accounting purposes to 31 December 2006.
At this date, of these instruments are described in note 25 of the Notes Carbon footprint energy the Groups net liability relating to its defined benefit to the Group financial statements.
The Group has a policy efficiency improved by 4% Volunteers from Cobham helped to tidy up the grounds for physically disabled residents schemes had reduced to 29.6m before deferred tax of managing 12 months of potential transactional exposure of James Burns House in England.
compared to a deficit of 81.0m at 31 December 2005. on a rolling three month basis, together with exposures for Waste reduction and firm long term contracts.
As a consequence, the majority recycling 29% of waste recycled During the period the Group made normal contributions of the anticipated exposure to the US dollar in the UK and to its defined benefits schemes of 1.9m in excess of the continental European subsidiaries is hedged at an average current service costs as assessed under lAS 19.
In addition, rate of 1.78 for sterling for 2007. a further special contribution of 5.3m was made as part of the withdrawal agreement with the Cobham Pension Plan Going concern trustees relating to the disposal of FR HiTemp Limited and The Groups finances are sound and the balance sheet separate special contributions totalling 6.2m were made in remains strong.
Accordingly, after making enquiries, Work is ongoing to ensure that Corporate Responsibility Whilst data will still be collected on a broad range of CR respect of the disposal of Wallop Defence Systems Limited the directors have formed a judgement at the time of CR is an integral part of the Groups strategy and measures, more resources will be dedicated to implementing and Slingsby Aviation Limited.
In both cases these cash approving the financial statements that there is a reasonable embedded into day-to-day operations.
initiatives and seeking improvement in the six focus areas.
outflows are shown as part of investing activities in the expectation that the Company and the Group as a whole Further details will be available in the Groups 2006 CR cash flow statement.
have adequate resources to continue in operational To ensure that Cobhams CR effort is focussed on areas Report, available on the Cobham website in May 2007. existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they of greatest impact and that most closely align with the The Groups defined benefit pension schemes are closed continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing Groups strategy and relevant industry and global initiatives, Cobham continues to be a signatory to the Sustainable to new entrants, although alternative defined contribution the Group and parent company financial statements.
six focus areas have been identified.
For each of the Aviation Strategy sponsored by the SBAC and to the Supply schemes have been offered in all cases.
declared focus areas, the strategic intent is shown Chain 21 initiative launched by the aerospace industry in in the table below.
The first progress report on Sustainable Aviation was Cobham remains committed to the support of the pension issued in December 2006, which Cobham contributed to.
schemes within the Group and continues to work with the trustees of those schemes to ensure that net liability issues Key areas of focus are managed appropriately.
Industry Cobhams strategy links Foreign exchange The Groups aim has been to reduce, or eliminate wherever practical, foreign exchange risk.
The pound sterling US dollar exchange rate is the most important as far as the Group is concerned.
This is primarily due to the level of US dollars which the UK and continental European subsidiaries Focus area Our aim expect to receive from their business activities, as certain Staff safety To provide a safe, healthy work environment global aerospace and defence contracts are denominated in US dollars.
Carbon footprint To accurately measure our carbon footprint and to seek to reduce our contribution by improving energy efficiency and seeking energy Additionally, translation exposure arises from operating sources that do not contribute to climate change companies based in the USA, offset partially by dollarWaste reduction To reduce the waste produced at every stage of our products denominated borrowings.
and recycling lifecycle and, where waste is produced, to reuse or recycle wherever possible Chemicals and To ensure that, in the production of our products, we do not adversely hazardous materials affect the health of our employees, neighbours or the environment Supply chain To ensure that our suppliers have appropriate environmental policies and that appropriate minimum standards for working conditions are met Bribery and corruption To ensure that our business is free of bribery and corruption 20 Cobham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 2 Focus Capabilities Performance Sustainable Aviation Supply Chain 2 Corporate Responsibility continued Corporate responsibility management Carbon footprint All Cobham business units report annually on environmental, Good work across the Group has seen an improvement human resource and health and safety performance.
in overall energy efficiency of 4% from 1,965 MWh m Cobhams CR team analyses the data and specifies revenue to 1,892 MWh m revenue.
When focussing objectives for improvement.
The Chief Executive has overall on energy use excluding aviation fuel, efficiency has responsibility for CR performance, and ensures the Board improved 21% Cobham employees in New Hampshire, USA, Cobham has become a corporate partner supporting participated in an 18 hour community event for the work of the Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen and Families takes account of CR issues in its annual risk assessment, Progress has been made towards the Groups target the American Cancer Society, raising US$5,000.
Association SSAFA in the UK.
and monitors progress throughout the year.
of a 10% improvement in efficiency from a 2005 base by the end of 2010.
The launch of an energy efficiency Staff safety programme for all UK business units has the potential to 1 Reportable Injuries are down from 75 to 73 improve energy efficiency Injuries from manual handling and hand tools have In the USA, a business unit achieved a 5% reduction reduced.
However, there has been an increase in in electricity, gas and water usage in 2006 compared 2 incidence rate rising from 677 injuries per 100,000 to 2005 employees to 720 injuries per 100,000 employees.
In the UK, a business unit commissioned a Building This is due to an increase in accidents relating to being Energy Management System at two of their sites, which struck by a falling object or moving machinery as well as is hoped to achieve a 30% reduction in heating oil Chemicals and hazardous materials Priority is given to causes directly supporting the achievement slips, trips or falls on the same level consumption Although data on chemical and hazardous material was of educational, engineering and scientific objectives, related to The 2006 objective to review and further develop the Other business units upgraded heating equipment, not collected in 2006, over 40% of business units by the development of a responsible, sustainable aerospace and Groups health & safety policy to ensure it meets best improved insulation, used energy efficient replacements, turnover had their hazardous material storage facilities defence industry.
As more than 50% of Cobhams revenues practice and reflects the needs of the business, was fitted PIR lighting sensors, and had energy surveys audited.
Where a site did not meet best practice, are for the military, the Group also supports those who have achieved.
The Groups health & safety policy is now a carried out.
recommendations for improvement were made, requiring or are serving in the Armed Forces.
safety, health and environment policy, which has been a corrective action plan which is subject to review issued to all busines units in the Corporate Framework Waste reduction and recycling 3 In 2006, there was one significant fuel spill of 10m In 2006, Cobham became a corporate sponsor and partner Two processes are assisting in the dissemination of best Waste generated reduced from 5,770 to 5,563 tonnes, at a UK business unit, the cause of which was of the following organisations: practice across the Group: the Corporate Responsibility and the amount of waste generated per m turnover also analysed and actions taken to minimise the potential Royal Academy of Engineering and the Loss Prevention audit processes.
As part of the decreased from 5.7 to 5.3.
The recycling rate remains for a reoccurrence.
Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen and Families audit process, recommendations are made to ensure that high with 29% of waste recycled in 2006 Association SSAFA Forces Help all business units are moving towards best practice.
In The 2006 objective was to develop a programme to Supply chain The Science Museum 2007, Cobham will further develop its corporate extranet deliver a 10% reduction of waste generated per m In line with Cobhams commitment to Supply Chain 21, Young Engineers to include best practice resources available to all turnover by 2010, from a 2005 base.
In 2006, poor the Groups supply chain has been identified as a focus Group business units performers were identified, and site targets set for area going forward.
Work has commenced to revise the Data verification H&S workshops in the USA were attended by a large improvement criteria against which suppliers are evaluated.
Cobham is committed to providing reliable information number of US business units and more detailed information In 2006 progress was made with business units regarding its Corporate Responsibility performance.
An has been gathered regarding reportable three day injuries.
introducing cardboard recycling schemes to reduce the Bribery and corruption internal verification programme began in 2004, checking volume of waste going to landfill, electronic build files Cobham is committed to complying with legislation in all compliance with Group standards, monitoring systems and to reduce paper waste and changing from bottled water the countries in which it operates.
Cobham has a whistle raw data.
During 2006, 23 business units, representing 42% to mains supplied cold hot water filter machines.
blowing policy and an ethical business policy, which requires of the Group by turnover, across the UK, Europe and the all employees to carry out business with honesty, integrity USA were subject to the verification process.
The policies are available to employees in the errors identified were corrected in the totals for the relevant Cobham Corporate Framework which was updated reporting year.
Business units are required to provide an Reportable Incidence Energy Energy efficiency Waste and reissued during 2006. action plan to address any recommendations made, the 1 2 injuries rate efficiency excluding aviation fuel efficiency action plans are reviewed regularly at Group level.
Data is MWh m MWh m tonnes m Community reconciled to account for acquisitions and disposals, and At the Group level, Cobham directs its community support changes in foreign exchange rates.
Business units are encouraged to engage with local communities where their products and 6 125 services are sold and in which employees work and live.
2 Incidence rate is the total number of reportable injuries and other occurrences multiplied by 100,000 divided by the average number of employees.
