The age of mass media is here Media for the masses?
07 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 BUSINESS REVIEW Aegis grew faster than the marketing services industry, as we have for each of the past 10 years.
BUSINESS REVIEW CONTENTS page Aegis 07 Aegis Media 09 1 Aegis Media EMEA 10 in Aegis Media Americas 11 Aegis Media Asia-Pacific 11 8 Synovate 13 Carat UK topped the new iCoke.
cn was launched on Synovate EMEA 14 business league tables for a 1 April 2006, and was an second year running, with wins instant success with consumers.
Synovate Americas 14 including Alliance & Leicester Rewarding them with iCoke and Abbey National.
As a points for every bottle of CocaSynovate Asia-Pacific 15 result, we estimate that Aegis Cola drunk, the iCoke virtual Media now books one in every playroom partners with youth eight advertisements running in brands, such as World of the UK.
Warcraft and the NBA, offering a unique Freestyle Basketball game online, as well Aegis as QQ, Chinas leading instant Aegis made very good progress in 2006.
Turnover was up 1.9% at 8,230.2m messenger.
2005: 8,079.1m and gross margin improved from 9.3% to 10.4%, reflecting the growing contribution from higher gross margin digital and communications services in Aegis Media, and the increased percentage of group revenue from Synovate.
Total revenue increased 14.5% to 996.9m 2005: 870.4m with group organic revenue growth of 7.7%.
Aegis grew faster than the marketing services industry, as we have for each of the past 10 years.
Global adspend rose at an estimated 5.9% in 2006 and the market research industry by 5.0%.
Our growth rate was the highest achieved by any international marketing services group in 2006.
Underlying operating profit improved 16.3% to 133.8m 2005: 115.0m and our In 2006 Synovate published its first tranche of Hot Spots underlying pre-tax profit grew to 116.2m, an increase of 16.0% 2005: 100.2m.
These are overviews of Underlying diluted earnings per share rose 14.8% to 7.0p 2005: 6.1p.
the BRIC markets, along with Egypt, Turkey and South Africa The fundamentals in our markets and our own businesses remain favourable, and - all of which are at the several factors underpin our expectation of further good progress in 2007.
We expect forefront of marketers minds today.
The reports show, global growth in both advertising and market research expenditure to be broadly in line among other things, that 60% with 2006 at around 5.8% and 4.5% respectively.
The introduction of new products of Chinese people live outside and services, and a record level of net new business in 2006 should enable us to the cash economy and that continue our outperformance.
As a group, we already generate 20% of revenue from Brazils most successful soap opera reaches a staggering the developing markets of Asia-Pacific, Latin America, the Middle East and Central and 98.9% of the population.
Finally, our business mix has well above-average exposure to digital Today 30% of Synovates marketing services in Aegis Media, accounting for 20% of revenue in 2006. revenue comes from developing markets: almost twice the industry average.
A second phase of Hot Spots is planned for early 2007, covering Argentina, Mexico, Poland, Hungary, Romania, Indonesia and Thailand.
09 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 BUSINESS REVIEW This is providing a huge opportunity for Aegis Media, advising clients on how to interact with consumers in an ever-more complex media world, and executing campaigns across a multitude of platforms.
Our structure and business mix, and in particular our major digital presence, makes Aegis Media uniquely able to deliver this.
Aegis Media % Aegis Media delivered another strong performance in 2006.
Revenue grew by 6.6% 20 organically, and 10.3% in total to 595.7m.
Underlying operating profit before 15 associates grew by 13.7% to 121.1m 2005: 106.5m, and the underlying operating margin before associates improved by 60 bps.
We won a record level of 7 net new business at $2,692m 2005: $1,595m, including the global adidas-Reebok consolidation.
2004 2005 2006 This was achieved against a relatively stable backdrop for adspend, for which we estimate growth at 5.9% globally.
Within this, the emerging markets of China and Isobar agencies glue, fideTwenty per cent of Aegis India delivered some of the highest growth rates, the US delivered another solid year, construct and Diffiniti shared a Medias revenue in 2006 Campaign digital gold award came from digital marketing and the largest Eurozone economies showed improvements on recent years.
for their Da Vinci Code services, up from 7% just two campaign for Eurostar.
This means that Our strength in digital marketing services, through Isobar, helped us achieve aboveCoinciding with the release of Aegis Medias exposure to the market growth.
The convergence of platforms and technologies has become a the Da Vinci Code movie, fastest growing marketing worldwide reality, making digitally-centric and integrated marketing campaigns a key Eurostars mysterious promotion space now stands at over three called on consumers to join the times that of the overall focus for the entire advertising industry.
The speed at which innovations in digital media quest through games and industry, with investment on and entertainment entered the mainstream was faster in 2006 than ever before.
All in digital marketing estimated at developments include the rapid adoption of social networking spaces and video and all, consumers chose to spend 6% of total adspend.
photo sharing, all now widely used across geographies and groups.
some 30 years online with our clients brand.
This is providing a huge opportunity for Aegis Media, advising clients on how to interact with consumers in an ever-more complex media world, and executing campaigns across a multitude of platforms.
Our digital presence more than compensated for some weaker trends in other areas of media, such as network television and print.
These have proven challenging in some developed markets as viewers and advertisers migrate to alternative media, and competition heightens with new channel and free-sheet launches.
This shift in budget allocation benefits not only digital but out-of-home, sponsorship, experiential marketing and events.
Aegis Media revenue We continued to develop our network and client services around the world.
Content 418.1 development and creative execution is growing in Aegis Media, both online and off, EMEA 380.7 becoming a crucial component of our offer.
A principal focus was the global roll-out of our communications planning framework, known as 3Cs, at Carat.
Some 5,000 133.1 Carat staff have now been trained in the 3Cs approach and tools, which put AMERICAS 118.7 communications planning at the heart of our core media offer.
Carats approach and advantages were recognised by trade publication Campaign in December, naming 44.5 Carat global network of 2006.
Carat UK was agency of the year for both ASIAPACIFIC Campaign and Media Week, and we also won agency of the year titles in Italy, 40.5 WORLDWIDE Norway and Mexico.
595.7 539.9 0m 100m 200m 300m 400m 500m 600m Aegis Media operating profit 121.1 106.5 0m 50m 100m 150m 2006 2005 10 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 BUSINESS REVIEW Vizeum had a record year for net new business and continued to expand internationally.
Posterscope continues to be the only true global network for out-of-home communication.
Isobars growth, both total and organic, was exceptional throughout the year.
Vizeum had a record year for net new business and continued to expand internationally.
We further grew Vizeums presence around the globe, particularly in Asia-Pacific, adding offices in Thailand, Singapore, Japan and the Philippines in AsiaPacific, as well as Estonia and Turkey in EMEA, making a total of 46 offices in 40 countries for the Vizeum network.
Posterscope continues to be the only true global network for out-of-home communication, and 2006 was a year of further investment in the brand worldwide.
We rolled out a next generation suite of planning tools early in the year, and we successfully launched the Posterscope brand in the US.
In addition, we have now established the successful The growth of the Vizeum The adidas iBall, created by Posterscope UK model of specialist tools and planners in all the major European network continued, as Vizeum Carat, was seen by an economies, as well as the Nordics and Poland, and key hubs in Asia-Pacific.
reported its best ever year for estimated 4.7m consumers as it net new business.
In the course toured six European cities in of the year, Vizeum launched the lead-up to the FIFA World Isobars growth, both total and organic, was exceptional throughout the year.
We in Thailand, Singapore, Japan, Cup.
A spectacular replica of invested in creating a dedicated central client-facing infrastructure to manage business the Philippines, Estonia and the tournament ball itself, six from multinational clients throughout the network, and ended the year with a substantial Turkey, making for a total of 40 metres high, the interactive iBall countries worldwide.
Isobars reputation for award-winning work was reflected in the featured giant LED screens, as well as sensors to test how fast award of seven Cyber Lions to glue and Farfar at Cannes and a Campaign digital passers-by could run and how gold to fide-construct, Diffiniti and glue for their work on Eurostar.
In the fourth quarter, loudly they could cheer.
iProspect, which developed search tool iSEBA, now undergoing global roll-out throughout the Isobar network, was ranked the leading search agency in the US by Forrester.
Aegis Media EMEA Aegis Media EMEA grew extremely strongly, gaining share in almost all its major markets.
Our record of business wins was exceptional, with record net new business of $1,959m.
This includes the award of the global advertising industrys largest win of 2006, GM Europe across 34 countries, as well as Luxottica, Hilfiger and Intercontinental Hotels across Europe, Hutchison 3G in Italy, Fiat and Quelle in Germany, the Service dInformation du Gouvernement, the French Goverrnments public information body, and C&A in France, Alliance & Leicester, Yahoo!
and COI Cinema in the UK, Orange Media in Spain, Tele2 in Russia, and the National Lottery in Ireland.
Market conditions were broadly positive.
In Germany, the market returned to growth after a number of difficult years, and France saw a continued recovery, while Spain and Central and Eastern Europe produced strong demand for television airtime.
Our businesses in the Middle East and Russia grew fast, as the economic growth of both regions produced good results.
The UK, having been a buoyant market in recent years, saw a slowdown in conventional media, with only online advertising showing significant growth.
We were largely protected from this slowdown by our leading position in digital media and our outstanding new business run, as Carat UK topped the new business league table for a second successive year.
We strengthened our presence in the digital market in the Netherlands with the acquisition of Bookmark, and reinforced our leadership position in the Nordics with Creo, a sponsorship agency, in Norway and digital media services agency Suddenly Stockholm in Sweden.
The acquisition of Mediapool in Estonia brought us a platform to form Vizeum in the Baltics.
In South Africa we added to Posterscope with the acquisition of Integrator.
11 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 BUSINESS REVIEW Overall, Aegis Media Americas had a successful year, reflecting our wide range of products and services, and the quality of our client list.
Market conditions in the US proved stable, and we produced a particularly strong performance from Isobar.
Aegis Media Americas 19.7 In the Americas, Aegis Media grew revenues by 12.1% to 133.1m 2005: 18.1 16.7 118.7m, fuelled by rapid growth in digital and diversified marketing services.
Our 14.7 12.6 net new business wins of $108m 2005: $563m include the partial loss in the final quarter of two major advertising budgets as a result of corporate changes at our clients.
In both cases we still retain the core client business.
Our wins in the Americas included Masterfoods, Ameriprise Financials, GAP, California Tourism, Boehringer and Tracfone in the US and Cadburys in Mexico.
02 03 04 05 06 Overall, Aegis Media Americas had a successful year, reflecting our wide range of In December, leading UK trade Aegis Media continued to get products and services, and the quality of our client list.
Market conditions in the US publication Campaign named closer to our clients, offering Carat its media agency them new services, and proved stable, and we produced a particularly strong performance from Isobar.
Search network of the year.
According extending the scale of our proved a strong market for both Carat and iProspect, and we continued the to Campaign Carat made a partnerships.
In 2006 we international development of iSEBA as a global search tool.
We broke new ground in serious impression on the worked for our top 20 digital, launching adidass a3 Microride shoe and Reeboks Custom shoe in the virtual global stage and left rivals in its international clients in an wake.
average of 19.7 countries, up world of Second Life in October, with sales of 24,000 and 9,000 pairs of virtual shoes from 18.1 the year before.
Early in the year, we launched the Posterscope brand in the US, with the re-branding of Outdoor Vision, and have seen an extremely strong performance.
We also completed the successful roll-out of MMAs Avista, our sophisticated marketing analytics tool, and have seen very strong sales demand.
Trading in Latin America was robust, with continued recovery in Argentina.
Since the year end we have expanded our presence in this region significantly, with the acquisition of AgenciaClick, the leading independent digital agency in Brazil.
Acquisitions in the year included Ammo, our first move into word-of-mouth marketing, and Control, the leading independent media agency in Mexico, now merged with Carat Mexicana to create the third largest media agency in the market, with significantly increased profitability.
Aegis Media Asia-Pacific Aegis Media Asia-Pacific grew revenue by 9.9% to 44.5m 2005: 40.5m.
Overall momentum was positive, with strong organic growth outside the mature markets of Australia and New Zealand.
In spite of the diversity of economic development in this region, we continued to see success across the region from our strategic focus and investment in communications planning and digital.
Net new business of $625m 2005: $380m included ABN Amro and LG across Asia, Procter & Gamble in the Philippines, Chung Haw Telecom in Taiwan, Nikon, AMD and BMW Dealers in China, Nissan in Australias largest pitch of the year, and Pizza Hut in New Zealand and Taiwan.
In 2006, China became Aegis Medias single biggest revenue market in Asia-Pacific, reflecting the exceptional and sustained recent growth of marketing services.
Investments in the year included taking 100% control of Carat China and a shareholding in New Voice China.
We established Vizeum in the Philippines with an investment in Mediaforce, the largest independent media agency, and acquired events specialist Synergy in New Zealand.
Research should predict the future, not confirm the past.
13 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 BUSINESS REVIEW Synovate significantly outperformed the wider market research industry for another year, growing almost twice as fast as the total market.
Synovate Synovate significantly outperformed the wider market research industry for another year, growing almost twice as fast as the total market.
Organic revenue growth accelerated in the second half of the year to reach 9.5% for the full year.
We continued to benefit from Synovates weighting to high-growth markets, with 30% of total revenue from Asia-Pacific, Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle East, compared to around 18% for the industry as a whole.
Total revenue growth of 21.4% at 401.2m included the first full year contribution from nine acquisitions made in 2005, as well as one acquisition in South Africa made in 2006.
Specialism in industry segments Fifteen per cent of the and types of research continues population use the internet to Underlying operating profit before associates grew 21.7% from 25.3m to 30.8m.
to drive Synovates look for love according to a outperformance.
In the course Synovate survey.
Thats how Operating margins improved in the second half, although not to the full extent planned, of 2006 we added new many respondents said they because Univero, acquired late in 2005, is taking longer than first expected to bring to practices in Loyalty, Product had used an online personal Synovates operating margin.
Excluding Univero, EMEA, the Americas and Asia-Pacific Design & Development and ad or online dating service to all increased margins year on year.
Brand & Communications to meet a potential romantic our existing ones: Synovate interest.
The most significant Healthcare, Synovate online daters turned out to be Our strategy of developing our multi-national client business, through our global client Motoresearch, Synovate Aztec the French at 29% and the relationship initiative started in 2005, has proved extremely successful at driving and Synovate Censydiam.
Revenues from our largest 15 clients grew well ahead of Synovates overall organic growth as we succeeded in increasing our share of roster spend with multicountry and global mandates.
Synovate is today a highly international business, with no country of origin or head office and a global perspective.
Four years after its launch, the Synovate brand is proving increasingly powerful, representing harmonised research solutions and practices in 51 countries.
In 2006 we continued to develop the Synovate business model with From Now to Wow!, running business groups and supporting functions on an Synovate revenue increasingly seamless global basis, regardless of location.
183.2 2006 also saw further progress in Synovates industry practices and solutions.
We EMEA 133.3 started 2006 with industry and solutions-led practices in Healthcare, Motoresearch, Retail Analytics and Censydiam.
During the year we created practices in Loyalty, 134.1 Product Design & Development and in Brand & Communications.
Product Design & AMERICAS 127.4 Development won Synovates largest ever contract in the course of 2006.
83.9 The creation of the Brand & Communications practice in Synovates single greatest area ASIA-PACIFIC 69.8 of expertise allowed us to launch our Brand Value Creator BVC in November.
BVC represents a major development in sales forecasting, integrating market barriers which 401.2 prevent people from buying what they want to buy into the brand equity equation for WORLDWIDE greater visibility and accuracy in correlating marketing investments and sales.
330.5 0m 100m 200m 300m 400m 500m Synovate operating profit 30.8 25.3 0m 20m 40m 2006 2005 14 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 BUSINESS REVIEW Synovate had another successful year in South Africa, helped by existing strength in its core area of automotive, as well as the introduction of a broader mix and offer.
Synovate continued to internationalise its service offering, with the introduction of products and practices throughout the network, such as in media, where our longestablished PAX survey celebrated a decade in Asia, and has now expanded organically into the Middle East.
Latin America will follow in 2007, as will Europe, with the acquisition through Interview-NSS of market-leading EMS, a survey of 4m European media consumers, giving us global product coverage.
Synovate EMEA Total revenue growth of 37.4% to 183.2m 2005: 133.3m reflects the same trend as in 2005 of good growth in Central and Eastern Europe and softer trading conditions Synovate is the first market We celebrated the 10th in Western Europe.
research company to develop anniversary of PAX, Synovates truly interactive research affluent Asian media survey, panels.
Our proprietary with a look at changes in Our UK business performed well, and we made good progress in Germany, with the software incorporates webcam, respondents wealth and media successful integration of RBMR, acquired at year end 2005.
France and Spain, photo and video-sharing, consumption over the decade.
In December 2005, we established Synovate in instant messaging, blogging, The personal income of PAX the Nordics with the acquisition of Univero, where our focus in 2006 has been on mobile and SMS interaction respondents has increased by and GPS to let researcher and 86%, and household income restructuring operations to improve future profitability.
Central and Eastern Europe have sample hold a continuous rose 76%, some three times grown well overall, albeit slightly slower than in 2005.
Synovate Russia has seen some conversation about their likes, ahead of the market, with GDP of the fastest expansion, as the Russian economy continues to produce a new class of needs and preferences.
Weve for the region excluding consumers.
used this technology with some China up 22% over the same of the worlds best-known period.
In the decade internet brands as far afield as access increased 132% and Synovate had another successful year in South Africa, helped by existing strength in its Bangladesh and the Ukraine.
core area of automotive, as well as the introduction of a broader mix and offer.
The creation of our Brand & Communications ideas hub, led by Jan Hofmeyr, has driven the launch of products such as BVC, as South Africa becomes a centre of excellence for new product development.
We also introduced Synovate Aztec into South Africa with the acquisition of Infocy.
Synovate Americas We grew revenues in the Americas by 5.3% to 134.1m 2005: 127.4m.
The US market held up well, and Synovate gained market share for another successive year.
Revenue growth was good across the majority of categories, including Food and Beverage, Consumer Products and Technology and Telecoms.
While traditional business from US motor manufacturers remained soft, we moved our real-time customer satisfaction product for auto dealers into profit at the year end, signing up Toyota and Daimler Chrysler as clients in the year, with talks at an advanced stage with a further two manufacturers.
The US is Synovates most advanced market for outsourcing and offshoring to lower cost economies.
Our move of some CATI capacity to Costa Rica and the Philippines has achieved significant cost savings with no impact on quality.
Investment in further CATI facilities in Malaysia and Bulgaria is now underway.
15 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 BUSINESS REVIEW We are already coordinating a number of multi-country studies out of our China offices, including those for European brands.
Synovate also had a very successful year in Latin America.
We launched a start-up operation in Mexico in May, in preference to an acquisition-led market entry.
Synovate Mexico has already contributed a profit in its first year.
We continued to see strong growth in Argentina and Brazil, both fast-growing economies, where we were helped by the introduction of global Synovate solutions such as those from our Product Design & Development practice.
2007 will see the launch of our PAX media survey in Latin America.
Synovate Asia-Pacific We grew total revenue in Asia-Pacific by 20.2% to 83.9m 2005: 69.8m.
Sixty percent of Asian In November, Synovate China, where Synovate is the most established player in the custom research market, consumers feel unable to live launched the Brand Value was once again Synovates fastest growing country in Asia-Pacific.
Over the past three without their mobile phone.
Creator, developed by brand When it comes to what loyalty guru, Jan Hofmeyr.
The years our client base has developed from predominantly multi-national to the more equal constitutes poor mobile Brand Value Creator is based balance of domestic and multi-national that we have today.
As this market grows in manners, carrying out a loud on over 400,000 brand size, it also grows in strategic significance.
We are already coordinating a number of conversation in public places is observations from close to 20 multi-country studies out of our China offices, including those for European brands.
the worst mobile phone offence product categories, ranging for 42% of Asians, closely from media and financial followed by speaking on a services to packaged goods Synovate Aztec, acquired in 2005, and now the basis for our Retail Analytics practice, mobile during a movie 22% and FMCG, across four performed strongly in its original markets of Australia and New Zealand.
We continued and answering the phone continents.
to expand this practice, and saw good progress in Thailand, with Tesco a core during a business meeting business partner.
iii In 2006, Synovate launched its new framework: innovation, integration and international.
Known as the 3is, these inform every aspect of Synovate: from what we do to how we do it.
