Business Review Chief Executives Operating Review It has been a momentous year for Smiths News.
Despite tough trading conditions we increased our profits, improved our service to publishers and retailers, and secured new contracts that give us a strong foundation for the future.
In addition, on 31 August we completed the demerger of the Retail business of WH Smith PLC from the Group, a process that could easily have diverted focus from our core objectives.
It is a tribute to everyone in the business that our performance remained on track in all the key areas.
Smiths News has a strong heritage.
We have grown operating profit by 4.3 per cent on revenues We plan to build on it, ensuring up only 2 per cent.
Earnings per share from continuing operations at 15.1p is up 6.3 per cent and we delivered that we are the preferred wholesaler 27.5m of free cash ow.
This is a good performance in of publishers and retailers and challenging market conditions.
a benchmark of excellence in the Smiths News has a strong heritage.
We plan to build on it, industry as a whole.
ensuring that we are the preferred wholesaler of publishers and retailers and a benchmark of excellence in the industry Mark Cashmore, Group Chief Executive as a whole.
In doing so, we aim to give our shareholders a solid return and good prospects for future growth.
This is an exciting time for the business.
As an independent public Company we are better placed to develop and deepen our relationships with publishers and retailers, as well as pursuing new opportunities.
Service levels have improved across all our core Key Performance Indicators.
Newspapers and magazines are delivered to retailers.
We intend to strengthen our position by using our technology and service record to build strong commercial relationships 6 Smiths News PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business Review Chief Executives Operating Review Company objectives: We aim to: Smiths News aims to be the best Improve service at all levels.
We will measure progress with transparent performing news wholesaler for Key Performance Indicators KPIs, satisfaction surveys retailers, publishers and shareholders.
We will share the results with our customers, using measurement as a tool for We plan to achieve this by following continual improvement.
clear, focused strategies that benefit Improve efficiency all the stakeholders in the business.
We will use our technology to create new efficiencies and we will manage change in partnership with our retailers and publishers.
Leverage our technology to create a real difference between our competitors and ourselves.
We aim to offer publishers and retailers the UKs most exible and responsive information systems.
Secure our contracts renewing these as they come up for tender, and winning new business in areas where a profitable return can be made.
Value our staff so we develop and maximise the potential of our people, ensuring that they share in our success.
Develop new revenues building on the skills, technology and characteristics of the business.
Each delivery is scanned on Unsold magazines and arrival at the shop to record newspapers are loaded its delivery time.
Smiths News offers the UKs most exible and responsive information systems 7 Smiths News PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business Review Chief Executives Operating Review Improved service means fewer errors and less time spent Summary of progress in 2006 rectifying mistakes.
Good service is an important factor The business has made good progress in keeping costs under control, especially when it is underpinned by a clearly dened programme of cost in the year to 31 August 2006. reduction and process efficiency.
This is an important aspect of our business strategy and one that has already Service levels have improved across all delivered results.
our core Key Performance Indicators, The business continues to nd new and more efficient and our insistence on transparency ways of operating.
This year we consolidated newspaper throughout the business has improved marketing into two centres of excellence, and we trialled and established a similar model for customer services.
We the consistency of standards across our expanded the scope of sales-based replenishment for our network.
But we are not complacent: larger retail customers and are planning to do more.
We achieved substantial cost savings across our head office, improvement is a continual process and beyond this we are talking to publishers and retailers, and we will strive for further progress looking at the supply chain as a whole, to nd ways that we can simplify process and eradicate waste.
We intend to strengthen our position by using our technology We have contracts in place for 81 per cent of our business over the next four years, with the remainder operating on and service record to build strong a rolling basis.
This year we secured new contracts with commercial relationships that are Associated Newspapers, Financial Times, Guardian Newspapers, Northern and Shell and the magazine difficult to copy and which will enhance distributor Frontline.
We retained all our existing business our position in the supply chain.
and won new contracts in Derby.
In April 2006 we won additional business from Frontline worth 50m annualised sales revenue.
Our staffs commitment and focus has been fundamental to our success.
This year we introduced a new objective-setting and appraisal process, ensuring that targets throughout the organisation match our overall strategy.
The management bonus system was also realigned to ensure rewards more closely reect performance.
Newspapers and magazines are separated as they are unloaded from vehicles.
Every consignment of unsold newspapers is scanned.
Good service helps to keep costs under control 8 Smiths News PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business Review Chief Executives Operating Review Key Performance Indicators Risks and uncertainties We have identied the following Key Performance Indicators Smiths News operates in large and stable markets.
to measure our operational progress.
Financial indicators Revenues are relatively predictable and with strong cost are listed in the Financial Review.
control we believe the risks to the business can be mitigated.
Our assessment of the major risks to the achievement Measure of our objectives are as follows.
Newspaper pack accuracy Magazine pack accuracy Changes in the regulatory environment On time delivery Current investigations by the OFT into the status of exclusive Newspaper returns collection on time distribution contracts continue to provoke uncertainty.
The Magazine returns processing accuracy review of the Newspaper Code could also affect the current arrangements for distributing newspapers.
The above measures have been identied as being the most important aspect of our service to our customers.
The newspaper and magazine industry has long been We improved performance in all of these areas during the subject to review by the regulatory authorities.
Indeed, the year, operating above targeted levels.
review of publisher contracts has been under way for over two years.
Smiths News has played a full part in the Markets consultation process.
The newspaper and magazine markets are worth over 4 billion annually.
We expect the newspaper market to In July 2006 the Office of Fair Trading issued a draft opinion generate modest revenue growth, with price increases on the status of magazine and newspaper distribution offsetting declines in the volumes of copies sold.
It also announced its intention to review the Newspaper Code of Practice that was The magazine market is characterised by innovation and established after the Monopolies and Mergers Commission new launches.
The recent switching from monthlies to enquiry into newspaper distribution in 1993.
A final opinion weeklies reects changing consumer purchasing habits is expected in the spring of 2007, together with the outcome and we have seen all the major publishing houses investing of the Newspaper Code review.
heavily in the weeklies market.
Our view is that despite the change in mix, we will continue to see overall growth in the Smiths News maintains that the current arrangements serve total magazine market, albeit at lower levels than in recent consumers well.
For some time our plans have recognised years.
Additionally, over the next 12 months, our base sales the market is becoming more retailer focused.
As the largest will increase following recent contract wins.
wholesaler, in markets that favour scale, Smiths News is well placed to respond to change.
Regardless of the outcome, our strategy of improving service and efficiency will not alter and the business is well placed to capitalise on opportunities that may arise.
Customer service teams take calls for order Every consignment of unsold alterations, extra copies, magazines is scanned.
9 Smiths News PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business Review Chief Executives Operating Review Retail sales Contract renewal A sustained reduction in retail sales would have an adverse Publishers could seek alternative routes to market effect on revenues.
We believe this risk is limited: our core markets of newspapers We have 81 per cent of our revenues contracted for an and magazines have proved resilient, with price increases average of four years, with the remainder operating on sustaining value growth and offsetting volume declines in a rolling basis.
Our contracts incorporate Service Level some categories.
Agreements to ensure publisher needs are met.
Publisher investment Alternative media The market is driven by publisher investment and innovation.
Publishers could switch investment into alternative media.
Any significant switching of investment to other media could Free newspapers have introduced additional competition into have an adverse effect on sales and growth opportunities.
the market, particularly in London and major conurbations.
Magazine publishers continue to invest in new products Despite these developments, the market has proved and we anticipate a number of launches in the year ahead.
very resilient to new media and we believe the long term Newspaper publishers have consistently shown innovation prospects for print media remain good.
in the format and promotion: they continue to invest in print plants, demonstrating their commitment to the long term The risks faced by the business, including those referred future of print media.
to above, are covered more fully in the Smiths News prospectus which is available on the Companys website.
Staff We employ approximately 4,300 staff and 1,400 delivery contractors nationwide.
Smiths News aims to be an equal opportunities employer and we select staff solely on merit, irrespective of race, sex, age, disability, marital status or religion.
We are committed to providing a comprehensive training and development programme for our staff.
Sales Centres manage copy allocation for publishers and retailers, optimising sales and availability of newspapers and magazines.
10 Smiths News PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business Review Chief Executives Operating Review Corporate responsibility NewsWorks provides IT systems solutions for publishers Smiths News recognises a positive approach to corporate and wholesalers.
This year we completed the development responsibility will benefit all stakeholders of the business.
of a sales and marketing system for the magazine distributor, As part of WH Smith PLC we played an active part in the Comag.
Further business was secured from the specialist Group strategy.
As an independent business we will continue distributor, Odyssey.
to follow good practice and will develop policies and strategy more particular to the business.
Further details can be found Outlook in the Corporate Responsibility section of this report and on The newspaper and magazine distribution markets continue our website, www.
to provide opportunities for growth and development.
The combination of a resilient marketplace, a programme of cost New business opportunities savings and efficiencies, and a strong market position Independence brings a number of opportunities for Smiths underpins the Boards confidence in the underlying progress News.
It will enable the business to work more closely of Smiths News in its first year as a public company.
with customers in our primary market of newspapers and magazines as well as in new ventures.
We have a clear strategy to grow the core business and we will not be distracted from this, but we will also look for opportunities to use our skills in additional markets.
Our new venture, The Returns Company, has established itself this year having secured a contract with WH Smith Retail for processing book and stationery returns.
It has also agreed with Waterstones to process book returns from Ottakars stores during its integration into the Waterstones estate.
Following the successful completion of this initial work, we will be looking to broaden the business opportunities.
Magazines are trunked Magazine deliveries continue to newspaper locations from publishers.
We have a clear strategy to grow the core business 11 Smiths News PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business Review Corporate Responsibility Governance and management The principles of corporate responsibility Accountability for corporate responsibility CR issues sits are important to our business.
Smiths at the highest levels within the business, with a named senior executive responsible for each CR area and for News seeks to manage the impact our the implementation of relevant policies.
Performance is business has on society and the reviewed every four months by the Internal Audit Committee.
Annual performance reviews are then submitted to the environment: we work to maximise Board Audit Committee.
the positive impact wherever we can.
Marketplace We also recognise that effective Smiths News is committed to responsible business management of social, environmental practices and to fostering good relationships with all of our commercial partners, whether they are retailers and ethical issues can help us to identify or publishers distributors.
and manage risks and develop new Customer service standards commercial opportunities.
We are committed to delivering high levels of customer satisfaction and this underpins everything we do.
We carry out regular customer surveys to assess customer service standards.
The survey results form the basis of the customer service action plan with performance incentives for individual employees based on delivery of the required improvements.
During 2005, we introduced a rigorous programme of transparent KPIs.
The KPIs were agreed with publishers distributors and retailers and the results have shown real improvements.
Performance measures include timely delivery, accuracy of supplies and returns, and product tracking to and from stores.
Smiths News is committed to pursuing responsible business practices.
12 Smiths News PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business Review Corporate Responsibility Supporting small businesses in areas of social need Health and safety Our business plays an essential role in supporting rural The Board is committed to maintaining high standards communities.
We provide a high quality of service to all of health and safety in the business.
retailers, whether large multiples or small independent newsagents.
In this way, we play a vital role in supporting The health and safety policy states that all employees have businesses operating in rural communities, enabling local a responsibility for health and safety but that managers and people in these areas to have full access to the news.
Operations Director Graeme Underhill is responsible for advising the Board Condentiality and business best practice on health and safety issues, compliance with the policy and As a wholesaler we hold a significant amount of ensuring that suitable support is available to the businesses.
information that is potentially commercially sensitive to our publishers and retailers.
We operate according to strict The Management team monitors key safety performance guidelines to ensure robust compliance to condentiality indicators and produces a six-monthly report for the Board and wider competition law.
All senior managers receive detailing trends, performance and recommendations.
training to ensure compliance and this is reinforced by We have a properly constituted Health and Safety Committee appropriate internal audit procedures.
that comprises employees representatives, management, trade union representatives and officials.
Workplace We want all our employees to contribute as much as they Accidents and injuries can to the business and its success.
Our specialist training 2006 2005 2004 and development team helps staff develop the skills to deliver their objectives and enables people to reach their Major injuries 6 87 potential.
Our equal opportunities policies outline our Injuries resulting in over 61 62 84 commitment to the principle that all employees should three days absence from work be treated with respect and dignity, and that peoples hospitalisation differences should be valued and recognised in everything All RIDDORS 67 70 91 that we do.
Reportable under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and We have an employee forum with representation at all levels Dangerous Occurrence Regulations.
of the business local, regional and national.
This forum is supported by training and communication, and is used to consult and communicate with staff.
Accidents by type 1 September 2005 31 August 2006 Manual handling 43% Striking xed object 7% Struck by moving falling object 20% Slip trip fall 21% Fall from height 4% Hand tools 5% 13 Smiths News PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business Review Corporate Responsibility This year, the total number of reportable accidents was Energy reduced by 4 per cent, which is in line with the Health and During the year, we have reduced energy consumption Safety Executives strategy for businesses to reduce by 11 per cent to 24,631,000 Kw h. workplace accidents.
Each incident is taken very seriously and measures are introduced to avoid similar occurrences.
Our focus on this area will continue in 2006 07 with the This will continue to be an area of focus in the coming year.
planned launch of an energy-saving campaign to reduce energy consumption across the business.
This will include During the year, over 300 managers have been trained so site audits and the implementation of improved energythey can provide safety training to their staff, with a particular efficiency controls on site.
In addition, automatic meteremphasis on manual handling training, which represents reading devices will be introduced to ensure we have the largest proportionate cause of accidents.
This will enable us to pinpoint problem sites quickly and then take the necessary actions Environment to reduce energy consumption.
The environmental impacts of the Smiths News businesses fall into three main areas: Transport electricity and gas used to operate our offices and We continue to work to optimise the efficiency of our distribution centres distribution network, recognising that improved efficiency fuel used to distribute our products helps to reduce fuel consumption and emissions while disposal of unsold products and waste generated also contributing to improved service.
We have replaced a large part of our van eet with new Our environmental policy outlines our commitment to hired vehicles, enabling this resource to be tailored to local improve energy and fuel efficiency, to reduce waste and needs while also using the latest and most fuel-efficient increase recycling.
We recognise that, as well as reducing vehicles.
The eet is regularly serviced to ensure it is our environmental impact, this can also contribute to greater operating efficiently.
We will continue to seek ways to optimise distribution We recognise that in order to implement our environmental routes to reduce mileage and fuel consumption.
As part of policy effectively, all our staff need to understand fully this process we monitor closely developments in alternative the role they can play in helping us to meet our objectives.
This year we launched a trial Environmental Champions project at two sites, Plymouth and Newport.
As part of the trial, an Environmental Champion has been appointed at each site and provided with all the information needed to encourage colleagues to follow best practices in terms of energy efficiency and waste reduction.
If the trial is judged to be successful, it will be rolled out to other sites next year.
14 Smiths News PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business Review Corporate Responsibility Waste Community Transit packaging, namely cardboard and polythene, Our staff around the country play an active part in the local is a major waste component for our business and has been communities in which we operate.
Their actions are often a focus for our waste management programmes this year.
on a small scale, but the cumulative effect is significant.
We have introduced cardboard compactors and recycling For example, this year senior members of the Trade programmes at larger locations.
6.2 per cent of our waste is Marketing team took part in a community challenge to plan now recycled.
Overall we have also achieved an 11 per cent and create a garden for a school in Swindon.
Their task was reduction in the amount of waste sent to landll, reducing designed to help the school, but it was also part of a teamvolumes to 5,220 tons.
building and personal and professional skills development programme for Smiths News staff.
The children came up Any newspapers or magazines that retailers do not sell are with ideas for the garden and the Smiths News team worked collected and brought back to our distribution centres for with the PTA to raise the funds before getting their hands recycling.
Any gifts attached to magazines are segregated in dirty actually creating the garden itself.
Teachers and children the fide-inking process at the recycling mill.
This ensures that were delighted with the results, as were Smiths News staff the maximum amount of bre is extracted for recycling.
who had built a valuable link in the local community while developing project management and team working skills.
This year we have expanded the scope of our sales-based replenishment systems.
This process ensures the number Smiths News is also an active supporter of the NewstrAid of magazines or newspapers a retailer receives is aligned to Benevolent Society, also known as Old Ben.
The charity their typical sales levels.
The system has improved the level provides essential assistance to colleagues from across the of sales and reduced unsolds.
We are in regular contact with news trade who are in personal difficulty in their lives and in publishers to keep them updated on levels of unsold product need of special assistance.
This year, teams from Smiths so that they can take this into account when planning future News took part in several fundraising events to support print runs, again reducing wastage.
NewstrAids work, ranging from a charity golf tournament to sponsored walks.
Popular childrens TV character Mr Tumble opened the new garden built by Smiths News staff at Robert Le Kyng school in Swindon.
15 Smiths News PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business Review Financial Review On 31 August 2006 we completed the demerger of the Retail business from the Group.
The results of the Retail business are classied in the financial statements as discontinued operations for the years ended 31 August 2005 and 2006.
The information disclosed in this financial review relates solely to the continuing Smiths News business, unless otherwise stated.
Smiths News has made good progress over the year.
Sales and profitability have continued to grow in a more Sales and profitability continued challenging market.
This has been achieved through to grow despite a challenging market.
managements continued focus on cost control and high levels of service for publishers and retailers.
Alan Humphrey, Group Finance Director profit before interest and tax of 34.3m is up 4.3 per cent from 32.9m in 2005. profit before tax of 32.0m is up 0.9 per cent from 31.7m.
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations increased by 6.3 per cent to 15.1p 2005: 14.2p per share.
The directors of Smiths News PLC have proposed a dividend of 4.0p.
Revenue Underlying sales 1 m 2006 2005 Growth growth Revenue Reported revenue 1,094.7 1,074.1 1.9% Sales to 2 WH Smith PLC 115.9 113.0 2.6% Cost savings were Total revenue 1,210.6 1,187.1 2.0% Comprising: achieved through Newspapers 628.7 620.0 1.4% 2.3% Magazines 531.6 519.8 2.3% 0.9% process consolidation, Other 50.3 47.3 6.3% 6.3% Total revenue 1,210.6 1,187.1 2.0% 1.1% greater efficiency and 1 Underlying sales growth excludes publisher contract gains and tight cost management.
one-off prior year book promotions.
2 Smiths Newss sales to the Retail business are reported as inter-segment sales to discontinued operations and are not included in reported revenue.
1 Turnover Trading profit 2 2 2006 1,211m 2006 40m 2 2 2005 1,187m 2005 37m 3 3 2004 1,182m 2004 35m 3 3 2003 1,115m 2003 32m 1 profit before interest and taxation stated before central overheads, share-based payments and pension service charges.
2 IFRS 16 Smiths News PLC 3 UK GAAP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business Review Financial Review Total sales were up 2.0 per cent to 1,210.6m 2005: Gross contribution was down 1.7m in 2006, largely due 1,187.1m.
Underlying sales growth was 1.1 per cent.
to margin dilution arising from the renewal of contracts and a change in the sales mix.
This has reduced gross margin Newspaper sales increased by 1.4 per cent on last year.
This from 11.0 per cent to 10.6 per cent.
gure includes new business gained in the recent contract renegotiation process, mainly in the Derby area.
This partially Operating costs reduced by 3.0m compared to 2005. compensated for the loss of the book promotional sales These cost savings have been achieved through process carried out by Associated Newspapers and Northern and consolidation, greater efficiency and tight cost management.
Shell Express Newspapers in 2005, which were not On process consolidation, we have this year re-sited our repeated in 2006.
Excluding these two items, underlying newspaper buying and marketing processes into two centres newspaper sales growth was 2.3 per cent, driven by price of excellence, whereas in the past this was carried out in the increases which more than offset volume declines.
Our focus on service has brought savings in rectification costs, enabling us to reduce Total magazine sales were up 2.3 per cent in the year.
In signicantly our overtime and agency costs.
In addition, April 2006 we won additional territories with the magazine costs were reduced across all areas of Head Office.
distributor Frontline, equating to circa 50m of annualised 1 revenue.
This more than compensated for the loss of some Trading profit of 39.5m is up 5.9 per cent on the previous Bauer business in April 2005.
If these contract changes are year, which represents a 50 per cent increase on the trading excluded underlying magazine sales were 0.9 per cent down profit of 26.0m reported in the year ended 31 August 2001. year on year.
Central costs of 5.2m included share-based payments, We have experienced differing trends in the weekly, monthly dened benefit pension service charges and central overheads.
and partwork components of our magazine business.
profit before interest and tax of 34.3m 2005: 32.9m is up Weekly sales have been buoyant, fuelled by the continued 4.3 per cent.
Finance costs for 2006 are 1.1m higher than growth in the celebrity and mens lifestyle sectors and by last year due to increased pension interest.
profit before tax new launches.
By contrast monthly magazines, as expected, of 32.0m is up 0.9 per cent 2005: 31.7m.
have declined in the year as there has been significant switching by consumers from monthly to weekly titles.
Taxation Overall the net position of weeklies and monthlies is broadly The tax charge for the year was 6.4m 2005: 7.3m.
The at compared to last year.
Partwork sales have fallen by effective tax rate on continuing activities was 20 per cent 25 per cent in the year ended 31 August 2006.
However, benefiting from settling some of the outstanding prior year this performance needs to be viewed in the context of two issues.
This compares to 23 per cent last year.
exceptional years, fuelled by CD DVD collectable product.
Partwork sales have now reverted to the levels experienced We anticipate that our effective tax rate will continue to be in 2003. lower than the standard rate in the medium term.
The growth in other revenues is driven by our two edgling Earnings per share and dividend new businesses, NewsWorks and The Returns Company.
Smiths News generated basic earnings per share from Other sales also comprise income from publisher services continuing operations of 15.1p 2005: 14.2p per share, and carriage service charges.
profit before taxation Earnings per share EPS : Basic and Diluted m 2006 2005 Growth profit after tax m from continuing operations 26 Revenue 1,210.6 1,187.1 2.0% Basic number of shares millions 172 Gross contribution 129.1 130.8 Basic EPS 15.1p Operating costs 90.9 93.9 profits on property Diluted number of share millions 173 transactions 1.3 0.4 Diluted EPS 15.0p 1 Trading profit 39.5 37.3 5.9% Central costs 5.2 4.4 profit before interest and tax 34.3 32.9 4.3% Finance costs 2.3 1.2 profit before taxation 32.0 31.7 0.9% 1 profit before interest and taxation stated before central overheads, share-based payments and pension service charges.
17 Smiths News PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business Review Financial Review The Board has proposed a dividend of 4.0p per ordinary The outow on working capital in 2006 is the reversal of share.
Subject to shareholder approval, the dividend will be timing differences, from which we had benefited in 2005. paid on 9 February 2007 to shareholders registered at the close of business on 12 January 2007.
Capital expenditure was tightly managed during the year.
Going forward we would expect capital expenditure to be The Board intends to adopt a progressive dividend policy, broadly in line with depreciation.
targeting a dividend that would, over time, be broadly covered twice by earnings.
Balance sheet m Proforma Non-current assets 21.6 At the balance sheet date the Group had drawn down 50m of term loan.
At 1 September 2006 20m was drawn from Working capital 36.1 the revolving credit facility, bringing the total debt drawn to Deferred tax asset 13.8 70m, from which a one-off payment of 25m was made into Corporation tax 14.6 the pension fund.
The effect of these transactions, had they Provisions 1.3 taken place at 1 September 2005, would have been to Operating liabilities employed 16.6 increase finance charges by circa 2.7m for the year ended Net debt 41.7 31 August 2006.
This comprises increased interest and fee Net liabilities excluding pension liabilities 58.3 amortisation on the credit facilities being partially offset by Pension liability 49.0 reduced pension interest.
Total net liabilities 107.3 On this proforma basis we estimate profit before tax for the year ended 31 August 2006 would be 29.3m and taking Smiths News PLC is nanced through a mixture of debt, into account the Groups effective tax rate for the year of comprising a term loan and revolving credit facility, finance 20 per cent, earnings per share would be 13.6p.
Discontinued operations On 26 June 2006, Smiths News entered into a 100m facility Following the demerger of the Retail business on 31 August agreement with Alliance and Leicester Commercial Bank plc, 2006, the results of the Retail business have been classied Barclays Bank plc, Lloyds TSB Bank plc and The Royal Bank as discontinued operations for both the years ended of Scotland plc comprising a 50m term loan facility, and a 31 August 2005 and 2006.
At 31 August 2006, the Group had drawn down 50m of the term loan facility.
This was The profit after tax from the discontinued business was used principally to settle intercompany indebtedness arising 32m 2005: 22m.
An exceptional charge after tax of on the demerger of the Retail business.
12m in relation to costs associated with the demerger were charged against the discontinued operations in the Group At 31 August 2006 net debt of 42m comprised 11m Income Statement.
A 3m exceptional gain after tax was cash, 50m oating rate debt and 3m finance leasing.
also recognised in the year against discontinued operations Subsequent to 31 August 2006 the Group drew down as a result of post retirement medical benefit liabilities 20m from the available revolving credit facility and made being settled.
a one-off 25m contribution to the Smiths News section of the WH Smith Pension Trust.
Basic earnings per share including the discontinued business was 33.7p 2005: 26.6p per share.
On a proforma basis, taking into account these transactions, net debt would have been 67m.
On 1 September 2006 the Cash ow Group entered into an interest rate swap to x 75 per cent of the term loan facility at 5.13 per cent for five years.
Continuing Discontinued operations operations Group m 2006 2006 2006 profit before interest and tax 34 60 94 Depreciation and amortisation 7 37 44 Non cash items 1 1 2 Working capital 8 9 1 Capital expenditure 2 29 31 Tax 4 2 6 Net interest paid 5 5 Net provisions spend 3 3 Free cash ow 28 68 96 18 Smiths News PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business Review Financial Review Pensions Credit risk management In September 2005, the Trustees of the Pension Trust The Groups credit risk is managed by dealing only with adopted a new investment policy in order to substantially banks and financial institutions with strong credit ratings and reduce the volatility in the fund.
The assets in the investment within prescribed limits set for the organisation and approved fund were restructured in order to adopt this policy.
This by the Board and Audit Committee.
involved the assets being invested such that they are expected to alter in value in line with changes in the pension International Financial Reporting Standards liabilities a Liability Driven Investment LDI policy.
Smiths News PLC has prepared its financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards for the On the date of demerger, 31 August 2006, the assets and year ended 31 August 2006.
Comparative information for liabilities of the Pension Trust and WH Smith Retirement the year ended 31 August 2005 has been restated with Savings Plan were split between Smiths News and the the exception of deferring the implementation of IAS 32 WH Smith Retail business by way of a sectionalisation, and 39 on financial instruments until the year commencing and are expected to be apportioned 35 per cent to 1 September 2005.
Smiths News and 65 per cent to WH Smith Retail.
Each section contains the accounts of members who are, or The greatest impact on Smiths News PLC arises from were, employed by the relevant business.
changes in the accounting treatment for share-based payments, leases, deferred tax, pension assets, goodwill, At 31 August 2006, the Smiths News gross dened benefit accounting for financial instruments and the recognition of pension deficit under IAS 19 was 49m, approximately 34m dividends.
Details of the changes are set out in Notes 30 net of related deferred taxes.
and 31 to the financial statements.
On 1 September 2006, a one-off contribution of 25m was Accounting policies and standards made to the Smiths News section of the Pension Trust.
The principal accounting policies used by Smiths News PLC are shown in Note 1 to the financial statements.
In addition to the one-off payment Smiths News has agreed with the Trustees to make aggregate ongoing pension deficit Key Performance Indicators KPIs funding payments of approximately 5m each year for the KPI Denition next five years.
Sales Growth in total sales.
profit before profit before interest and tax is Treasury and risk management interest and tax a measure of profit generation The Groups Treasury function endeavours to reduce and is a comparable performance exposures to interest rates, foreign exchange and other measure with other companies.
financial risks, to ensure sufficient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable needs and to invest cash assets safely and Earnings Per Share Earnings per share is calculated profitably.
The Group does not engage in speculative trading EPS using profit after tax divided by in financial instruments and transacts only in relation to the undiluted weighted average underlying business requirements.
The Groups treasury number of shares in issue policies and procedures are periodically reviewed and during the year.
approved by the Audit Committee and are subject to regular Free Cash Flow Free cash ow is dened as the Group Internal Audit review.
amount of cash generated by the business after meeting all its Currency risk management obligations for interest, tax, capital The Groups turnover and net operating assets have no expenditure and working capital material exposure to foreign currency risk.
It is a meaningful measure of operating performance Interest risk management as it demonstrates the Groups ability The Groups exposure to market price risk comprises interest to generate cash for ongoing activities rate risk.
It regularly monitors this exposure and considers and invest in its future growth.
from time to time whether there would be a benefit in further hedging this risk.
As a result of monitoring the interest rate risk exposure, on 1 September 2006, the Group entered into an interest rate swap to hedge its exposure to unfavourable movements in interest rates and as a result, the Group xed 75 per cent of the term loan facility at 5.13 per cent.
The Group avoids the use of derivatives or other financial instruments in circumstances when the outcome would effectively be largely dependent upon speculation of future rate movements.
19 Smiths News PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006
