Business review Strategy and overview Shaftesbury continues to advance its well Over 15 years we have assembled clusters This year many of our acquisitions have of properties to create distinctive villages such included established restaurants or other established strategy of investing over the long as Carnaby and Chinatown.
Within Covent commercial space which has potential for term only in the very centre of Londons Garden, our investments include the Seven change of use to restaurant or retail uses.
West End, which is renowned for its unique Dials Village and this year we have added Most of these acquisitions are either heritage, places of entertainment and vibrant the Opera Quarter a cluster of 30 properties completely or substantially vacant and atmosphere.
east of the Covent Garden Piazza and our many are in need of renovation, so already Longmartin joint venture.
Longmartins we are preparing several important new London is the major centre of economic and properties form an Island Site of almost projects which will commence in 2007. financial activity for the UK and Europe and two acres, with frontages to Long Acre and As most of these schemes entail is experiencing substantial growth in both Upper St. Martins Lane, next to St. Martins refurbishment and reconfiguration of Circus and close to Seven Dials.
London existing buildings, we are, in effect, continues to be the Worlds most popular city Our strategy is to identify properties close conserving and extending the useful lives to streets traditionally regarded as prime, of many old buildings, some of which are destination for overseas visitors, which is which offer the opportunity to enhance Listed, and almost all of which are in stimulating an expansion in hotel development income and values by changes of use and Conservation areas.
We believe that this within the West End.
Also, London is a popular reconfiguration.
With detailed local knowledge strategy helps us to obtain planning consents and easily accessible destination for day trips and experience, we set out to create as greater emphasis is now being placed for over 20 million people from within the UK.
distinctive retail and restaurant destinations.
However, These characteristics combine to produce a We have found that in our villages, these the increased complexity of planning two uses let readily and show little requirements is extending the planning local economy that often differs from the UK obsolescence.
All our villages have excellent process and will increase refurbishment costs.
At the present time, the West Ends access to public transport both day and night.
visitor numbers and spending levels are The very nature of our portfolio, with over A key element of our strategy is support 400 mixed use buildings, and our strategy exceptionally buoyant.
for community groups, local charities and of active management of our assets, means the statutory authorities in their work to The essence of the West End is its unique that we are continually identifying address important issues including the opportunities to reconfigure accommodation combination of shops, restaurants, bars and maintenance and improvement of the and introduce higher-value uses to enhance clubs, 46 theatres as well as cinemas, world local environment.
both income and capital values.
We recognise class galleries, museums, palaces and historic We continue to convert some of our office the need to anticipate changing consumer buildings, all within close proximity.
Visitors space to other uses.
In the case of smaller tastes through constant attention to the mix are attracted to the West End knowing that office floors, our schemes frequently entail and quality of shops and restaurants in our they will experience something that they are conversion to residential apartments.
provide reasonably-priced accommodation to unlikely to find elsewhere.
Through our We are encouraged that both Westminster rent, usually on one year Assured Shorthold support to charities and involvement with the City Council and the Mayor of London are Tenancies, which is extremely popular with advocating further improvements to the local community we actively support a number young people, often from overseas, who work West End environment.
Transport and of organisations which promote the Arts, close by and enjoy the many attractions of infrastructure initiatives which are necessary Theatre and Music.
to handle the increasing numbers of business An important element of our strategy is and leisure visitors to the West End are to create a broad range of unit sizes and always complex and any improvements will different levels of rent within each village.
However, we are confident that This gives us added flexibility to foster these long term projects will contribute to interesting leisure and shopping opportunities the prosperity of our unique villages.
in a creative and relaxed atmosphere, such as at Kingly Court in Carnaby, and Thomas Neals and Neals Yard at Seven Dials.
Shaftesbury specialises in restaurants with table service, which is now a separate planning use.
As there is no longer a risk of automatic conversion to pubs, bars or takeaways, we expect Westminster City Councils policies will support our strategy to improve and extend our restaurant portfolio.
Shaftesbury Plc Annual Report 2006 Shaftesbury PLC Annual Report 2006 page 16 Business review continued Portfolio activity Our portfolio Capital expenditure on our properties during Our wholly owned portfolio at the year end This has been a particularly active year, with the year totalled 8.9 million, representing included 290 shops with a total of 373,000 acquisitions totalling 107.7 million.
Whilst 0.7% of our year end portfolio value.
ft. which provided 41% of current 79 million of investment has been within capital expenditure to increase during the contracted income with an average unexpired Covent Garden, we have also made strategic current year once projects now being planned lease term of seven years.
This has been additions in all our villages.
another active year in which we have let 38 shops, of which 23 have been in Carnaby.
In the year to 30th September 2006 we let As reported in November 2005, we sold At the year end, we had 16 shops vacant and 4.1 million of commercial space, comprising National Magazine House, a freehold office ready to let of which four were under offer.
2.1 million of shops, 1.4 million of offices Eight shops were under reconstruction.
building in Carnaby of 55,000 sq.
ft. with 11 and 0.6 million of restaurants and leisure.
We continue to see strong demand for flats above, for 45 million, retaining a 999 The rental value of vacant commercial space shops of all sizes in each of our villages.
year lease of the shops below.
at the year end was 2.7 million see table Our wholly owned restaurants, bars and below.
The level of retail and office voids These transactions have further advanced clubs extend to 398,000 sq.
ft. and for the reflects our usual level of refurbishment our long-term strategy of increasing retail, first time they have a larger floor area than and letting activity in a portfolio of over our shops.
Following acquisitions and changes restaurant and leisure uses within our portfolio 400 buildings.
We always have a number of use during the year, these now include and reducing exposure to offices, which we of projects awaiting planning consent, in 151 units, a net increase of 17.
They provide consider in the longer term are more prone to the course of refurbishment as well as 30% of contracted income with an average completed and available to let.
The vacant obsolescence and volatility in both rents and unexpired lease term of 15 years.
Seven restaurant space is represented by three capital values.
An analysis of our portfolio at have been let during the year and three purchases made with vacant possession 30th September 2006 is set out on page 36. others, purchased with vacant possession within the final month of the financial year.
in September 2006, are already attracting strong interest from experienced operators At the year end the total rental value of our with enterprising concepts.
un-let residential properties, almost all of which was in course of conversion, was Our wholly owned offices extend to 420,000 approximately 0.8 million per annum.
They account for 23% of contracted This included schemes underway at that income and have an average unexpired date involving the conversion of offices into lease term of four years.
Our offices are 30 residential units.
generally small and located above shops and restaurants.
Over half of our offices are in Carnaby.
We have 314 office tenancies, Analysis of Vacant Commercial Space at 30th September 2006 with an average floor area of 1,350 sq.
Restaurants Letting activity has improved generally over Shops and leisure Offices Total the year, having shown the greatest Estimated Rental Value 000 000 000 000 improvement in recent months.
Whilst we take every opportunity, where appropriate, Under refurbishment 275 143 55 473 to improve and extend our office space, the Ready to let 487 500 751 1,738 number of such schemes expected to be undertaken in 2007 will be much reduced as Under offer 268 - 181 449 we identify opportunities to convert offices Total 1,030 643 987 2,660 to other commercial or residential uses.
ft. 18,000 17,000 38,000 73,000 Our wholly owned residential accommodation now includes 241 flats and maisonettes, a net increase of 13 following sales, acquisitions and conversions.
They represent 6% of our income.
Shaftesbury Pl Shaftesbury PL c C Annual Report 2006 Annual Report 2006 Covent Garden page page 1717 page 18 page 19 Business review continued Carnaby Carnaby represents 39% of our assets by value Kingly Court is an increasingly popular We welcome the improvements and new courtyard both for shopping and leisure.
initiatives being carried out in adjoining and includes 46% of our wholly-owned shops The addition of the removable roof has streets.
The comprehensive reconstruction of and 53% of our wholly-owned offices.
allowed us greater opportunity to extend shopping on Regent Street is well advanced the hours of activity.
A large restaurant and many new flagship stores have opened.
As a result of our policies of avoiding high street that fronts Kingly Court and Ganton Street In effect this enlarged project now extends retail formats and encouraging overseas and is expected to open by the Summer of 2007. from Oxford Circus to Piccadilly Circus.
independent retailers, Carnaby is now recognised Our recently completed reconstruction project We actively support the combined action of as the leading location in the West End for at the corner of Carnaby Street and Broadwick Westminster City Council and the New West flagship shops for sports and leisure fashion.
Street with two large shops and 8,000 sq.
ft. End Company responsible for the Business of offices is fully let.
We have now started Improvement District which includes Oxford work to extend five adjacent shops in Street, Bond Street and Regent Street to Broadwick Street, which will be followed by promote the area and to improve the West major improvements to the western end of End over the medium to longer term.
We have identified several more schemes both for refurbishment and reconstruction as well as for street improvements.
We hope to advance these projects during the current year.
Carnaby Statistics Valuation 30th September 2006 491.7 million Percentage of portfolio 39% Acquisitions during year 14.4 million Capital expenditure in year 4.5 million Book value of disposals 44.2 million Valuation surplus 78.2 million Valuation uplift 17.0% Area % of current Number sq.
ft. gross income Shops 133 185,000 48 Restaurants and leisure 36 78,000 12 Offices tenancies 167 231,000 37 Residential 52 41,000 3 Shaftesbury Plc Annual Report 2006 Shaftesbury PLC Annual Report 2006 page 20 page 21 page 22 page 23 Business review continued Covent Garden Our holdings in Covent Garden, including our At Seven Dials, we have seen a good increase Since the formation of the Longmartin joint in demand, in particular for shops, restaurants venture in December 2005, our priority has share of the Longmartin joint venture, now and flats following completion of street been to crystallise our ideas for the project represent 34% of our assets.
They include 35% improvements to upgrade Monmouth Street, as a whole.
As well as developing the four of our wholly owned shops and restaurants a project we supported in partnership with frontages of this Island Site, we now propose and 41% of our wholly owned residential the Seven Dials Trust, a local charity.
to open a pedestrian access from Long Acre accommodation.
into the site via Slingsby Place, which will The Opera Quarter and the Longmartin joint converge on a large new central courtyard venture currently form our largest potential Following significant investment during the where we expect to have new restaurant and projects for reconstruction and refurbishment year, our holdings now extend over three retail space.
Following preliminary discussions in the Group.
Both districts include extensive distinct areas: Seven Dials Village, the Opera with Westminster City Council, we are now areas of un-modernised space.
submitting planning applications for the initial Quarter and the Longmartin joint venture at phases.
We expect to commence the first In the Opera Quarter, which includes some St. Martins Circus.
phases of works in 2007. of Covent Gardens oldest buildings, our main objective is to improve and extend our Immediately opposite the joint venture site 17 restaurants and cafes, which are next to at Cranbourn Street and St. Martins Lane, six important theatres.
Much of the space at we have two reconstruction projects in hand the upper floors is empty and un-refurbished.
for conversion of offices to residential We have identified seven initial projects and accommodation.
have commenced works on three of them.
Westminster City Council has recently completed improvements to the pavement and street at the northern boundary of our holdings which will improve pedestrian safety and comfort.
Covent Garden Statistics Longmartin - Shaftesbury Groups Wholly owned 50% share Valuation 30th September 2006 345.4 million 70.7 million Percentage of portfolio 28% 6% Acquisitions during the year 55.2 million 23.8 million Capital expenditure in year 1.6 million 0.7 million Book value of disposals excluding transfers to joint venture 3.2 million 0.2 million Valuation surplus 55.8 million 7.3 million Valuation uplift 23.8% 11.6% Longmartin Total Area % of current Area % of current Number sq.
ft. gross income Number sq.
ft. of garaging Shaftesbury Plc Annual Report 2006 Covent Gar Shaftesbury PL den C Annual Report 2006 page 24 page 25 page 26 Annual Report 2006 Shaftesbury Plc Chapter heading Business review continued Chinatown We own 55 restaurants and 53 shops in The small but unusual new courtyard at We have introduced further initiatives to Horse and Dolphin Yard is progressing well.
raise the quality of Chinatown, including Chinatown.
Chinatown represents 25% of our Already it is becoming established as implementing elements of a Design Brief assets and includes 36% of our restaurants, a specialist location for Far Eastern food discussed with Westminster City Council bars and leisure units.
Current levels of interest indicate to create a more Far Eastern atmosphere.
that the new shops will continue to let This is now becoming evident in bold readily as each phase is completed.
external treatments to restaurants as There is the added advantage within this they are modernised and refurbished.
scheme that, as most of the new shops Also, we are actively supporting the have frontages on either Shaftesbury Chinese Community with its plans for Avenue or Gerrard Street, they will provide a new traditional style Chinese Gate a new pedestrian route within Chinatown across Wardour Street.
As part of the Chinatown Action Plan, where we are working closely with Westminster City Council and local Chinese Community Groups, this year has seen major environmental improvements, including the complete resurfacing of Gerrard Street and new street lighting, which are virtually finished.
Work has now commenced in Macclesfield Street and in 2007 will extend to Lisle Street and Horse and Dolphin Yard.
Chinatown Statistics Valuation 30th September 2006 319.5 million Percentage of portfolio 25% Acquisitions during the year 12.1 million Capital expenditure in year 2.0 million Valuation surplus 44.8 million Valuation uplift 16.3% Area % of current Number sq.
ft. gross income Shops 53 51,000 27 Restaurants and leisure 55 174,000 59 Offices tenancies 66 49,000 9 Residential 71 45,000 5 Shaftesbury PL Shaftesbury PlcC Annual Report 2006 Annual Report 2006 Covent Garden page 27 page 28 page 29 page 30 Business review continued Risks and uncertainties facing the business Results Operational and financial risks facing the Our adjusted profit before taxation for the year which will be accounted for in the results for the year to 30th September 2007.
The business are monitored through a process of adjusted to exclude exceptional costs, asset terms of this refinancing, particularly the regular assessment by the executive team and disposals and movements in the valuation of post-tax cost of the transaction, show a reporting and discussion at meetings of the investment properties and financial derivatives useful economic benefit to the Group.
The Audit Committee and the Board.
amounted to 13.9 million, a small decrease Board continues to be alert to opportunities on the 2005 equivalent figure of 14.2 million.
to refinance further stock if the terms for The valuation of all property assets involves both purchase and the cost of alternative assumptions regarding income expectations This years administrative expenses include finance offer a clear long term benefit to and yields that investors would expect to a charge of 1.6 million 2005 - 0.2 million the Group.
achieve on those assets over time.
Many in respect of the National Insurance liability external economic and market factors, on share awards and share options The loss realised as a result of the Debenture such as changes in interest rates, bond expected to vest in the future.
The charge refinancing has eliminated our taxable profit yields and the relative attraction of property reflects the impact of the increase in the for the current year and should provide against other asset classes, could lead to Companys share price over the year from sufficient losses to cover our taxable profits a reappraisal of the assumptions used to 3.80 to 6.00 and the increased likelihood for the period up to 31st March 2007, when arrive at current valuations.
In adverse of options vesting as a result of the Groups it is likely we will convert to REIT tax status.
conditions, this reappraisal could lead to net asset value performance.
a reduction in property values and a loss This years property disposals have resulted Profit on ordinary activities before taxation in a release of deferred tax amounting to in net asset value, amplified by the effect reported in the Income Statement amounted of gearing.
We have sufficient capital to 187.6 million 2005 - 140.4 million.
losses available to shelter the net taxable The key risks identified by the Groups capital gains realised in the year.
Our rental income has continued to rise, assessment processes specific to its with rents receivable adjusted for lease business arise from the concentration Adjusted diluted post-tax earnings per share incentives increasing from 48.9 million for the current year amounted to 7.47p of the Groups assets in the centre of the to 52.2 million.
Non-recoverable property West End of London.
The prosperity of the compared with 7.65p last year.
Unadjusted outgoings at 5.2 million have declined diluted post-tax earnings per share shown West End economy and the Groups retail slightly over the year 2005 - 5.5 million.
and restaurant occupiers are heavily in the Group Income Statement for the current year amounted to 101.68p compared dependent on large numbers of domestic Interest payable rose by 2.1 million during and overseas visitors to this high profile with 74.62p last year.
the year to 25.8 million and was covered area.
Any external events, such as security 1.53 times 2005 - 1.60 times by operating Unadjusted Shareholders funds at the year and public safety concerns or transport profits adjusted to exclude exceptional costs, end shown in the Group Balance Sheet disruption, which might result in a sustained property disposals and property valuation totalled 606.9 million, equivalent to a and significant reduction in visitor numbers movements.
The increase in interest costs diluted net asset value of 4.54 per share, could, over time, lead to a reduction in in part reflects the cost of financing this an increase over the year of 133.7 million occupier demand and the rental potential years net cash investment in our portfolio or 96p per share.
As shown in the table on of the Groups property assets.
We have acquired a number page 9, adjusting these amounts to exclude of properties this year which were either the deferred tax liability arising on the All of the Groups properties are located vacant or producing a low initial income.
valuation of investment properties and within the jurisdictions of Westminster City Our estate management plans may, in the the fair value of financial derivatives and Council and the London Borough of Camden.
short term reduce income still further but associated deferred tax, our net asset Although the Group works closely in many over the long term should lead to much value becomes 788.7 million equivalent to aspects of day-to-day business with these increased income, reversing the initial a diluted net asset value per share of 5.90 local authorities, changes to their policies, funding deficit.
per share 2005 - 603.6 million - 4.55 particularly those relating to planning and per share, an increase of 185.1 million or licensing, could have a significant impact In September we announced a major 1.35 per share.
on the Groups ability to maximise the long refinancing of half of our long term term potential of its assets.
Debenture debt, funded out of a new 100 million ten year facility with the Nationwide Building Society.
We completed the purchase and cancellation of 52.1 million of Debenture Stock prior to the year end at a cost of 74.9 million, realising a loss of 20.0 million before tax relief.
Since the year end, a further 6.5 million of Debenture Stock has been purchased at a cost of 9.3 million realising a loss of 2.5 million, Shaftesbury PLC Annual Report 2006 page 31 Business review continued Finance At the year end, 226.4 million of borrowings, The degree of out-performance in overall The nominal value of bank borrowings at the equivalent to 49%, of our bank and Debenture return was less than that for the portfolio year end totalled 460.6 million, an increase of debt was either at fixed rate or hedged to return due to the lower yield profile of our 81.9 million over the previous year end.
Cash limit our exposure to excessive rate increases.
Our total shareholder return exceeded outflows during the year on acquisitions less During September and October 2006 we the FTSE 350 Real Estate Index by a disposals of investment properties amounted to entered into forward start interest rate hedges substantial margin even though the index itself 47.1 million and expenditure on refurbishments for an average term of eight years on a further reflected further market re-rating of shares 135 million notional principal at an average in the real estate sector during the year.
Cash generated from rate of 4.96%.
These new arrangements, revenue operations after interest and taxation which commence between November 2006 produced a net surplus of 11.9 million, Key performance indicators and March 2007, bring our fixed or hedged compared with 14.5 million in the previous year.
debt to 78% of year end borrowings.
The key financial objective of the Group is The purchase of Debenture Stock up to the year At 30th September 2006, the fair value of the to deliver to shareholders sustained outend resulted in an outflow of funds of 74.9 Groups interest rate derivatives contracted performance in the long term growth in its net million.
Since the year end, further Stock at that date represents a liability before tax asset value.
of 9.3 million 2005 - 11.8 million, which purchases have cost 9.3 million, largely met has been reflected in the results in accordance Fundamental to this objective is the growth in out of cash balances held at the year end.
with the accounting requirements of IFRS.
value of the Groups property assets.
The Group Gearing at the year end, calculated by This reduction in the liability reflects market measures its overall portfolio performance reference to our adjusted net assets referred expectations of rising future interest rates.
against the IPD UK Monthly Index which, as to above and the nominal rather than book explained above, tracks movements across The deficit before tax arising on the fair value value of our Debenture and bank debt less all main commercial property categories on of the Groups long term Debenture debt, cash balances was 57% 2005 - 63% which a monthly basis.
The Groups performance which IFRS does not allow to be reflected gives us considerable borrowing capacity against this Index is set out on page 2. in the results, amounted to 24.9 million before we reach our self-imposed gearing 2005 - 34.5 million.
The valuation reflects limit of 100%.
The ratio of the nominal value The rental growth prospects of the Groups the terms of the refinancing carried out in of Debenture and net bank debt to the portfolio is the key driver of its long term September 2006. market value of our property assets was performance.
performance indicators used within the The Group has no legal obligation to crystallise business measure: these fair value deficits by further early Our strategy is to secure flexible long refinancing of its fixed rate debt or the early and medium term finance together with the extent to which rental levels are termination of its interest rate hedges but non-speculative hedging of the interest rate achieved in excess of the market rental exposure on a substantial portion of our may consider doing so where there is a values assessed by the Groups external floating rate debt.
This finance strategy is clear economic benefit to the business.
valuers at their last valuation and: intended to match our funding with our assets the ability of management to minimise the which are held for long term investment, time that properties are vacant and not Performance and benchmarking and provide certainty of finance costs whilst producing income.
In the case of properties protecting the Group against adverse The table on page 2 summarises our being refurbished, the void period being movements in interest rates.
performance this year against our chosen monitored includes time spent in designing benchmarks.
The Board keeps under review the level of schemes, obtaining planning consents, current and forecast debt and the Groups carrying out physical works and marketing As explained last year, we have been unable strategies regarding the appropriate levels up to the point of completing lettings.
For to identify a published property performance of debt and equity finance, the maturity vacant properties ready to let, marketing index which relates specifically to a portfolio profile of loan facilities and interest rate periods are monitored and assessed.
of mixed use buildings such as ours, or exposure and hedging.
includes restaurant uses as a component, an The Board is satisfied that the key During the year we secured additional bank important aspect of our investment strategy.
performance indicator of rental growth is facilities of 200 million including 100 million We have therefore used for comparison meeting its expectations.
Void periods are from a new lender.
We now have committed purposes the IPD UK Monthly Index which generally at an acceptable level although facilities totalling 500 million with a weighted tracks movements across all main where delays occur these are often due to average maturity of 8.8 years.
Committed commercial property categories on a monthly problems beyond the Groups control, such unutilised facilities at the year end totalled basis.
Shaftesbury is a constituent of the as delays in the planning process or the 107 million.
failure of utility companies to meet their At the year end the weighted average cost service obligations.
This year our portfolio and overall returns of our borrowings including margin was have again out-performed the IPD All Jonathan S. Lane Chief Executive 5.93% 2005 - 6.49%.
Although interest rates Property Monthly indices by useful margins.
Brian Bickell Finance Director have risen over the year, this reduction 11th December 2006 reflects the impact of refinancing part of our long term Debenture debt.
Shaftesbury Plc Annual Report 2006 Shaftesbury PLC Annual Report 2006 page 32 page 33 page 34 page 35
