Changing the way the world connects CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 BUSINESS REVIEW CSR ANNOUNCES RECORD RESULTS WITH REVENUE UP 45% TO $704.7 MILLION AND OPERATING PROFIT UP 33% TO $149.0 MILLION CSR plc is the holding company CSR is organised around its of an international group of research and development team companies with its headquarters of 609 staff as at the year end 2005: in Cambridge, UK.
The majority of these are based on the London Stock Exchange in Cambridge, UK, with teams in in March 2004 and is a constituent Aalborg, Denmark: Lund, Sweden: of the FTSE 250 Index.
Dallas and Detroit in the US: Sophia Antipolis, France and Bangalore, PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES India.
Our sales and marketing CSR designs and supplies single function is centred in Cambridge, chip wireless devices.
Through UK with sales liaison offices in Dallas, its BlueCore range of products, in the US: Taipei, Taiwan: Seoul, CSR is the market leader in the South Korea: Tokyo, Japan and our supply of single chip solutions for new office in Shanghai, China which Bluetooth wireless voice and data opened in November 2006. communications, providing low cost, high performance integrated CSR is a fabless semiconductor circuits ICs or silicon chips to company.
All wafer fabrication, manufacturers of a wide range of assembly and test, and shipping electronic devices including mobile is subcontracted to Taiwan phones, headsets, laptop PCs, Semiconductor Manufacturing personal digital assistants PDAs, Company TSMC and Advanced PC peripherals, games consoles, Semiconductor Engineering ASE stereo headphones, MP3 players in Taiwan.
Manufacturing is currently and automotive based systems.
located principally in Taiwan to We supply over 450 end customers minimise production cycle time including Apple, Dell, LG, Motorola, and inventory, simplify logistics NEC, Nokia, Panasonic, RIM, and to take advantage of a common Samsung, Sharp, Sony, TomTom language and culture.
CSR is also diversifying CSR expanded the number of beyond Bluetooth, namely Wi-Fi, TSMC wafer fabrication sites it uses FM, UWB Ultra Wideband, Wibree to four different sites in Taiwan and and with the recently announced a fifth in the USA.
Similarly, we plan acquisitions, Global Positioning to qualify an assembly and test site Systems GPS.
By increasing sourcing options, we are better placed to deal with any unplanned interruptions at any single location, as well as having access to additional capacity to respond to increases in demand.
24 | 25 Paul Goodridge Finance Director We have developed excellent providing technical support to Beyond Bluetooth in Handsets relationships at all levels with TSMC product developers to encourage We also plan to continue to add and ASE.
This has served us well them to design products using CSRs value beyond Bluetooth, in the and provided us with leading-edge ICs.
For this purpose, we provide a mobile phone market.
We believe manufacturing technology and range of development kits and tools.
our single chip, radio frequency and strong support in satisfying capacity software design expertise, combined requirements and controlling costs.
STRATEGY with our knowledge of integrating Using this production process has CSRs objective is to be the wireless solutions with customers enabled CSR to successfully ship supplier of choice of single chip products, positions us well to pursue over 500 million Bluetooth single solutions for wireless voice and data opportunities for solutions in new and chip devices, lifetime to date, whilst communications.
Key elements of developing wireless communications aggressive cost management has our strategy include: standards.
Focussed on top tier and maintained margins as selling prices innovative ODMs, we are developing come down.
This encourages adoption Bluetooth in Handsets products that incorporate Bluetooth of our technology in the products CSRs core strength is in mobile and other valuable features.
These of current and potential customers.
handsets and our strategy is to add value by adding functionality to maintain our position in this market.
the Bluetooth chip to do things along CSR sells to Original Equipment We believe we are well positioned with Bluetooth.
We are already doing Manufacturers OEMs and Original to develop hardware and software this with FM, as well as our UniFi chip Design Manufacturers ODMs, solutions to address the existing for SIP IMS VCC session initiation principally through our own direct and future applications for Bluetooth protocol IP multi-media subsystem sales force and, in North America, in handsets and also in the wireless voice call continuity and fixed mobile through sales representatives.
headsets with which they connect.
converged phones and hence We also market our ICs through We plan to continue to offer extending the range of our products.
increased software content to In addition we are working on UWB, enable new products to provide for very high speed downloads: Our marketing efforts are supported complete solutions for customers.
Wibree and with our recent by a team of applications engineers The software also improves the acquisitions GPS.
who provide technical support and robustness and flexibility of our assistance to existing and potential solutions and helps to distinguish Beyond Handsets customers in designing, testing and them from competing offerings.
The third element of our strategy is to qualifying systems that incorporate CSR will continue to increase the take the products and technologies our products.
functionality of our ICs and develop we have developed for handsets on-chip application software.
and develop, at relatively low cost, This support is generally provided CSR will then be able to further derivatives for other marketplaces.
without charge to customers who reduce the total cost of our complete We are already doing this in the PC have the potential to purchase large Bluetooth system to our OEM and sector, as well as games consoles, volumes of products.
stereo headphones, MP3 players part of our marketing effort involves and automotive based systems.
Changing the way the world connects CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 BUSINESS REVIEW COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT manufacturers continued with continued The markets in which CSR operates notable wins with LG, Nokia, are intensely competitive and are Motorola and Samsung.
characterised by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards Revenue increased for the sixth and declining average selling prices.
consecutive year to $704.7 million CSRs primary competition includes and represented a 45% increase Broadcom and Texas Instruments.
We provide our customers with Cellular a number of benefits ranging from CSR believes attach rates of small size, low cost and low power Bluetooth into mobile phones grew usage to excellent co-existence, to over 35% in 2006 from 25% in interoperability, design and 2005.
CSR expects the mobile functionality.
All these areas are phone attach rate to increase to discussed in more detail on pages between 40% and 50% in 2007.
As widely reported, the second half of 2006 saw a product mix shift away OPERATING REVIEW from mid and high end handsets The Bluetooth market grew strongly which contain Bluetooth towards in 2006 to over half a billion units lower end handsets which do not yet from between 310 and 320 million contain Bluetooth.
The majority of in 2005 2005: source IMS.
new Bluetooth product qualifications This considerable growth was in the handset segment were for mid driven by increased attach rates in and high end handsets.
Whilst the mobile phones with the associated Bluetooth attach rate for low end pull through of headsets and more handsets remains relatively low, we significant shipments into expect Bluetooth attach rates in the applications beyond the mobile low end to increase.
BlueCore5 FM, phone including PCs, automotive CSRs integrated single chip and consumer devices.
Bluetooth with a high performance FM stereo tuner, was qualified in OPERATIONAL STATUS AND November 2006.
Recent significant DESIGN WINS IN 2006 design-in activity for BlueCore5 FM CSR has maintained its leading customer intent, supported by position in the Bluetooth market, engineering programmes, to use with the majority of design wins CSRs Bluetooth products give listed on the Bluetooth website CSR confidence that it is well placed in 2006.
CSR defines a design win to benefit from an increase in attach as an end product or module listed rates in low end phones.
com website identifying one of CSRs BlueCore In 2006, CSR achieved 122 of the parts as the Bluetooth solution being 362 product qualifications in the used.
As a rule these design wins mobile phone segment.
CSR once will be an indicator of future revenue again performed strongly with top although some design wins are for tier OEMs in the higher volume products, such as mobile phones, GSM Global System for Mobile which sell in more volume than Communications handsets with others whilst some listed qualified 99 of the 226 GSM mobile phone products never go to production.
qualifications during 2006, which is 44% of all GSM mobile phone In total, CSR won over 530 new qualifications.
In the lower volume designs in 2006 2005: 460 of CDMA handsets CSR has a low which 49% 2005: 59% were in the market share as CDMA related cellular market mobile phones and qualifications continued to be in headsets.
CSRs strong position conjunction with Qualcomm for with the top tier mobile phone the analogue RF only portion of 26 | 27 the Bluetooth system.
In 2006 to show strong growth over the Non Cellular 27% of all handsets qualified with coming years, as more phones Bluetooth is increasingly being Bluetooth were CDMA handsets.
incorporate MP3 players and more incorporated into applications MP3 players include Bluetooth.
In the beyond the traditional cellular The headset market grew stereo headset market, CSR secured segment including PCs, gaming, significantly in 2006 compared to 77% 2005: 69% of the available music and automotive.
In 2006, there 2005, driven by the proliferation of designs for customers such as were 398 end products and modules Bluetooth mobile phones and new Motorola, Nokia, Jabra and Samsung.
qualified in the non-cellular sector, legislation in many countries making 43% of all product qualifications.
it illegal to drive whilst using a mobile CSR has a strong new product phone without a hands-free system.
pipeline for the mobile phone market.
In the consumer sector, music and For 2006 as a whole, CSR believes In addition to the best performing gaming applications have received that the handset to headset pullBC5 FM part, CSR has announced significant media coverage in 2006. through was between 20% and a Bluetooth only ROM variant.
Bluetooth is being used in games 25%.
The headset market is prone to In addition design activity for UniFi, consoles and Bluetooth connectivity variable levels of promotional activity, the industrys first single chip for MP3 players is gaining traction, double-ordering and inventory build.
IEEE802.11a b g embedded initially via plug-in adaptors enabling In the second half of 2006 changing solution, continues to be strong.
stereo headphones to be connected purchasing patterns at a headset For the VoIP market, CSR has wirelessly.
CSR has won a number customer led to CSR experiencing launched the UniVox reference design, of designs for MP3 players including a lower level of demand than had which allows for a voice-over-Wi-Fi Samsungs innovative Yepp T9 originally been anticipated.
Overall, cordless phone to be produced for player.
In the gaming sector CSRs CSR believes that end customer an electronic bill of materials from Bluetooth chips are used in Sonys demand for headsets remains strong as low as $24.
In February 2007, PlayStation 3 console and controller.
with design activity reflecting this.
CSR launched UniVox Mobile which provides a simple, low cost strategy The automotive market provides CSR remains the clear market for developing dual mode handsets.
a significant growth opportunity leader in the headset segment with The dual mode handset employs Wias the number of car manufacturers 84% of all design wins in 2006.
Our Fi for indoor connectivity via access offering Bluetooth connectivity customers value our comprehensive points but is also integrated with increases.
CSR secured 75% system solution, low parts count normal cellular connectivity for 2005: 77% of all designs with and very long battery life.
CSRs close outdoor mobile calls.
CSR working relationship with innovative Mobile provides a complete technology is used by Audi, companies through its Extension subsystem to add dual mode BMW and Saab, among others.
Partner Programme, has enabled wireless VoIP to GSM GPRS phones In addition to built-in Bluetooth, used it to add best-of-breed performance for the mass global market at the predominantly for hands-free calls to existing capabilities in key areas lowest cost and with the lowest via the car HiFi system, there is a such as speech recognition, text to power consumption.
CSR has significant aftermarket serviced by speech and speech to text, noise been awarded significant design clip-on handsfree Bluetooth devices.
wins with Accton and SunCorp for 2006 saw strong growth in both CSR expects that headset attach phones based on the UniVox the built-in and aftermarkets.
rates will increase driven largely by reference design.
The first UniFi Growth in the aftermarket was the availability of low-cost headsets.
silicon was delivered to customers largely driven by interest in the CSRIn Q1 2007, CSR has announced a in 2006.
As we had expected, UniFi equipped satellite navigation systems reference design for such a headset revenues in 2006 were modest and offered by TomTom in Europe and with an electronic bill of materials of $6.
are expected to become more Garmin in the US.
CSRs leading position in the mono The PC market for Bluetooth headset sector continued with 90% CSR has also launched its ground continues to grow with penetration of qualified design wins 2005: 89%.
breaking E5000 software GPS of Bluetooth in laptops rising to Notable design wins included Ben solution for mobile phones.
With over 20% in 2006 up from the high Q, GN Netcom Jabra brand, technology coming from the NordNav teens percent in 2005.
We expect Motorola, Nokia, and Samsung.
Technologies AB and Cambridge penetration rates to grow further Positioning Systems Limited as the stereo headphone market 2006 saw growth in stereo acquisitions, this will allow the highest grows, VoIP calls using cordless headphones which can be used performance location technology headsets paired to PCs increases for both phone calls and listening to be integrated on a CSR equipped and the bandwidth of Bluetooth, to music.
CSR expects this market mobile phone for less than $1.
using UWB, increases in 2007 Changing the way the world connects CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 BUSINESS REVIEW and beyond, allowing very fast PATENTS continued file transfer.
CSR achieved a As a result of our research and 100% 2005: 71% share of all development efforts and recent laptop designs including Fujitsu acquisitions, CSR has over 100 Siemens, LG and Panasonic granted patents and a significant as well as more PC peripherals number of further applications in including printers, cards and progress.
At the year end, CSR dongles than any other competitor was alerted to a complaint filed by including with Dell and Canon.
the Washington Research Foundation in the Federal Court of Seattle, OPERATIONAL Washington alleging patent infringement To further support CSRs advanced against four companies Matsushita, production processes, production Panasonic, Nokia and Samsung.
began to ramp up in 2006 at a fifth The complaint refers to certain U. S. TSMC wafer fabrication facility in patents owned by the University of Washington, USA.
CSR is already Washington claimed to be relevant qualified on four sites in Taiwan.
CSR believes the CSR is a world leader in WLCSP suit is without merit in relation to CSRs Wafer Level Chip-Scale Packaging, Bluetoothchips.
CSR will defend its giving our customers the smallest products vigorously and, to this end, package sizes ideal for slim phones, moved to intervene in the legal action integrated modules and the lowest on 30 January 2007. cost.
Working with our assembly and test partner ASE, CSR has EMPLOYEES further extended its lead in this Headcount has increased from technology with the development 688 at the end of 2005 to 923 at of the first 300mm wafer, fine pitch the end of 2006.
This predominantly WLCSP solution for the BlueCore 5 reflects continued investment in and UniFi product families.
engineers to support new R&D projects and further recruitment RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT in sales, marketing, applications CSR devotes substantial effort engineering and operations to to research and development, support business growth.
which underpins and sustains our success.
We are conscious CSRs employees are key of the need to ensure adequate contributors to its success.
financial and human resources We encourage good employee are available for research and relations across all our operations development, and these issues and require that this is facilitated and future planning are considered by regular meetings and scheduled at operational level and at each briefings attended and supported Board meeting.
In 2006, research by senior management.
and development costs were $109.3 million 2005: $60.3 million Regular Group-wide briefings representing 15.5% 2005: 12.4% are held with all staff.
scheduled meetings are held at team and department levels to consider We have the experience, skills commercial, strategic, financial and and track record to design the human resource issues.
Key findings software for GPS, UMA Universal from these meetings are discussed Mobile Access and fixed-mobile at a weekly meeting of senior converged phones and hence management for CSRs operations extend our range of products worldwide.
These have been an going forward.
In the longer term important element in supporting CSRs research and development our rapid growth.
CSR also operates expenditure is expected to reach a number of incentive plans, which at least 17% of revenue.
enables employees to participate directly in the success of the 28 | 29 business.
Subject to the discretion In January 2007, Cambridge Silicon monitoring and evaluating of the remuneration committee and Radio Limited achieved certification requirements of upcoming the rules and applicable performance against the internationally recognised environmental legislation.
RoHS conditions of the incentive plans, environmental management equivalent legislation in China and employees can participate in the standard ISO 14001.
As part of UK legislation related to the European groups cash bonus and share the environmental management Waste from Electrical and Electronic option plans.
Employees are also system EMS, the Company has Equipment WEEE Directive are due encouraged to invest in the group defined and implemented an to become effective in 2007.
CSR is through participation in the Save environmental policy and objectives, evaluating the impact of this new As You Earn SAYE option scheme.
endorsed by the CEO and backed legislation upon our products and will by the Board of Directors.
put into place appropriate processes We also recognise our responsibilities to ensure compliance as required.
to ensure fair treatment of all employees The Companys environmental Furthermore, CSR is also evaluating in accordance with national legislation policy includes commitment to: new greener materials which go in the territories in which we operate.
beyond the requirements of existing Equal opportunities for appropriate Employee consultation legislation to address future customer training, career development and and training: requirements.
CSR has processes in promotion are available to all Legal compliance and due place to make sure customers are employees, regardless of any physical consideration of other stakeholder supported with up to date materials disability, gender, religion, race, age environmental requirements, and information and laboratory analysis to or nationality.
In particular, having future expectations: and prove environmental compliance of regard to their aptitudes and abilities, Assessment of CSRs activities CSRs products.
During 2006, CSRs we give full and fair consideration to and product related environmental environmental compliance processes applications for employment received impacts to identify objectives and have also been audited by a number from disabled persons.
Where existing targets for continual improvement of customers, which has resulted in employees become less able bodied, of environmental performance.
CSR being accredited to their world it is the groups policy wherever class environmental requirements.
practicable to provide continuing CSR has, through assessment of employment under normal terms its environmental impacts, identified CSR recognises the importance of and conditions.
Provisions for objectives for the creation of ensuring that its key suppliers have pension are available for all employees programmes to improve its appropriate policies and practices either through participation in the environmental performance in the on SEE matters.
Key suppliers are state pension schemes operated following areas: selected and assessed based on by the country in which the employee certification to appropriate global is resident or provision of a defined Fossil fuel energy consumption standards, such as ISO 14001, contribution pension scheme.
Such at its UK locations: OHSAS18001, and SA8000.
defined contribution schemes are Mains water consumption at its maintained in accordance with legislative UK locations: FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS requirements, custom and practice Compliance with the restriction The Annual Report contains certain and Company policy as appropriate.
on the use of certain hazardous forward looking statements.
substances in electrical and Statements containing the words SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY electronic equipment RoHS and believes, intends, expects, CSR recognises the importance related global market legislation, plans, seeks, anticipates, and of social, environmental and ethical including exceeding RoHS other words of similar meaning are SEE matters and during 2006, requirements by including CSR forward looking.
These statements continued to work towards manufactured test equipment in are made by the directors in good compliance with the ABI disclosure this programme: faith, based on the information guidelines on social responsibility.
Creation of a programme to available to them up to the time of This includes the Companys instigate substitution or reduction the approval of this report.
By their impact through its operations on of environmentally harmful nature, forward looking statements the environment, on the safety and materials incorporated into CSR involve risks and uncertainties well being of our employees, and products to acceptable levels because they relate to events and end users of our products as well where practicable.
depend on circumstances that will as those who contribute to the or may occur in the future.
Actual process of the development and European RoHS legislation came results may differ from those manufacture of CSRs products into force in July 2006 and CSRs expressed in such statements, through its suppliers, distributors standard integrated circuits are fully depending on a variety of factors.
CSR is also constantly These factors include consumer Changing the way the world connects CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 BUSINESS REVIEW and market acceptance of the The Company maintains an internal continued Companys products and the manufacturing support group products that use the Companys which directs product supply, helps products: decreases in the demand ensure a high level of quality and for the Companys products: excess reliability and works with the wafer inventory levels at the Companys foundry and production assembler customers: declines in average to resolve issues.
selling prices of the Companys products: cancellation of existing Product Design Cycle orders or the failure to secure new The design cycle for the Companys orders: the Companys failure to ICs in Bluetooth enabled products introduce new products and to can take up to 24 months to implement new technologies on complete and volume production a timely basis: the Companys failure of products using the Companys to anticipate changing customer ICs can take an additional six months product requirements: fluctuations or more.
This lengthy design cycle in manufacturing and assembly and makes forecasting product demand test yields: the Companys failure to and the timing of orders difficult for deliver products to its customers on the Company.
In addition, the delays a timely basis: disruption in the supply inherent in lengthy design cycles of wafers or assembly or testing increase the risk that the Companys services: the timing of significant customers may seek to cancel or orders: increased expenses modify orders.
associated with new product introductions, masks, or process Product recall or changes: the commencement of, delays in new products or developments with respect to, The Companys products are complex any future litigation: the cyclicality and may contain undetected hardware of the semiconductor industry: and software errors or failures when and overall economic conditions.
first introduced or as new versions CSR undertakes no obligation to are tested.
The resolution of these update the forward looking errors could cause the Company statements contained in the annual to invest significant capital and other report or any other forward looking resources and divert its technical statements it may make.
staff from other development efforts.
If CSR delivers products with errors, BUSINESS RISKS defects or bugs, its credibility and There are a number of potential risks the market acceptance and sales and uncertainties which could have of its products could be harmed, a material impact on the Groups long causing significant customer term performance: relations and business reputation problems as well as potentially Fabless Business Model significant product recall costs.
The Company uses independent suppliers to manufacture, assemble Transitioning to smaller and test all of its products.
As a result, geometry process technologies the Companys business model is less To remain competitive, the Company capital intensive.
TSMC, the worlds expects to continue to transition largest semiconductor manufacturer its semiconductor products to is the Companys wafer foundry.
increasingly smaller line width ASE performs all of the assembly and geometries.
This transition requires testing of CSRs ICs.
CSR is therefore modification to the manufacturing reliant on these independent suppliers processes and the re-design of to provide the required capacity to some products as well as standard manufacture, assemble and test all cells and other integrated circuit of its products and to provide high designs that may be used in multiple quality products on time.
This may result in 30 | 31 reduced manufacturing yields, New revenue sources Identification and successful delays in product deliveries and The Companys future success integration of acquisitions increased expenses.
is dependent upon our ability The Company expects to continue to develop new semiconductor to review acquisition targets as part Product Life Cycle: Declining Prices solutions for existing and new of its strategy.
Market conditions The life cycle of the Companys ICs markets, introduce these products may lead to increased competition can be relatively short.
The average in a cost-effective and timely manner, for targets and as a result higher selling prices of the Companys ICs and convince leading equipment acquisition prices or fewer valuewill generally fall over the products manufacturers to select these creating prospects.
products for design into their own new products.
The integration of acquisitions The Companys ability to increase also involves a number of unique turnover, therefore, depends on its Reliance on success risks, including diversion of ability to increase unit volume and of customers products managements attention, failure to introduce new products that are The Company relies on equipment to retain key personnel of the accepted by customers.
manufacturers to select our products acquired business, failure to realise to be designed into their products.
the benefits anticipated to result Terms of Sale Furthermore, even if an equipment from the acquisition, system Sales are made under the manufacturer selects CSRs product, integration and risks associated Companys standard conditions we cannot be assured that their with unanticipated events or liabilities.
of supply, in response to customers product will be commercially purchase orders or under separately successful.
As a result, sales of Management of the Company are negotiated terms and conditions the Companys products are largely constantly considering and reviewing with certain customers.
dependent on the commercial risk.
In addition the Company has success of customers products.
put in place formal processes for Industry practice does, however, the identification and, where possible, mean that customers may from time Inability to protect the the management of significant risks to time seek to re-schedule and cancel Companys intellectual property which are reviewed regularly by orders on relatively short notice.
As a The success of CSR depends on senior management.
This is formally result, backlog may not be an accurate our ability to protect our intellectual reported on a regular basis to the indicator of future turnover.
Customer property and trade secrets.
Despite Audit Committee, as a result of order cancellations and changes in prudent steps taken by the Company which the directors are aware of the product specifications could result in to protect its proprietary rights, third potential cost and resources involved a loss of turnover and excess inventory.
parties may attempt to copy aspects in managing these risks.
Details on of CSRs products and seek to use the identification and management Seasonality information that CSR regards as of risks are also addressed on pages Principally all of the Companys proprietary.
There is a risk that the 42 and 43 in the Corporate customer design wins have been in Companys means of protecting its Governance Report.
products with consumer electronic intellectual property rights may not applications.
As a result, CSR expects be adequate and weaknesses or CRITICAL ACCOUNTING its business to be subject to seasonality, failures in this area could adversely POLICIES AND ESTIMATES with increased turnover in the period affect CSRs business.
The preparation of the Companys April to November with a slowdown financial statements under IFRS in activity in December and into the Infringement of third party requires management to make first quarter of the following year.
intellectual property rights estimates and judgements that Companies in the semiconductor affect the reported amount of Cyclicality industry often aggressively protect assets, liabilities, turnover and The semiconductor industry is and pursue their intellectual property expenses, and related disclosure cyclical and has experienced rights.
Claims against the Company of contingent assets and liabilities.
significant downturns, often in could adversely affect our ability to On an ongoing basis, CSR evaluates connection with maturing products market our products, require us to estimates, including those related and declines in general economic re-design products or seek licences to uncollectable accounts receivable, conditions.
Such periods have from third parties, and seriously harm inventories, investments, intangible reflected production overcapacity, the Companys operating results.
assets, income taxes, financing excess inventory levels and In addition, the defence of such claims operations, warranty obligations accelerated erosion in average could result in significant costs and and contingencies and litigation.
divert the attention of the Companys management or other key employees.
Changing the way the world connects CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 BUSINESS REVIEW The Companys estimates are that is, the higher of net realisable continued based on historical experience value and value in use.
Value in use and on various other assumptions is usually determined on the basis that CSR believes to be reasonable of discounted estimated future net under the circumstances, the results cash flows.
Significant management of which form the basis for making judgement is required in the forecasts the judgements about the carrying of future operating results that are values of assets and liabilities that used in the discounted estimated are not readily apparent from other future net cash flows.
Because this can vary in we have used are consistent with each situation, actual results may the plans and estimates that we differ from the estimates under use to manage our business.
It is possible, however, that the CSR believes the following plans and estimates used may critical accounting policies be incorrect.
If our actual results, and estimates are important or the plans and estimates used in in understanding the Groups future impairment analyses are lower Consolidated Financial Statements: than the original estimates used to assess the recoverability of these Inventory valuation assets, we could incur additional Inventories are stated at the lower impairment charges.
of cost and net realisable value.
Provisions for excess or obsolete Provisions and Liabilities inventory are recorded based upon Provisions and liabilities are assumptions about future demand recognised in the period when it and market conditions.
If actual becomes probable that there will market conditions are less be a future outflow of funds resulting favourable than those projected by from past operations or events that management, additional inventory can be reasonably estimated.
The timing of recognition requires the application of judgement to Impairment of non current existing facts and circumstances, assets including goodwill which can be subject to change.
An annual impairment test is performed in respect of goodwill.
The carrying amounts of provisions In addition CSR assesses its non and liabilities are reviewed regularly current assets for possible and adjusted to take account of impairment if there are events or changing facts and circumstances.
changes in circumstances that Any change in the carrying amount indicate that carrying values of would result in a charge or credit the assets may not be recoverable.
to profit for the period in which the Indicators of potential impairment change occurs.
include changes in the Groups strategy and business plans, failure Research and Development to meet performance projections Expenditure on research activities included in our forecasts of future undertaken with the prospect of operating results, and a slowdown gaining new scientific or technical in the worldwide economy or the knowledge and understanding, is semiconductor industry.
expensed in the income statement as incurred.
The assessment for impairment entails comparing the carrying value Where a product can be identified, of the non-current asset with the its cost can be measured, it is recoverable amount of the asset, technically feasible and it is probable 32 | 33 it will generate future economic estimate of shares that will eventually As explained above, no share-based benefits, development costs are vest.
The fair value of the majority of payment expense is recorded in capitalised and amortised on a options granted is measured by use respect of options granted before straight-line basis over the estimated of a Black-Scholes model, taking 7 November 2002.
Nevertheless useful life of the respective product.
into account the terms and conditions tax deductions have arisen and will The Company believes its current upon which the options were continue to arise on these options.
process for developing products is granted.
For certain share options The tax effects in relation to these essentially completed when products which include total shareholder options are recorded directly in equity, have achieved the Transfer to return related conditions, the fair against retained earnings.
Production status as it is only then value is estimated through the use that technical feasibility of the products of a Monte-Carlo simulation.
REVENUE INCREASES BY 45% to be manufactured and sold to the $ Million commercial marketplace is confirmed.
The amount recognised as an 800 Accordingly, development costs expense is adjusted to reflect the incurred after the establishment of actual number of shares that vest.
700 technical feasibility have not been Non-market vesting conditions significant and, therefore, no costs are included in assumptions about 600 have been capitalised to date.
the number of shares that are Where no internally-generated expected to become exercisable.
500 intangible asset can be recognised, The estimates of the number of development expenditure is shares that are expected to become 400 recognised as an expense in exercisable are reviewed at each the period in which it is incurred.
The impact 300 of the revision of original estimates, Share options if any, is recognised in the income 200 The share option schemes allow statement and a corresponding Group employees to acquire shares adjustment to equity.
The proceeds 100 of the Company.
received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to 0 Share options granted before share capital nominal value and 2003 2004 2005 2006 7 November 2002 share premium the balance when No expense is recognised in respect the options are exercised.
The shares are recognised when the options are Share options and Taxation FINANCIAL REVIEW exercised and the proceeds received In the UK and US the Group is allocated between share capital and entitled to a tax deduction for REVIEW OF OPERATIONS share premium.
amounts treated as compensation 2006 2005 Change on exercise of certain employees $ Million $ Million $ Million 05 06 Share options granted after share options under each jurisdictions Revenue 704.7 486.5 45% 7 November 2002 and vested tax rules.
This gives rise to a Gross Profit 328.7 228.1 44% after 1 January 2005 temporary difference between Gross Margin 46.6% 46.9% IFRS 2 Share-based payments the accounting and tax bases and R&D 109.3 60.3 81% is effective in respect of options hence a deferred tax asset is % of revenue 15.5% 12.4% and share awards granted after recorded.
This asset is calculated SG&A 70.4 55.8 26% 7 November 2002 and which had by comparing the estimated amount % of revenue 10.0% 11.5% not vested as at 1 January 2005. of tax deduction to be obtained in Operating Profit 149.0 111.9 33% The Group issues equity-settled the future based on the Groups share-based payments to certain share price at the balance sheet date % of revenue 21.1% 23.0% Earnings employees.
Equity settled sharewith the share-based payment per share based payments are measured at expense recorded in the income $ Diluted 0.82 0.62 32% the fair value at the date of grant.
If the amount of estimated The fair value determined at the future tax deduction exceeds the Revenue increased for the sixth grant date of the equity-settled cumulative amount of share-based consecutive year to $704.7 million share-based payments is expensed payment expense at the statutory and represented a 45% increase on a straight-line basis over the rate, the excess is recorded directly on 2005 revenue $486.5 million.
vesting period, based on the Groups in equity, against retained earnings.
Changing the way the world connects CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 BUSINESS REVIEW CSR places significant focus on Investment income continued controlling product costs and during Investment income increased to 2006, has aggressively reduced $6.1 million in 2006 compared to costs in line with average selling $3.2 million in 2005 as a result of prices.
As a result, gross margins increased levels of cash and cash have been maintained at over 46%.
equivalents, as well as higher UK Operating costs have increased by and US interest rates.
55% in 2006 over 2005 2005: 94% as CSR continues to invest in R&D Taxation for current wireless solutions as The tax charge for the year was well as new projects.
Investment $43.2 million 2005: $31.2 million in applications engineers and sales giving an effective tax rate for the year people continued during 2006 and of 28% 2005: 27.3%.
This is below general and administration costs the statutory rate of 30% principally have increased to support the due to the availability of enhanced tax growing levels of business.
Operating profit was $149.0 million Earnings per share at 21.1% operating margin Earnings per share diluted compared to $111.9 million and was $0.82 for 2006, an increase 23% operating margin in 2005. of 32% compared to $0.62 for 2005.
Basic earnings per share was $0.86 compared to $0.67 for 2005.
OPERATING PROFIT UP 33% $ Million CASH FLOW 160 2006 2005 $ Million $ Million 140 Operating profit 149.0 111.9 Non-cash items 28.4 12.4 120 Operating cash flows before 100 movements in working 80 capital 177.4 124.3 Working capital 93.9 21.0 60 Taxation 17.8 8.1 Interest paid 0.2 0.2 40 Net cash from operating activities 65.5 95.0 20 Treasury management 1.1 12.9 Acquisitions 64.5 0 Capital expenditure 45.7 18.7 Financing 2.3 0.2 20 Net cash inflow 18.6 24.9 2003 2004 2005 2006 During 2006 there has been a cash inflow of $18.6 million 2005: $24.9 million.
Operating cash flow before movements in working capital contributed $177.4 million 34 | 35 2005: $124.3 million, with Foreign exchange such fluctuations could be material.
movements in working capital and treasury policy Accordingly, the Company enters resulting in a cash outflow of CSR has well defined and consistently into hedging transactions pursuant $93.9 million 2005: $21.0 million.
applied policies for the management to which it purchases sterling under This increase in working capital of foreign exchange and interest forward purchase contracts in order reflects the continued growth of the rate exposures.
There has been to cover the majority of its sterling business and the higher levels of no change since the year end in exposure.
These transactions inventory as a result of revenue in the major financial risks faced by necessarily involve judgements and the second half of 2006 being lower the Company.
The Audit Committee assumptions about future expense than our initial expectations.
of the Board reviews and agrees levels, and, as a result, do not entirely policies for managing foreign exchange eliminate the Companys exposure Capital expenditure of $45.7 million and interest rate exposure risks.
Further, 2005: $18.7 million reflects the The Companys financial instruments whilst the hedging transactions continued investment in test and comprise cash and cash deposits provide fixed currency rates for computer equipment and CAD and items such as trade receivables periods covered by the contracts, software required to support current and creditors which arise in the the transactions will not protect and future R&D projects as well as normal course of business.
It is the Company from long term the purchase of production testers the Companys policy not to enter underlying movements in currency to enable more cost effective testing.
The average US dollar sterling This expenditure represents 6.5% rate achieved in 2006 was 1.80 of revenue 2005: 3.8%.
CSRs and 2007 contracts are in place OPERATING CASHFLOWS BEFORE longer term target for expenditure at an average of 1.86.
MOVEMENTS IN WORKING CAPITAL on tangible and intangible assets is INCREASE BY 43% estimated at 4% to 5% of revenue.
$ Million NET ASSETS UP 47% Net tax paid was $17.8 million $ Million 200 2005: $8.1 million and cash outflow 450 from financing was $2.3 million 180 principally due to repayment of 400 obligations under financial leases 160 2005: inflow of $0.2 million.
As a result of the funds raised 60 150 through the initial public offering in March 2004 and the subsequent 40 100 positive operating cashflows, 20 CSR has a total of $147.5 million 50 of treasury deposits, cash and cash 0 equivalents at 29 December 2006 2003 2004 2005 2006 0 2005: $124.4 million.
2003 2004 2005 2006 Substantially all of the Companys Dividend policy sales and costs of sales are The Company currently intends denominated in US dollars, the to retain future earnings to fund Companys functional currency.
the development and growth of A majority of the Companys the business.
Any payment of future overhead costs and other fixed dividends will be at the discretion costs are denominated in sterling.
of the Board after taking into account This exposure to different currencies various factors, including the would result in gains or losses with Companys financial condition, operating respect to movements in foreign results, current and anticipated cash exchange rates and the impact of needs and plans for expansion.
Changing the way the world connects CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2006 BUSINESS REVIEW FINANCIAL POSITION the impact from these actions will continued be mainly felt in Q1 2007.
However, CSR aims to keep sufficient inventory 29 December 30 December 2006 2005 to meet the often short customer $000 $000 order lead times in this industry Non-current assets which results in inventory days of Goodwill 51,952 52,697 between 75 and 95 days.
Other intangible assets 31,686 25,508 Property, plant ACQUISITIONS and equipment 45,454 22,541 CSR made no acquisitions during Deferred tax asset 11,350 18,137 2006, however two acquisitions 140,442 118,883 were completed in January 2007.
Current assets On 12 January 2007, the Company Inventory 106,470 69,672 completed the acquisitions of the Cash flow hedges 4,522 entire issued share capital of NordNav Trade and other receivables 101,822 75,287 Technologies AB NordNav and Treasury deposits 30,000 25,000 the entire issued share capital of Cash and cash Cambridge Positioning Systems equivalents 117,494 99,386 Limited CPS.
NordNav, based 360,308 269,345 in Stockholm, Sweden, has been Total assets 500,750 388,228 acquired for an initial cash Current liabilities 91,308 109,212 consideration of $40 million.
Non-current liabilities 3,233 1,979 A further cash consideration Total liabilities 94,541 111,191 of up to $35 million may be payable Net assets 406,209 277,037 subject to achievement of specified milestones.
CPS, based in Goodwill arose on the acquisitions Cambridge, UK, has been acquired of Clarity and UbiNetics during 2005. for a total cash consideration of Intangible assets include the net $35 million.
Both NordNav and CPS book value of the Groups software were private companies, with licences of $19.3 million 2005: $10.9 significant holdings by venture million which support R&D, along capital institutions.
The initial cash with the $12.4 million of in-process consideration for the acquisitions has R&D and customer contracts been and any deferred consideration purchased as part of the acquisitions will be financed entirely from CSRs last year 2005: $14.5 million.
Trade receivables increased to These acquisitions, when combined, $87.2 million 2005: $62.5 million will allow CSR to provide softwareas a result of the increased levels based high performance GPS of business.
Days sales outstanding suitable for mass-market mobile increased slightly to 45 days handsets, PNDs Personal Navigation 2005: 42 days.
Devices, PCs and other portable devices.
By adding this software to Inventory stands at $106.5 million CSRs Bluetooth chips, CSR will be 2005: $69.7 million, which represents able to offer the most competitive, 105 inventory days.
This high level complete and technically advanced of inventory reflects a lower level of mobile GPS solution available revenue in the second half of 2006 at a very low additional cost.
than expected when wafer orders CSR expects to offer its first GPS were placed with our subproducts during the first half of 2007. contractors in Q3.
Actions to address The acquisitions are a further step levels of inventory have been taken in CSR's strategy of diversification with our sub-contractors but with which already includes Wi-Fi, FM, 13 to 18 week delivery lead times UWB and Wibree.
36 | 37 NordNav brings to CSR a world-class software based GPS solution.
CSR will combine this with CPS's specialised location system technology to deliver significant performance benefits over traditional standalone GPS offerings including the ability of the CSR solution to work indoors, in deep urban areas and provide a shorter location fix.
As well as bringing a significant new product offering, the acquisitions will provide CSR with significant additional research and development engineering talent.
In total 37 employees have transferred to CSR from NordNav and CPS.
