Business Review INTRODUCTION Following the new requirements introduced by the European Accounts Modernisation Directive, there is now a requirement for companies to include a Business Review, within the Annual Report, that for 2006 is required to provide a balanced and comprehensive analysis of the development and performance of the company during the year and at the end of the year a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company Tom Cross, Chief Executive an analysis, using appropriate financial and non-financial key performance indicators The Company has always viewed the Annual Report as a key communication tool with shareholders and external stakeholders, and therefore has previously adopted and incorporated many of the recommendations of the new legislation in previous Annual Reports, such as summarising the key highlights for each area of the business making an explicit statement of medium term strategy providing outlook forward looking information throughout the report providing comprehensive information on production levels, reserves and resources, as well as exploration results However, as part of the Companys commitment to maintaining high standards of corporate governance, for 2006, and to improve transparency, the Company has elected to produce a Business Review as a discrete section of the Annual Report.
Dana Petroleum plc 2006 Annual Report 13 Business Review continued THE MACRO ENVIRONMENT BUSINESS BACKGROUND On a world level, the Oil and Gas industry is being challenged by Relative to historic norms, the Brent oil price environment fiscal instability as host governments seek an increased share of remained strong during 2006, sustained by continuing geo-political the rising revenues either via a form of nationalisation in certain unrest in the Middle East, Nigeria and South America.
Prices parts of the world, but more generally from changes to the climbed from approximately $59 per barrel at the start of the year underlying fiscal regimes, thus adding to the economic uncertainty to a peak of around $78 per barrel in August 2006 due to of investment decisions in the industry.
heightening tension in the Lebanon, before cooling through the fourth quarter to end the year at just under $61 per barrel.
PRINCIPAL BUSINESS RISKS FACING THE COMPANY Overall the average Brent oil price for 2006 was approximately As a participant in the Upstream Oil & Gas industry, Dana $65 per barrel, compared to approximately $55 per barrel in 2005. encounters to varying degrees, the macro risk factors noted Prices dropped sharply in the first couple of months of 2007, but above.
In addition, the Board conducts an annual review of the have since recovered, and at the time of writing remain around the Companys system of risk assessment at the micro level for 2006 Brent average.
the specific risks faced by the Company.
UK gas prices on the other hand have been on a steeply declining These risks are considered typical for an upstream company of trend since fourth quarter 2006 following the introduction of new Danas size, as can be illustrated from the following extract from supply, principally from Norway.
This was also further exacerbated the most recent Board review in December 2006. by the exceptionally mild winter weather, creating unseasonably low demand.
As a result, the average gas price for January 2007 Loss of key employees Material fall in oil was approximately 43p per therm lower than the same period and gas price Delays in implementing work programme 12 months previously.
Prices have since fallen below 20p per Taxation legislation changes therm though the forward curve for winter 2007 remains above 40p per therm, with most commentators supporting a rising Significant cost over-run on major Exploration well failure forward market.
development project Lack of operational resources The increasing investment activity levels spurred by the strength Commercial misalignment with of commodity prices over the last two years has created co-venturers significant competition for the resources necessary to support Poor reservoir performance that activity, with particular reference to people, drilling rigs and equipment.
This inevitably has created significant upward pressure MEDIUM PROBABILITY HIGH PROBABILITY on the industry cost base, and this shows no signs of abating in the short term.
Increasing competition for opportunities is also the order of the day in the upstream acquisition and divestment market, as relatively easy access to capital, allied to strong industry free cash flows, has significantly increased the number of potential buyers: and hence the premiums required to secure new opportunities.
In addition there is also an increasing trend for national oil companies to be competing aggressively on the wider international market and to be demanding an increased influence and greater share of their domestic market.
Dana Petroleum plc 2006 Annual Report 15 MEDIUM IMPACT HIGH IMPACT Business Review continued A Balanced Approach Balancing Maximising investment the probability of success 1 2 Balancing investment between exploration, development Maximising the probability of success by spreading the and production opportunities, and between North Sea and exploration portfolio between North Sea and international spend, international investment.
Traditionally Dana has focused and by drilling a range of prospects with different risk profiles less on the development stage of the lifecycle.
However, as the and varying geology.
The Company strongly believes that company grows this stage will become an increasingly important exploration success should be driven by taking a portfolio element for building value, as recently demonstrated with the approach.
To that end, Dana is exposed to 32 exploration and Goosander, Enoch and Cavendish developments.
appraisal wells to the end of 2008.
16 Dana Petroleum plc 2006 Annual Report Danas Strategic Response Dana focuses on a four pronged strategic approach to its business and the risks facing the Company Using exploration Operating a as leverage sound financial to accelerate framework 3 4 growth Using exploration as leverage to accelerate growth by trading The Company is in a strong financial position, with good cash exploration positions for production and development flow generation from the existing Company portfolio and will opportunities and by trading between geographical areas.
seek to maintain this platform so that the Company can leverage This strategy accelerates cash flow, reduces the requirement future growth opportunities with confidence.
Over recent years, for large capital expenditure in the development phase and this approach has allowed the Company to remain unhedged delivers assets in the core focus areas.
with respect to commodity prices, thereby providing full exposure to the strong commodity price environment.
This strategy is however, constantly under review and continually challenged and in particular will be reassessed when significant volumes of uncontracted gas are added to the portfolio.
Dana Petroleum plc 2006 Annual Report 17 Business Review continued 2006 BUSINESS PRIORITIES In the Northern North Sea, Hudson field production Dana The following general and specific indicators were considered 47.5% was impacted by a fire on the Shell operated host Tern key to assessing the Companys performance and progress platform, which required the replacement of a damaged during 2006: compressor and resulted in a reduction in gas lift volumes available to Hudson.
The new compressor was installed and Production growth commissioned early in fourth quarter 2006.
Notwithstanding Reserves replacement the negative impact on 2006 production: reservoir performance Completion of the Gaz fide France Exchange Agreement has been encouraging, where Dana, as operator, has driven Execution of the planned Exploration drilling programme forward a programme of improvements to optimise production Delivery of Development projects performance.
As a result production capacity from the field is Delivering new commercial transactions now at levels significantly above those when Dana increased its Safety performance interest and took over operatorship in 2005.
Otter field Financial performance production Dana 19.5% was also affected by the need to replace subsurface electrical submersible pumps, a situation A review of each of these areas now follows.
since remedied by the operator.
PRODUCTION GROWTH In the Central North Sea, GKA Dana 50% continues to be a key 2006 was another year of record oil and gas production.
area of investment and return for Dana.
The highlight of the year Annualised average production for the year was 22,285 boepd was the Goosander field coming on-stream in August 2006, 2005: 19,683 boepd, with 93% delivered from the UKCS ahead of schedule, at stabilised rates of approximately 16,000 2005: 91%.
Oil continued to account for 84% of production.
boepd, well ahead of prognosis.
This compensated for problems in the first half of 2006, when production from GKA was A regional analysis of the source of production is provided in significantly affected by a rig anchor handling incident in the graphic below.
February, which severely disrupted Mallard and Gadwall production during the period.
Once these fields re-started, and together with Goosander, this resulted in GKA peak production Dana Group Production by Geographic Area rates reaching record levels of 32,000 boepd in the second half 25,000 of the year.
Russia Southern North Sea 20,000 Russia Southern North Sea In the Southern sector, production was enhanced from the fourth 15,000 quarter of 2006 by the acquisition of a 25% interest in the Anglia Central North Sea Central North Sea gas field, and an additional 22.11% in the Johnston gas field, as 10,000 part of the Gaz fide France Exchange agreement.
In addition, 2006 saw the first full year of production from the F16-E gas field 5,000 Northern North Sea Northern North Sea in the Netherlands.
Gas production from the Victor field Dana 0 10% was also maintained over the summer months, following 2006 2005 Year renegotiation of the gas sales contract with the gas buyer.
18 Dana Petroleum plc 2006 Annual Report Production boepd 2006 Reserves Movements: Commercial & Potentially Commercial 140 130 120 110 100 90 80 End 2005 Production Discoveries Acquisition Disposal Revisions End 2006 & Extensions RESERVES REPLACEMENT currently producing fields.
This is entirely in line with Danas strategy 2006 was a successful year for Dana in terms of reserves of accelerating value by leveraging exploration, in this case in replacement, with an increase in proven and probable reserves of Mauritania, for existing production and near term development.
19.0 mmboe to a record high of 130.6 mmboe at the end of 2006.
This represents an increase of 17% in reserves, or a replacement COMPLETION OF GAZ fide FRANCE ratio of 336% based on annual production of 8.1 mmboe.
EXCHANGE AGREEMENT The transaction with Gaz fide France is the most ambitious Reserve changes arose in three areas.
Firstly, there were a transaction completed by Dana to date.
number of upward revisions in producing fields, principally in GKA.
Secondly, there were additions due to acquisitions, related The initial agreement, signed in November 2005, consisted of a principally to the Gaz fide France transaction, and the acquisition swap of 17.5% interest in Block 8 Mauritania, 27.85% in Block 7 of the Christian discovery in the GKA.
Thirdly, the discovery of Mauritania and 24% in Block 1 Mauritania for 25% in the producing additional oil in the Causeway well and gas in the Babbage well Anglia field and 22.11% in the producing Johnston field, both together added 7.5mmboe of reserves.
Further reserves growth in the UK southern North Sea, 30% in the West El Burullus through drilling is being targeted from the 32 well drilling licence, offshore Nile Delta, Egypt and a $27 million well carry programme to end 2008. on three wells in Mauritania.
Taken together this represented a swap of around 40% of Danas Mauritania position for $27 million Contingent resources decreased from 124.3 mmboe to of costs, production of approximately 2,100 boepd, additional 101.7 mmboe with the key changes being a reduction of North Sea reserves of 3.2 mmboe and additional exploration in 48.1 mmboe due to the Gaz fide France asset exchange, whilst Egypt.
This transaction delivered on the strategic driver of using there was an addition of 19.8 mmboe due to the Aigrette exploration as leverage to accelerate growth by essentially discovery in Block 7 Mauritania.
exchanging exploration assets for producing fields and fields under development.
In addition, the transaction balanced the Overall, the total resources decreased by 3.5 mmboe, but this Companys investment to a wider range of opportunities whilst reduction is balanced by the significant acceleration of value to maximising the probability of success by providing more exploration in the portfolio while retaining significant access to the upside potential in Mauritania.
Inevitably in such a complex cross-border transaction across 4 countries, completion of the transaction takes a significant period of time, and the final elements of the transaction were only completed in September 2006.
However, this clearly demonstrates the ability of the Dana team to deliver on complex transactions.
Dana Petroleum plc 2006 Annual Report 19 Net Reserves mmboe Business Review continued EXECUTION OF PLANNED EXPLORATION PROGRAMME through this phase will become increasingly important as the Going into 2006, the Company was planning on drilling a total Company continues to grow and develop.
In August 2006, of 11 exploration and appraisal wells, comprising 6 wells in the the Venture operated Goosander field which is located in GKA, UK, 3 operated wells in Mauritania and 2 non-operated wells in was brought onstream approximately 2 weeks ahead of Kenya, plus exposure to one Faroe Petroleum well.
The field has already performed significantly above 8 wells were actually drilled.
One of the planned Kenya wells expectations.
was drilled early in 2007, a decision has been made to progress the Barbara development without further appraisal, and a third During the year, Development work progressed on the well was deferred due to rig availability.
RWE-operated Cavendish gas field, with the installation of the platform and the laying of pipelines during 2006, and the drilling Dana drilled two operated wells in Mauritania in 2006.
These of the wells and host platform modifications in early 2007. operations relied on the Companys close relationship with Peak Dana now holds a 50% interest in the field which will add Well Management, our drilling management contractor.
Dana will approximately 8,500 boepd to the Companys production when continue to work with Peak for the drilling of future wells the field reaches maximum capacity by the winter of 2007 8. internationally and in the UK.
First gas is planned for second quarter 2007.
Development work also progressed on the Enoch oil field in the UK Central North Dana has been successful in delivering its drilling programme Sea during the year with first production also expected in second by working with larger operators, who have long term rig quarter 2007. contracts, and by securing rig slots as part of rig sharing clubs.
The Company will continue this strategy going forward.
For the Development planning is progressing on the Barbara period mid 2007 to mid 2008, 4 rig slots on the Sedco-704 discovery in the UK Central North Sea, with first gas targeted semi-submersible rig and 2 rig slots on the Ensco-100 jack-up for 2009.
It is likely that Barbara will be a joint development rig have been secured.
These rigs will be used for UK North Sea with the neighbouring Phyllis development.
Along with rigs from other operators and ongoing represents the most important development in Danas portfolio.
tendering exercises, Dana is confident of delivering its planned The Eon-Ruhrgas operated Babbage development is also 32 well exploration and appraisal programme in 2007 and 2008. progressing, with first gas again planned for 2009.
These two developments rank as two of the largest undeveloped gas Commentary on the results of individual wells has been included discoveries in the UK, and will add significantly to Danas growth in the Chairman & Chief Executives Review.
As part of Danas commitment to Mauritania, the Company has become more actively involved in the local community.
Dana has two Mauritanian staff in country who undertake the day-to-day activities for the Company, and have close working relationships with the relevant government departments.
In addition, Dana has distributed sports equipment to local schools and sponsored an ambulance for distributing health care.
DELIVERY OF DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS Dana has historically had minimal involvement in the development phase of the lifecycle, but progressing assets 20 Dana Petroleum plc 2006 Annual Report Paul Griffin, Operations Manager Business Review continued David Knowles, Commercial Manager NEW COMMERCIAL TRANSACTIONS exchange of 3% interest in Blocks L5 and L7, offshore Danas commercial team was extremely active during the year.
Kenya for 15% interest in Tanger-Larache Block, offshore In 2006 the following deals were either completed or close to Morocco with Repsol: being completed by the end of the year: acquisition of Devon Energys entire interests in Egypt acquisition of 50% interest in 21 20b including Christian through a Sale and Purchase Agreement of eight Devon discovery and 25% interest in 21 20a including Bligh corporate entities.
This agreement was signed in April 2007 discovery from Venture Production, as part of a and is subject to standard government and third party back-to-back deal following Ventures acquisition of the approvals and preferential rights.
assets from ExxonMobil and Hess: SAFETY PERFORMANCE in addition to the Gaz fide France Exchange Agreement, As outlined in the Report of the Directors, the Board considers Gaz fide France had also agreed to sell Dana a 15% safety to be an integral part of its business.
Safety performance interest in Algerian assets.
As this transaction was on Danas operated activities is the direct responsibility of the subsequently not approved by the Algerian authorities, Technical & Commercial Director.
The Company has a Health, Dana secured the following additional assets, namely Safety and Environment System which complies with UK legal i additional 20% interest in West El Burullus block, requirements.
This System is also applied during drilling activities offshore Nile Delta, Egypt which is currently awaiting final overseas.
government consent: ii 25% interest in Cavendish gas development, UK Southern North Sea which completed in In 2006, there were no safety incidents in Danas operated March 2007, iii 20% interest in PL.
311B, UK assets, namely the Hudson field, due to the planning, Norway, and iv 10% interest in PL.
Both preparation and cross-functional workshops undertaken before Norwegian transactions are progressing to completion: significant offshore work campaigns.
Unfortunately, there were two Lost Time Incidents during the Mauritanian drilling campaign.
acquisition of 25% interest in North Ghara block, Gulf of Both incidents were in the early stages of drilling of the first well Suez, Egypt from BP: in the programme, and investigations were subsequently promptly undertaken and the report recommendations acquisition of 15% interest in South Feiran block, Gulf of implemented for the remainder of the programme.
Suez, Egypt from CEPSA: Where Danas role is in a non-operated capacity, the Companys agreement to enter Exploration Licence in Bouanane block, role is to influence the Operator to demonstrate capability and onshore Morocco at 50% equity and as operator: leadership in safety and to promote the highest standards of safety in their operations.
acquisition of additional 5% interest in Block 8, Mauritania from Gaz fide France: FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE A review and commentary of the Companys financial performance during the year is provided in the Financial Review which follows.
22 Dana Petroleum plc 2006 Annual Report
