Foodservice Group Business review Petersburg and Toronto and with national dealer structures in Our consumer business described the related countries.
For our customers it is often our cooker which makes their Rangemaster sells multi oven range cookers a market it has kitchen the heart of their home.
To make their kitchen the successfully developed since we transformed the business in best it could be we have the equipment they need.
2002 selling our lower value slot in cooker brands and Aga and Rangemaster are our principal consumer operations reducing unit sales by two thirds to 42,000. in Europe and we lead the range cooker market with our cast Rangemaster has grown rapidly since then and now sells iron and multi oven products.
Marvel in the USA is our over 70,000 cookers a year and has with its Elan, Toledo and primary refrigeration brand with our undercounter products.
Excel lines captured a growing market not only in the UK but Aga, Rayburn and Stanley are primarily heat storage, cast in Ireland, France and in the USA.
Rangemasters strength is iron cookers that use radiated heat which is considered by in the displays in kitchen specialist outlets be it in the UK many the best way to cook and is a major point of difference.
where there are over 5,500, France where there are just We have a large enthusiastic customer base primarily in the under 1,000 or Ireland where there are around 700.
UK and Ireland and with growing numbers of proponents in Rangemaster produces products in Leamington Spa under Europe and North America.
Sales of cast iron cookers were the Rangemaster and Falcon brands and adds to the ranges 20,000 in 2006 and we estimate there are 500,000 owners in provided by La Cornue, Aga and now Heartland brands.
Rangemaster is expanding in cookware and refrigeration New developments in fuel types most notably with the under the Divertimenti and Rangemaster brands.
flexible Aga electric ranges and new high efficiency burners Marvel, based in Richmond, Indiana, was an instigator in the for Rayburn mean the targeted customer base has increased US premium wine fridge and ice maker market.
leading US manufacturer selling under our own brand and Our foundry in Coalbrookdale was founded by Abraham making product for Viking.
The trend setting continues with a Darby.
He first smelted iron ore there in 1709 triggering the new generation of electronic controls being introduced and industrial revolution.
Our historical links and our enamelling with the development of the new drawer units range.
Marvel skills on cast iron are an intrinsic part of the appeal and value sells around 40,000 units a year and is now supplying of the brands that we have.
products into Europe for both Aga and Rangemaster.
There are 80 Aga shops in the UK of which half are company Our foodservice business described owned and 50 outlets in Europe of which 12 are company owned.
Our Aga shops often incorporate Fired Earth paint, We provide the equipment needed to support the full range tiles and now kitchen living products.
Overseas there are of menus whether in cafs, in-store restaurants or Michelin flagship Aga shops in cities like Amsterdam, Antwerp, star restaurants.
Our equipment is at home in the worlds Boston, Cork, Dublin, Lyon, Montreal, Oslo, Paris, St best kitchens.
Our development is attuned to consumers Annual Report and Accounts 2006 04 05 expectations for healthy food and our customers growing expectations for energy efficiency and cost saving technology.
We are a world leader in in-store bakery equipment for supermarkets and artisan bakers with particularly strong positions in France, the UK and the USA.
With consumers looking for higher quality, variety and with the rapid rise of the caf bakery culture, the Groups ranges are well placed.
Our Bongard business based in France is famous for its steam tube ovens which operate using radiated heat and its reputation for innovation is supported by a new moulder divider which cuts preparation time by one quarter.
With central and eastern European consumers, traditionally having bread in their staple diets, rapidly catching up with western quality expectations, these areas are becoming a major focus for growth.
Bakery products link closely in with foodservice customers pubs, hotels and restaurants often looking for similar flexible equipment.
In the UK we are the market leader with our six burner ranges and chargrills.
We saw from our position there that there was a customer need for faster, more efficient equipment to meet consumer, regulatory and cost demand.
With high investment levels in recent years and with acquisitions to bring in required technologies we have put ourselves at the cutting edge in a rapidly changing sector.
Our combi-ovens, our microwaves, our steamers and our Infinity fryers all address these themes.
In the USA we are recognised for commitment to energy savings and have well established niche positions to which we have been adding rapidly.
William McGrath, Group Chief Executive.
Foodservice Group OUR PERFORMANCE BY SEGMENT UK and European Consumer Our UK and European consumer operations had another good year.
Revenue rose 13.0% to 243.1 million and Revenue operating profits rose 9.1% to 25.1 million.
We have added greater flexibility to our range of cast iron cookers 243.1m through fuel types and design and continue to win new converts to radiated heat cooking.
Sales of the electric Aga Operating and 3 and 4-oven models grew as the trend towards our larger models continued.
In 2006 the wood burning profits Rayburn and Stanley models saw marked revivals.
We see sales of 20,000 cast iron cookers sold under our three 25.1m brands as a base point on which to build substantially.
Of these cookers 62% are sold in the UK, 30% in Ireland and the remainder primarily in Northern Europe and the east coast of the USA.
The link between Aga and Fired Earth for paint and tiles and kitchen furniture supplied by Grange continues to develop.
Fired Earth has shifted from soft furnishings towards kitchen and bathroom furniture and the benefits of the repositioning are starting to be seen.
The new catalogue and roll outs of Fired Earth branded paints in two major DIY chains will provide a boost this year.
Our brands have distinctive selling processes linked to events and demonstrations.
This will prove important in our major current initiative to highlight to existing customers the benefits in look, efficiency and functionality of our modern ranges as we offer upgrade options to them.
In addition, new products like the high efficiency Rayburn and the We see sales of 20,000 cast iron cookers sold under our 3 brands as a base point on which to build substantially Geoff Harrop, managing director, Aga.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 06 07 Kitchen with Aga refrigerator and Aga Special Edition in black and chrome.
Rayburn 480cd The new Fired Earth catalogue highlights the fact that we can fit out kitchens with cookers, fridges, paint, tiles, free-standing kitchen furniture Bastide kitchen furniture from Fired Earth.
Brandon from Waterford Stanley and equip bathrooms.
Foodservice Group UK and European Consumer continued Stanley Supreme are expected to sell strongly this year.
The number of home surveys a good sales lead indicator - so far this year is up significantly on last year, providing confidence that we will see a rise in revenues this year.
In 2006 we sold over 70,000 cookers, up 7.6% in the year.
The 90cm ranges account for 49% of sales 47% in 2005 and over 18% 14% in 2005 are exported - with Ireland and France growing particularly quickly.
The high levels of functionality available, with our hobs and our three or four ovens, mean we can offer impressive flexibility alongside value.
As we develop the business we are making Rangemaster a highly distinctive overall kitchen brand incorporating fridges as well as sinks.
We expect this trend to continue.
Rangemaster, as a manufacturing centre, is also now supplying products to widen our Falcon, Aga, Heartland and La Cornue offerings Divertimenti store in worldwide.
During the year we Brompton Road, London.
expanded successfully through Divertimenti, our multi-channel cookware operation which has two London retail outlets.
The reported numbers also include the 0.8 million cost of our exit from the AFE Online business.
La Cornue notably in the USA where it is the only cooker in Williams-Sonoma stores - is performing well.
Orders year to date are running 8% up.
We can build on this as new lines become available, such as via innovation, combining the advantages of range cookers and built-ins and adding induction hobs to the Falcon range.
We are making Rangemaster a highly distinctive overall kitchen brand Mike Bufton, managing director, Rangemaster.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 08 09 Rangemaster kitchen showing the new Freestyle built in cooker with Toledo cooker hood, the SXS fridge freezer and the Manhattan sink with Elipse Monostem taps.
Foodservice Group OUR PERFORMANCE BY SEGMENT UK and European Foodservice Our UK and European foodservice operations had a good introductions, the Compact six tray and Genius Touch self year.
Revenues grew 12.7% to 194.8 million and operating cooking programmes, are within that tradition.
We have profits rose 28.6% to 18.0 million.
The Eloma hot spot tray accessory provides a major patented product differentiator The UK foodservice market is yet to see the investment in which will generate a significant new customer base equipment at a level to support the underlying growth in particularly at the smaller table top end of the market, where eating out and the need to cut energy consumption our Amana microwave operation is already strong.
translated into materially greater demand.
Against that background, the impact of major individual projects remains In Bakery our European operations continued to make good significant to performance.
In 2006 we benefited from progress, notably in Eastern Europe, where Poland, Russia sports projects including Wembley Stadium and the new and the Ukraine account for 16% of sales.
The trend is Ascot racecourse grandstand.
Our largest contract was with being driven by the rise of in-store bakeries in supermarkets the Prison Service to which we have provided both as was seen in Western Europe some years ago.
In equipment and ongoing service support under a long-term addition, we are seeing the growth across our markets of maintenance agreement for a major asset renewal caf bakeries in which our convection ovens and fridges are programme.
At the start of 2007 we are again working central.
We have reinforced our position with the artisan closely with the Prison Service as well as on some large pub bakers this year with the launch of the Paneotrad, a chain roll out programmes.
We are also supplying a wide moulder divider which cuts production time by two hours or range of equipment to the Whole Food Markets for its a quarter of the total time with commensurate water, energy flagship store in Kensington.
It has bakery, refrigeration and and labour savings.
We expect it to become in time a prime cooking equipment.
We have also launched Infinity II standard piece of equipment globally.
an update of our deep fat fryer which without in-built filtration provides a lower cost option whilst still achieving Our major markets remain France and the UK and while the oil savings from the burner system.
these are relatively mature they continue to provide sound platforms for our manufacturing operations working with Eloma, our German combi-oven manufacturer acquired in leading companies like Sainsburys, Marks & Spencer, February 2006, accounted for 14.1 million of revenues and Somerfield, Auchan and Carrefour.
contributed 1.3 million in operating profit.
Its prospects are excellent internationally.
Order intake in the year to date is running 7% ahead of the Eloma has technically strong products and its most recent prior year and a good 2007 is expected.
Revenue 194.8m Operating profits 18.0m Tim Smith, managing director, Aga Foodservice.
2 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 10 11 1 1 Eloma 20 tray combi-oven.
2 Williams and Mono equipment fitted in a Cuisine to Go store Eloma, Amana within a store.
and Stellar Steam have greatly strengthened our hot side offering 3 Foodservice Group 1 OUR PERFORMANCE BY SEGMENT US Operations In Aga Bakery in the USA our doughnut equipment US Foodservice Operations operation, Belshaw, continues to perform particularly well as At the start of 2006 we focussed Revenue it supports the continuing expansion of Dunkin Donuts and our manufacturing-led operations on WalMart.
We have integrated the management of Adamatic ensuring that our efficiencies, sourcing 55.5m with Belshaw, whose roll lines for bakeries have much in capabilities and management product common with some Belshaw lines.
After a difficult period for expertise was applied across the Operating Adamatic caused by weak market conditions and the need operations.
to rationalise our lines and cut costs which reduced profits profits A highlight of the year was the by 0.8 million in the year, the business is starting to acquisition of Amana Commercial recover.
3.2m Microwaves from Whirlpool for $49 million 26.1 million.
Amana is the US Consumer Operations well-established leader in its marketplace, selling to a wide In consumer markets our Marvel Revenue customer base in the USA with major chains like business performed particularly well McDonalds, KFC and Burger King and with a strong through its wine cabinet and ice maker 35.5m international business.
In 2006 it contributed 1.8 million on business to which it has successfully revenues of 9.2 million after the date of acquisition.
We are added drawer units.
With the amount Operating currently investing in a new production facility close to the of refrigeration increasing both inside existing Whirlpool factory where Amana products are profits the house and outside, in the kitchen produced and in two major new product lines, which will in the garden, the market is buoyant.
confirm its market leading position after their launch within 1.4m We supply product to Viking, a major the next twelve months.
in upscale US appliances, and this In our established foodservice businesses, revenue growth business was strong throughout the year.
With a new helped raise profits although these remained below the generation of product underway with new electronic Group average and our targets.
We are making good controllers and dual temperature zones, the prospects are headway with the US buying groups and chains with our hot good.
Our cooker business continued to gain recognition.
offering of Amana, Eloma combis, the Infinity fryer and Aga is now a well known brand and we look to our owned Stellar Steam, which represents a materially better product and dealer structure to accelerate the growth rate - as we offering than ever before.
do for Heartland in Canada, where Aga and Rangemaster As Energy Star partner of the year we are at the forefront of energy issues Iain Whyte, CEO, Aga Appliance Manufacturing.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 12 13 2 sourced products are now coming to market to supplement its own established lines.
Domain in contrast was operating in a long running, severe consumer downturn for soft furnishings and its revenues were down 7.4% - typical of the market.
This resulted in a 2.9 million operating loss, including costs for reorganisation and stock clearances, in spite of hard work on merchandising and sourcing and on expansion of the Aga led retail space.
We have also written down the net assets by 3.0 million.
This makes the discontinued loss 5.9 million.
As previously stated, the board concluded a review of the business with the assistance of Ernst & Young Orenda and has initiated its sale.
3 1 New Amana manufacturing facility in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, USA.
2 Heartland Classic 48 Dual Fuel range cooker.
4 5 Foodservice Group FINANCE AND RISK Business review Financial targets Financial performance continuing operations We have developed several medium-term financial targets 2006 2005 Change which measure the effectiveness of our strategy to deliver m m % shareholder value.
The Group is now focused on delivering these financial objectives through both organic growth and Revenue 528.9 459.9 15.0 continued focussed bolt-on acquisitions.
Operating profit 47.7 41.4 15.2 Profit before tax 46.0 42.7 7.7 Return on capital employed acquisitions are expected to Earnings per share p 28.7 26.4 8.7 deliver a 15% pre-tax return on investment within three years of acquisition although slightly lower returns are Earnings per share ptotal 24.1 26.6 accepted if the strategic logic is compelling.
This equates to Dividend per share the 15% target return on capital employed.
In 2006 the - Final 7.0p 6.2p Group achieved a return on capital employed of 14.0% - Interim 3.5p 3.0p 2005: 13.9%.
- Total dividend 10.5p 9.2p 14.1 Return on sales this was 9% in both 2005 and 2006.
We have set ourselves the target to drive the return on sales to Net debt cash 10.9 20.4 10% over the next two years.
Dividend cover the target is to have the dividend covered 2006 was a further year in which our well established development plans for the Group saw us make progress 2.5 times from fully taxed earnings.
On this basis the dividend was covered 2.3 times in 2006 2005: 2.5 times.
both organically and through acquisitions.
Net debt : EBITDA the Group has set a net debt : EBITDA Revenue from continuing operations of 528.9 million 2005: target of 2 times.
There is 459.9 million was up 15.0% on 2005 whilst operating therefore continuing scope for acquisitions of the type seen profits from continuing operations of 47.7 million, before in recent years or a share buy-back programme as well as non-recurring items, were up 15.2%.
Profit before taxation for the special dividend announced today.
from continuing operations was up 7.7% to 46.0 million 2005: 42.7 million.
Consumer revenues were 278.6 million and accounted for Return on capital employed % Return on sales % 52.7% of the total whilst foodservice revenues represented the other 47.3%.
The tax charge was 9.0 million in the period and represented 19.6% of the pre-tax profits a rate we expect to rise only modestly this year.
As anticipated cash tax paid was 8.5 million 2005: 1.2 million repayment.
Target 2006 2005 Target 2006 2005 Earnings per share from continuing operations were 28.7 Dividend cover x Net debt : EBITDA x pence 2005: 26.4 pence calculated on the average number of shares in issue during the year.
The board, having 2.5x 2.0x 2.5x considered the progress made by the Group, is proposing a 2.3x 14.1% increase in the full year dividend, raising it from 9.2 pence to 10.5 pence per share.
This means the dividend paid has now more than doubled since 2001.
Our strong financial position provides scope to return more cash to shareholders.
The board is, therefore, proposing a special dividend of 43.0 pence per share.
It is also proposing a share consolidation which will allow the share price 0.2x performance before and after the return to be more easily Target 2006 2005 Target 2006 compared.
The special dividend will be proposed as an Annual Report and Accounts 2006 14 15 ordinary resolution at the AGM and is expected to be paid Downham Market as it consolidated its UK manufacturing on 1st June along with the 2006 final dividend.
A circular onto the main Kings Lynn site.
has been sent to shareholders detailing the proposed return Tax cash paid in the year increased to 8.5 million 2005: and the consolidation.
2005 included a tax refund of 5 We made two foodservice acquisitions in the year: Eloma, million for tax years 1999 and 2001 as the years were the German combi-oven manufacturer in February for 7.8 closed with the revenue.
million and Amana, the market leading commercial Dividends paid consumed 12.5 million 2005: 11.3 million microwave oven business for 26.1 million in September.
Both businesses have integrated well and contributed in The Group ended the year with net debt of 10.9 million total revenues of 23.3 million and profits of 3.1 million.
Cash flow Pensions We continue to focus attention on our pension schemes.
A 40m formal actuarial valuation by Watson Wyatt, the scheme 38.3 37.8 actuaries, was concluded during the year.
This showed an 30m actuarial deficit of 4.8 million at 31st December 2005.
At 31st December 2006, the scheme was showing a surplus under IAS 19 of 24.4 million 2005: deficit 18.2 million on 20m assets of 784.6 million 2005: 750.6 million and appraised liabilities of 760.2 million 2005: 768.8 million.
Movements in bond yields and actual experience being 10m 14.0 13.1 better than model expectations accounted for the improvements.
The cash contribution for current employees was 5.8 million 2005: 4.9 million.
This includes an 2006 2005 2006 2005 0m additional 1.0 million contribution towards making good the actuarial deficit.
A payment of 4.0 million to pay off the Cash flow from Net capital operating activities expenditure actuarial deficit will be made in 2007.
The current service cost of 6.9 million in 2006 was offset under IAS 19 by the net return on the assets liabilities of the scheme.
The Operating cash flow performance in the year was similar to income statement included a 3.8 million credit 2005: 1.5 last year with an operating profit from continuing operations million for pensions.
In 2007 the net return on scheme conversion rate of 85%.
Working capital was 71.6 million assets liabilities is expected to exceed the current service 2005: 61.5 million at the year end acquired companies cost by around 3 million.
accounting for 7.3 million of the increase.
Shareholder returns Net capital expenditure in the year was 14.0 million.
We The Group has, since becoming Aga Foodservice Group in spent 14.5 million 2005: 10.6 million on capital 2001, been growing both its consumer and foodservice equipment which compares to depreciation of 11.1 million operations both organically and through acquisition.
Of this investment, 3.5 million was on a new facility for Waterford Stanley and 0.3 million was the During the period total revenues increased from 209.8 down payment on a new facility extension for Williams million to 528.9 million and operating profits from 20.3 Refrigeration in Kings Lynn which will cost 1.3 million in million to 47.7 million.
We also purchased Marvels Richmond, Indiana site for At the same time we have focused on improving total 1.5 million.
Our investment programme continues to help shareholder returns as demonstrated in the chart above.
We also capitalised 4.1 million of Since 2001 the dividend per share has increased from 5.0 intangible expenditure 2005: 3.2 million and amortised pence to 10.5 pence in 2006, an increase of 110%.
addition, we have announced a further return of 43.0 pence per share via a special dividend at a cash cost of 55.5 The net cash inflow from operating activities was 38.3 million 2005: 37.8 million.
Investing cash flows included million.
This makes the total dividend paid over the period 89.2 pence per share which when added to the 2004 share the 2.4 million 2005: 0.2 million profit on the disposal of property, plant and equipment which as highlighted at the buy-back makes the total amount retuned to shareholders over the period 125.5 million.
This follows the 335 million half year related mainly to the disposal of a Williams site in Foodservice Group Business review Aga Foodservice Group plc the Total Shareholder Return described on page 26.
These processes also help to identify Index vs. FTSE 250 the Total Shareholder Return Index for business, product and performance opportunities.
Although the 6 financial years ending 31st December 2006 the Group has been successful in managing and mitigating these risks in the past, there is no guarantee that it can 300 continue to do so.
250 External risks 200 External risks include, but are not limited to the following: 150 Global political and economic conditions The Groups principal operations are in more than twelve 100 countries around the world.
Whilst it benefits from the opportunities and growth in these and surrounding 50 countries, the Group is exposed to political and economic 0 risks associated with such international operations.
Political risks can include sudden change in regulation, imposition of Jan 01 Jan 02 Jan 03 Jan 04 Jan 05 Jan 06 Dec 06 trade barriers, limits on the export of currency and the Aga FTSE 250 volatility of currencies, prices and taxes.
returned in 2001 following the Pipe Systems disposal.
The diverse nature of our products and services and our Earnings per share have grown from 9.8 pence per share to international spread help to mitigate the impact of any 28.7 pence per share during the same period which means individual exposure to economic conditions.
However, some the dividend is still comfortably covered as the business 49.2% of our revenues are from customers in the United continues to progress.
Kingdom and we are thus particularly affected by economic The other component of shareholder return is the capital conditions there.
appreciation in the share price.
Over the same period the Legislation and regulation share price has risen from 216 pence at the end of 2001 to The Group is subject to varying laws and regulations around reach an all time high of 434 pence on 28th December 2006 the world and operates in sectors that can be impacted by giving the Group a market capitalisation of 560 million.
The changes in the regulatory environment leading to product share price rose a third in 2006. specification changes.
Whilst failure to comply with laws and The directors have also tried to align themselves more regulations, including health and safety and environmental closely to the risks faced by the shareholders, demonstrated regulations, could impact performance and could damage in the directors shareholding requirement discussed on the reputation of the Company, changes in legislation and page 31.
The executive directors since 2001 have increased regulations can also provide opportunities for the their personal collective shareholdings from 24,095 shares development of new products and can open up new to 347,029. markets for existing products.
As part of the ongoing objective to return value to Raw material and utility prices shareholders, the board will continue to keep under active The Group uses large amounts of electricity, gas, stainless consideration a further buy-back using the existing powers steel, aluminized steel and related commodities.
Volatility that are in place.
and changes in the pricing and availability of these could have a significant impact on the Groups results.
In Risks and uncertainties particular, the prices of utilities and steel have increased This section highlights some of the particular risks which significantly in recent years.
affect the Group but it is not intended to be an extensive analysis of all risks which may arise in the ordinary course of Our raw materials are sourced on the world market and in business or otherwise.
Some risks may be unknown to the general we have access to multiple sources of supply.
Group and other risks, currently regarded as immaterial, However, should there be a significant change in the global could turn out to be material.
balance of supply and demand, or should there be a cessation of supply of a key commodity, the performance of There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties the Group could be adversely affected.
which could have a material impact on the Groups longterm performance and achievement of its strategy.
These Changes in consumer trends and spending risks and uncertainties arise as a result of operational, The Group derives a significant proportion of its revenue regulatory, financial and market driven factors, among other from the consumer home appliance and home furnishings things.
The Group takes a proactive approach to managing risk and our risk management processes are further markets in the UK, Europe and North America.
The Groups Annual Report and Accounts 2006 16 17 financial and operating performance will depend, in part, on on year on account of changes in economic conditions, factors which affect the level and patterns of consumer and demographic experience and the investment performance of retail spending including changes in consumer preferences the schemes assets.
The potential risks and uncertainties and trends and general economic conditions.
are mitigated by careful management and continual monitoring of the schemes and by appropriate and timely The Groups future success and revenues will be, action to ensure as far as possible that the Groups defined dependent, in part, on the strength of its principal trading benefit pension liabilities do not increase disproportionately.
The Group monitors changing consumer preferences, brand perception, price points and other trends Scheme assets are defensively invested with a bench mark such as environmental awareness, etc.
to better understand 60% in bonds and property.
The Company works closely and anticipate its customers and their preferences.
The with the scheme trustees and believes that a strong Group has focussed on internationalising its principal trading Corporate covenant is the best way to allow a systematic brands to further help mitigate these risks.
and measured approach to managing the inherent risks of such a scheme.
Intellectual property rights The Group relies primarily on trade secret, copyright, Customer market dynamics design, trademark and patent law and contractual The Groups key customers include major supermarkets, protections to protect the Companys proprietary technology restaurant caf chains, hotels and government bodies.
If and other proprietary rights.
Notwithstanding the key customers change their capital expenditure precautions taken, the Group will continue to take action to programmes, suffer a significant loss of market share or in protect its intellectual property rights.
It is possible that third the event of an economic down turn seasonality this could parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use the Groups have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial proprietary technology without authorisation or may condition and results of operations.
otherwise infringe on the Groups rights.
In some cases, including a number of the Groups most important products, These risks are mitigated by monitoring industry and there may be no effective legal recourse against duplication competitive developments to help prevent the Group from by competitors.
The Group relies on registered and becoming unduly dependent on any one customer.
unregistered rights and uses these rights wherever possible Internal risks to protect its proprietary rights, brand and reputation.
Internal risks include but are not limited to: Innovations and actions of competitors New product and technological developments The Group operates in highly competitive markets characterised by changing technology and evolving industry The Group continually seeks to refine and improve upon the standards.
Innovative new products and technical advances performance, utility and physical attributes of its existing by competitors could adversely affect the Group.
However, the products and to develop new products.
As a result, the diversity of our products mitigates the potential impact from an Groups business is subject to risks associated with new individual competitor or innovation.
The Group capitalised product and technological development, including expenditure on development of 2.8m during the year.
unanticipated technical, marketing or other problems.
The The markets in which the Group competes are fragmented occurrence of any of these risks could cause a substantial but many of the Groups competitors are large and may change in the design, delay in the development or enjoy substantially greater financial, marketing, technological abandonment of new technologies and products.
Such risks and personnel resources.
The Group is subject to their could have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial competitive actions and although the Group believes that condition and operating results.
the performance and price characteristics of its products Succession planning provide competitive solutions for the customers needs, there can be no assurance that the existing customers will The future success of the Group is dependent on the continue to choose our products over products offered by continued services and continuing contributions of the competitors.
The Group has a good understanding of the Groups directors and other key personnel.
The loss of the markets in which it operates and its key competitors and services of these individuals could adversely affect our their strategies and monitors and develops its strategy to ability to maintain the loyalty of certain key customers, to mitigate these risks.
continue to develop important markets or to implement our future strategy.
Pension funding The Group has reviewed its succession plans and the board The Groups defined benefit pension schemes are significant is kept informed of the succession planning in place for as detailed in note 5 to the accounts and on page 15.
The directors and senior management.
Appropriate internal funding position of these schemes is likely to fluctuate year Foodservice Group Business review development is in place to ensure individuals can, where informed of the Groups development plans when possible, be promoted from within to middle and senior appropriate to do so.
The Groups committed loan facilities management positions.
have two principal financial covenants, interest cover and net debt : EBITDA, and complied with them at the end of Acquisitions the year.
The Group is proactive in its acquisition and divestment Foreign exchange risk strategy.
Acquisitions and divestments may involve risks which could have a material impact on the Group.
These The Group operates predominantly in the UK, Europe and risks are mitigated by thorough due diligence and, where North America and as such the exposure to movements in appropriate, by obtaining indemnities, representations and exchange rates is mainly against the Euro and US Dollar.
the units have been growing internationally there has been Controls failure an increased level of foreign currency transactions.
We have We operate internal controls as described in the corporate also actively encouraged the trade between these governance report on pages 23 to 28.
With the Groups geographic areas and subsequently a greater level of natural principal operations in twelve countries and the ongoing offset on currency denominated cash flows is achieved.
The expansion of our presence in lower-cost countries mitigation Groups policy for the management of foreign currency of the risk of controls failure is a key area of focus for our exposure is set out in more detail under the accounting internal audit team.
Treasury risk and policy Legal and other matters The Group operates a central treasury which operates in The Group is committed to operating within the law in all accordance with a Treasury policy and procedures manual applicable jurisdictions, and seeks to benefit from the rights setting out guidelines for managing foreign exchange risk, and protections afforded by relevant laws.
The Group aims interest rate risk, credit risk and the financial instruments to to anticipate and meet the changing requirements of the be used in managing these risks.
markets it serves, as legal and regulatory reforms impact The objective of the treasury policy is to manage the those markets.
There were no material legal, regulatory or Groups financial risk.
The treasury policy applied by the compliance matters to be disclosed during the period under Group and the specific guidelines to manage the main review and no significant post balance sheets events to be financial risks are outlined under the accounting policies disclosed.
Resources Interest rate risk The Group has significant resources to support its core The Groups policy is to have, ordinarily between 25% and business operations.
Key strengths and resources which 75% of debt at fixed rates at any time.
There were no assist the Group in the pursuit of its key objectives include: interest rate swaps in place as at the balance sheet date since the Group only had a modest level of debt.
Our people Borrowings held at the Group level are primarily currency We have consistently sought to recruit and retain the best borrowings which are used to hedge the net investments in employees in our sector and this has contributed to our its foreign operations.
It is envisaged that as the Group success in developing, manufacturing and selling our balance sheet is geared up the level of fixed rate borrowings products in our traditional markets and in entering and will be increased and the risk mitigated.
developing our presence in new markets.
Each business has Liquidity risk its own approach to identifying and attracting the appropriate skills and expertise it needs, in line with both its own and the The Groups funding objective is to have sufficient long-term committed facilities, in addition to uncommitted facilities and Groups strategy and requirements.
Vacancies and finance lease agreements to meet its funding needs.
An development opportunities are advertised internally and analysis of the Groups facilities is detailed in note 20 of the where suitable candidates cannot be identified conventional accounts.
Each business regularly reviews its training and development needs to ensure we The Group maintains relationships with several large have people with the appropriate levels of skills, qualifications financial institutions.
Company management spends and experience to assist it in achieving our strategy.
significant amounts of time with its lenders keeping them Annual Report and Accounts 2006 18 19 Our market position Cautionary statement We have a strong corporate reputation for quality products The intention of the business review is to provide information to shareholders and should not be relied upon which is based on our longevity in supplying customers and on our development of new products using advanced by any other party or for any other purpose.
The Group is amongst the larger review and other sections of this annual report contain players within the sector and now has growing international certain forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of the reach and is well placed in product terms in both our Group.
By their nature, these statements involve consumer and foodservice operations.
uncertainty since future events and circumstances can Our manufacturing facilities cause results and developments to differ materially from A key differentiator for our product is our manufacturing those anticipated.
The business review and other sections facilities which not only maximises the efficiency in our of this annual report contain certain forward-looking statements which are made by the directors in good faith production processes but also means that we have a reputation for high quality products.
To reinforce this based on the information available to them up to the date of competitive advantage, during the year we have acquired their approval of the financial statements and the Company new manufacturing, warehousing and office facilities for the undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
The forward-looking statements should be Waterford Stanley operation in Ireland and successfully treated with caution due to the inherent uncertainties, completed the transition.
We have extended the facilities at Aga in Telford to provide new warehousing and stores.
We including both economic and business risk factors, underlying any such forward-looking information.
Nothing in have made a down payment to extend the Williams facility in this annual report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Kings Lynn and this will be completed in 2007.
We have similar plans in place with other business units in 2007 The business review has been prepared for the Group as a including new manufacturing premises for Amana and whole and therefore gives greater emphasis to those Belshaw.
matters which are of significance to Aga Foodservice Group plc and its subsidiary undertakings when viewed as a whole.
Intellectual property rights The Group has registered a number of patents to support its business and to protect its competitive advantage.
Some of the intellectual property and product innovation developed by our research and development teams results in new patents being secured.
In addition, we have a large number of registered trademarks and designs to protect our world renowned brands and trading styles.
We monitor market developments closely to identify any potential violations of our proprietary rights and take appropriate legal action where considered necessary.
Procurement teams Our central procurement team works with each operating business worldwide to enable us to negotiate contracts to ensure we benefit from the synergies available from group buying, whilst ensuring the quality of components and products is to our high standards and that delivery is scheduled to support our lean manufacturing processes.
We have an established procurement team based in China who have achieved significant savings.
