The International contribution has increased due to higher sales and operating cost leverage.
BUSINESS REVIEW Simon Boddie Finance Director NATURE OF THE BUSINESS valuable to suppliers, who would otherwise nd the Electrocomponents plc is a high service electronic, small order requirements of such customers difficult electrical and industrial distributor operating in and costly to satisfy.
26 countries and selling to most of the remaining Employees countries of the world via distributors.
The Group During the year we have employed around 5,200 offers a wide range of products to customers who employees worldwide: about 1,800 in the UK, 1,200 are typically research and development R&D or in Continental Europe, 600 in North America, 700 in maintenance engineers in business.
A large number Asia Pacic and 900 in the Group processes.
of high quality goods are stocked, which are dispatched the same day that the order is received.
OPERATING PERFORMANCE AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The average order value is generally less than 100 Electrocomponents plc is a high service but the number of customer contacts is very large All gures in this announcement have been prepared industrial distributor operating in 26 countries using International Financial Reporting Standards as and their demands are diverse.
This means that the and selling to most of the remaining countries Group manages tens of thousands of orders per day.
adopted for use by the EU IFRS of the world via distributors.
Operating performance PROGRESS ON 3 YEAR PLAN We typically supply around 200,000 As set out in the Chief Executives Review, we Group 2006 2005 customers a month and 1.2m a year from all areas of industry and commerce.
have made excellent progress in all aspects of Revenue 828.5m 773.9m the 3 year plan announced in May 2005.
Gross margin 51.5% 53.2% We purchase over 350,000 products from Contribution 183.2m 184.1m around 2,400 major suppliers throughout STRENGTHS AND RESOURCES Group Process costs 81.9m 74.1m the world.
EBS costs 25.1m 9.2m Brands Headline operating profit 76.2m 100.8m The Groups most significant brand is RS which Interest net 3.4m 0.9m is used all over the world except for North America Headline profit before tax 72.8m 99.9m Allied and France Radiospares.
Headline earnings per share 11.2p 15.5p Dividend per share 18.4p 18.4p Customer relationships We typically supply around 200,000 customers Key performance indicators 2006 2005 a month and 1.2m a year from all areas of industry and commerce.
Our customers are typically Group sales growth 5.0% 4.5% International 11.8% 8.1% maintenance or R&D engineers working in a wide UK 3.0% 0.6% range of industries.
We have relationships with Headline Group return on sales 8.8% 12.9% both end users and the companies they work for.
1 Headline EBITDA 100.3m 123.0m Free cash flow 26.9m 61.1m Supplier relationships 2 Headline ROCE 16.7% 24.5% We purchase over 350,000 products from around 1 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
2,400 major suppliers throughout the world.
Our 2 Return on capital employed is dened as headline operating profit reach to R&D and maintenance engineers is very expressed as a percentage of net assets excluding net debt.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 8 % h t w The headline profit has fallen by 27.1m due to five in the run up to its implementation in July 2006.
The International business contribution continue to increase our RoHS compliant product has increased by 8.8m.
Against this, the UK offer, which is now 70,000 products in Europe, and contribution has declined by 9.7m.
EBS costs provide the technical information that customers have increased by 15.9m, Process costs by require to meet their needs.
Free cash ow was down 56% from last year, The International contribution has increased due to lower profits and higher working capital caused due to higher sales and operating cost leverage.
by the planned increase in stock to support the EBS EBS costs have risen as planned due to the UK implementation and the higher sales in the final two months which were impacted by the timing of Easter, implementation during the year.
The increase in being in March in 2005 but April in 2006.
Process costs of 7.8m includes 3.1m of one-off The change in the timing of Easter will costs associated with the group wide technology adversely impact the profit for the first half of upgrade and the restructuring of the information 2006 07 by around 4m.
systems department following the EBS implementation.
Excluding these one-off costs, the Process costs are INTERNATIONAL a similar percentage of sales to last year.
Interest 2006 2005 has increased due to the higher net debt.
Revenue 474.9m 415.1m e-Commerce revenue continued to grow Revenue growth 11.8% 8.1% Gross margin 50.3% 52.1% quickly up 29% across all markets and e-Commerce The headline profit has fallen by 27.1m.
Operating costs % of revenue 32.1% 33.4% channels, and now represents 25% of Group sales.
Contribution 86.3m 77.5m e-Commerce revenue continued to grow This has been driven by measures taken during the % of revenue 18.2% 18.7% quickly up 29% across all markets.
year to enhance the Groups e-Commerce channels The International business accounted for 57% of including the redesigned and improved website in Group sales and 47% of Group contribution.
It is the UK with improved internet visibility.
In addition, comprised of Continental Europe 56% of revenue in the Groups single e-Commerce capability has been the International business, North America 29% and used to enable a quick and consistent roll out of the Asia Pacic including Japan 15%.
Revenue growth extended EEM ranges.
Over 50% of sales in Japan accelerated to 14.8% in the second half, with an and nearly 40% in Germany are now accounted overall growth for the year of 11.8%.
Gross margin in for by e-Commerce.
the region reduced by 1.8% points in the period, in The gross margin was down 1.7% points part due to the adverse impact of 0.4% points due to from last year and down 1.0% point in the second the higher than average growth in North America half compared to the first half of the year.
This which has a gross margin of around 36%.
Operating reduction was spread across all regions and is due to costs fell as a percentage of revenue by 1.3% points, a combination of factors.
To improve competitiveness, showing the gearing benefit of the higher sales.
we have adjusted selling prices by product category Continental Europe and increased customer discounts, which has 2006 2005 reduced gross margin.
In addition there were changes Revenue 267.9m 243.5m in product mix with higher growth in lower margin Revenue growth 8.3% 2.5% technologies and changes in geographic mix with Contribution 59.9m 56.3m the lower gross margin US business growing more % of revenue 22.4% 23.1% quickly than the rest of the Group which adversely 15 2005 06 has seen accelerated sales growth across impacted Group gross margin by 0.3% points.
Europe, particularly in the major European markets 12 significant net cost price decreases have been of France, Germany and Italy, with the strongest 9 achieved through range rationalisation, particularly improvement in France a 7% point improvement.
6 in MRO, and greater use of own-brand.
Across all markets growth was stronger in the second 3 We will continue to manage the trade-off half of the year 11.1% than the first half 5.1%.
The 0 between gross margin, sales and gross profit, but 03 04 04 05 05 06 EEM strategy has resulted in a significant expansion with a greater focus on increasing gross profit.
We of the product offer in the major European markets expect the rate of gross margin decline to reduce leading to additional revenue.
as our competitive position is adjusted.
Sales via e-Commerce have grown to The profit before tax is net of a charge of over 28% of total revenue, up from 22% last year.
2.7m relating to share based payment plans for e-Procurement continues to perform well, notably in employees.
This is a non-cash item and the majority Germany and Austria, with strong growth amongst 15 of options in issue have exercise prices signicantly large customers who appreciate our broad product above the share price on 31 March 2006. range, high service levels and e-Commerce 10 Closing net debt was 120.8m, 65.4m capabilities, combined with competitive terms 5 higher than last year end.
Financial ratios remained and conditions.
0 strong with high interest cover.
The pension deficit We have further intensied our marketing net of deferred tax at 31 March 2006 was 29.7m.
and sales activities across the region, with more -5 03 04 04 05 05 06 In addition, there were reorganisation costs marketing material going out more often to more of 3.7m incurred in the year and a one-off provision customers, shared across markets wherever of 4.0m for the forthcoming Restriction of possible.
Examples include our RoHS activities Smaller European Markets Hazardous Substances RoHS Directive.
RoHS is and recently developed Electronics marketing France, Germany and Italy becoming increasingly important for our customers material to support the EEM strategy.
We have Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 9 o % r g h t s w e l o a r s g e s p e l o a r s u l E a l n a o t i n t e a n n i r t e n t o n C I BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED focused on securing larger orders and quotation taken to increase the level of investment.
Extensive business and have also secured several large research concluded that customers in China value customer contracts.
These have adversely impacted suppliers who offer a wide range of products with gross margin but driven gross profit and increased assured delivery and knowledgeable local sellers.
Therefore, a four point plan to accelerate growth We have also sought further opportunities further in China has been approved and will be to shift resource to the customer facing roles in implemented in 2006 07.
We plan to: 25 order to increase coverage and develop sales to increase product range, combining an increase 20 existing customers.
in stocked products with access to the EEM 15 In Spain we successfully completed the extended offer: 10 ofce relocation and warehouse expansion resulting increase levels of stock to improve delivery service: 5 in improved service levels to our customers.
increase sales agents and sales ofces to enhance 0 The focus for management in the next year 03 04 04 05 05 06 face to face selling: and will be to continue the momentum of growth whilst increase marketing investment to drive rolling out EBS.
North America To support the implementation of the plan, 2006 2005 a further investment of 1.5m will be made by Revenue 137.5m 112.8m the Group in the coming year.
Revenue growth 18.0% 19.4% A sales ofce is to be opened in mid 2006 Contribution 19.2m 15.7m 20 in Thailand to exploit the opportunities in this % of revenue 14.0% 13.9% 15 developing market.
Allieds sales growth improved to 22% in the second 10 half from 14% in the first half.
UK 2006 2005 Allied has continued its proven growth 5 Revenue 353.6m 358.8m strategy.
The eld salesforce was expanded further 0 Revenue growth 3.0% 0.6% 03 04 04 05 05 06 and sales management strengthened within our Gross margin 53.0% 54.5% network of 55 branches.
The product range was again Operating costs as a % of revenue 25.6% 24.8% expanded in the October 2005 catalogue with the Contribution 96.9m 106.6m addition of around 16,000 new products.
Allied has % of revenue 27.4% 29.7% increased its marketing programmes developed Revenue in the UK declined by 2% in the second half, jointly with suppliers and the descriptions and compared with a decline of 4% in the first half.
images of the products have been enhanced to aid Revenue continued to be affected by the long term 10 customer choice.
In addition, service levels have been decline in manufacturing and slower economic improved and the Groups stock management system 5 growth in the wider economy.
Increased price has now operated satisfactorily for a full year.
0 exibility helped drive strong large order growth Gross margin declined in the first half of and win or retain several large contracts.
-5 the year and the rate stabilised in the second half In December, we successfully implemented at around 36%.
We are now focusing on exploiting The Group has approved the investment in the new platform to drive additional benets for a new warehouse and ofce in Fort Worth to replace our customers as well as financial and qualitative the existing one.
The investment is on track and the benets for the UK business.
building is expected to be opened in mid 2007 at a e-Commerce continued to grow throughout capital cost of around 22m, which will be incurred the year and accounted for 28% of UK business.
An mainly in 2006 07. upgrade to our Internet trading channel will improve Asia Pacic including Japan search and browse capabilities for our products, while 2006 2005 further web enhancements are planned to support Revenue 69.5m 58.8m the implementation of the EEM strategy.
Revenue growth 14.5% 13.1% Contribution 7.2m 5.5m Two new Call & Collect points were opened % of revenue 10.4% 9.4% in Leicester and Coventry enabling same day collection of 135,000 products to customers in those The region enjoyed strong growth in both sales and areas.
Both new locations showed significant growth.
Revenue grew strongly in all the markets: The sales and profitability of the UK business North Asia 21%, South Asia 19%, Australasia 12% and have declined over several years driven by the Japan 11%.
In the Asia Pacic region as a whole, decline in UK manufacturing.
Investment in sales and revenue growth accelerated in the second half to marketing and significant cost reduction actions 16% from 13% in the first half.
Japan recovered from the slowdown in through the period have only partially offset the growth experienced in the first half, with growth effects of negative operating leverage.
A fundamental of 12.9% in the second half, in part due to the review of the role and strategy of the UK business improvement in the general electronics and related has been undertaken following the implementation manufacturing sectors and by refocusing on growing of EBS.
The objective is to generate a sustainable new customers in the more buoyant sectors.
profit and enable future growth.
During the year China grew by 28%.
RS has A clear strategy has been dened.
The UK a leading position in China and a decision has been business will focus on two separate customer offers: Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 10 % h % t w h o t r w g o s r g e l % s a e h s l t a a w s c o i c r r i e g f i m s c e A a l P a h t s a r i K o s N U A EEM and MRO.
The different offers are based on Additional stock of 7m was also brought in to an understanding of customer needs dened from protect service during the implementation period.
extensive customer research and based upon our Our disaster recovery and support recognised core strengths of range, availability, capabilities have also been strengthened during order facilitation and reliable delivery.
this year to ensure the Group hub can support the The UK will implement the Group EEM growth of the business going forward.
Our main strategy see separate description.
Existing sales systems now operate from two data centres in resources will be redeployed to a dedicated EEM London and our applications are supported through salesforce.
Marketing, catalogue and e-Commerce a strategic partnership with an external provider.
Activity is already underway in several of significant changes to the operational our main European markets to roll out the common approach of the UK business will be made to deliver template across Europe with the roll out being largely the strategy.
The number of MRO products and completed by the end of the next financial year.
EBS suppliers on offer will be radically rationalised and the costs for next year are expected to be in the low proportion of RS own-brand product increased.
There 20ms with the cash ow impact expected to be will be greater price and discount exibility.
large order and technology based discounts enabled Our Asian EBS programme is nearly complete by EBS will be increased following successful trials and the Chinese sales ofces will be brought onto A clear strategy has been dened.
The UK where they have been shown to be effective in the system in 2006 07.
This will put the final piece business will focus on two separate customer increasing gross profit and improving the price of infrastructure in place to drive our plans for offers: EEM and MRO.
Range rationalisation and accelerated business growth in Asia.
The roll out of The UK strategy is based on an continued action on cost prices will be used to offset EBS in North America will follow the warehouse move.
understanding of customer needs dened pressure on gross margins.
More business will be In addition to providing a robust foundation from extensive customer research and migrated to the web and the cost of other channels to support the future growth of the Group, EBS will based upon our recognised core strengths reduced.
The role of the salesforce will change with of range, availability, order facilitation and provide substantial benets in working capital reliable delivery.
management, reduction of cost and increased sales.
The cost base will be reduced through a significant changes to the operational RESTRICTION OF HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES combination of targeted cost reductions, reducing approach of the UK business will be made DIRECTIVE ROHS to deliver the strategy.
complexity in the offer and EBS benets delivery.
The Group has prepared for the Restriction of Hazardous EBS Activity is already underway in several of Substances Directive RoHS which will take effect in 2006 2005 our main European markets to roll out the July 2006.
This European Directive requires changes to common EBS template across Europe with Depreciation and amortisation 6.8m 5.6m be made to products that are to be used in production, the roll out being largely completed by the Project and support costs 12.4m 1.9m although not in maintenance.
The Group has worked end of the next financial year.
Local business costs 5.9m 1.7m closely with suppliers to understand how they plan to Total 25.1m 9.2m RoHS will take effect in July 2006.
It is likely effect this change.
There may be limited instances that demand for non-compliant products Cash outflow 38.0m 16.6m where we dual stock, where customer demand for will decline.
We have provided 4.0m to compliant stock is particularly strong.
In December 2005 the Enterprise Business System cover this risk.
The non-compliant products will be replaced by went live successfully in the UK, the largest operating compliant products when Group stocks are exhausted company, including all central processes and support and compliant products are available from suppliers.
The focus of the team is The emphasis has been on informing customers of the now on delivering the benets and continuing the roll relevant RoHS requirements and minimising the out across Europe.
financial exposure to the Group.
Although little decline in EBS replaces existing standalone systems demand for non-compliant product has been seen to with a common regional system that will be able date, it is likely that demand for non-compliant to support the Group for many years.
significant products, while not ceasing, will decline as the Directive incremental benets are expected to be driven from launch date is reached July 2006.
Therefore we have this level of integration, including improved stock provided 4.0m to cover this risk.
management and visibility, enhanced customer The Group currently has around 70,000 and product information facilitating more targeted RoHS compliant products available in Europe.
marketing and reduced finance and administration In addition, RS has been among the first to be overheads.
As in prior years, the Group reviewed awarded the BSI RoHS trusted kitemark in the the value of the EBS asset on the balance sheet at UK and Benelux.
31 March 2006 58m and the estimated additional costs to complete the European roll out and has PROCESSES 2006 2005 concluded that the cash ows of the business Process costs 81.9m 74.1m fully support the value of the EBS asset.
Costs for the full year were in line with The Processes support our operating companies by expectations at 25.1m, the total cost having ensuring that they have the products, infrastructure increased by 15.9m since last year.
The additional and expertise to provide consistently high service costs relate to the business readiness and testing levels around the world.
The main area of cost costs incurred in the UK prior to go-live and were increase has been in Information Systems, as incurred mainly in the second half of the year.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 11 BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED Information Systems rate differentials and tax efficiency.
Borrowing IS costs increased during the year, due to one-off requirements through the year are signicantly project costs and higher ongoing running costs determined by dividend and tax payments.
The peak including the new data centres.
The one-off costs net borrowing in the year was 146m.
In addition, the pension deficit net of deferred tax was 29.7m.
totalled 3.1m and related to the IS department The Groups two main sources of debt are restructuring and groupwide technology upgrade.
a bilateral facility for US$100m maturing in February The groupwide technology upgrade is the upgrade 2008 and a syndicated facility for US$120m and of the desktop hardware, software, le, print and email infrastructure.
This is expected to lower 110m from nine banks maturing in February 2010. ongoing operational expenditure through common The syndicated facility was augmented by US$45m global systems and increase productivity through the in January 2006 with the inclusion of a new US use of a common set of world class technologies.
Following the implementation of EBS in the PENSION UK, the IS Process underwent a major restructuring The Group has dened benefit schemes in the UK, to support better the new system.
All these schemes are now This Process also supported the delivery of closed to new entrants.
Elsewhere including the the extended range capability through e-Commerce replacement schemes in the UK and Ireland the channels and created two new data centres in the schemes are dened contribution.
Product Management has reduced the cost UK to support the implementation of EBS and provide Under IAS 19, the combined deficit of of product through a programme of product appropriate disaster recovery.
the dened benefit schemes was 41.8m at rationalisation and negotiations with suppliers.
The combined deficit of the dened benefit Supply Chain is responsible for the logistics of A valuation of the UK dened benefit scheme schemes was 41.8m at 31 March 2006. product supply, including management of all stocks.
was carried out as at 31 March 2006, which showed The main priority during the year has been to a gross deficit of 35.0m.
This was lower than last The Board regularly considers the main risks support the implementation of EBS in the UK and to of the Group and how to mitigate those risks.
year as a result of higher equity returns tempered plan for the roll out of the system to Europe.
In by higher life expectancy assumptions.
In order to particular, the Process has ensured that the business eliminate the deficit, based on the assumptions has been able to sustain high levels of customer used in the valuation at 31 March 2004, the Group service during the UK implementation and that this is continuing to make additional annual payments will continue during the roll out phase.
to the scheme for the next 13 years 2005 06: Supply Chain also supported the 4.4m and increasing at 3% per year.
The total implementation of the EEM extended range, with pension charge was 12.9m, a decrease of the Allied team responding effectively to the urgent 0.8m from last year.
challenge to supply around 75,000 of their products RISKS to customers in Europe.
The Board regularly considers the main risks of Product Management the Group and how to mitigate those risks.
The Product Management manages the selection and four most significant business risks are: purchase of around 350,000 distinct products sold that the Group strategy and business model by the Group.
does not deliver results: During the year, Product Management has that the EBS implementation in the rest of Europe focused on supporting the EEM extended range fails or is signicantly delayed: implementation and the roll out of the MRO strategy, that negative pricing perceptions are not addressed while reducing the cost of product through a effectively and significant value destruction occurs: programme of product rationalisation and negotiations and with suppliers.
Product Management also underwent a that the business does not react quickly enough reorganisation to align it better with the Group strategy.
and quality staff cant be attracted and retained.
Media Publishing Process Group strategy The Media Publishing Process MPP is responsible The Group strategy has been implemented in for the design and production of the Groups response to at profits over an extended period and publications and the content for e-Commerce.
MPP some consistent messages from customer research has been successful in driving down the cost of undertaken across UK and Europe.
After one year of catalogues particularly through a revised paper the 3 year implementation programme, the Group contract.
These media remain key to Group sales, has made good progress and is confident that the despite the increasing use of e-Commerce channels.
strategy is the right course of action.
EBS implementation CAPITAL STRUCTURE Our EBS systems implementation in the UK proceeded Net debt of 120.8m at the year end was made up of successfully in December 2005.
We plan to roll out gross borrowings of 160.2m denominated 61.3m EBS to the rest of the Europe.
We are confident that in US Dollars, 38.7m in Euro, 34.9m in Yen, and the application of the experience and lessons learnt 25.3m in other currencies and financial assets of from the UK implementation will ensure any local 39.4m denominated 20.3m in Sterling, 16.8m market disruption is minimised, however the potential in Euro and 2.3m in other currencies.
This mix is for some localised disruption does remain.
driven by translation exposure hedging, interest Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 12 As a distribution business we are heavily dependent Ethical trading on our data and communications systems.
During As we develop our product range and increase our supplier base we ensure that where appropriate all 2005 we upgraded the resilience of, and contingencies major new and existing direct suppliers undergo for, our key engine-room systems to accompany a process of ethical audit and assessment, and the introduction of the UK EBS programme which that all suppliers are aware of our corporate signicantly improved the risk prole of the responsibility principles.
Until all our businesses are moved to the EBS platform we recognise the potential exposure Health and safety from the disruption of our heritage data processing Our Groupwide health and safety management systems.
We have a rigorous process in place to processes are based on the application of risk review and test our business continuity and disaster management techniques and on the Occupational recovery arrangements to support customer service Health and Safety Standard OHSAS18001 principles.
Our UK businesses have been certied to OHSAS18001 since 2003.
Price perception Greater customer awareness of price and the Environment improving capabilities of our international and We are committed to minimising the impact of our local competitors mean we must closely monitor activities on the environment and to the continuous global and local market developments and the improvement of our environmental performance.
The Group has made good progress and implications these may have for our customer remains confident that the strategy is During 2005 our Japanese business achieved the right course of action.
We manage this through regular certication to ISO14001 and 56% of our staff are analysis of thousands of prices, comparing them now employed in ISO14001 certied operations.
We are committed to minimising the impact with competitors and with other products offered of our activities on the environment and to RoHS and WEEE by the Group.
This allows us to be more aware of the continuous improvement of our We have comprehensive arrangements to address environmental performance.
misaligned prices and to correct them quickly.
the requirements of the RoHS Directive and these People efforts were recognised by the award of the British The human and organisational challenges presented Standard Kitemark standard for Trusted RoHS by the implementation of the strategy together with supplier in January 2006. the continuing tight control of costs has placed With the progressive introduction of the significant new demands on our organisation and Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment WEEE employees.
We are therefore supplementing Directive across the European Union, we have been working to ensure national arrangements and competencies in key technical areas through product ranges are compliant with the new developing our internal skills together with targeted requirements of national legislation.
We are also adapting our For full details of our policies and business structures to realise cost benets where procedures and our performance in the practicable, and service improvements where financial year, please refer to our website, possible.
We recognise the importance of giving www.
com, where you will nd a clear message and direction to our staff during a dedicated page on corporate responsibility.
We have launched a Values and Culture programme designed to retain the positive elements of our culture and develop those attributes that will enable success of the strategy such as speed, exibility and customer service.
Action planning workshops are taking place across the business to identify the key enablers to make our business more customer focused and all employees are encouraged to participate with ideas and suggestions.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY We have a set of Corporate Responsibility principles both to guide our trading practices and to set ethical standards for our management processes.
Corporate responsibility management and accountability Our corporate responsibility procedures and processes form part of our established procedures for the identication, management and control of risk to the business.
Overall responsibility for these processes and their performance rests with the Board, which regularly reviews and approves the Group corporate responsibility policies, objectives and performance.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 13
