Business review FKI Logistex Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2006 2005 m m Turnover 403.5 348.3 Operating profit 14.6 11.6 Net operating assets 43.0 56.4 The new linear belt sorter stated before allocating goodwill to better aid comparability achieved the milestone of The turnover of FKI Logistex increased by 15.8% due to a 45.1 million being approved for use by increase in underlying sales assisted by a 10.1 million favourable impact on currency translation.
Order intake during the year amounted to both the US Postal Service 394.9 million and was 12.1% up on the previous year resulting in a closing order book of 230.0 million 2005: 216.4 million.
currency terms, underlying operating profit increased by 2.7 million 23.3% after charging restructuring costs of 1 million.
Margins improved from 3.3% to 3.9% before restructuring.
Order intake by the European based businesses improved by over 50% compared to the previous year.
In the Post & Parcel sector, orders were secured across Europe as customers increased activity.
An improvement in order intake was also seen in the Warehouse and Distribution sector where contracts were secured for a number of integrated solution based automated warehouses.
Major projects included a leading European fashion retailer in Spain and Wolseley in the UK at a combined value of approximately 55 million.
The business also continued to build its market position in the Far East.
In the Airports sector, FKI Logistex secured a contract worth approximately 22 million for the supply of a complete baggage handling system at the new Shanghai Pudong Airport terminal.
The recently introduced Library-Mate solution is generating significant interest and has generated orders in Denmark, Germany and the USA.
08 FKI plc Operating and financial review In North America the Warehouse and Distribution business increased order FKI Logistex secured intake by 20% over the corresponding period last year, achieving increased market presence.
This has been driven by sustained growth in small to a contract worth medium sized orders as well as notable successes with some new larger approximately 22 million customers in the retail sector.
for the supply of a The US market for Airports Post & Parcel proved challenging in the second half of the year.
Some project difficulties were encountered on complete baggage a few contracts which, although resolved, did impact trading.
In addition, market conditions in the Airports sector deteriorated with unattractive handling system at the contractual terms and lower pricing resulting in a number of contracts new Shanghai Pudong being lost as the company declined to chase low margin projects with onerous terms.
However, the business did secure its first major North Airport terminal.
American airport service and maintenance contract at Las Vegas.
During the period the Group increased its focus and spend on core product development for use in all sectors.
The objective is to strengthen market leadership positions in sortation and high-performance materials handling product lines.
The new linear belt sorter achieved the milestone of being approved for use by both the US Postal Service and FedEx while the recently introduced Library-Mate solution is generating significant interest and has generated orders in Denmark, Germany and the USA.
Further opportunities to rationalise operations were identified during the year resulting in 1 million of costs being charged.
The short payback on these activities will generate net benefits in 2006 07.
09 FKI plc Operating and financial review The Group announced the acquisition of the marine and offshore ropes business of Marlow Ropes for 1.2 million.
Bridon saw particularly strong demand for oilfield mooring and anchor lines following the storms in the Gulf of Mexico.
10 FKI plc Operating and financial review Lifting Products and Services Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2006 2005 m m Turnover 393.3 316.0 Operating profit 45.0 37.4 Net operating assets 155.3 140.9 stated before allocating goodwill to better aid comparability Turnover in the period increased by 24.5% reflecting a 21.1% 66.8 million improvement in underlying trading and a 10.5 million favourable currency translation impact.
Operating profit also benefited from currency translation in addition to an improvement of 6.0 million 16.0% in underlying operating profit.
The continuation of the healthy growth of underlying profitability and turnover seen last year was underpinned by the very positive macroeconomic environment.
High global oil and High global oil and gas prices driven by uncertainties over supply have gas prices driven by continued to drive demand for both Bridon and Crosby products uncertainties over supply A period of sustained price escalation in traded metals has resulted in increased activity in the mining industry have continued to drive Strong steel prices continue to benefit the Groups Harris operations, demand for both Bridon which supply scrap-processing equipment and Crosby products.
Crosby continues to develop and grow its business through increasing its distribution base and its product range.
During the year full service distribution has been added in Latin America and South East Asia and two major oil field product lines have been added to the portfolio to capitalise on the opportunities presented by the buoyant energy market.
The year-end order book for these products is equivalent to 40 weeks of production with the consequent long lead times for new product impacting further order intake.
The market dynamics for construction wire are, however, very different with cheap imports into Europe affecting pricing and volumes.
The Group benefited from better than planned performance from the first year of contributions from the two recent acquisitions: IP Clamps and a 52.85% stake in Tianjin No 1 Steel Wire Rope Company.
On 10 January the Group announced the acquisition of the marine and offshore ropes business of Marlow Ropes for 1.2 million.
The acquired business is a market leader in high performance fibre ropes for offshore and single point mooring applications.
It is highly complementary to the Groups steel wire rope operations and will extend Bridons product offering in specialised mooring systems to include both steel wire rope and fibre rope solutions.
The year saw continued pressure on commodity prices and materially higher energy costs, especially in UK operations.
The Group was largely successful in passing on increases in raw materials to customers but in a global market it is not possible to pass on local energy based cost rises.
Significant activity is underway in the businesses to offset these inflationary pressures through manufacturing efficiencies.
11 FKI plc Operating and financial review Hardware Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2006 2005 m m Turnover 201.6 199.7 Operating profit 27.8 27.6 Net operating assets 70.7 77.2 stated before allocating goodwill to better aid comparability Despite a 6.0 million decline in trading, turnover in Hardware rose slightly due to a 7.9 million favourable exchange impact.
Operating profit declined by 1.0 million in constant currency terms.
Zinc is a key raw material in this group and the inability to fully recover significantly increased input costs has impacted performance during the period.
Housing starts and refurbishment activity in North America remained Housing starts and strong with North American housing starts growing by 2.6% in the year to December 2005.
Consequently, Truth Hardware enjoyed another strong refurbishment activity in year with the increased commitment to customer care supported by an North America remained active new product introduction programme growing market share for the first time for several years.
strong with North As expected, market demand for the non-window Hardware businesses American housing starts remained relatively stable as the business continued its evolutionary path from product manufacturer to procurer.
The closure of the last remaining growing by 2.6% in the dedicated manufacturing facility at the Keeler Furniture site in Grand year to December 2005.
Rapids was announced in the second half and an impairment charge of 4.3 million has been included in the results for 2005 06.
Following the closure over 95% of products sold will be based on an outsourced model.
At its interim results presentation on 1 December 2005, the Group announced that it was intending to consolidate the activities of the non-window Hardware companies in North America in a single business which is known as Hickory Hardware.
Whilst the full details have yet to be finalised, special reorganisation costs of circa 5 million are expected to be incurred to fully consolidate activities in the current year.
The consolidation will lead to opportunities for property rationalisation, overhead efficiencies and coordinated procurement, logistics and distribution.
The reorganisation will result in an improved cost base and a combined company that will be better positioned for profitable growth as it will be able to: - maintain historical strength as a market leader in design - become lowest delivered cost option for customers - focus on driving superior returns for retail customers through assortment planning and merchandising improvements - build on a strengthened core business with strategic moves into adjacent markets - attract new leadership talent 12 FKI plc Operating and financial review Energy Technology Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2006 2005 m m Underlying Turnover 319.2 292.0 Operating profit 30.6 28.8 Continuing Turnover 275.0 254.8 Operating profit 21.5 23.0 Net operating assets 141.5 137.1 Stated before allocating goodwill to better aid comparability Underlying performance for Energy Technology includes results for Bristol Babcock until its disposal on 17 March.
Under IFRS accounting regulations its results are now shown in discontinued businesses.
All comments below are based on Energy Technology continuing businesses only.
Turnover in Energy Technology grew by 7.9% in the period which was due to a 19.9 million improvement in underlying trading assisted by a 0.3 million favourable currency translation impact.
Order intake of 286.0 million 2005: 228.8 million was up 25% and the order book at 31 March stood at 179.5 million 2005: 168.4 million.
Power generation continues to provide excellent opportunities for FKI generator businesses as long-term growth in global electricity consumption continues.
Power generation The market for large generators from Brush continues to show steady continues to provide recovery with gas turbine manufacturers becoming increasingly confident excellent opportunities of medium-term demand.
Order intake reflected this position resulting in a strong closing order book.
There has also been significant investment by for FKI generator utilities and operators towards upgrading their installed equipment base which has given rise to growth in aftermarket activity.
businesses as long-term A buoyant oil and gas market has increased demand for product to support growth in global electricity exploration activities.
Contracts for supply were secured in the North Sea, Caspian Sea and Africa.
13 FKI plc Operating and financial review Marellis smaller generator range saw good demand throughout its A buoyant oil and gas markets with standby generation capacity requirements being a key driver.
Sales grew by 7.9% but were not matched by increased margins as the market assisted by the high increasing prices of copper and other commodities more than offset oil price has increased any volume benefits.
demand for product Increases in input prices had a significant impact on the whole of the Energy Technology group in the period.
Input costs increased by to support exploration 9 million, owing to limited market capacity for large forged steel components, significantly increased copper and electrical steel prices and activities.
Contracts for rising UK energy costs.
Because of the long-term nature of the Brush supply were secured in the Turbogenerator contracts it was not possible to recover the majority of these increases in sales prices during the year.
Other group businesses, North Sea, Caspian Sea although with shorter lead times between order and delivery, were and Africa.
nevertheless adversely affected by the rapidly changing raw material market prices.
Demand for FKI Switchgear products has improved following the difficulties of last year and order intake improved by 27%, with particular strength in the light rail and UK utility markets.
In addition, a number of significant export successes have been achieved including an order for Beijing Power Supply Systems representing the first breakthrough into the rapidly expanding Chinese market.
During the second half of the year a decision was taken to improve the competitive position of the business by rationalising manufacturing activities at a cost of 1.4 million.
The combination of increased order books and a more effective cost base leaves the business well positioned for the future.
Following the year end, the Group announced on 18 April the acquisition of Harrington Generators, a leading designer and supplier of specialist generators used in providing innovative solutions for power supplies where access to mains power is unavailable or reliable standby power is required.
The acquisition, at a cost of 6.0 million, complements the Groups broader generator activities and is consistent with Group strategy of concentrating its focus on the major businesses.
14 FKI plc Operating and financial review Outlook The Group enters the new year in a good position to continue to deliver improvements in underlying performance.
As in previous years, however, reported performance will be impacted by currency translation of overseas activities.
In FKI Logistex, order intake and turnover are forecast to be relatively stable with higher activity levels in warehousing and distribution offsetting a reduction in US airport activity.
Operating margins are expected to continue to grow reflecting the ongoing improvement in project execution Logistex order intake and delivery processes and further reductions in cost.
and turnover are forecast Market demand in Lifting Products and Services is predicted to remain buoyant and another year of strong performance is forecast although to be relatively stable growth rates are expected to be below last years exceptional levels.
with higher activity In Hardware, external forecasts for US housing starts in 2006 suggest a 6%-7% decline although the first quarter of the calendar year has not levels in warehousing reflected this.
Based on this forecast decline, Truths performance is expected to be stable as market share gains and operating efficiencies and distribution offset the potential volume declines.
Underlying Hickory Hardware offsetting a reduction performance should benefit from operating efficiencies and some sales improvements.
As mentioned above, special reorganisation costs to fully in US airport activity.
consolidate activities are forecast at 5 million and will provide additional operational improvements in future periods.
Performance in Energy Technology should improve based on a good order entry position, opportunities for product range extension and good market growth forecasts.
The year-on-year net effect of commodity prices is expected to decrease allowing volume driven margin improvements.
Overall, despite an environment of volatile commodity prices and fluctuations in exchange and interest rates, the Group is well positioned to strengthen the market position of its major businesses and improve its underlying operating performance again in 2006 07.
Environmental and employee matters Information regarding environmental issues and employment matters is discussed in the Corporate Social Responsibility section of our Annual Report.
This includes a review of Key Performance Indicators concerning the methods used in monitoring our performance against our targets in these areas.
15 FKI plc Operating and financial review
