18 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 Business Review DTZ property valuations Underlying Port operating profit Dividend per share Calculation of Worth Including share of associate Market Value Before increase in fair value of port investment properties and one off items For the denition of Market Value and Calculation of Worth, see Glossary on page 96.
Port revenue increased by increased by 4% to 14.5 million tonnes.
Liquid bulk tonnages decreased to 26.8 million tonnes compared to 29.8 million tonnes in 2005.
Property our associated company, improved its performance in 2006: our share of the operating profit increased to 3.2m 2005 2.5m.
revenue decreased from 17.3m in 2005 to 13.3m in 2006.
At the end of the year the Directors valued the Groups investment properties at 164.1m which produced a gross increase in value within ports of 23.8m.
This increase came from a combination of increased rental income, new customer agreements and a reduction in the yield The Group operating profit from port operations used to value the assets.
Of this, Tilbury 23.8m related to a revaluation increase in our Tilbury produced an improved financial result in 2006 on a throughput which was up by 0.1 million tonnes at 8 million tonnes.
2006 was the first port investment properties.
In 2005, there was full year of the Stora Enso contract but this tonnage increase was offset a revaluation increase of 28.2m covering a by a reduction in grain tonnages of 0.4 million tonnes reecting the closure of the Cargill and RHM facilities and lower cereal exports from the UK.
two year period and other operating income of 0.5m.
Excluding the results of MLT, which Imports of Far Eastern timber improved in the second half compared with the first half although two large vessels arrived late in December such that was sold in December 2006, the underlying only part of their cargoes was discharged by the year end.
During the year we were advised that Norske Skog, the Norwegian paper producer, would operating profit from port operations including leave the port at the end of 2006 as Tilbury was not prepared to meet its Tilbury Container Services Limited TCS was price expectations.
Tilbury re-marketed the facility and has concluded a contract with Ferryways for the operation of a daily ro-ro service between 37.3m 2005 37.3m.
We realised a gain Tilbury and Ostend.
This service started at the end of June with one vessel and is now running successfully with two vessels per day.
We would of 4.2m from the sale of our shareholding expect further growth in volume from the middle of 2007.
The total pension cost charged to the expenditure of over 1m is being invested to improve the facility for ro-ro trafc.
The warehouse facility which was used by Norske Skog has been Income Statement amounted to 5.5m, which part-let to MBM.
The remaining space is likely to be let to an existing customer of the port, which wishes to expand its facility.
Consequently, is similar to the charge in 2005 albeit that the 2007 should see an improved return from the former Norske Skog asset.
2005 gure included an amount of 1.2m for The short-sea container business marginally improved its volumes and past service pension costs.
achieved a record throughput of over 146,000 boxes from its 10 hectare facility.
The major customer, Samskip, has introduced larger vessels on its routes and the port was successful in winning new business from UCI, which operates between the port and Duisburg.
There were excellent tonnages in the year from scrap exports and cement imports.
One of the major achievements in Tilbury in 2006 was the agreement to lease an additional area of the port to Cemex for the construction of a new cement milling and grinding facility for the manufacture of blended cements.
This agreement is for a period of thirty five years with an option to extend.
Cemex is investing 40m in this facility and the port has agreed to invest over 2m.
Another port tenant will be relocated with a consequential improvement in the contribution per acre within the port.
This is another example of increasing the value of our assets by entering into a long-term lease with enhanced guaranteed minimum volumes.
20 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 Business Review continued The Enterprise Distribution Centre completed its first full year of operation.
The second new container crane, built at At the beginning of the year, the customers stock levels and dwell times a cost of 4m, became operational in August 2006 and the new straddle were such that additional warehouse capacity was made available to it: carrier eet became operational towards the end of the year.
There still this also decreased the efficiency of the operation with a consequential remains one area within the container compound, formerly occupied impact on costs.
Over the year, the stock levels have reduced and the by a small tank storage facility, which requires to be surfaced to enable operational working relationship between Stora Enso and the port has the all straddle carrier eet to be fully effective.
This is expected to be been positive.
Unfortunately, a contractual disagreement has arisen over available at the end of the first quarter of 2007 and will complete a spend the application of the contract as it relates to the guaranteed minimum of approximately 25m on the container facilities at Grangemouth to equip throughput.
Efforts to resolve this problem have been unsuccessful so it for Scotlands future container requirements.
The new equipment and far and we have therefore initiated proceedings to recover guaranteed working arrangements are expected to produce significant operational sums due under the contract.
efficiencies going forward and will provide greater capacity.
Discussions are taking place with third parties concerning the utilisation Both dry cargo and liquid bulk remained steady at 2.4 million tonnes and of land within the port for the possible setting up of a combined heat and 6.3 million tonnes respectively.
Proposals are likely to be brought forward power facility.
In the meantime, we have continued our investigation into during 2007 for additional warehouse capacity to meet expected demand.
the benets of building our own wind turbine facility at Tilbury.
It is hoped Work will also continue on developing proposals for the distribution park that at least one of these projects will be approved during 2007 and that, within the port.
as a result, Tilbury will be able to generate power from renewable resources to satisfy some or all of the ports requirements.
It was announced at the end of last year that Ineos intend to construct a bio-diesel facility within its complex at Grangemouth.
It is likely that this will lead to an increase in the import volumes of the base feedstuff required for Scottish Ports and Marine the facility.
The operating profit in 2006 was weaker than in 2005.
The drivers of the business remain container volumes at Grangemouth, coal at Leith and towage in the Firth of Forth.
Dry cargo tonnages rose by 8% to 6.5 million Leith tonnes 2005 6 million tonnes.
As expected, liquid bulk tonnages were The trading performance in 2006 was lower than 2005 reecting, in part, signicantly below budget due to customer maintenance shutdowns: the decision by Bredero Shaw to mothball their pipe-coating facilities in Hound Point tonnages amounted to 17.1 million tonnes compared with August last year.
Coal trafc remained strong and produced 1.3 million 19.4 million tonnes in 2005 and Braefoot Bay tonnages were down by tonnes through the port as compared with 0.6 million tonnes in 2005.
0.4 million tonnes at 2.8 million tonnes.
Hound Point did not see the benefit in 2006 from the Buzzard Field but it is expected that volumes Following a review in the second half of last year, it was decided to close from this eld will increase the Hound Point tonnages signicantly in 2007. the Imperial Grain Silo facilities.
The original silo was built in 1934 with subsequent additions: in view of new regulations covering such facilities The deliberations on ship-to-ship transfer STS continued throughout together with the costs of maintaining an elderly asset which would also 2006.
The Company has a statutory responsibility to consider the require significant further investment, there was no economic justication proposals put forward by SPT Marine Services Ltd SPT to carry to retain it.
As a consequence, all future grain requirements will be out STS operations within the Firth of Forth.
As previously reported, accommodated through at stores, as opposed to the silo, at a reduced the Secretary of State for Transport announced a further consultation operating cost.
The silo site will, in the long-term, be available for potential period which continued into the first quarter of 2006.
The impairment charge arising from this decision amounted Coastguard Agency MCA approved the STS Oil Spill Contingency Plan to 0.8m with a further 0.3m to cover redundancy costs.
As Competent Authority, the Company is carrying out an Appropriate Assessment under the Habitats Directive.
Scottish Natural Looking to 2007, it is likely that the Bredero Shaw facility will remain Heritage has been given the opportunity to comment on the Appropriate mothballed although the potential order book beyond this period looks Assessment as statutory consultee.
The nalised Appropriate Assessment encouraging.
The coal business is expected to continue with high tonnages will be made available to stakeholders for comment before a decision is for the foreseeable future.
We hope to be in a position this year to have nalised.
The Board expects to determine the SPT application this year.
a fully costed proposal for a new cruise liner facility for Edinburgh which would be located outside the existing lock entrance to the port.
We believe that it is important for a new facility to be built in Edinburgh to enhance Grangemouth growth in tourism in the City.
However, the project will need Public Sector Grangemouth again increased its container throughput which rose 6% to financial assistance if it is to be realised.
Based on feasibility studies, we 140,000 boxes compared with 132,000 boxes in 2005.
This increase in believe that the benets to the Scottish economy would be significant if volume was achieved during a year in which the working pattern within the such a facility were to be built.
container division was changed from a single to a double shift system in order to extend the operational window for receipt and delivery of boxes.
This resulted in the recruitment of twenty new employees who were trained during the year.
As a consequence of the change in working practices, thirty employees took voluntary redundancy on a phased basis as the new ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 21 In September 2006, our joint venture partner, Container Finance Limited Dundee OY CF sold its controlling interest in its container shipping company The trading performance at Dundee was strong.
The level of liquid bulk to Eimskip, part of the Avion Group of Iceland, with an option to sell the cargo through the port decreased from 0.7 million tonnes to 0.6 million remaining shares.
With this change in strategy, CF approached the tonnes in 2006.
Dry cargo increased by 9% to 0.6 million tonnes.
North Sea Company to purchase its 50% stake in MLT.
A sale was concluded at Oil activity was up signicantly both in terms of tonnage and revenue.
The a price of 28.5m which generated a profit after costs of 4.2m and port entered into a ten year lease with Crown Timber which has established an internal rate of return on the original investment of in excess of 19%.
a timber treatment plant and distribution base within the port.
The port also saw the export of 23,000 tonnes of barley at the end of the year.
Although We view the Baltic as an attractive long-term growth area and are looking the port will not handle any Norske Skog paper tonnage in 2007, this at other potential opportunities in that region.
business has been substantially replaced by other regional customers.
Rosyth and Fife Ports Property After a disappointing first half performance, Rosyth improved in the second Following the evolution of the property strategy announced in September half to produce a trading performance only marginally below that of 2005.
2005, the Board committed itself to publishing an independent Market The total tonnage handled amounted to 1.3 million tonnes compared with Value of the Groups property development assets on an annual basis 1.2 million tonnes in 2005.
The Superfast sailings to and from Zeebrugge at the end of each financial year.
The Market Value at December 2006 continued throughout the year at three sailings per week.
Towards the end increased 6% to 277m compared with a like for like gure of 261m of the year it was announced by Superfast that it had sold the vessel used and the Calculation of Worth amounted to 402m compared with 362m on the route.
However, this was replaced by another vessel at the end on a similar basis.
In overall terms, freight units and passenger numbers reduced but vessel occupancy levels increased.
The new vessel has a During the year, two contracts with Asda became unconditional.
The Asda smaller freight capacity but more passenger capacity.
The market for freight supermarket site at Grangemouth was sold in the first half of the year and, through Rosyth is now more than double the current shipping capacity unexpectedly, the Asda site at Western Harbour became unconditional and we will be discussing this opportunity with shipping operators.
Two in the last week of the year after Asda decided to waive all remaining years after the importation of bauxite stopped at Burntisland, there was an outstanding conditions in the missives.
These sales, together with income export cargo of 24,000 tonnes from Rosyth in the last quarter of the year.
from our remaining joint venture with AWG, produced an operating profit of 4.5m 2005 2.8m.
Last year it was announced by Fife Council that they had approved a planning application for a bio-diesel facility within the port although this Good progress has been made on the infrastructure works at Western decision is now the subject of a judicial review.
It is possible that the Harbour, Leith where planning approval for the main entry road into the output from this facility could be linked to Grangemouth for use at the development, Southgate Junction, received consent in the third quarter Ineos bio-diesel facility.
Our largest tenant at Rosyth, Oceaneering Multiex of 2006.
The land reclamation operation at Western Harbour using UK, which makes sophisticated umbilical equipment for the oil industry, demolished materials to create the nine hectare central park was brought leased additional land at Rosyth and is hoping to expand on a more in-house towards the end of the year.
Under the Edinburgh Forthside permanent basis.
banner, the inow of material from construction sites throughout Edinburgh has increased substantially.
In turn, this has enabled us to accelerate the Multi-Link Terminals Limited reclamation at modest cost.
Some five hectares of the park alongside We invested 20m to take a 50% shareholding in this group in December the existing developments at Western Harbour have been hydro-seeded 2004.
As reported in the Interim Statement, the volume growth in trafc which has already improved the appearance of this part of the development.
into Russia through St. Petersburg has been increasing at a significant rate Barratt Homes has become the latest developer to start work on a and the MLT terminal at Litke Bay benefited from this.
A second quay was 105 unit development at the southwestern corner of Western Harbour.
opened at the terminal in October 2005 but it was not allowed to be used for the import export of containers because various regulatory consents Substantial work has been done to prepare an outline planning had not been received.
As the terminal was not allowed to operate at its application for the whole of the LDDF.
This is on schedule for submission designed capacity during 2006, this made it more difficult to attract third in the first half of this year.
This will be the largest planning application party business.
The first two villages within the LDDF will form the hub of the Waterfront.
22 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 Business Review continued Following the appointment of RTKL as masterplanners for the Hub in of the Conran lease which was done with the longer term changes to the September, a full team of professional advisers has been appointed to conguration of Ocean Terminal in mind.
We are evaluating both physical advise on matters such as costs, public realm and ofce and retail and branding alternatives for Ocean Terminal which will enhance its appeal demand.
Public consultation on the Hub and the surrounding area to consumers and retailers and thus its long-term growth prospects.
commenced in the final quarter of 2006.
It is expected that the outline planning application and consultation will be completed and the results Following the change in property strategy, we have now agreed with submitted by the end of 2007.
Bellhouse Joseph Developments Limited BJD to terminate the management agreement between us.
A dividend of 1.6m was paid At Granton, the refreshed masterplan was submitted in August and has to BJL in January 2007.
BJL remains as a 10% shareholder in Forth been well received by the planning ofcials.
Detailed consultation with Property Holdings Limited.
various community groups has taken place.
It is hoped that the masterplan will be approved by the first half of 2007.
Throughout 2006, we have been working with a local developer in Tilbury to produce a masterplan of a six hectare site for a mixed use development In 2006, there were two meetings of the WDPB which was set up in August surrounding the London Cruise Terminal in the port.
The responses from to formulate policy relating to the longer term regeneration of the whole of the planning ofcials and local councillors to this proposal have been Edinburghs waterfront.
This is a good example of working with CEC and encouraging.
Within the Port of Dundee, there is an area of approximately other stakeholders to promote a better understanding of the challenges twenty five hectares at the eastern end of the port which is currently not and opportunities that the whole Edinburgh waterfront presents to the City.
being fully utilised for port operations.
The property team has been asked to look at this site as a possible development site.
Neither proposal has The Tram Bill received Royal Assent earlier in the year and in December been factored in to the DTZ valuation at December 2006.
2006, CEC approved the business case for the tram.
The tendering of the early works packages has started.
The line will run from Edinburgh Airport Key Performance Indicators to Haymarket, Princes Street, Leith Walk and down to the Ocean Terminal The Board uses the annual budget as the base for measuring the Groups Shopping Centre.
Financial and non-financial targets are set for individual senior managers and for the businesses within the Group.
At the Annual As part of the sense of place, the property team has been given approval Strategy Review, the Board considers the financial projections over a three to refurbish part of the building at Newhaven formerly occupied by Harry year time horizon.
The overarching aim is to increase the value of the Ramsdens Fish Restaurant.
This involves a spend of 1.4m with the aim Group for the benefit of the shareholders.
The management of the balance of attracting two or three quality operators to the refurbished building and interface between ports and property is an essential part of alongside Newhaven Harbour.
We have created a walkway which stretches maximising the overall value for shareholders.
from the lighthouse at Newhaven Harbour along the Western Harbour breakwater to a point just before the old lighthouse at the lock entrance The Key Performance Indicators KPIs which are used to measure this to the Port of Leith.
In due course, this will be upgraded as part of the increase in value are: further works to be done to promote the Waterfront area.
Underlying port operating profit The Company sponsored the Edinburgh Forthside Half Marathon and 2.
Growth in value of the property assets Family Fun Run in March and is doing so again this year.
Growth in value of the port assets people took part in the Half Marathon.
A jogging track has also been 4. Dividend per share created to the east of Ocean Terminal for the benefit of the local community.
In using the underlying port operating profit as a KPI, the Board is looking to increase the trading profit from the ports business excluding certain As part of the forward planning for a possible enlargement reconguration other financial effects such as revaluation changes to investment of the Ocean Terminal Shopping Centre, the area which was formerly properties and significant one off costs.
leased to Conran Holdings has been bought in and leased out on a shortterm basis to another restaurant operator.
The Ocean Terminal operating The movement in the value of the property assets is measured on an profit was lower than 2005 due to renancing costs and an increase in the annual basis by the independent valuation carried out on the property bad debt provision.
We are giving consideration to requests for additional space in the form of larger units from some existing tenants.
This may be accommodated within Trends in the Ports Business the existing building footprint or it may be that it can be accommodated Ports are increasingly nding themselves as active participants in the as part of a possible extension.
At the year end, the Directors of Ocean supply chain for the movement of goods.
This means that, rather than just Terminal Limited valued the investment property at 145.8m.
The Groups marketing shipping and handling capabilities to shipping lines, there are a share of the deficit was 1.3m which has been incorporated in the share variety of customers who, at various points in the supply chain, can control of results of joint ventures.
This deficit arose principally from the buy-in the movement of goods and who the port will be marketing its services to, ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 23 including the producer of the commodity, the shipping line, the distributor The ports industry is such that our employees tend to remain with us for of the commodity and in some cases agents and trade boards.
Our main many years as evidenced by the fact that eleven employees at Tilbury and ports all have good access for landside distribution and also, in the case three employees in Scotland achieved 40 years service last year.
Health of both Tilbury and Grangemouth, good access for the export of goods and safety is paramount and we pay particular attention to the training from the UK.
and retraining of our employees, encouraging dialogue between workforce and management to identify potential problem areas to minimise risk.
None of the ports has the depth of water to handle the new generation of We encourage national vocational qualications and support staff who wish container ships of 8,000 TEUs and more.
The maximum capacity at Tilbury to broaden their experience by attending day release or night classes.
We is ships of about 4,500 TEUs and at Grangemouth less than 2,000 TEUs.
currently have six graduate trainees whom we place throughout the Group As ship size increases in the container market, fewer main ports in Europe with the aim of deploying them as our managers of the future.
Our labour will be able to handle the largest vessels but this will also entail a more stability index last year was 91% which was up slightly on 2005. developed network of transhipment and feedering terminals which may also see an increase in vessel size.
With this in mind, both Tilbury and The land under our ownership covers 622 hectares and we also own over Grangemouth are well placed to see growth in this sector of the market 1,900 hectares of seabed adjacent the waterfront at Edinburgh.
The way with additional capacity for at least the next five years and with an in which we manage these land assets is critical to the future success of anticipation of increased feedering vessel size.
We have shown in Tilbury that we have the expertise to work with our customers to move businesses around the port to obtain greater The trends in trafc type suggest that container and ro-ro trafc will value from the asset but we also work with our customers to help them continue to increase at a rate greater than the average GDP of the UK maximise the benets that they receive from being located in our ports.
but nearly all of this trafc will be European and therefore can easily be In Leith, a similar type of expertise is required except that the interaction handled by our ports.
is between the continuing port business at Leith and the requirements to develop the assets for property use.
In our view, this can only be achieved Liquid bulk continues to be an important constituent of the make up of the by a unied management structure which, although decentralised for the Groups business.
This tonnage has gradually declined over the last five to day-to-day business, is controlled centrally at a strategic level.
We are seven years although with the Buzzard Field now on stream, there should therefore, as a Group, seeking to increase the value of our port assets be an increase in liquid bulk movements for the next few years.
Prior to the by encouraging long-term agreements with major customers to secure North Sea coming on stream in the mid-70s, the UK was a net importer of income stream and enhance value and at the same time, develop our liquid bulk and already there are signs that this may repeat itself with the property assets over a long-term period to regenerate the area around import of LNG through various ports in the UK.
the port and so increase the value of our land both absolutely and by reducing the value gap between the Waterfront and the City centre.
Dry bulk cargoes have been consistent in total volume terms over many years, however, the individual commodity mix has changed over that Risk period of time.
A good example of this would be that although grain has The Board does not consider that the Group faces any substantive played an important part in the Tilbury trafc for many years, it was only strategic risks as both business segments are in business areas where in the mid-1990s that bulk animal feed was imported through the port.
there will be ongoing demand for those services.
The ports business Reference is made elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts to the has evolved over many years and with existing trade patterns, our ports decision by Ineos to build a bio-diesel facility at Grangemouth.
This should are ideally located for that business, whether it be mainly within Europe require significant volumes of rapeseed which will require to be crushed as regards the Scottish Ports or serving London and the South East of and delivered to the facility.
This should be a new customer for our ports England from Tilbury.
The Group has a strong record of investing in in Scotland.
modern plant and equipment and this, together with increased training for our employees, will enable us to meet the challenges of the future in The thrust of our ports business is to manage our assets efficiently and offering our port customers a quality cost effective service for their needs.
improve the return we get from individual operations through more efficient use of our resources thereby releasing further assets for future development The ports business has a very wide spread of customers and either in the ports or property businesses.
This is unlikely to change in the commodities and is capable of adapting to market change as witnessed near future.
over the last ten years by the business in sludge trafc, bauxite, fertiliser manufacture and export of coal being replaced by increased container Resources volumes, the import of coal, new business such as animal feed, ro-ro Our two greatest resources are our employees and our physical asset trafc and new paper customers.
We employee 1,100 people throughout the Group and our pension scheme encompasses over 900 pensioners and 400 deferred pensioners.
The property business has its foundation in the ownership of land which If the total number of persons employed within our various ports is the Group has, particularly at Leith.
With the benefit of being able to included, then our economic activity encompasses many thousands develop such a significant browneld site over many years, the main more who are reliant on the trade through our ports.
variable is what the demand rate for this land might be.
Given the extent 24 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 Business Review Underlying port operating profits continued 2006 2005 m m Port operating profit 56.1 60.0 Operating profit TCS 3.2 2.5 59.3 62.5 Adjusted for: investment property revaluation 23.8 28.2 one off items 1.8 3.0 Total 37.3 37.3 of our landholding, it is more important to put in the infrastructure and add Nevertheless, it is important for both business segments to be able to value, development by development, rather than aim for an articial target communicate effectively with all the stakeholders with whom we have a of land sales.
business relationship and to work with them to achieve our joint aims.
The financial risks are limited to the normal commercial risks associated Finance with running a business.
We have no major currency exposure as all our Group revenue amounted to 153.6m 2005 151.5m.
The analysis business is done within the UK.
We have a risk exposure to rising interest of revenue between ports and property is shown opposite.
Historically, we have accepted this risk and not entered into financial instruments which convert oating rates into xed rates.
As a result, based Group operating profit amounted to 60.6m 2005 62.8m.
Within these on our average debt of around 175m, our interest rate exposure is gures the operating profit from the ports division amounted to 56.1m approximately 400,000 for every 0.25% increase in the interest rate.
The underlying port operating profits including TCS amounted to 37.3m 2005 37.3m as shown above.
The Group operates a dened benefit scheme which is more fully explained in Note 33 on page 88 of the accounts.
The scheme currently The one off items referred to above are shown in Note 3 on page 63. has an accounting net deficit of just under 13m, however, this is likely to In 2005, past service pension costs amounting to 1.2m were separately be less on an ongoing actuarial valuation.
As has been seen over the last identied as part of a total pension cost of 5.5m.
In 2006, the total two years, the deficit position can vary widely.
The Group paid 9.5m in pension costs amounted to 5.5m and so, there being no difference 2006 2005 7.8m and has made the commitment to continue with between the total pension costs year on year, no adjustment for this significant payments into the scheme over the next two years.
cost has been made to the underlying operating profit in 2005.
Whilst the Board believes that the Group has a good reputation in the Taxation market place, it cannot be complacent.
The nature of the ports industry The effective rate of tax for the Group for the year amounted to 25.6% is such that the day-to-day work carried out requires our employees compared with 24.6% in 2005, excluding joint ventures and associates.
to be totally aware of their working environment as there is always the The rate is lower than the standard rate because it incorporates the possibility of accidents occurring.
Some of the cargoes which are handled benefit of substantial shareholder relief attributable to the sale of the are dangerous and require to be handled in accordance with specic shares in MLT offset by the fact that our towage profits are now subject procedures.
There is always the risk of accident but we have emergency to corporation tax rather than calculated through the tonnage tax regime plans in place which are reviewed regularly and updated where necessary.
In the ports business, we have statutory responsibility for operations Cash Flow in our areas of jurisdiction.
A good example of this is the current STS proposal in the Firth of Forth where, as Competent Authority, we are The Groups operating cash ow amounted to 40.4m 2005 57.5m.
required to assess this proposal in accordance with the rules and 2006 was the second of the three year unwinding of the long-term property regulations in force: if the proposal meets the appropriate criteria, receivables position.
After 2007, subject to future property sales, it is then we must give approval whether this is welcome or not.
expected that the property infrastructure spend going forward will result in a net working capital outow for the next few years.
Any significant risk from any of the above risk categories would be debated by the Board and an agreed procedure of handling that risk Capital expenditure in 2006 amounted to 20.7m, of which 9.5m related would be delegated to the relevant Executive Director as appropriate.
to investment expenditure and 11.2m to stay in business expenditure.
The Board has an annual review of the key risks likely to be faced by The major items of capital expenditure during the year were: plant and the Group.
This risk matrix is updated annually by the Group Risk equipment 11.8m being principally straddle carriers and a crane for the and Insurance Manager who oversees the procedures involved in container terminal expansion at Grangemouth: port infrastructure works the identication of business risks and their compliance by the Group.
3.7m, a pilot vessel for the Forth 0.6m and software costs 0.6m.
A similar level of capital expenditure overall is anticipated in 2007.
Essential Business Relationships Pension Scheme As part of the normal operation of the Group, we have many business At the beginning of the year, the companies within the Group contributed relationships to maintain be they with major customers, major suppliers, to two pension schemes set up in favour of employees of the Group elected members of Parliament, UK, Scottish and European, local elected namely The Port of Tilbury London Limited Pension Fund and the Forth councillors and council ofcials.
We also deal with many Government Ports PLC Pension Scheme.
In the Interim Statement, it was advised that agencies such as the MCA, Scottish Environmental Protection Agency, the schemes had been merged with effect from 1st July 2006 to form Scottish Natural Heritage and others.
In the Boards view, there is no one The Forth Ports Group Pension Scheme.
This merger was approved single business relationship or group of business relationships which are, by the Trustees of both schemes: there were no objections raised by in themselves, material to the success of the Group.
Her Majestys Revenue & Customs or the Pensions Regulator.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 25 Revenue Group operating profit Ports Ports Property Property 2006 153.6m 2005 151.5m 2006 60.6m 2005 62.8m 7% 4% 13.3m 17.3m 140.3m 134.2m 93% 96% At the year end, the gross actuarial deficit within the scheme amounted to The Groups business is not particularly seasonal in nature, however, its 18.1m compared with a combined deficit for the two schemes of 36.3m cashow requirements may be affected by the timing of major capital as at 31st December 2005.
As a result of the new Pensions Act which expenditure projects and the receipt of cash from property sales.
In 2006, came into force on 6th April 2006, the Directors reviewed the assumption the peak borrowing requirement was 192m in November with a minimum used for employees taking cash lump sums.
Previously it was assumed requirement of 168m in April.
If the valuation of the property development that no cash lump sum would be taken.
Based on historical data from assets was recorded at Market Value in the Balance Sheet as opposed to the two pension schemes, it was decided that this assumption should cost, then the level of gearing would be 38% compared to a conventional be changed to assume that all future retirees would take cash lump sums 65%.
On the basis of the budget for 2007, the Group will not require an of 50% of the maximum allowed by current legislation.
The effect of this increase in its facility over the next twelve months.
change in assumption resulted in a reduction in the pension scheme liabilities of around 4m.
This has been incorporated in the 2006 balance Accounting Policies sheet gures.
The reduction in the deficit reects an improvement in the There has been no change to the substantive accounting policies during discount rate used to calculate the liabilities, increased payments made the year, however, the accounting policy on Clawback has been withdrawn into the scheme by the Group together with a good investment return on as Clawback no longer applies.
As with most companies, the critical accounting policies are Revenue The total cash payment made by the Group into the pension schemes Recognition and Employee Benets.
In the former, the two key areas in 2006 amounted to 9.5m compared with 7.8m in 2005.
The payment of judgement are first the determination of any shortfall positions on in 2006 included an additional special payment of 3m which the Group guaranteed minimum tonnage minimum revenue contracts in the ports agreed to pay in over each of the years 2006 to 2008.
With effect from business and second, determining the liability for costs to complete the January 2007, the ongoing cash rate paid by the Company is 21.9% various property developments and allocating those costs over the various of pensionable salaries together with the additional special payment developments.
The charge to the Income Statement for pensions costs will of 3m.
The next actuarial review of the scheme is as at April 2008. be determined by the assumptions made by the Actuary and accepted by the Company in relation to the discount rate on gilts and corporate bonds, Relatively modest changes to the assumptions can have significant the expected rate of return on the assets and the mortality assumptions.
effects on the liability position of the pension scheme.
Full details of the These are discussed further in Note 33 to the accounts on page 88. assumptions used are given in Note 33 to the accounts on page 88, however, a 0.25% increase or decrease in the discount rate used would Property Valuations result in a reduction increase in the liabilities of 9m.
If the ination At the end of the year, DTZ carried out its annual valuation of the Groups assumption was varied by 0.25%, the effect would be 3.4m.
The other property development assets which produced a Market Value at 31st significant assumption is life expectancy.
The assumption used by December 2006 of 277m.
Separately, the Directors, on advice from the Group is that, for members aged 60, males will live for a further Bidwells, valued the Groups investment properties at 164.1m, an twenty one years and females twenty four years and where a member increase of 24.1m since 31st December 2005.
The investment properties is currently aged 45, he she will live for twenty three years and twenty six largely comprise port related properties located within the dock estate.
years respectively above the age of 60.
The life expectancy gures were The substantial increase in value was arrived at after taking account of the updated at the time of the last triennial valuation in 2005. increased rental attributable to the investment properties, lower yields and improvements to the assets under lease.
One major new agreement was Capital Structure entered into in 2006 at Tilbury where Cemex, a long-standing tenant of the The Company has 45.6 million shares in issue with a nominal value of 50p port, entered into a new lease to construct a major new processing plant per share.
The net debt at 31st December 2006 amounted to 176.6m.
The level of gearing as measured by total net debt divided by total shareholders equity amounted to 65%.
This compares with 75% at 31st General December 2005.
Certain sections of the Business Review contain forward-looking statements that are based on managements expectations, projections The Company has committed banking facilities of 250m.
We believe these expectations, projections and by a ten year term loan taken out in 2004.
Repayments commence in June assumptions are reasonable, based on the information available to us.
2010 and continue until the loan is repaid in 2014.
The Company also However, these statements are not guarantees of future performance and has a revolving credit facility of 100m 2005 75m which is due for involve inherent risks and uncertainties and other factors which may cause repayment in 2009.
The balance of the facility is a 25m working capital actual achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied facility.
The bank funding is on an unsecured basis.
The banking covenants by such statements.
The Company does not undertake any obligation to cover tangible net worth, gearing and interest cover.
The Company is well update or publicly release any revisions to forward looking statements in within the covenanted ratios.
Should the Group, for any reason, renance light of new information or future events.
its borrowings with another financial institution then the existing bank has the right to demand a pre-payment fee equal to 1% of the amount prepaid and or cancelled.
