Business review The business review discusses GSKs financial and non-financial activities, resources, developments and performance during 2006 and outlines the trends and factors which are likely to affect its future development under the following headings: Optimising the performance of key products 8 Delivering the product pipeline for patients 9 Being the best place for the best people to do their best work 17 Improving access to medicines 18 Corporate responsibility and community investment 19 Global manufacturing and supply 21 Regulatory environment 22 World market 26 Products and competition 27 Financial review 2006 31 Financial position and resources 39 Outlook and risk factors 44 Financial review 2005 48 The 2006 performance overview on pages 2 and 3 form part of this business review.
Discussion of the Groups management structures and corporate governance procedures is set out in Corporate governance pages 53 to 63.
The Remuneration Report gives details of the Groups policies on Directors remuneration and the amounts earned by Directors and senior management in 2006 pages 65 to 82.
The reconciliation to US accounting principles is set out in Note 41 to the financial statements.
Accounting presentation This report is prepared under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union.
GSK has taken advantage of an exemption which permits financial instruments to be accounted for and presented on a UK GAAP basis in 2004 and only in accordance with IAS 32 and IAS 39 from 1st January 2005.
Data for market share and market growth rates are GSK estimates based on the most recent data from independent external sources, and where appropriate, are valued in Sterling at relevant exchange rates.
Figures quoted for product market share reect sales by GSK and licensees.
The Group operates in many countries and earns revenues and incurs costs in many currencies.
The results of the Group, as reported in Sterling, are affected by movements in exchange rates between Sterling and other currencies.
Average exchange rates prevailing during the period are used to translate the results and cash ows of overseas subsidiary and associated undertakings and joint ventures into Sterling.
Period end rates are used to translate the net assets of those undertakings.
The currencies which most inuence these translations are the US dollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen.
In order to illustrate underlying performance, it is the Groups practice to discuss its results in terms of constant exchange rate CER growth.
This represents growth calculated as if the exchange rates used to determine the results of overseas companies in Sterling had remained unchanged from those used in the previous year.
CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates.
% represents growth at actual exchange rates.
GSK Annual Report 2006 7 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review Optimising the performance of key products GSK undertakes a range of activities to maximise the commercial Marketing codes potential of its intellectual property by introducing innovative products, GSK is committed to ethical, responsible and patient-centred accelerating the process of bringing them to as many markets as marketing.
The Groups Pharmaceutical Marketing and Promotional possible, increasing brand recognition and improving access to new Activity policy governs marketing activities and applies to all medicines.
Both the pharmaceutical and consumer healthcare employees, suppliers, contractors and agents.
This policy requires businesses focus on ways to optimise performance of key products that all marketing and promotional activities are based on valid through a number of initiatives.
Some of these are: scientific evidence and comply with applicable laws and regulations.
Worldwide pharmaceutical sales force excellence This policy is supported by regional marketing practices codes in GSKs sales force has always ranked high in surveys with healthcare Europe, GSKs International region, Japan and the USA.
Worldwide Sales Force Excellence WSFE aims to apply the same ethical standards but reect differences in market improve customer satisfaction even further.
structures, national healthcare systems and regulations.
They incorporate the principles of industry codes of practice such as the The time available for physicians to learn about new medicines and European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries Associations, the clinical studies is precious.
Through the WSFE initiative, sales International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Associations, representatives strengthen product knowledge and learn to deliver Japan Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association and Pharmaceutical patient-specic treatment options more efficiently and more Research and Manufacturers of America marketing codes.
Research shows that a sales visit is highly effective when a representative engages the physician in dialogue around patient types Next Generation Now and supports the message with visual aids that illustrate clinical results.
In 2006, US Pharmaceutical businesses created and implemented the Next Generation Now operating model for advertising agencies.
A single global sales call model has been introduced that focuses on Design of this model, which aims to improve creativity and productivity treating the patient through a dialogue about when a GSK and achieve significant cost savings, involved a number of key areas.
medicine is appropriate, why it is effective and how to administer As a result professional brand accounts were consolidated under a it safely.
All eld staff in GSKs key markets have been trained in this single agency, which increased access to the best talent, streamlined new approach.
The entire sales organisation is involved in WSFE to account management and reduced rates.
The team also instituted bring about a cultural change that raises ethical standards and helps key changes for agency reviews and created financial parameters and build long-term, trusting relationships with the healthcare community.
resource guides to improve decision making and processes.
In addition, a dashboard of key performance indicators, a product knowledge certication process and an effective leadership training Consumer Healthcare marketing excellence programme have been established.
The recent restructuring that placed greater emphasis on the brands opportunities is now a major factor in the improved performance of Superior product knowledge is essential in serving the needs of this business.
Through this restructuring, a team called the Future healthcare professionals.
Physicians rely on GSK to keep them abreast Group was created to drive the pipelines and marketing programmes of changes in prescribing information or new clinical studies involving for global brands with significant sales in multiple markets.
As a key goal of WSFE, GSK expanded its Annual large brands that have one dominant market, but may be available Certication program to all countries.
Over 30,000 representatives in several territories, a dedicated team drives each of these lead market passed certication tests on the pathology, prescribing information brands for their dominant market.
The remaining assets, termed and key messages of their leading products.
Scores were consistently enterprise brands, are locally managed by in-market commercial around 98%, with many representatives achieving a perfect score.
teams to retain their entrepreneurial spirit and relevance.
Pharmaceutical marketing excellence Large numbers of patients suffering the effects of disease continue to be unable to benefit from innovative medicines and treatments.
For example within Europe, around 50% of patients suffering from Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease COPD are diagnosed and of those, only 60% receive regular maintenance drug therapy.
GSKs marketing initiative implements programmes to overcome the barriers to proper diagnosis and treatment, by providing accurate and balanced information on its products, to allow as many people as possible to benefit from GSKs medical advances.
While these programmes are beginning to show effects, more needs to be done before the societal costs of disease will decrease.
GSK Annual Report 2006 8 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review Delivering the product pipeline for patients Each CEDD is responsible for identifying the targets of most relevance Research and Development Pharmaceuticals in its therapeutic area and building on the lead compounds to produce Since the merger, GSK R&D has developed one of the most robust a potential medicine.
The fundamental steps in turning a lead pipelines of potential new medicines in the industry.
In 2006 compound into a medicine are optimising it for potency, efcacy and Pharmaceutical R&D was actively managing over 150 projects in safety and dening the biology in animals and humans so that the human clinical trials across the globe.
Delivering this pipeline to medicine can be tested for effects in the right patient groups.
These patients safely and efficiently is our number one goal.
inventive steps are underpinned through scientific research and the application of informed judgement to develop creative solutions to the Focus on the Patient problems and challenges that inevitably arise in discovery and early One objective unites the 15,500 people who work at GSK R&D, and development.
that is staying focused on the patient.
It drives them to discover potential treatments for disease and to develop innovative medicines Once a candidate compound is selected, the CEDDs are responsible that offer true benefit to patients.
Reaching out to and speaking with for undertaking the clinical studies necessary to demonstrate an effect patients and their families to understand the impact of disease on sufficient to declare proof of concept the first indication in their lives, their work and their community are an essential part of this.
patients that the new medicine works.
Based on the prole of safety GSK knows patients are waiting, and the focus on the patient is our and efcacy a decision is then made on whether to progress the driver to deliver the best every day.
medicine into late-stage drug development, where large-scale clinical trials are conducted to confirm the efcacy and safety and gain Pharmaceutical R&D at GSK is organised around the discovery and regulatory approval to commercialise the product.
development of medicines for patients.
Discovery is conducted by Molecular Discovery Research and GSKs Centres of Excellence for During the year, 19 new projects entered Phase II clinical trials for the Drug Discovery CEDDs, and development by GSKs Medicine first time.
Along the way, many other groups GSK is committed to developing clinical science to ensure the provide critical scientific input, conduct important experiments, and understanding of disease processes in humans and learning as much aid in managing the R&D process.
These groups are described in more as possible about the medicines in development.
The application of detail below.
experimental medicine is a major opportunity for the industry to Discovering potential medicines optimise the drug discovery process.
Advances in clinical imaging are Two components are needed in the discovery of new medicines revolutionising experimental medicine and opening opportunities to identication of the most important molecular targets that have visualise the effects of medicines in humans.
In 2006, GSK opened the potential to impact human disease and discovery of compounds that Clinical Imaging Centre CIC on the biomedical research campus of can modulate these targets to alleviate disease in an effective and Imperial College, London.
The new 46 million facility is staffed by safe way.
clinical investigation research groups working with state-of-the-art magnetic resonance imaging and positron emission tomography Molecular Discovery Research MDR produces the lead compounds imaging systems.
Facilities include radiochemistry, biology, image that may interact with targets which form the basis of drug discovery analysis and neurophysiology laboratories.
The formidable capabilities efforts in GSKs CEDDs.
In 2006, MDR progressed over 220 preclinical of the CIC are augmented through multiple, global collaborations drug discovery programmes and in so doing performed hundreds of with academic imaging centres, established by GSK over the last assays per week and provided the CEDDs with over 70 high-quality decade.
In addition to the nine CEDDs, GSK also created a Centre of Excellence When GSK R&D designed the CEDDs, they integrated groups of for External Drug Discovery CEEDD in 2005.
This small team is scientists and clinicians and organised their work around specic responsible for delivering compounds to the proof of concept stage disease areas.
At no more than 300-400 people, each CEDD is nimble by establishing and managing long-term strategic collaborations with and entrepreneurial.
GSKs nine therapeutically aligned CEDDs, based biotechnology companies, small and medium-sized pharmaceutical in Europe and the USA, are: companies and academic institutions.
In 2006, the CEEDD established Biopharmaceuticals Stevenage, UK four new collaborations and currently oversees a portfolio of 58 drug Cardiovascular Upper Merion, USA discovery projects ranging from target selection through to human Infectious Disease Upper Merion and Research Triangle Park, USA clinical trials.
Metabolic Research Triangle Park, USA Developing medicines for patients Oncology Upper Providence, USA Preclinical Development PCD includes a wide range of activities Macrolide Drug Discovery Zagreb, Croatia acquired Pliva Research throughout the entire medicines development process.
In addition, Institute in May 2006 this function is involved in the enhancement of existing products by Neurology & Gastrointestinal Diseases Harlow, UK devising more convenient formulations.
Early in the development Psychiatry Verona, Italy process, the metabolism and safety of compounds are evaluated in Respiratory and Inammation Stevenage, UK.
laboratory animals before testing in humans.
The testing required in animals is highly regulated see Animals and research, page 12.
PCD researchers investigate appropriate dosage forms for example, tablets or inhalers and develop formulations to enhance a drugs effectiveness and its ease of use by the patient.
GSK Annual Report 2006 9 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review Delivering the product pipeline for patients continued Processes and supporting analytical methods for drug synthesis and Safety data are routinely collected throughout development product formulation and delivery are scaled up to meet increasing programmes and are reported to national and regional regulatory supply requirements.
This leads to the technical transfer of the agencies in line with applicable regulations.
processes and methods to manufacturing.
The new product supply GSK considers its Chief Medical officer, working with the Global process, a partnership between R&D and Global Manufacturing and Safety Board, to be ultimately accountable for oversight of all major Supply, ensures that a robust product is developed for large-scale decisions regarding patient safety.
The GSK Global Safety Board is commercial manufacturing and launch.
responsible internally for approving pivotal studies and investigating In 2006, GSK redesigned the management of late-stage development any issues related to patient safety arising during the development by dividing the single large late-stage development organisation into programme.
Information from GSK clinical trials is widely and easily three distinct, empowered entities.
The first component, Medicines available at the Clinical Trial Register on the website.
Development, is the collection of six therapeutically aligned Medicine In 2006, GSK formed a dedicated pharmacogenetics group.
Each MDC has ultimate accountability believes that pharmacogenetic research, correlating genetic data with for developing experimental drugs into regulatory-approved response to medicine, will help its scientists understand how different medicines for patients.
The MDCs are responsible for creating value people respond to the effects of a medicine, both those through the execution of full product development plans and ensuring therapeutically intended and those causing adverse events.
R&D is strong partnerships with the rest of GSK, in particular the CEDDs and collecting DNA samples, under appropriate patient consent, in clinical the other late-stage development groups.
studies to identify pharmacogenetic information which may help The MDCs are based at the major USA and UK sites and are aligned predict a patients response.
This information is intended to define with the following therapeutic areas: patient groups likely to gain benefit from treatment or to suffer a side effect.
Pharmacogenetics promises to provide physicians with Cardiovascular Metabolic information to help them select the medicine and dose most likely to Infectious Diseases including Diseases of the Developing World benefit the patient and, in the long run, may help to reduce pipeline DDW attrition and improve productivity.
Musculoskeletal Inammation Gastrointestinal Urology Neuroscience Psychiatry Neurology In-licensing Oncology GSK continues to identify compounds from other companies that Respiratory would enhance the portfolio and to create innovative collaborations to ensure that the Group is regarded as the partner of choice for large The MDCs discharge their responsibilities through project teams for and small companies.
These project teams are responsible for maximising the worldwide development opportunities for each The subjects of acquisitions, in-licensing, co-marketing co-promotion, product within their remit and to see that all the information needed or future options arrangements in 2006 were: to support the registration, safety programmes, pricing and formulary Genmabs HuMax-CD20 ofatumumab, anti CD20 Mab in oncology negotiations is available.
Commercial input from Global Product Phase III and rheumatoid arthritis Phase II Strategy and Commercial Operations ensures that regional marketing HGS LymphoStat B for lupus erythematosus Phase III needs are integrated into development plans at an early stage.
Gilead Myogens ambrisentan commercialisation, excluding USA, The second component, Development Operations drives operational selective endothelin receptor antagonist for pulmonary arterial excellence in medicine delivery at the study, project and portfolio level.
hypertension Phase III, plus marketing and distribution agreement This is done by establishing integrated planning to ensure consistent for GSK's Flolan in the USA by Myogen and predictable drug project plans and supplying valued clinical Akros Japan Tobaccos JTP-74057, a MEK inhibitor preclinical development capabilities.
In 2006, development operations managed ChemoCentryx options on preclinical assets and tracet Phase II clinical trials with over 30,000 active patients, handling everything EPIX options on discovery targets and 5HT4 agonist Phase I from patient recruitment to data management to project planning.
Galapagos options on discovery programmes in osteoarthritis Development Operations is also responsible for helping to identify preclinical patients outside of traditional markets.
In 2006, it identied more Kisseis SGLT1 inhibitors for type 2 diabetes preclinical than 20,000 new patients, 39% of whom were outside of Western Pharmacopeia options on discovery programmes preclinical Europe and North America.
Sirnas RNAI-based therapeutics for respiratory diseases preclinical Acquisition of the Pliva Research Institute The Ofce of the Chief Medical officer is the third component of latestage development and is charged with the safety of patients involved Extending the use of existing products in clinical trials, as well as the proper ling of the findings with Once a product is launched, it is important to establish additional regulatory authorities.
All clinical trials sponsored by GSK, irrespective ways in which patients may be helped.
This can be done through of where they take place, are conducted according to international investigating whether other illnesses may be treated with the product standards of good clinical practice and applicable laws and or by the development of additional, more convenient dosage forms.
The protocols are reviewed by the external regulatory Some developments reect feedback from patients and medical agencies in the relevant countries where required and all protocols are professionals, while others are the result of continuing research into considered by an ethics review committee, whose responsibilities cover disease and its causes.
the sites where the studies will take place.
GSK Annual Report 2006 10 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review Delivering the product pipeline for patients continued In 2006, GSK received approval in the USA for a controlled-release The results obtained during clinical trials and data regarding the version of Coreg, Coreg CR, which allows once-daily dosing for development of a quality and large-scale production process and hypertension and mild to severe heart failure.
The product will be facilities are then combined into a regulatory le which is submitted launched in the USA in Q1 2007.
GSK also began a novel investigation to the authorities in the countries where the vaccine will be made to determine whether its diabetes treatment, rosiglitazone XR is available.
The scientific basis for this programme After launch, post marketing studies of considerable size are set up was developed thanks to the pharmacogenetics work undertaken to assess vaccination programmes and to monitor vaccine safety with rosiglitazone over the past seven years.
Managing the portfolio Vaccine manufacturing is particularly complex as it requires the use Key projects reaching significant milestones are reviewed each month of innovative technologies and living micro-organisms.
Sophisticated by the Product Management Board PMB, which is responsible for quality assurance and quality control procedures are in place to ensure determining if a medicine has met criteria for passing into the next both quality and safety of the vaccines and this commonly includes phase of development.
animal use according to health authorities requirements.
Due to their Progress of the portfolio is communicated to investors and the media biological nature, individual health authorities may subject vaccines to at regular intervals during the year.
Details of GSKs product a second control to guarantee the highest quality standards.
development pipeline are given on pages 13 to 16.
GSK has been increasing its capacity to supply vaccines across the Risk in R&D globe by developing a unique global manufacturing network based Pharmaceutical R&D, by its very nature, is an inherently risky venture.
on three major regional hubs in Europe, North America and Asia.
From the time a potential medicine is discovered until it becomes an After the establishment of its North American hub in 2005 through approved medicine can take 10-15 years.
Further, only one in ten three major acquisitions, GSK further strengthened in 2006 its vaccine molecules that starts human clinical trials ever reaches regulatory capabilities in both Asia and Europe: approval.
The nine out of ten that fail can be discontinued for a variety investing more than 100 million to set up a vaccine of reasons, from insufficient safety thresholds to lack of efcacy to manufacturing site dedicated to the primary production of manufacturing hurdles.
These discontinuations occur despite extensive paediatric vaccines in Singapore predictive testing.
Late-stage projects terminated during 2006 included brecanavir for HIV and Redona for diabetes.
opening in Gdll, Hungary, its100 million primary production facility for the manufacturing of diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis Research and development vaccines antigens used in several paediatric combinations vaccines The majority of GSKs vaccine activities are conducted at its biologicals headquarters in Rixensart and Wavre, Belgium.
These include research, investing more than500 million in its vaccine manufacturing clinical development, regulatory strategy, commercial strategy, scaling plant in St Amand-les-Eaux, France, to increase production capacity up, vaccine production, packaging and all other support functions.
in formulation, ling, freeze-drying and packaging.
The discovery and development of a new vaccine is a complex process Diseases of the developing world requiring long-term investment.
In R&D over 1,500 scientists are Continued investment in research into diseases that disproportionately devoted to developing new vaccines and more cost-effective and affect the developing world is essential if there is to be a long-term convenient combination vaccines to prevent infections that cause improvement in the health of people who live in these regions.
As part serious medical problems worldwide.
GSK is also targeting therapeutic of GSKs response to this challenge, it operates a drug discovery unit, vaccines that may prevent relapse in cancer patients.
Thanks to the based at Tres Cantos Spain, primarily dedicated to nding new use of innovative technologies and its global business model, GSK is medicines for malaria and tuberculosis.
Additional research sites in a fast-growing vaccine maker, delivering value by contributing to the the USA and the UK are focused on discovering new medicines to health and well-being of people, in every generation around the treat HIV AIDS and drug resistant bacteria, while vaccine research is world.
Vaccine discovery involves many collaborations with academia and Medicines and vaccines that enter clinical trials are taken through the biotech industry to identify new vaccine antigens which are then development and regulatory processes by dedicated groups based in expressed in yeast, bacteria or mammalian cells and puried to a very the UK, USA and Belgium.
Through these R&D efforts, GSK is high level.
addressing the prevention and treatment of all three of the World This is followed by formulation of the clinical lots of the vaccine.
This Health Organizations WHO top priority diseases.
may involve mixing antigens with selected GSK novel proprietary GSK currently has 14 clinical programmes of relevance to the adjuvant systems, which are designed to enhance the immune developing world, 7 of which are aimed at producing vaccines and response.
The first step is to evaluate the safety and efcacy of the medicines for diseases that disproportionately affect developing candidate vaccine in a preclinical setting, usually involving an animal countries.
The candidate vaccine is then tested in clinical trials in healthy individuals to evaluate safety and effectiveness in inducing an immune response to protect the body from infection encountered later in a natural setting Phase I II.
Large-scale eld trials in healthy individuals follow to establish safety and efcacy in a cross section of the population Phase III.
GSK Annual Report 2006 11 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review Delivering the product pipeline for patients continued Public Private Partnerships PPPs remain essential to fund research Major NCEs and vaccines in phase III development: where there is no commercially viable market for a potential product.
ambrisentan for hypertension GSK is a leader in working in PPPs and continues to collaborate closely Lymphostat-B for lupus with many governments, academic centres, United Nations agencies casopitant for post-operative and chemotherapy-induced and other global funding bodies in this area, to maximise expertise vomiting and nausea and knowledge.
This has the dual benefit of encouraging research and pazopanib for prevention of tumour growth development and accelerating access to the medicines in the mepolizumab for hypereosinophilic syndrome developing world.
Promacta for patients with low platelet count New generation u vaccine Animals and research Globorix a new combination paediatric vaccine against hepatitis B, For ethical, regulatory and scientific reasons, research using animals diphtheria, meningitis A and C remains a small but vital part of research and development of new New meningitis vaccine against meningitis C and Y and Hib medicines and vaccines.
GSK only uses animals where there is no Synorix vaccine to prevent pneumococcal disease.
alternative and only in the numbers required for each test.
The Group entered late-stage in the last 12 months strives to exceed regulatory standards in the care and use of the animals it uses and undergoes internal and external review to assure Major NCEs and vaccines led: these standards.
Allermist Avamys for hay fever: US approval expected in first half of 2007 The vast majority of the experimental methods do not use animals.
Altabax Altargo for skin infections: approval expected in 2007 GSK is actively engaged in research to develop and validate more tests Entereg for post-operative ileus, approval expected in 2007 that either avoid the use of animals in research or reduce the numbers Tykerb for breast cancer: US approval expected in first half of 2007 needed.
When animals are used in research unnecessary pain or Cervarix vaccine to prevent cervical cancer: European and suffering is scrupulously avoided.
International launches expected in second half of 2007 GSK understands that use of animals for research purposes H5N1 pandemic vaccine.
commands a high level of public interest.
The GlaxoSmithKline Public Late-stage assets in-licensed during the last 12 months: Policy Position The care and ethical use of animals in research, and Hu-Max-CD20 for the treatment of leukaemia and non-Hodgkins further information and reports, are available on the website, lymphoma www.
gepirone ER for major depressive disorder XP13512 for restless legs syndrome and treatment of neuropathic Research and development Consumer Healthcare pain.
The focus of R&D is to identify and develop novel products that benefit In 2007, GSK expects to launch 5 major new pharmaceutical products.
consumers in the over-the-counter OTC, oral care and nutritional For further details of these developments, and information on other healthcare markets.
To achieve a significant increase in innovation important launches lings expected in 2007, see GSK outlook on from internal and external sources, R&D has remodelled to deliver a page 44. more valuable pipeline of products.
With this change, specic tasks that can be performed at lower cost outside the company have been This maturity in the late stage pipeline is expected to lead to an transferred to external development partners.
This transfer, along with increase in registrations in the coming years.
The content of the drug other headcount reductions and savings, releases substantial funds for development portfolio will change over time as new compounds investment in additional innovation projects.
The remodelling builds progress from discovery to development and from development to the on the recently adopted Consumer Healthcare operating model market.
Owing to the nature of the drug development process, many whereby, for the Global brands, R&D mirrors the commercial structure, of these compounds, especially those in early stages of investigation, with brand-dedicated R&D teams paired with commercial brand may be terminated as they progress through development.
Phase I teams and both located together at the Innovation Centres at NCEs with multiple indications are counted only once.
NCEs in later Weybridge, UK or Parsippany, USA.
phases are counted by each indication.
For competitive reasons, new projects in pre-clinical development have not been disclosed and some GSKs pipeline project types may not have been identied.
At the end of February 2007, GSK had nearly 210 pharmaceutical and GSKs policy is to seek to obtain patent protection on all protectable vaccine projects in development.
Of these, 158 are in the clinic inventions discovered or developed through its R&D activities.
Patent comprising 94 NCEs, 41 PLEs and 23 vaccines, compared with 118 in protection for new active ingredients is available in all significant 2001. markets and protection can also be obtained, for example, on new In the last 12 months, 4 NCEs, 3 new vaccines and 3 in-licenced assets pharmaceutical formulations, manufacturing processes, medical uses entered late-stage development.
and special devices for administering products, see page 23.
GSK now has 31 major product opportunities in phase III development or registration, comprising 13 new chemical entities NCEs, 6 new vaccines and 12 product line extensions PLEs.
GSK Annual Report 2006 12 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review Delivering the product pipeline for patients continued Key In-license or other alliance relationship with third party NDA New drug application USA S Date of first submission Phase I Evaluation of clinical pharmacology, usually conducted in volunteers A Date of first regulatory approval for MAA, this is the first EU Phase II Determination of dose and initial evaluation of efcacy, conducted in approval letter a small number of patients AL Approvable letter indicates that ultimately approval can be given Phase III Large comparative study compound versus placebo and or established subject to resolution of outstanding queries treatment in patients to establish clinical benefit and safety.
MAA Marketing authorisation application Europe Estimated submission dates are only disclosed where they are within 12 months of the date of the chart.
This date represents the most likely year of submission where it is considered that there is a reasonably high probability of successfully meeting the date assuming the clinical data meets the expected end-points of the clinical trials.
Estimated submission dates Compound Product Type Indication Phase MAA NDA Cardiovascular & Metabolic 256073 high afnity nicotinic acid receptor dyslipidaemia I HM74A agonist 568859  phospholipase A2 atherosclerosis I Lp-PLA2 inhibitor 813893 factor Xa inhibitor prevention of stroke in atrial brillation I 856553 p38 kinase inhibitor atherosclerosis also rheumatoid arthritis & chronic I obstructive pulmonary disease, COPD rilapladib Lp-PLA2 inhibitor atherosclerosis I 501516 peroxisome  receptor dyslipidaemia II PPAR delta agonist 681323 p38 kinase inhibitor atherosclerosis also COPD, neuropathic pain & II rheumatoid arthritis darapladib Lp-PLA2 inhibitor atherosclerosis ll III ambrisentan endothelin A antagonist pulmonary arterial hypertension III 2007 N A Coreg CR ACE inhibitor beta blocker angiotensin converting hypertension xed dose combination III N A enzyme inhibitor Arixtra synthetic factor Xa inhibitor treatment of acute coronary syndrome Approvable S:Jul06 AL:Feb07 Coreg CR beta blocker hypertension & congestive heart failure once-daily Approved N A A:Oct06 Metabolic projects 189075 sodium dependent glucose transport SGLT2 obesity I inhibitor 376501 PPAR gamma partial agonist type 2 diabetes I 625019 PPAR pan agonist type 2 diabetes & metabolic syndrome I 189075 SGLT2 inhibitor type 2 diabetes II 677954 PPAR pan agonist type 2 diabetes, metabolic syndrome & dyslipidaemia II 869682 SGLT2 inhibitor obesity II albiglutide 716155 glucagon-like peptide 1 agonist type 2 diabetes II Avandia PPAR gamma agonist atherosclerosis in type 2 diabetes II Avandamet XR PPAR gamma agonist metformin type 2 diabetes extended release III N A 2007 Avandia PPAR gamma agonist prevention of diabetes III N A 2007 Avandia PPAR gamma agonist prevention of disease progression III N A 2007 Avandia simvastatin PPAR gamma agonist statin type 2 diabetes III N A 2007 Avandaryl Avaglim PPAR gamma agonist sulphonylurea type 2 diabetes xed dose combination Approved A:Jun06 A:Dec05 Infectious Diseases 565154 oral pleuromutilin treatment of bacterial infections I 742510 oral pleuromutilin treatment of bacterial infections I farglitazar PPAR gamma agonist hepatic brosis II sitamaquine 8-aminoquinoline treatment of visceral leishmaniasis II N A tafenoquine 8-aminoquinoline Plasmodium vivax malaria II chlorproguanil, dapsone antifolate artemisinin treatment of uncomplicated malaria IIl 2008 N A artesunate CDA Altabax Altargo topical pleuromutilin bacterial skin infections Approvable S:Jun06 AL:Dec06 Antivirals 625433 polymerase inhibitor hepatitis C I 825780 DNA antiviral vaccine HIV infection I 364735 integrase inhibitor HIV infection II Relenza neuraminidase inhibitor inuenza prophylaxis Approved A:Aug06 A:Mar06 GSK Annual Report 2006 13 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review Delivering the product pipeline for patients continued Estimated submission dates Compound Product Type Indication Phase MAA NDA Musculoskeletal, Inammation, Gastrointestinal & Urology 221149 oxytocin antagonist threatened pre-term labour I 232802 3G-selective oestrogen receptor modulator treatment of menopausal symptoms I 267268 vitronectin integrin antagonist age-related macular degeneration I 315234 monoclonal antibody rheumatoid arthritis I 366074 potassium channel opener overactive bladder I 751689 calcium antagonist osteoporosis I 768974 parathyroid hormone agonist osteoporosis I relacatib cathepsin K inhibitor osteoporosis & osteoarthritis also bone metastases I 274150 selective iNOS inhibitor rheumatoid arthritis also migraine II 681323 p38 kinase inhibitor oral rheumatoid arthritis also atherosclerosis, COPD II & neuropathic pain 856553 p38 kinase inhibitor oral rheumatoid arthritis also atherosclerosis & COPD II 876008 corticotrophin releasing factor CRF1 antagonist irritable bowel syndrome also depression & anxiety II casopitant NK1 antagonist overactive bladder also depression & anxiety, II chemotherapy induced & postoperative nausea & vomiting dutasteride testosterone 5-alpha reductase inhibitor testosterone hypogonadism xed dose combination II HuMax-CD20 human monoclonal antibody rheumatoid arthritis chronic lymphocytic leukaemia II ofatumumab & non-Hodgkins lymphoma mepolizumab anti-IL5 monoclonal antibody eosinophilic esophagitis also severe asthma & nasal II polyposis rosiglitazone XR PPAR gamma agonist rheumatoid arthritis also Alzheimers disease II solabegron beta3 adrenergic agonist irritable bowel syndrome II solabegron beta3 adrenergic agonist overactive bladder II Avodart alpha blocker 5-alpha reductase inhibitor alpha blocker benign prostatic hyperplasia xed dose combination III Avodart 5-alpha reductase inhibitor reduction in the risk of prostate cancer III belimumab anti-B lymphocycte stimulator monoclonal systemic lupus erythematosus III antibody Entereg Entrareg peripheral mu-opioid antagonist opioid induced bowel dysfunction III mepolizumab anti-IL5 monoclonal antibody hypereosinophilic syndrome also severe asthma & nasal III polyposis Entereg Entrareg peripheral mu-opioid antagonist post operative ileus Approvable AL:Jul05 & AL:Nov06 Boniva Bonviva bisphosphonate treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis i. v. injection Approved A:Mar06 A:Jan06 Neurosciences 163090 5HT1 antagonist depression & anxiety I 189254 histamine H3 antagonist dementia I 239512 histamine H3 antagonist dementia I 561679 CRF1 antagonist depression & anxiety I 588045 5HT1 antagonist depression & anxiety I 598809 dopamine D3 antagonist drug dependency I 729327 AMPA receptor modulator schizophrenia I 823296 NK1 antagonist depression & anxiety I 274150 selective iNOS inhibitor migraine also rheumatoid arthritis II 372475 triple 5HT noradrenaline dopamine re-uptake depression II inhibitor 468816 glycine antagonist smoking cessation II 649868 orexin antagonist sleep disorders II 681323 p38 kinase inhibitor neuropathic pain also atherosclerosis, COPD & II rheumatoid arthritis 683699 dual alpha4 integrin antagonist VLA4 multiple sclerosis II 742457 5HT6 antagonist dementia II 773812 mixed 5HT dopaminergic antagonist schizophrenia II 842166 non-cannabinoid CB2 agonist inammatory pain II 876008 CRF1 antagonist depression & anxiety also irritable bowel syndrome II casopitant NK1 antagonist depression & anxiety also overactive bladder, II chemotherapy induced & postoperative nausea & vomiting talnetant NK3 antagonist schizophrenia II gepirone ER 5HT1a agonist major depressive disorder, once-daily III 2007 Lamictal XR sodium channel inhibitor epilepsy partial generalised tonic-clonic seizures, once-dailyIII N A 2007 rosiglitazone XR PPAR gamma agonist Alzheimer's disease also rheumatoid arthritis III Lamictal XR sodium channel inhibitor epilepsy partial seizures, once-daily Submitted N A S:Nov06 Requip extended release non-ergot dopamine agonist restless legs syndrome Submitted N A S:Oct06 Requip Modutab XL non-ergot dopamine agonist Parkinsons disease once-daily controlled release Submitted S:Dec05 S:Feb07 24 hour formulation Trexima 5HT1 agonist naproxen migraine xed dose combination Approvable N A AL:Jun06 Wellbutrin XL noradrenaline dopamine re-uptake inhibitor seasonal affective disorder Approved N A A:Jun06 Wellbutrin XL XR noradrenaline dopamine re-uptake inhibitor depression Approved A:Dec06 A:Aug03 GSK Annual Report 2006 14 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review Delivering the product pipeline for patients continued Estimated submission dates Compound Product Type Indication Phase MAA NDA Oncology 559448 thrombopoietin agonist thrombocytopaenia I 626616 human kinase inhibitor chemoprotection I pazopanib vascular endothelial growth factor non-small cell lung cancer & colorectal cancer I VEGF tyrosine kinase inhibitor in combination with other treatment regimens relacatib cathepsin K inhibitor bone metastases also osteoporosis & osteoarthritis I pazopanib Tykerb VEGF tyrosine kinase inhibitor ErbB-2 breast cancer II and epidermal growth factor receptor EGFR dual kinase inhibitor pazopanib Tykerb VEGF tyrosine kinase inhibitor ErbB-2 other cancers II and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor Promacta eltrombopag thrombopoietin agonist chemotherapy induced thrombocytopaenia II Promacta eltrombopag thrombopoietin agonist hepatitis C II casopitant NK1 antagonist chemotherapy induced & postoperative nausea & III vomiting USA only also overactive bladder, depression & anxiety HuMax-CD20 human monoclonal antibody chronic lymphocytic leukaemia & non-Hodgkins III ofatumumab lymphoma also rheumatoid arthritis Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor ovarian cancer first-line therapy III Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor small cell lung cancer second-line therapy III 2007 2007 oral formulation pazopanib VEGF tyrosine kinase inhibitor renal cell cancer III Promacta eltrombopag thrombopoietin agonist long-term idiopathic thrombocytopaenic purpura III Promacta eltrombopag thrombopoietin agonist short-term idiopathic thrombocytopaenic purpura III 2007 08 Tykerb ErbB-2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor breast cancer, adjuvant therapy III Tykerb ErbB-2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor breast cancer, first-line therapy III Tykerb ErbB-2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor head & neck squamous cell carcinomas III Tykerb ErbB-2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor refractory breast cancer Submitted S:Oct06 S:Sep06 Arranon Atriance guanine arabinoside prodrug acute lymphoblastic leukaemia & lymphomas Approved S:May06 A:Oct05 Hycamtin topo-isomerase I inhibitor cervical cancer, second-line therapy Approved A:Nov06 A:Jun06 Respiratory 256066 PDE IV inhibitor inhaled COPD I 573719 muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist COPD I 679586 monoclonal antibody severe asthma I 961081 muscarinic antagonist, beta2 agonist COPD I 159797 long-acting beta2 agonist COPD, also COPD & asthma in combination with a II glucocorticoid agonist 159802 long-acting beta2 agonist COPD, also COPD & asthma in combination with a II glucocorticoid agonist 233705 muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist COPD II 256066 PDE IV inhibitor inhaled asthma II 256066 PDE IV inhibitor intranasal allergic rhinitis II 597901 long-acting beta2 agonist COPD, also COPD & asthma in combination with a II glucocorticoid agonist 642444 long-acting beta2 agonist COPD, also COPD & asthma in combination with a II glucocorticoid agonist 678007 long-acting beta2 agonist COPD, also COPD & asthma in combination with a II glucocorticoid agonist 681323 p38 kinase inhibitor oral COPD also atherosclerosis, neuropathic pain & II rheumatoid arthritis 685698 glucocorticoid agonist asthma & COPD in combination with a long-acting II beta2 agonist also as Avamys Allermist for allergic rhinitis 784568 glucocorticoid agonist intranasal allergic rhinitis II 799943 glucocorticoid agonist asthma & COPD in combination with a long-acting II beta2 agonist 856553 p38 kinase inhibitor oral COPD also atherosclerosis & rheumatoid arthritis II 870086 novel glucocorticoid agonist asthma II mepolizumab anti-IL5 monoclonal antibody severe asthma & nasal polyposis also hypereosinophilic II syndrome & eosinophilic esophagitis Avamys Allermist glucocorticoid agonist allergic rhinitis Submitted S:Jul06 S:Jun06 Seretide Advair beta2 agonist inhaled corticosteroid COPD mortality claim Submitted S:Sep06 S:Oct06 Ario PDE IV inhibitor oral COPD Approvable AL:Oct03 Seretide beta2 agonist inhaled corticosteroid asthma initial maintenance therapy Approved A:Jul06 N A Seretide Advair beta2 agonist inhaled corticosteroid asthma non-CFC inhaler Approved A:Jun00 A:Jun06 GSK Annual Report 2006 15 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review Delivering the product pipeline for patients continued Estimated submission dates Compound Product Type Indication Phase MAA NDA Paediatric Vaccines MenACWY-TT conjugated Neisseria meningitis groups A, C, W & Y disease II prophylaxis Globorix conjugated diptheria, tetanus, pertussis, hepatitis B, Haemophilus lll 2007 inuenzae type b disease, Neisseria meningitis groups A & C disease prophylaxis Hib-MenCY-TT conjugated Neisseria meningitis groups C & Y disease & III Haemophilus inuenzae type b disease prophylaxis Infanrix-IPV subunit inactivated diptheria, tetanus, pertussis poliomyelitis prophylaxis III 2007 booster 5th dose Synorix conjugated Streptococcus pneumoniae disease and non-typeable lll 2007 Haemophilus inuenzae prophylaxis for children Priorix-Tetra live attenuated measles, mumps, rubella & varicella prophylaxis Approved A:Jul06 Rotarix live attenuated oral rotavirus induced gastroenteritis prophylaxis Approved A:Feb06 2007 Other Vaccines HIV recombinant HIV infection prophylaxis l S. pneumoniae elderly recombinant conjugated Streptococcus pneumoniae disease prophylaxis l Dengue fever attenuated tetravalent vaccine Dengue fever prophylaxis ll Epstein-Barr virus recombinant EBV infection prophylaxis ll Hepatitis E virus recombinant hepatitis E prophylaxis ll Mosquirix recombinant malaria prophylaxis ll Tuberculosis recombinant tuberculosis prophylaxis II Varicella Zoster virus recombinant Varicella Zoster prevention II New generation u vaccine inactivated split-trivalent seasonal inuenza prophylaxis for the elderly III Simplirix recombinant genital herpes prophylaxis lll Daronrix inactivated whole-aluminium salt pandemic inuenza prophylaxis Submitted S:Dec05 monovalent Flu pre-pandemic H5N1 inactivated splitmonovalent pandemic inuenza prophylaxis Submitted S:Jan07 Cervarix recombinant human papilloma virus infection prophylaxis Submitted S:Mar06 2007 FluLaval inactivated split inuenza prophylaxis Approved 2007 A:Oct06 Pharmaccines P501 recombinant treatment of prostate cancer l MAGE-A3 recombinant treatment of non-small cell lung cancer & melanoma ll GSK Annual Report 2006 16 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review Being the best place for the best people to do their best work To engage a wider range of managers, the half-day workshop on GlaxoSmithKline people Ethical Decision-making attended by 479 leaders in 2005 has been GlaxoSmithKline is committed to creating the best place for the extended to three e-learning modules, which are being implemented best people to do their best work to deliver the Groups business across the businesses.
So far, over 400 people have completed at least strategy.
The Group employs over 100,000 people in more than one of the three modules.
Maintaining Standards Recruitment, talent management and leadership GSK expects employees to meet high ethical standards in all aspects development of business by conducting activities with honesty and integrity, Attracting the best people in the industry is critical to enhancing and adhering to corporate responsibility principles and complying with sustaining GSKs performance.
The Groups Talent Solutions recruiters applicable laws and regulations.
GSK audits its operations to ensure in the USA and UK are focused on pro-active identication of talented relevant standards expected, such as those in marketing practices, external candidates for key jobs.
The annual performance and development planning PDP process Commitment to the GSK Code of Conduct is reinforced each year by ensures that employees set business aligned objectives and a senior management certication programme, and in 2006 over behavioural goals.
PDPs are reviewed throughout the year, 12,000 managers certied they had complied with Performance culminating with an end of year review that is factored into with Integrity principles.
The PDP process includes an assessment of how well employees have The annual talent management cycle identies the highest implemented the GSK Spirit, the principles used to define GSKs performing people in each business and function and key talent is culture.
This may have a significant impact on bonus payments and developed through tailored management and leadership may also affect future career development.
In this way the Group programmes for more detail see the Groups Corporate holds employees accountable for delivering performance with high Responsibility Report, exposure to top management through standards of integrity to protect and enhance GSKs reputation.
programmes such as the Chief Executive Forum and stretch assignments.
A pool of potential successors is identied for each Diversity Vice-President position and other critical roles in the organisation.
The diversity and inclusion initiatives focus on improving performance by responding to the diverse needs of employees, customers and Performance and reward external stakeholders.
In the fifth year of the annual Multicultural Reward systems are designed to support a culture of high Marketing and Diversity Awards, 14 teams from around the world performance and to attract and retain the best people.
Performance highlighted innovative activities that demonstrated business impact.
based pay and bonuses, share awards and share options align In 2006, the global management population was 63.7% male and employee interests with the meeting of business targets.
For more details on diversity measures, see the Communication and employee involvement Employment Practices section of the Corporate Responsibility report.
The Group conducts a Global Leadership Survey GLS every two years.
The Group is committed to employment policies free from The most recent survey was conducted in 2006 among more than discrimination against existing or potential staff on the grounds of 10,000 managers to gauge opinions on critical issues such as culture age, race, ethnic and national origin, gender, sexual orientation, faith and confidence in the Groups future.
Scores on morale and or disability.
GSK is committed to offering people with disabilities engagement have steadily increased since 2002 and compare very access to the full range of recruitment and career opportunities.
Every favourably with global benchmarks 42 top-ranked companies.
In effort is made to retain and support employees who become disabled the 2006 survey, 90% of managers were proud to be part of while working with the Group.
GlaxoSmithKline and 86% would gladly refer a friend or family member to work for GlaxoSmithKline.
Each business and function Health and well-being develops action plans to address areas for improvement based on Healthy employees and healthy ways of working contribute to the results from the GLS and other surveys.
sustained performance of the Group.
Global policies on employee health are supported by mandatory standards that integrate employee The Group also consults employees on changes that affect them and health and safety and environmental requirements.
These standards discusses developments in the businesses with a European Employee are applied to all the Groups facilities and operations worldwide.
Consultation Forum and similar bodies in countries where this is national practice.
In 2006 in the UK, a new national consultation A commitment to exible working through exi-time, teleforum was created.
The UK Information and Consultation Forum is conferencing, remote working and exible work schedules, recognises made up of 15 elected employee representatives and seven that employees work best in an environment that helps them management representatives.
It meets regularly so that employee integrate their work and personal lives.
views can be taken into account before major changes affecting all During 2006, the Groups Employee Health Management function employees are implemented.
developed a resilience programme which has now been translated Business ethics and reputation into 11 languages and adopted in 12 countries.
Performance with integrity is central to operating at GSK.
The 2006 GLS showed 91% believe that people in their department show commitment to performance with integrityand 82% agree that they can report unethical practices without fear of reprisal.
GSK Annual Report 2006 17 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review Improving access to medicines Access to medicines in the developed world Access to healthcare in the developing world Access to healthcare in developing countries remains a major challenge Programmes in the USA to the global community.
The problem, which is rooted in poverty, GSK is working to provide meaningful access to medicines for people demands a significant mobilisation of political will, additional resources with limited financial resources and without prescription drug and a true spirit of partnership.
GSK continues to play a vital role, insurance.
In 2006, GSKs US patient assistance programmes provided through its commitment to R&D into diseases particularly prevalent in $370 million worth of medicines, valued at wholesale acquisition cost, the developing world, through its programme of preferential pricing to 402,000 qualifying low income US residents.
for its anti-retrovirals ARVs, anti-malarials and vaccines, through its GSK has worked to expand its patient assistance programme and created community investment programmes see page 19 and through its GSK Access to include those enrolled in Medicare Part D. Beginning willingness to seek innovative solutions, such as voluntary licencing in 2007, GSK Access will help eligible Part-D-enrolled patients who have arrangements.
spent at least $600 of their own money during the current year on outpatient medicines and may qualify to receive GSK medicines free.
Preferential pricing programme GSK has offered its vaccines to key organisations for vaccination For uninsured Americans who do not qualify for Medicare or Medicaid, programmes in developing countries at preferential prices for over 20 GSK and 11 other pharmaceutical companies created Together Rx years.
The Group also sets a single not-for-profit price for each of its Access, a programme for qualied individuals offering reductions in the ARVs and anti-malarials to a wide range of customers in the Least pharmacy cost on more than 300 medicines.
Over 820,000 Together Developed Countries UN denition and sub-Saharan Africa, as well Rx Access cardholders, saved about $24 million in 2006. as Country Coordinating Mechanism-projects fully funded by the GSK participates in the Partnership for Prescription Assistance PPA, the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB, and Malaria and the US Presidents largest national programme dedicated to helping people in need access Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief PEPFAR.
In July 2006, GSK introduced prescription medicines.
PPA has helped more than 3 million US patients two new ARVs, Kivexa and Telzir, to its not-for-profit offering and in need nd programmes providing significant help.
GSK and other US reduced prices to GSKs abacavir-containing products by up to 30%.
pharmaceutical companies launched the programme in 2005 working GSK is committed to contributing to health improvements in a with healthcare, physician and patient advocacy organisations.
The prices for its ARVs and anti-malarials are therefore set at levels at which no profit is made, but direct costs are Patient Advocacy covered, allowing supply to be sustained for as long as required.
The Patient Advocacy initiative has demonstrated significant progress During 2006, GSK shipped to developing countries over 27 million since its inception in 2002.
Initially launched as a US programme, it is tablets of  Combivir and nearly 59 million tablets now a critical initiative throughout GSK.
Patient Advocacy teams in of  Epivir.
Some of our licensees are now supplying the USA and Europe share best practices and established processes to key markets in a more significant way.
optimise interaction with patient groups.
Typically these relationships provide mutual opportunities: to learn about patient needs and The offer of not-for-profit prices requires a sustainable framework, priorities and for patient groups to develop an understanding of drug combining GSKs commitment to preferential pricing with commitments development challenges.
from governments of the developed world to avoid price referencing In 2006, Patient Advocacy Leaders Summits were held in the USA, against preferentially priced medicines and from all governments to Brazil and Japan, with over 1,000 attending GSK sponsored meetings.
GSK has taken steps to minimise the In the USA, GSK partnered with the Centers for Medicaid and Medicare threat of diversion with the registration of specic access packs or access Services to develop 12 regional meetings to educate patient groups on tablets differentiated red tablet as opposed to the traditional white for the new Medicare Drug benefit and increase programme participation.
GSK is the only company to have registered its ARVs under the European Unions Anti-Diversion Regulation.
Programmes in other countries Innovative solutions The Group has also introduced Orange Cards providing discounts on GSK has shown industry leadership in granting voluntary licences to certain GSK prescription medicines for eligible patients in Bulgaria, eight generic companies for the manufacture and supply of ARVs to Lithuania and Ukraine.
The nature of the discounts varies between both the public and private sectors in sub-Saharan Africa.
GSK is also countries and the way in which the healthcare system operates.
a leader in collaborating in Public-Private Partnerships to enable new In September 2006, GSK announced an agreement with the Russian drug discovery and development to take place more effectively.
Government to supply anti-retroviral medicines, for the treatment of HIV AIDS, at discounted prices.
The agreement is the first direct, Looking ahead federal purchase of anti-retroviral medicines in Russia.
GSK will continue to build on its product, pricing and partnership commitments to help improve healthcare in the developing world.
Preparing for a u pandemic However, a significant increase in funding from the global community As part of its commitment to support governments and health is still needed.
It is also important to maintain incentives for R&D authorities to prepare for the threat of an inuenza pandemic, GSK through protection of intellectual property.
announced in 2006 promising data on the immunogenicity of its new While much has been achieved, sustainable progress will only occur generation H5N1 pandemic inuenza vaccine.
This innovative if the significant barriers that stand in the way of better access to pandemic vaccine candidate is also believed to have the potential to healthcare are tackled as a shared responsibility by all sectors of global offer protection against drifted variants of the H5N1 virus allowing a society governments, international agencies, charities, academic proactive pre-pandemic vaccination approach to be considered.
institutions, the pharmaceutical industry and others.
GSK Annual Report 2006 18 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review Corporate responsibility and community investment In the UK, GSK contributed 7 million in 2006 to its continuing Commitment to corporate responsibility programme of charitable activities supporting over 100 organisations GSK is committed to connecting business decisions to ethical, social in health, medical research, science education, the arts and the and environmental concerns.
Thus, corporate responsibility is an environment.
integral and embedded part of the way GSK does business.
Programmes in North America focused on improving public education In 2003, GSK published a set of Corporate Responsibility principles to and access to better healthcare for children and seniors both nationally provide guidance on the standards to which the Group is committed.
and locally with funding of $34 million.
This sets out the approach to 10 areas: standards of ethical conduct, GSK does not operate a single charitable foundation for its community research and innovation, products and customers, access to investment programmes, but has a number of country based medicines, employment practices, human rights, community foundations.
The grants made by these foundations in 2006 are investment, caring for the environment, leadership and advocacy, and included in the investment total.
The Group reports annually on progress in upholding these principles in its Corporate Responsibility Global Health Programmes Report, which is available on the website at www.
Eliminating lymphatic lariasis The Groups effort to eliminate the disabling disease, lymphatic Partnership success lariasis LF from the world, continued in close partnership with the GSK works as a partner with under-served communities in the governments of countries where the disease is endemic, the WHO and developed and developing world.
It supports programmes that are over 40 partner organisations.
GSK is committed to donate as much innovative and sustainable and that bring real benets to these of the anti-parasitic drug albendazole as required to treat the one communities.
The Group engages with numerous external billion people at risk in 80 countries.
In 2006, 155 million albendazole stakeholders, funds community-led initiatives around the world and treatments, worth 16 million at wholesale acquisition cost, were donates medicines to support humanitarian efforts and communitydonated to 34 countries.
Since the global elimination programme based healthcare.
started in 2000, a cumulative total of almost 600 million albendazole treatments have been donated.
Community investment Positive Action on HIV AIDS GSKs global community investment activities in 2006 were valued at Positive Action is GSKs pioneering global programme working with 302 million, equivalent to 3.9% of Group profit before tax.
This communities affected by AIDS.
Started in 1992, it supports comprised product donations of 238 million, cash giving of 46 community-based organisations to deliver effective HIV and AIDS million, other in-kind donations of 3 million and costs of 15 million education, prevention and healthcare services.
During 2006, Positive to manage and deliver community programmes in 109 countries.
Action worked with 26 partners to support programmes in 17 Product donations and cash giving in 2006 were as follows: countries.
Positive Action was the principal sponsor of the community section The Global Village at the International AIDS 1.
Product donations Conference held in Toronto.
3 2 The GlaxoSmithKline African Malaria Partnership 1 Patient Assistance Programs Since 2002, this partnership has supported three behavioural 200 million development programmes working in eight African countries.
The 2 Albendazole for LF programmes have targeted nearly two million people, focusing 16 million particularly on young children and pregnant women, encouraging 3 Humanitarian Product Donations 22 million effective prevention measures, prompt treatment and antenatal 1 malaria management.
In addition, GSKs malaria advocacy programme Mobilising for Malaria launched country Coalitions GSKs cash giving was targeted primarily at health and education Against Malaria in the UK, Belgium, France, Ethiopia and Cameroon initiatives.
to increase awareness of malaria and mobilise resources.
Breakdown of cash giving 5 4 3 1 Health 44% 2 Education 38% 1 3 Arts and Culture 4% 4 Environment 2% 5 Other 12% 2 GSK Annual Report 2006 19 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review Corporate responsibility and community investment continued In 2006, GSK helped to launch PUPPETS: Talking Science, Engaging PHASE Science into UK primary schools, with grants of over 480,000 over The PHASE programme Personal Hygiene And Sanitation Education, four years.
The puppets and their supporting materials increase initiated by GSK in 1998, is now providing education to thousands of childrens engagement and motivate them to talk about science.
GSKs school children in Kenya, Uganda, Zambia, Nicaragua, Peru and support will enable 9,000 teachers to attend subsidised training over Bangladesh to improve their health and hygiene to ght infectious the next four years, and provide a set of puppets and training materials diseases.
In 2006 the Group committed three year funding of $0.9 to each of the participating schools.
million to extend the programme to Mexico and Tajikistan in partnership with Save the Children, USA.
Only 25% of secondary school science teachers in England are Humanitarian product donations chemistry specialists.
Chemistry for Non-Specialists has been During 2006, GSK donated essential products, such as antibiotics, developed by the Royal Society of Chemistry to train teachers to teach through non-profit partners including AmeriCares, MAP International chemistry with confidence, air and enthusiasm.
GSK is supporting and Project HOPE, to support humanitarian relief efforts and the programme with a donation of 450,000 over three years starting community healthcare.
The total value of the Groups international in 2006. humanitarian product donations was 22 million.
This excludes Employee involvement albendazole donated as part of the Groups commitment to the GSK employees are encouraged to contribute to their local lymphatic lariasis elimination programme.
Product donations are communities through employee volunteering schemes.
Support varies valued at wholesale acquisition cost, which is the wholesale list price, around the world, but includes employee time, cash donations to not including discounts, and is a standard industry method.
charities where employees volunteer and a matching gifts programme.
Community initiatives In 2006 in the USA, the Group matched more than 17,500 employee GSK is dedicated to strengthening the fabric of communities through and retiree gifts at a value of over $5 million.
The Group also matched providing health and education initiatives and support for local civic more than $1.3 million of employee donations to GSKs annual United and cultural institutions that improve the quality of life.
GSKs GIVE program provided grants of almost GSKs contribution to improve healthcare includes a grant of almost $340,000 to more than 365 organisations where US employees have $3 million over three years to the Childrens Health Fund to expand volunteered.
their Referral Management Initiative RMI to sites in Philadelphia, GSKs Making a Difference programme in the UK provided grants of including the Delaware Valley Community Health Center.
The RMI 225,000 to over 380 non-profit organisations and registered charities ensures continuity of specialist medical care for high-risk children who based on employee involvement.
The annual GlaxoSmithKline IMPACT Awards recognise excellence in the work of non-profit community health organisations across the UK and in the Greater Philadelphia area of the USA.
Over 20 charities receive unrestricted awards for their work dealing with diverse and difficult social issues such as domestic violence, sexual health services for young people, community health support and counselling services.
To further medical research, over 592,000 was provided to four UK medical charities, Asthma UK, the British Retinitis Pigmentosa Society, Deafness Research UK and the Muscular Dystrophy Campaign.
Education initiatives GSKs efforts to improve public and science education included a $1 million endowment to the National Board for Professional Teaching Standards to increase the number of science teachers attaining certication initially in the North Carolina and Philadelphia areas, but extending to all 50 states.
During 2006, GSK supported the Institute for a Competitive Workforce, a new business coalition staffed by the Business Civic Leadership Center of the US Chamber of Commerce.
This is aimed at improving education and creating a skilled workforce.
GSK also supports a range of local initiatives in the USA.
For example Science in the Summer, a free library-based science education programme in the Philadelphia area teaching basic scientific concepts, continued to receive support with a grant of almost $400,000.
GSK Annual Report 2006 20 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review Global manufacturing and supply GSK manufactures a large portfolio of products, ranging from tablets Operational excellence and toothpaste to inhalers and complex capsules, in over 28,000 Within GMS, Operational Excellence provides the capability to drive different pack sizes and presentations.
improvements in process robustness, quality, performance and Manufacture of medicines starts with the development of a customer service.
Operational Excellence is underpinned by extensive therapeutic active ingredient bulk active in a selected formulation.
education and a culture of continuous improvement.
Global Manufacturing and Supply GMS develops manufacturing Vision Factory processes for full scale volume production of active compounds at GSK introduced the Vision Factory initiative to work towards a simpler, primary manufacturing sites.
Secondary sites then convert these active more efficient operating model within GMS.
Vision Factory is enabling compounds into nished medicines.
manufacturing operations to accelerate the improvement in Each year GMS produces around 6,000 tonnes of bulk actives and performance and cost control.
more than four billion packs, which are sold in over 140 countries.
It Quality also supports about 2,000 new product and line extension launches The quality organisation oversees product quality across the supply every year.
chain, from suppliers and third party manufacturers through By adopting leading edge practices and developing its people, GMS manufacturing to the supply operations that deliver products into the provides: market.
The quality organisation focuses on improving quality and compliance by increasing product quality understanding, and a secure source of supply of high quality products harmonising the quality approach across all sites.
GSK continues to compliance with regulatory requirements and customer expectations work with the FDA on Good Manufacturing Practice for the 21st best in class cost.
Organisation External suppliers GMS spends over 2 billion annually with many external suppliers, GMS operates as a single global network of 80 sites in 37 countries.
purchasing active ingredients, chemical intermediates, packaging The sites are grouped into four supply divisions, based on common components, and part-nished and nished products.
It takes business drivers, areas of expertise and the commercial activities that appropriate steps to protect our supply chains from any disruption.
Procurement Primary supply Widely recognised by industry analysts as a best practice leader, Primary supply has 12 sites in six countries, supplying high quality, procurement works collaboratively to develop and implement sourcing competitively priced bulk actives.
The division is focused on strategies which ensures that GSK receives best value when buying improvements in primary technologies and processes.
GSK leverages its procurement activities across the New product and global supply Group structure.
There are 10 new product and global supply sites in seven countries.
Vaccines supply chain Sites work closely with R&Ds development team to ensure that the GSK biologicals manufacturing network is based on three major right technical competencies are in place to support rapid and regional hubs in Europe, North America and Asia.
In Europe, vaccine successful new product introduction.
These sites also ensure secure manufacturing is located primarily at Rixensart and Wavre in Belgium, supply of key brands that are sold across many markets.
This division with three other sites in France, Germany and Hungary.
In North is the focal point for developing and introducing new secondary America, GSK established its vaccine production network in 2005 manufacturing technologies for GMS.
through three major acquisitions: US based Corixa Corporation, with Regional pharma supply a production site in Hamilton, Montana, which manufactures MPL, a Regional pharma supply operates to supply key products in particular key component of GSKs adjuvant systems, a vaccine production site regions or markets and tailor packaging to meet specic local in Marietta, Pennsylvania and ID Biomedical with u vaccine requirements.
This division focuses on reducing costs, allowing GSK manufacturing facilities in Laval and Quebec, Canada.
In Asia, new to compete more effectively in all its markets.
There are 29 regional vaccine production facilities are being built in India and Singapore.
pharma supply sites in 22 countries.
Managing the vaccine supply chain involves anticipating market needs and using a exible approach to be able to meet uctuations in Consumer Healthcare supply demand.
These are based on forecasts from the different markets and Consumer Healthcare supply delivers high-quality, competitively priced rm orders from health authorities for mass vaccination campaigns.
products and supports rapid new product introduction in a highly innovative and competitive business with far shorter time frames than Bulk, lling and packaging are carefully balanced and stocking of pharmaceuticals.
New technologies have become a fundamental vaccines helps manage short-term increases in demand.
Such platform for driving innovation, lowering costs and providing exibility increases result from disease outbreaks or increased demand from in operations.
There are 29 sites in 21 countries in Consumer the public owing to disease awareness campaigns.
GSK Annual Report 2006 21 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review Regulatory environment Regulation Pharmaceuticals Price controls In many countries the prices of pharmaceutical products are controlled GSK operates within a highly regulated environment.
Governments may also inuence prices through their control country-specic laws and regulations define the data required to show of national healthcare organisations, which may bear a large part of safety and efcacy of pharmaceutical products, as well as govern the cost of supplying products to consumers.
testing, approval, manufacturing, labelling and marketing of drugs.
Recent government healthcare reforms in countries such as France, These regulatory requirements are a major factor in determining Spain and Germany may restrict pricing and reimbursement.
whether a marketable product may be successfully developed and the amount of time and expense associated with this development.
In the USA, recent legislation on healthcare reform, cross-border trade, In Europe, pharmaceutical rms and regulators are managing a the acceleration of generics to market and increased patient transition following the implementation of new medicines legislation contributions have further increased the focus on pricing.
Currently, at the end of 2005. significant changes are being implemented there are no government price controls over private sector purchases, including approval procedures, post marketing requirements, but federal law requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay manufacturing controls, labelling requirements, pharmacovigilance prescribed rebates on certain drugs in order to be eligible for processes and an increased emphasis on transparency of regulatory reimbursement under Medicaid and other federal healthcare processes.
Medicare The climate of change is set to continue, with the nalisation of a new In 2006, the US Medicare program, a federally funded healthcare Paediatric Regulation at the end of 2006.
This Regulation is aimed at insurance program benefiting senior citizens and certain disabled stimulating industry research into paediatric indications, via intellectual Americans, included coverage for prescription medicines.
Implementation activities will continue during new benefit under the Medicare program and the most dramatic 2007 08, and the new provisions will become operational in 2008. change in the program since its inception in the 1960s.
The coverage The EU Commission is championing a Better Regulation initiative to is voluntary, includes brand-name and generic drugs and is open to cut red tape and over-regulation of Industry.
GSK is actively supporting the 41 million Americans with Medicare coverage.
this initiative and a similar one in the UK.
For example in the UK, GSK has made 50 wide ranging better regulation proposals to the A number of competing private organisations provide the new benefit government, covering significant areas of interest to the Group.
Many with premiums subsidised by the government.
Benets must satisfy have been positively received and some are being considered for a minimum standard outlined in federal law.
While the law provides incorporation into new regulations.
incentives for manufacturers to negotiate prices with private plans, it does not provide for government price controls.
The government In the USA, the safety of prescription drugs remains a primary focus provides additional help to more than 14 million people on Medicare of the FDA and congressional oversight committees are evaluating with limited incomes and resources.
Those qualifying beneciaries the ability and resourcing of the FDA to continue to provide this pay no or reduced premiums and deductibles, and low copayments important role.
New safety-related legislation has been proposed by for their prescriptions.
Congress which may be enacted in 2007, with likely impact on the Value for money pharmaceutical industry.
As in Europe, evaluation of benefit and risk Payers around the world are concerned about the cost of healthcare continues to be an important consideration for approval of a new and the pricing of medicines.
The requirement to satisfy healthcare drug by the FDA.
purchasers on value for money is becoming an additional hurdle for The FDA is in the second year of its Critical Path Initiative to facilitate product acceptance over and above the regulatory tests of safety, innovation in drug development.
New tools and processes such as efcacy and quality.
pharmacogenomics, surrogate markers of efcacy and manufacturing innovations are being pursued to enhance development of safe and While it is appropriate for payers to seek value for money when effective drugs.
The pharmaceutical industry, including GSK, is purchasing medicines, this often translates into cost-containment collaborating with the FDA and National Institutes of Health in a measures that delay patient access to new medicines and make it number of these areas, including evaluation of new biomarkers.
difficult even for signicantly improved therapies to achieve a price that reects added value.
Healthcare budgets could be managed in The US government is making information about the benets and a more strategic and long-term manner.
Focus should shift to value risks of prescription drugs more readily available via the Internet, not cost and pricing should reect value.
Value should be dened including the full prescribing information which is posted within one broadly.
What matters is whether a medicine works and responds to day of approval.
GSK is now providing product labelling to the FDA medical and patient needs.
If so, it should be rewarded appropriately.
in an electronic format which allows easier access to the key details in the prescribing information.
GSK is well placed to manage effectively these changes in the external regulatory environment.
GSK Annual Report 2006 22 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review Regulatory environment continued Payers must also allocate their resources efficiently to provide the best The patent position with respect to the active ingredients in significant health outcomes.
Attention should be focussed in three areas: products is as follows: prevention, innovation and better management of chronic diseases.
The patent on rosiglitazone is not due to As part of this triple solution, innovative medicines and vaccines will a, c b expire until 2012 USA and 2013 Europe.
Patents on the play a key role by preventing, or providing better treatments for commercial form of the active ingredient rosiglitazone maleate are not expensive diseases such as cervical cancer, breast cancer, asthma, b due to expire until 2015 USA and 2014 Europe.
challenging the validity of the patents protecting these products is e ongoing in the USA.
It is not possible to predict whether and to what extent, the Groups business will be affected by future legislative and regulatory a Avodart.
The patent on dutasteride is not due to expire until 2015 developments relating to specic pharmaceutical products or their b USA and 2017 Europe.
The patent on ibandronate is not due to expire until 2012 USA and Europe.
The patent on the specic combination of lamivudine and The consumer healthcare industry is subject to national regulation for b zidovudine is not due to expire until 2012 USA and 2013 Europe.
the testing, approval, manufacturing, labelling and marketing of products.
In many countries, high standards of technical appraisal Coreg.
GSK is the exclusive licensee under the US patent on carvedilol, involve a lengthy approval process before a new product is launched.
a, c which is due to expire in 2007. a, c National regulatory authorisation is also required to approve the switch Epivir.
The patent on lamivudine is not due to expire until 2010 b of products from prescription to OTC.
The requirements include longUSA and 2011 Europe.
term experience of the quality, safety and efcacy of the product in a Imigran Imitrex.
The patent on sumatriptan is not due to expire until wide patient population and data to confirm that the relevant c 2009 USA and has expired in Europe except Cyprus 2007, Italy condition is both self-limiting and easily diagnosed by the consumer.
Litigation challenging the validity of the e patent protecting this product in the USA has been settled.
The patent on lamotrigine is not due to expire until 2009 Intellectual property is a key business asset for GSK.
Litigation challenging the validity of this patent in the USA has protection of intellectual property is critical in ensuring a reasonable been settled.
In Europe, the corresponding patent has expired and return on investment in R&D.
Intellectual property can be protected generic competition exists.
by patents, trademarks, registered designs, copyrights and domain d name registrations.
GSK has co-promotion rights under the US patent on vardenal, which is not due to expire until 2018.
Certain markets, including the USA, the EU and Canada also provide Lexiva Telzir.
GSK is the exclusive licensee under the patent on a period of regulatory data exclusivity to qualifying drugs which are b fosamprenavir, which is not due to expire until 2017 USA and 2019 new chemical entities or which are new formulations or uses of Europe.
Manufacturers of generic drugs may, following any period of data exclusivity, launch, or attempt to launch, generic Paxil Seroxat.
The patent on the commercial form of paroxetine versions of patented drugs prior to normal patent expiry, arguing that c expired in 2006 in Europe and is due to expire in 2007 in the USA.
the relevant patents are invalid and or are not infringed by their Litigation relating to the validity and infringement of a patent directed product.
significant litigation concerning these challenges is to a method of manufacture of paroxetine hydrochloride anhydrate summarised in Note 43 to the financial statements, Legal e is ongoing in the USA.
Generic competition on Paxil instant release proceedings.
IR and oral suspension has commenced in the USA, Europe and certain other markets.
Paxil CR is protected by a formulation patent Patents that is not due to expire until 2012.
A generic manufacturer has GSKs policy is to seek to obtain patent protection on all protectable applied for FDA approval of a generic form of Paxil CR asserting noninventions discovered or developed through its R&D activities.
Patent e infringement of this patent.
protection for new active ingredients is available in most significant markets, and protection can also be obtained for example for new a Requip.
The patent on ropinirole is not due to expire until 2007 USA pharmaceutical formulations, manufacturing processes, medical uses b and 2008 Europe.
A patent relating to the use of ropinirole in and special devices for administering products.
Patents protecting b Parkinsons disease is not due to expire until 2008 USA and 2011 new active ingredients are generally applied for early in the Europe.
Litigation challenging the validity of the Parkinsons use development process.
Since the term of a patent in most countries e patent is ongoing in the USA.
is a set period from the ling date, typically 20 years, the effective Seretide Advair.
The patent on the specic combination of salmeterol term depends on how long a product is in development before xinafoate and uticasone propionate is not due to expire until 2010 launch.
This leads to a variation in patent term on a product by b USA and 2013 Europe.
An application for re-issue of the US patent product basis, although in a number of markets, including the USA e has been allowed by the US Patent and Trademark Ofce USPTO.
and Europe, it is possible in certain circumstances to obtain a partial The UK patent has been revoked by the UK courts.
Patents on the restoration of patent term to compensate for the length of the individual ingredients have expired in the UK.
In the USA, the patent development process.
on salmeterol xinafoate does not expire until 2008.
GSK Annual Report 2006 23 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review Regulatory environment continued Serevent.
The patent on salmeterol xinafoate is not due to expire until Responsibility for environment, health and safety 2008 in the USA.
In Europe, the patent has expired, except France Environment, health and safety EHS is a key element of corporate b b 2008 and Italy 2009. responsibility for the Group and has a high priority.
The patent on the method of treatment using a combination of EHS is at the highest level.
There is a corporate group reporting to the lamivudine, zidovudine and abacavir does not expire until 2016 USA General Counsel that has overall responsibility for providing and 2016 Europe.
governance and leadership on EHS issues.
The head of this group makes regular reports to the Corporate Executive Team CET and the a Valtrex.
The patent on valaciclovir is not due to expire until 2009 Audit and Corporate Responsibility Committees of the Board.
Within b USA and 2009 Europe, except Greece and Spain 2008.
Litigation the businesses operations managers are responsible for EHS and are e challenging the validity of the patent in the USA is ongoing.
supported by site-based EHS and occupational health staff.
Wellbutrin SR, Wellbutrin XL and Zyban.
The patent on the active EHS strategy and plan ingredient has expired.
There is now generic competition for the GSK has a strategic planning process for EHS that looks forward 10 sustained release SR and instant release IR forms in the USA, and years but is reviewed every year.
The plan is aligned with the GSK generic competition for the 300mg dosage form of Wellbutrin XL business drivers and includes management objectives with commenced in the USA in December 2006.
In Europe, regulatory performance measures and targets.
In 2006, GSKs progress in the first data exclusivity provides protection until 2009 in some markets.
five years of the EHS Plan for Excellence was evaluated and a 10 year Litigation is ongoing in the USA relating to formulation patents plan extending to 2015 was developed.
e covering Wellbutrin XL that expire in 2018.
The first five years had focused on establishing the fundamentals and a, c Ziagen.
The patent on abacavir is not due to expire until 2012 USA preparing programmes that would contribute to the environmental b and 2014 Europe.
Successes in 2006 included greater Zofran.
The patent on ondansetron has expired in the USA and integration of EHS into the manufacturing planning process, b b Europe, except France 2007 and Italy 2008.
A patent on use in introduction of EHS directors in manufacturing executive teams, treating emesis expired in 2006.
In the USA, generic entry of establishment of new performance targets, establishment of new ondansetron injection and oral solution dosage forms commenced in targets for audit scores, that will be the same for GSKs own November 2006 and on tablet and orally disintegrating tablet dosage manufacturing sites and contract manufacturers, publication of forms in December 2006.
Generic competition has also now positions on pharmaceuticals in the environment, the selection of commenced in a number of countries in Europe.
hazardous chemicals in manufacturing and energy conservation.
The next phase of the plan strengthens the focus on operational efficiency a Including granted or pending patent term restoration under the Hatch-Waxman Act b Including granted or pending extension of term by national or European supplementary and renews the commitment to stakeholder engagement.
The three protection certicates aspirations for 2006 to 2015 are embedding EHS in the business, c Including granted or pending extension of term for paediatric exclusivity d A registered trademark of Bayer AG environmental sustainability and open and transparent stakeholder e See Note 43 to financial statements Legal proceedings.
Trademarks Strategic focus in 2006 All of GSKs pharmaceutical products are protected by registered The plan provides an area of special focus each year.
In 2006, the trademarks in major markets.
There may be local variations, for focus was on embedding EHS in the business, making EHS an integral example, in the USA the trademark Paxil is used instead of Seroxat and part of GSKs business processes and continuous improvement culture Advair is used instead of Seretide.
with the participation of all employees.
The goal is to develop a culture where every employee is mindful of the importance of safe working Trademark protection may generally be extended for as long as the and protecting the environment.
While this was the 2006 focus it will trademark is used by renewing it when necessary.
GSKs trademarks take more than one year to accomplish.
on pharmaceutical products are important for maintaining the brand identity of the product upon expiration of the patent.
The Consumer Healthcare trademarks are particularly important, as the business is very brand orientated and many products do not have patent protection.
GSK Annual Report 2006 24 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review Regulatory environment continued Part of embedding EHS in GSK meant each business developed its GSK selected its measures of performance improvement based on own plan for moving EHS forward based on its own risks and the potential for adverse impact on people or the environment, opportunities.
Some accomplishments against the objectives that business continuity or business reputation.
Most of the measures contributed to the overall focus were: selected are similar to those reported by other companies and are recommended by the Global Reporting Initiative, a long-term, multito reduce the need for respiratory protective equipment stakeholder, international undertaking, to develop and disseminate occupational hygiene monitoring data were utilised to focus globally applicable sustainability reporting guidelines.
Targets have attention on the processes in most need of improvement been set to eliminate CFCs from all uses by 2010 and each year to to improve the efficiency of manufacturing processes it was agreed reduce energy use and non-hazardous waste disposed by 1%, reduce that all new products launched from 2006 to 2010 will be evaluated water use and Volatile organic compound VOC releases by 2% and using green chemistry tools with a target to double the reduce chemical oxygen demand of wastewater by 3%.
All targets manufacturing efficiency, which will result in waste per tonne of are normalised by sales.
product from new processes being reduced by half in comparison EHS performance to existing processes The performance in 2006 was: to improve EHS management systems a target was set to improve CFC emissions from patient use of inhalers down 36% per sales audit scores and all pharmaceutical manufacturing sites will be required to be certied to ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 by 2010 volatile organic compound emissions down 22% per sales to minimise EHS risks arising from new product introduction and chemical oxygen demand in wastewater down 21% per sales process changes EHS requirements and sustainability principles were non-hazardous waste disposed down 15% per sales incorporated into the product development process energy use down 8% per sales to improve EHS performance of R&D processes novel technologies will be explored.
water use down 5% per sales EHS audits Sustainability As part of its governance responsibility, GSK conducts EHS audits of In the work towards sustainability, GSK is addressing the economic, its sites, assessing performance against the EHS standards and environmental and social issues in research, manufacturing, sales and assigning quantitative performance scores.
In 2006, 32 sites were distribution of its medicines.
Sustainability starts with healthcare audited, 12 of these achieved audit scores of 80% or better.
No site solutions found by R&D and continues with sustainable solutions in scored less than 50%.
As part of the continuous improvement manufacturing and sales.
R&D is considering improving operational process, progress was monitored on actions arising from issues raised efficiency for new products.
In the future, the EHS plan for excellence on all audits.
proposes investigating the use of renewable resources.
The Group seeks dialogue with external stakeholders and considers their views As part of the commitment to corporate responsibility and the prowhen developing approaches to sustainable development.
More active management of the GSK manufacturing and supply base, 36 information on EHS programmes and performance may be found on suppliers were also assessed, representing about 10% of priority the GSK website.
This process evaluated the management of key EHS risks and impacts, as well as human rights issues, based on the Groups requirements for priority suppliers.
Recommendations were made for improvements where needed.
EHS targets As part of the EHS plan, targets are set every five years.
2006 was the baseline year for the next group of five-year targets.
In the 2005 EHS report achievements against the targets for 2001-2005 were reported.
Progress towards meeting the targets for 2006-2010 will be tracked every year.
Final data for 2006 will be published on the website www.
GSK Annual Report 2006 25 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review World Market World economy World market pharmaceuticals The global economy remained relatively robust in 2006, with positive Global pharmaceutical sales increased by 8% in 2006 to 328 billion.
growth in many markets such as the USA and China.
World Gross World market by Value % of Growth domestic product was estimated at 3.9%, up from 3.5% in 2005. geographic region bn total % Analysts expect it to fall back in 2007 and towards the end of 2006, USA 145.0 44 9 the OECD trimmed its 2007 global growth forecast to 2.5%, the Europe 92.8 28 6 lowest rate since 2003.
France 17.6 5 4 Germany 16.6 5 3 Equity markets rose during 2006 and concerns regarding ination UK 10.8 3 3 started to recede as the year progressed only to return in some regions Italy 10.5 3 7 later in the year.
Global oil prices hit $78-a-barrel highs in mid-July Japan 31.3 10 3 following the crisis between Israel and Lebanon.
As 2006 closed oil Asia Pacic 23.3 7 14 fell towards the $60 mark, a level around which many analysts feel it Latin America 15.9 5 21 will trade through 2007, barring unforeseen events.
Middle East, Africa 11.3 3 13 In the USA, GDP slipped from a two year high of 5.5% in the first Canada 8.3 3 19 quarter of 2006 to 2.2% in the fourth quarter.
This performance was Total 327.9 100 8 impacted to a significant extent by a weakening housing market and a drop in new housing starts that is expected to continue throughout Growth in the US market has increased to 9%, but it still represents 2007.
During 2006, US interest rates rose from 4.29% to 5.25%, the 44% of the global prescription pharmaceutical market compared with seventeenth rise in two and half years.
In December, the US dollar fell 30% a decade ago.
to its lowest level for almost two years against the Euro and a 14-year At 30th September 2006, GSK held second position in the world low against Sterling.
In 2007, the US economy is expected to pharmaceutical market with a market share of 6.3%, behind Pzer experience a soft-landing rather than a major slowdown, with growth with a market share of 8%.
GSK had six of the worlds top 60 predicted to be in a range 2.5% to 3%.
These were Avandia, Lamictal, After its rapid expansion in 2004 and 2005, the Chinese economy Seretide Advair, Valtrex, Wellbutrin and Zofran.
grew by over 10% in 2006, while India reported growth of 9.1%.
Indias Sensex Index gained 46% in value while Japans Nikkei 225 World market Value % of Growth Index moved ahead by 7% for the year.
Japan is currently experiencing top five therapeutic classes bn total CER% % the longest period of uninterrupted growth since the Second World Cardiovascular 54.5 17 6 7 War, reporting GDP growth of 3.8% at the year-end.
Central nervous system 54.0 16 7 8 Alimentary tract and metabolic 39.8 12 7 9 Eurozone interest rates began the year at 2.25% before rising in five Anti-infectives bacterial, separate steps to 3.5% at the year end.
Economic growth was 3.3% viral and fungal excluding across the continent, up from 1.4% in 2005.
Germany expanded by vaccines 33.2 10 1 3 3.7%, France by 2% and Spain by 4.0%.
In the UK, interest rates rose Respiratory 21.7 7 5 6 to 5% in November, with the FTSE 100 gaining almost 11% in 2006.
Economic growth was 2.7%, with the Treasury and the Bank of Note: data based on 12 months to 30th September 2006.
England expecting growth of more than 3% in 2007.
Exchange The currencies that most inuence the Groups results are the US dollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen.
In 2006, the US dollar fell by 14% against the pound, to $1.96 at the year-end.
The year-end rates for the Euro weakened by 1% and the Japanese Yen by 15% against Sterling.
GSK Annual Report 2006 26 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review Products and competition Pharmaceutical products Anti-virals Combivir, a combination of Retrovir and Epivir, has consolidated the GlaxoSmithKlines principal pharmaceutical products are currently position of these two reverse transcriptase inhibitors as the directed to eight main therapeutic areas.
An analysis of sales by these cornerstone of many multiple anti-HIV product regimens.
Physician therapeutic areas, and a description of the principal products, are acceptance has clearly demonstrated the value placed on minimising set out below: the pill burden faced by patients.
2006 2005 2004 Ziagen is a reverse transcriptase inhibitor.
The products potency, ease Turnover by therapeutic area m m m of use and resistance prole allow it to play a significant role in a Respiratory 4,995 5,054 4,394 variety of highly active, well tolerated and simplied HIV treatment Central nervous system 3,642 3,219 3,462 regimens.
Anti-virals 2,827 2,598 2,359 Trizivir is a combination of Combivir and Ziagen, combining three antiMetabolic 1,875 1,495 1,251 HIV therapies in one tablet, for twice daily administration.
Vaccines 1,692 1,389 1,194 Cardiovascular and urogenital 1,636 1,331 932 Epzicom Kivexa, approved for use in the USA and Europe, is a Anti-bacterials anti-malarials 1,369 1,519 1,547 combination of Epivir and Ziagen that is taken as one tablet with Oncology and emesis 1,069 1,016 934 once-daily dosing for HIV AIDS in combination with at least one other Other 973 1,040 1,027 anti-HIV drug.
20,078 18,661 17,100 Lexiva Telzir is a protease inhibitor for the treatment of HIV that is well tolerated and more convenient than Agenerase, which it supersedes.
Products and all their formulations may not be approved for all Lexiva may be taken twice daily or once daily when boosted with indications in all markets where they are available.
Respiratory Zefx has been approved for marketing in the USA, Europe, China and Seretide Advair, a combination of Serevent and Flixotide, offers a longother markets for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B. acting bronchodilator and an anti-inammatory in a single inhaler.
It is approved for the treatment of asthma and COPD.
Valtrex is a treatment for episodic genital herpes as well as the long term suppression and reduction of transmission of genital herpes, Flixotide Flovent and Becotide Beclovent are inhaled steroids for the zoster shingles, cold sores and chicken pox.
Valtrex supersedes treatment of inammation associated with asthma and COPD.
Zovirax, which is also used to treat herpes infections.
Serevent is a long-acting bronchodilator used to treat asthma and Metabolic COPD, and Ventolin is a selective short-acting bronchodilator used to Avandia is a potent insulin sensitising agent which acts on the treat bronchospasm.
underlying pathophysiology of type 2 diabetes.
Flixonase Flonase and Beconase are steroid intra-nasal preparations for Avandamet is a combination of Avandia and metformin HCI, it is the the treatment of perennial and seasonal rhinitis.
first medicine that targets insulin resistance and decreases glucose Central nervous system CNS production in one convenient pill.
Seroxat Paxil is a selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor SSRI for the Avandaryl is a combination of Avandia and Amaryl, a Sano-Aventis treatment of major depressive disorder, panic, obsessive compulsive product.
Avandaryl targets insulin resistance and stimulates pancreatic disorder, post traumatic stress disorder, social anxiety disorder, and insulin production.
A controlled release formulation, Paxil CR, is also available in the USA.
Bonviva Boniva is a long-acting bisphosphonate available in oncemonthly oral and quarterly injection forms for the treatment of Wellbutrin is an anti-depressant, available in the USA and some osteoporosis.
international markets in normal, sustained-release SR and once-daily XL formulations.
Vaccines GSK markets over 30 vaccines worldwide, of which more than half Imigran Imitrex is a 5HT1 receptor agonist used for the treatment are combination vaccines to protect children, adolescents and or of severe or frequent migraine and cluster headache and has become adults against up to six diseases at the same time.
the reference product in this sector.
Naramig Amerge is also a 5HT1 receptor agonist indicated for the treatment of migraine.
Infanrix is GSKs range of paediatric vaccine combinations.
Infanrix provides protection against diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis Lamictal, a well established treatment for epilepsy, is also indicated for whopping cough.
Infanrix penta Europe Pediarix USA, Canada bipolar disorder.
provides additional protection against hepatitis B and polio, and Requip is a specic dopamine D2 D3 receptor agonist indicated for Infanrix hexa further adds protection against Haemophilus inuenzae the treatment of Parkinsons disease and Restless Legs Syndrome RLS.
type b, which is a cause of meningitis.
In the USA, Boostrix is available to add protection against pertussis whopping cough to the routine tetanus diptheria booster administered to teenagers.
In GSKs hepatitis vaccines range, Havrix protects against hepatitis A and Engerix-B against hepatitis B. GSK Annual Report 2006 27 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review Products and competition continued Twinrix is the only available combined hepatitis A and B vaccine, Integrilin is a GP IIb-IIIa inhibitor, approved in the EU for the prevention protecting against both diseases with one vaccine and available in of early myocardial infarction in patients with unstable angina or nonboth adult and paediatric strengths.
In Europe, FENDrix, a vaccine to Q-wave MI.
prevent hepatitis B in patients with renal insufficiency including highAnti-bacterials and anti-malarials risk groups such as pre-haemodialysis and haemodialysis patients, is Augmentin is a broad-spectrum antibiotic suitable for the treatment available from 15 years of age onwards.
of a wide range of common bacterial infections and is particularly GSK added Fluviral to its portfolio of products when it acquired the effective against respiratory tract infections.
Augmentin ES-600 is an Canadian vaccine manufacturer IDBiomedical Corporation in extra strength suspension specically designed to treat children with December 2005.
Fluviral is marketed in Canada.
In 2006, the same recurrent or persistent middle ear infections.
Augmentin XR is an extra u vaccine was approved by the US Food and Drug Administration strength tablet form for adults to combat difficult to treat infections.
FDA for the active immunisation of adults 18 years and older against Ceftin Zinnat is an oral antibiotic used primarily for communityinuenza disease under the brand FluLaval.
Fluviral and FluLaval add acquired infections of the lower respiratory tract.
to Fluarix GSKs seasonal u vaccine, which is distributed in 79 countries including the USA.
Malarone is an oral anti-malarial used for the treatment and prophylaxis of malaria caused by Plasmodium falciparum.
GSK also markets Priorix, a measles, mumps and rubella vaccine, Typherix, a vaccine for protection against typhoid fever, and Varilrix, Lapdap is an effective and well tolerated therapy for the treatment of a vaccine against varicella or chicken pox.
Priorix-Tetra, GSKs new malaria, which has been developed through a public private combination vaccine to prevent measles, mumps, rubella and varicella collaboration.
MMRV was first launched in Germany in August 2006.
In addition, Oncology and emesis the Group markets a range of vaccines to prevent meningitis under Zofran is used to prevent nausea and vomiting associated with the umbrella name Mencevax.
GSKs new Hib-MenC vaccine, chemotherapy and radiotherapy for cancer, and is available in Menitorix is now available in the UK.
GSKs meningitis vaccine both oral and injectable forms.
It is also approved for use in the portfolio will be complimented by new meningitis conjugate vaccines prevention and treatment of post-operative nausea and vomiting.
Hycamtin is a second line treatment for ovarian, cervical and small As part of its paediatric franchise, GSK continued to roll out the launch cell lung cancer.
of its vaccine against rotavirus induced gastroenteritis, Rotarix which is now launched in 90 countries worldwide.
Rotavirus vaccination has Bexxar is a treatment for patients with CD20 follicular, non-Hodgkins been included in the national vaccination calendar of five Latin lymphoma with and without transformation whose disease is American countries where Rotarix will be available free at public health refractory to rituximab and who have relapsed following clinics, as part of governmental paediatric immunisation programmes.
Cardiovascular and urogenital Arranon nelarabine a treatment for patients with T-cell acute Coreg is an alpha beta blocker which has been proven to be effective lymphoblastic leukaemia and T-cell lymphoblastic lymphoma, received in treating patients with mild, moderate and severe heart failure, heart US approval in 2005 and was submitted for European approval in attack or hypertension.
GSK has sole marketing rights in the USA and 2006.
Generic versions of the product are available in Canada.
Other Levitra is a PDE-5 inhibitor indicated for male erectile dysfunction.
This category includes Betnovate, the higher potency Dermovate and GSK has co-promotion rights in the USA and more than 20 other the newer Cutivate, which are anti-inammatory steroid products markets.
used to treat skin diseases such as eczema and psoriasis, Relafen, a non-steroidal anti-inammatory drug for the treatment of arthritis, Avodart is a 5-ARI inhibitor currently indicated for benign prostatic and Zantac, for the treatment of peptic ulcer disease and a range hyperplasia.
A large clinical outcome study is underway examining its of gastric acid related disorders.
efcacy in the prevention of prostate cancer.
Arixtra, a selective Factor Xa inhibitor, is indicated for the prophylaxis of deep vein thrombosis, which may lead to pulmonary embolism, in hip fracture surgery, knee replacement, hip replacement surgery and abdominal surgery.
It is also indicated for the treatment of deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism.
Fraxiparine is a low-molecular weight heparin indicated for prophylaxis of thromboembolic disorders particularly deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism in general surgery and in orthopedic surgery, treatment of deep vein thrombosis and prevention of clotting during hemodialysis.
GSK Annual Report 2006 28 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review Products and competition continued Pharmaceuticals competition Anti-virals GSK is a pioneer in the HIV market, launching AZT Retrovir in 1987 The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive.
GSKs principal and Epivir in 1995, which today are available as Combivir in a single competitors range from small to large pharmaceutical companies tablet, a cornerstone of HIV combination therapy.
The launches of often with substantial resources.
Some of these companies and their Ziagen, Agenerase, Trizivir, Lexiva and Epzicom have broadened major products are mentioned below.
the Groups portfolio of HIV products.
Major competitors in the HIV Pharmaceuticals may be subject to competition from other products market include Gilead, Bristol Myers Squibb, Abbott, Roche and during the period of patent protection and, once off patent, from Boehringer Ingelheim.
The manufacturers of generic products typically Valtrex has strengthened the Groups position in the anti-herpes area, do not bear significant research and development or education and where GSKs Valtrex and Zovirax compete with Novartis Famvir.
marketing development costs and consequently are able to offer their Valtrex is a market leader, whilst Zovirax faces competition from products at considerably lower prices than the branded competitors.
In the hepatitis B market, GSKs Zefx was the first A research and development based pharmaceutical company will anti-viral on the market.
Gileads Hepsera was the second.
The Group normally seek to achieve a sufciently high profit margin and sales has secured marketing rights to Hepsera in some key markets.
volume during the period of patent protection to repay the original investment, which is generally substantial, and to fund research for the Metabolic future.
Competition from generic products generally occurs as patents The major competitor for Avandia is Takeda Chemicals Actos, which in major markets expire.
Increasingly patent challenges are made prior is co-promoted with Eli Lilly in the USA.
Takeda also market to patent expiry, claiming that the innovator patent is not valid and or ActoplusMet a combination of Metformin HCI and Actos in the USA.
that it is not infringed by the generic product.
Following the loss of Monthly Boniva Bonviva competes with Mercks weekly Fosamax and patent protection, generic products rapidly capture a large share of Proctor & Gamble Sano-Aventiss weekly Actonel.
Generic Fosamax the market, particularly in the USA.
alendronate is now available in several EU markets including UK and Germany, and also in Canada.
GSK believes that remaining competitive is dependent upon the discovery and development of new products, together with effective Vaccines marketing of existing products.
Within the pharmaceutical industry, The vaccine market is dominated by five key players.
GSKs major the introduction of new products and processes by competitors may competitors include Sano Pasteur SP, Merck, Novartis and Wyeth.
affect pricing levels or result in changing patterns of product use.
Within the paediatric vaccine eld, Infanrixs main competitor is SPs There can be no assurance that products will not become outmoded, range of DTPa-based combination vaccines, although the Infanrix notwithstanding patent or trademark protection.
In addition, hexa combination is the only available hexavalent paediatric increased government and other pressures for physicians and patients combination in Europe.
to use generic pharmaceuticals, rather than brand-name medicines, Cardiovascular and urogenital may increase competition for products that are no longer protected GSK markets Coreg in the USA where its major competitors are Toprol by patent.
Avodart competes directly with Mercks Respiratory Proscar within the BPH market.
The Group has co-promotion rights GSKs respiratory franchise is driven by the growth of Seretide Advair.
in the USA for Levitra, which faces competition from Pzers Viagra Major respiratory competitors are Singulair from Merck, especially in and Lillys Cialis.
the USA, Symbicort from AstraZeneca and Spiriva from Pzer Boehringer Ingelheim.
Anti-bacterials and anti-malarials Generic versions of both Augmentin and Ceftin Zinnat are available CNS disorders in the USA.
Augmentin also faces generic competition in various Major competitors in the USA to Paxil are its generic forms, as well as European countries.
Augmentin XR and Augmentin ES compete generic uoxetine, the generic form of Eli Lillys Prozac, generic against a broad range of other branded and generic antibiotics.
sertraline, the generic form of Pzers Zoloft, Cymbalta from Eli Lilly, Malarones safety prole and convenient dosing regimen have helped Forest Laboratories Celexa and Lexapro, and Effexor XR from Wyeth.
put this product in a strong position versus meoquine for malaria The principal competitors in the USA for Wellbutrin are generic forms prophylaxis.
of bupropion, the generic forms of SSRIs, Lexapro, Effexor XR, and Oncology and emesis Cymbalta.
Paxil CR and the once-daily Wellbutrin XL help to retain a Zofran provided GSK with a leadership position in the anti-emetic strong presence in the anti-depressant market, given the availability market where competitor companies include Roche, Sano-Aventis of both generic paroxetine and bupropion in the USA.
Generic and more recently MGI and Merck.
Generic competitors became competition for Seroxat Paxil has also occurred in a number of other available late in 2006.
Zofran now has full generic competition in the markets.
Major competitors in the diverse cytotoxic market include Bristol The major competitors for Lamictal in epilepsy are J&Js Dilantin and Myers Squibb, Sano-Aventis, Novartis and Roche Genentech.
GSKs generic phenytoin, Novartiss Tegretol Tegretol XR and generic cytotoxic portfolio, led by Hycamtin, currently holds a relatively small carbamazepine.
UCBs Keppra and Abbots Depakote Depakote ER.
In Bipolar the major competitors are generic Lithium, other antiepileptics including Abbotts Depakote Depakote ER and the atypical anti-psychotics including AstraZenecas Seroquel.
The major competitors for Imitrex Imigran are AstraZenecas Zomig, Mercks Maxalt and Pzers Relpax.
GSK Annual Report 2006 29 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review Products and competition continued Consumer Healthcare products Oral care The leading Oral care products are toothpastes and mouthwashes GlaxoSmithKlines principal consumer healthcare products are in three under the Aquafresh, Odol, Sensodyne and Macleans brand names, major areas.
An analysis of sales by these areas is set out below: and a range of toothbrushes sold under the Aquafresh and Dr Best names.
In addition, denture care products are available principally 2006 2005 2004 m m m under the Polident, Poligrip and Corega brand names.
Nutritional healthcare OTC medicines 1,496 1,437 1,400 The leading products in this category are Lucozade energy and sports Oral care 993 943 913 drinks, Ribena, a blackcurrant juice-based drink, and Horlicks, a range Nutritional healthcare 658 619 573 of milk-based malted food and chocolate drinks.
3,147 2,999 2,886 Major products, which are not necessarily sold in all markets, are: Consumer Healthcare competition Category Product GSK holds leading global positions in all its key consumer product areas.
Worldwide it is the third largest in Oral care and in OTC Over-the-counter medicines medicines.
In Nutritional healthcare it holds the leading position in Analgesics Panadol the UK, India and Ireland.
Dermatologicals Zovirax Abreva The environment in which the Consumer Healthcare business External nasal dilators Breathe Right operates has become ever more challenging: Gastro-intestinal Tums consumers are demanding better quality, better value and improved Citrucel performance Respiratory tract Contac Beechams retailers have consolidated and globalised which has strengthened Smoking control Commit their negotiation power Nicorette manufacturers are consolidating, leading to more aggressive NicoDerm CQ competition across all elements of the marketing mix NiQuitin CQ Nicabate CQ cycle times for innovation have reduced.
Natural wellness support Abtei The main competitors include the major international companies Oral care Aquafresh Colgate-Palmolive, Johnson & Johnson, Procter & Gamble, Unilever Dr Best and Wyeth.
In addition, there are many other companies that Macleans compete with GSK in certain markets.
Odol Odol Med 3 The major competitor products in OTC medicines are: Polident in the USA: Metamucil laxative, Pepcid indigestion and private Poligrip label smoking control products Sensodyne in the UK: Lemsip cold remedy, Nurofen and Anadin analgesics, Nutritional healthcare Lucozade and Nicorette and Nicotinell smoking control treatments.
Ribena Horlicks In Oral care the major competitors are Colgate-Palmolives Colgate and Procter & Gambles Crest.
Over-the-counter medicines In Nutritional healthcare the major competitors to Horlicks are Ovaltine The leading products are Panadol, a widely available paracetamol and Milo malted food and chocolate drinks.
The competitors to acetaminophen analgesic, Nicorette gum in the USA, the NicoDerm, Ribena are primarily local fruit juice products, while Lucozade NiQuitin CQ and Nicabate range of smoking control products, Tums, competes with other energy drinks.
a calcium-based antacid, Citrucel laxative, Contac for the treatment of colds, Abtei, a natural medicines and vitamin range, and Zovirax and Abreva for the treatment of cold sores.
In December 2006, the company acquired Breathe Right nasal strips that gently lift open nasal passages to provide better breathing, and FiberChoice daily bre supplements, through the acquisition of CNS, Inc. GSKs portfolio will be strengthened further in 2007 with the US launch of alli, a new treatment for weight-loss.
GSK Annual Report 2006 30 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review Financial review 2006 Pharmaceutical turnover Central nervous system CNS CNS sales increased 15% to 3.6 billion.
Sales increased in the USA All growth rates included in the review of turnover are at constant and International, but declined in Europe due to generic competition.
exchange rates CER unless otherwise stated.
The sterling growth Total Seroxat Paxil sales grew 4% to 620 million, due to strong rates may be found in the tables of pharmaceutical turnover by growth of Paxil CR in the USA and Paxil IR in Japan partly offset by therapeutic area on page 32 and by geographic region on page 33. generic competition to Paxil IR in Europe.
Total pharmaceutical turnover in 2006 was 20,078 million compared Total Wellbutrin sales grew 24% to 900 million.
Sales of Wellbutrin with 18,661 million in 2005, an increase of 9% CER.
Within the XL, a once-daily product, grew 25% to 798 million.
In December Groups portfolio, turnover of new products first launched in a major 2006, generic competition to the Wellbutrin XL 300mg tablet market within the last five years accounted for 27% 2005 24% approximately 60% of Wellbutrin sales entered the US market.
of total turnover and grew by 20% to 5,333 million 2005 4,478 million.
Turnover of the more established, franchise products Sales of Lamictal, for the treatment of epilepsy and bipolar disorder, amounted to 11,709 million 2005 10,933 million, representing grew 19% to just under 1 billion, benefiting from its new indication 58% of total turnover, and increased 9% compared with last year.
to treat one of the most serious forms of epilepsy primary generalised Turnover of older products, now less actively promoted, was 3,036 tonic-clonic seizures.
Lamictal is also the only medicine with long-term million 2005 3,250 million, representing 15% of total turnover, clinical data that demonstrates that it can delay the onset of depressive and declined by 5%.
In sterling terms total pharmaceutical turnover episodes of bipolar disorder.
In November, GSK submitted Lamictal XR, increased 8%, 1% less than CER due principally to the strength of a new once daily treatment, to the FDA for treatment of epilepsy.
The Sterling against major International currencies.
company intends to present data on Lamictal XR at the American Academy of Neurology meeting in April 2007.
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area Sales of Requip, for Parkinsons disease and Restless Legs Syndrome GSKs ability in 2006 to deliver continued pharmaceutical turnover RLS, grew 74% to 268 million and, in December, the FDA accepted growth was primarily due to an exceptionally broad product portfolio GSKs le for approval of the new formulation Requip CR.
of high-value growth products coupled with sales and marketing excellence.
These growth products include Seretide Advair, the Anti-virals Avandia product group, Vaccines, Lamictal, Valtrex, Coreg, Requip, Total sales of HIV products were 1.5 billion, down 1%.
to older products, Combivir down 9% to 528 million and Epivir down 21% to 202 million, was mostly offset by strong sales growth Respiratory of new products Epzicom Kivexa which more than doubled to 241 GSK continues to be the global leader in respiratory pharmaceuticals million and Lexiva Agenerase up 18% to 131 million.
with sales of its three key products, Seretide Advair, Flixotide Flovent Sales of Valtrex, rose 24% to 845 million, with US sales up 30% to and Serevent amounting to 4.3 billion, up 9%.
Total sales of 600 million driven by patients switching to suppression therapy.
Seretide Advair, for asthma and COPD, rose 11% to 3.3 billion.
In the USA, sales grew 13% to 1.9 billion.
In Europe, sales grew 10% Metabolic to 1.1 billion and in International markets, sales grew 9% to over GSK launched Avandia for the treatment of type 2 diabetes in 1999 300 million.
Market share by value in the anti-asthma and COPD and a combination product, Avandamet, for blood sugar control in therapy class was 29% in Europe and 33% in the USA, an increase 2002.
The product group was expanded further in February 2006 of 2 percentage points in Europe and a at market share growth in with the launch in the USA of a xed-dose combination treatment, the USA reecting lower prescription volumes due to a label change Avandaryl, which combines Avandia with a sulfonylurea.
in early 2006 that restricted GSKs ability to promote the product, In 2006, sales of the Avandia product group grew 24% to 1.2 billion offset by favourable pricing changes.
In Europe, sales grew 39% to 217 million driven by the Market share by value increasing use of Avandamet.
Sales in International markets rose 17% Seretide Advair Avandia Avandamet to 234 million.
The Avandia product group achieved in 2006 a market 40% 37 share by value in oral anti-diabetics of 37% in the USA and 19% in 35 33 33 Europe, up 2 and 5 percentage points, respectively.
In the USA, 29 30% 27 Avandamet prescription volume growth was adversely impacted by product supply issues during the year which have now been resolved.
20% 19 14 In December, GSK presented data from the landmark ADOPT study, 10% which demonstrated that Avandia is more effective than metformin, or a sulphonylurea, in long-term blood sugar control in type 2 diabetes.
These data are in addition to those recently presented from the DREAM Europe USA Europe USA September 2005 September 2006 study, which showed that Avandia can reduce the risk of progression to type 2 diabetes.
Data from both these studies are expected to be The positive results of the TOwards a Revolution in COPD Health led with regulatory agencies during the first half of 2007.
TORCH study, the largest of its kind, were led with regulators early GSK recorded in turnover a 95 million share of co-promotion income in 2007 and in February were published in the New England Journal for Boniva Bonviva, a new once-monthly oral bisphosphonate for the of Medicine.
The results of the three year study, sponsored by GSK, treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis, which was developed showed important benets of Seretide in the treatment of patients with Roche, and launched in 2005. with COPD.
Turnover by quarter is given in the Financial record on pages 174 to 177.
GSK Annual Report 2006 32 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review Financial review 2006 continued Individual governments determine the pricing of medicines in most Vaccines countries within Europe, which can result in wide price variations for Overall vaccine sales increased 23% to 1.7 billion, with good the same product.
Parallel trade occurs when third parties exploit this performances from all regions: US sales rose 40% to 465 million: price differential by purchasing products in markets where low prices European sales grew 20% to 709 million and sales in International are enforced and selling them to governments and other purchasers were up 13% to 518 million.
Key contributors were: Infanrix Pediarix, in those markets where higher prices have been agreed.
This parallel GSKs combination vaccines for children, with sales up 29% to 511 trade is permitted under the single market rules in the European million: and sales of hepatitis vaccines, which grew 9% to 479 Union.
GSK does not derive any benefit from the profit on resale at million, benefiting from a strong US performance of Havrix, following the higher price.
approval last year for broader paediatric use.
Sales of new vaccines also helped drive overall sales growth.
Total As a result, management believes that within the European region, sales of Rotarix, for rotavirus, Boostrix, for prevention of diphtheria, turnover by market, on an invoiced basis as presented above, does tetanus and whooping cough, and inuenza vaccines, Fluarix FluLaval, not properly represent the consumption of the products within each reached 274 million, up 91%.
This was the first full year sales of market.
GSK employees based in each market are instrumental in the FluLaval following the acquisition of ID Biomedical in late 2005. promotion of the Groups products within their market, thereby creating a product sale and final consumption in that market.
Oncology and emesis The following table gives the adjustments made in order to restate the Sales of Zofran grew 3% to 847 million, driven by the US market, turnover for markets within Europe on a turnover created basis.
Europe and International sales declined 14% and 16% respectively due to generic competition.
A generic Pharmaceutical turnover for Europe region in 2006 on a competitor to Zofran entered the US market in November 2006. turnover created basis Cardiovascular and urogenital 2006 2005 Sales of Coreg, for heart disease, grew 38% to 779 million.
Avodart, Region Invoiced Adjustment Created Invoiced Adjustment Created major markets m m m m m m for benign prostatic hyperplasia enlarged prostate, had a very strong year, with sales increasing 69% to 216 million.
Germany 595 71 666 554 57 611 Other therapeutic areas Spain 577 14 563 586 15 571 Sales of Zantac fell 2% to 232 million, with declines in Europe and Other Europe 1,955 67 1,888 1,998 73 1,925 International partially offset by a 28% growth in the USA.
These adjustments are GSKs estimates based on the most recent data from independent external sources, valued in Sterling at relevant Regional analysis exchange rates.
Management believes that this turnover created basis Pharmaceutical turnover by geographic region in 2006 on of reporting turnover by market provides a better reection of the an invoiced basis performance of the businesses in each market within Europe.
The turnover reported in the table below represents sales invoiced by The total turnover for the Europe region is unaffected by this GSKs local entity to its customers in the local market plus corestatement.
promotion income within each market.
Region % of 2006 2005 Growth Parallel trade occurs occasionally elsewhere in the world, but it is not major markets total m m CER% % sufciently material to affect signicantly the turnover data by market USA 52 10,353 9,106 16 14 presented on an invoiced basis.
GSK Annual Report 2006 33 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review Financial review 2006 continued Vaccines grew 40% reecting the good performance of Pediarix and Pharmaceutical turnover by geographic region in 2006 on a Boostrix, Fluarix and the launch of Flulaval in 2006. turnover created basis Turnover by market within Europe has been adjusted for the effects of Coreg sales increased 38% to 773 million as it continued to benefit parallel trade to show turnover on the basis of the country where the from its wide range of indications in heart disease.
Zofran sales product is nally consumed, not where the product was sold by GSK.
A generic competitor to Zofran entered the market in November 2006.
Region % of 2006 2005 Growth major markets total m m CER% % Anti-bacterial sales declined 15% as a result of generic competition.
USA 52 10,353 9,106 16 14 Europe Europe 27 5,547 5,537 1 The discussion of individual market performance in the Europe region France 901 928 2 3 is on a turnover created basis.
UK 889 853 4 4 Sales in Europe contributed 27% of pharmaceutical turnover and Italy 640 649 1 1 grew 1%, to over 5.5 billion, with strong sales from Seretide, Germany 666 611 10 9 Avandia Avandamet and vaccines offsetting the impact of generic Spain 563 571 1 1 competition to a number of products and continued price cuts Other Europe 1,888 1,925 2 2 resulting from government healthcare reforms.
International 21 4,178 4,018 6 4 Asia Pacic 1,377 1,324 4 4 Markets which recorded good growth included Germany, the UK, Japan 860 854 8 1 Central and South East Europe whilst growth in France, the Middle East, Africa 744 746 3 Netherlands, Poland, Italy and Spain was adversely impacted by pricing Latin America 714 651 10 10 and generics.
Canada 483 443 4 9 Major growth drivers were Seretide, GSKs largest selling product in 100 20,078 18,661 9 8 Europe, with growth of 10%, Avandia Avandamet which grew 39%, and the vaccines franchise, up 20%.
Sales of anti-virals grew 11% CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates.
% represents growth primarily due to government orders of Relenza as a measure in the at actual exchange rates.
Turnover by quarter is given in the Financial record event of a potential u pandemic.
USA Generic competition negatively impacted sales of Seroxat down 20%, A strong sales performance in the USA, up 16% to 10.4 billion, was Lamictal down 22%, Zofran down 14% and Imigran, down 18%.
the main contributor to total pharmaceutical turnover growth of 9% Sales of anti-bacterials decreased 12% due to a combination of a in 2006. weaker u season than in 2005 and generic competition.
Advair sales grew 13% to 1,870 million.
Flovent sales increased by International 16%.
Flonase, indicated for the treatment of perennial rhinitis, The International region reported year on year turnover growth of declined 63% following the launch of a generic competitor in Q1 6%.
Strong growth in Japan, up 8% despite the biennial price 2006. reductions, China Hong Kong, up 7% and Latin America, up 10%, was partly offset by modest sales growth of 4% in Canada and 3% Sales of Wellbutrin products grew 24% to 882 million reecting the in Australia.
The Canadian sales performance reected generic performance of Wellbutrin XL, a new once-daily product, which grew competition for Imigran and Zofran whilst the Australian business 25% to 793 million.
was negatively impacted by Government pricing reforms and generic Total sales of Paxil were up 35% to 175 million largely due to the competition to Lamictal and Paxil.
rectification of supply issues experienced in 2005 at the Cidra plant The performance in Japan was driven by the sales of Paxil, up 15%, in Puerto Rico.
Serevent, up 16% and Anti-virals, up 8% and the full year impact of Sales in the anti-virals therapeutic area grew 7% with HIV products Zyrtec, an allergy product in-licenced from UCB in 2005.
These were down 7% and herpes products up 30%.
Competition to older partially offset by declines in the older products Zantac and Zovirax.
products, Combivir down 14% and Epivir down 25%, was partly Flonase also declined due to a low pollen season.
offset by the growth of new products Epzicom Kivexa up 49% and Across all markets in International, the key products driving growth Lexiva up 7%.
Valtrex, for herpes, grew 30% to 600m driven by were Seretide, which grew 9% to record sales of 310 million, the patients switching to suppression therapy.
Avandia range of products which grew 17% to 234 million, HIV Sales of the Avandia product group increased by 24% reecting the products which grew 8% and the vaccines franchise, which recorded re-supply of product following supply disruption at the Cidra plant in growth of 13% and achieved sales of 518 million.
Puerto Rico in 2005 and price increases.
GSK Annual Report 2006 34 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review Financial review 2006 continued Consumer Healthcare sales Selling, general and administration An analysis of Consumer Healthcare sales is set out in the following Selling, general and administration SG&A costs as a percentage of table: turnover reduced 2.3 percentage points.
At constant exchange rates, the decrease was 2.5 percentage points, reecting at expenditure 2006 2005 Growth m m CER% % compared with prior year on a turnover growth of 9%.
SG&A costs were at due to higher advertising, promotion and selling expenditure OTC medicines 1,496 1,437 5 4 offset by lower general and administration expenditure.
Advertising, Analgesics 380 362 7 5 promotion and selling increased 3% and accounted for a 2% increase Dermatological 165 161 4 2 in total SG&A.
General and administration expenditure declined 5% Gastro-intestinal 252 249 2 1 and accounted for a 2% decline in total SG&A, of which one Respiratory tract 172 154 12 12 percentage point was due to lower charges related to legal matters Smoking control 353 336 7 5 and one percentage point was due to lower costs related to Natural wellness support 132 133 1 programmes to deliver future cost savings.
Oral care 993 943 6 5 Research and development Nutritional healthcare 658 619 7 6 R&D expenditure increased 11% partly as a result of higher charges 3,147 2,999 6 5 related to restructuring programmes.
Excluding restructuring costs R&D grew 8%, broadly in-line with turnover.
Pharmaceuticals R&D Consumer Healthcare sales grew 6% to 3.1 billion, with sales in expenditure, excluding restructuring costs, represented 16.2% 2005 International up 10% and Europe up 7%, performing well.
Total sales 16.2% of pharmaceutical turnover.
in the USA were at, with an improved performance in the fourth quarter, with sales up 7%.
Other operating income Other operating income includes royalty income, equity investment OTC medicines disposals and impairments, product disposals and fair value Over-the-counter medicine sales grew 5% to 1.5 billion with Panadol adjustments to the Quest collar and Theravance options.
Other and smoking control performing well.
operating income was 307 million in 2006 compared with 364 Oral care million in 2005.
The decrease is primarily due to lower product and Oral care sales grew 6% to 993 million.
Sensodyne grew strongly, asset disposal profits partially offset by the favourable fair value up 19% for the year to 257 million.
Sales of Aquafresh were down movement to the Quest collar and Theravance options.
Operating profit Nutritional healthcare Overall, the operating profit margin increased 1.9 percentage points Nutritional healthcare products sales grew 7% to 658 million.
as operating profit increased 14% in sterling terms to 7,808 million.
Lucozade, grew 14% to 301 million, and Horlicks, grew 6% to 156 Operating profit increased 17% at constant exchange rates and the million.
Ribena sales were down 1% to 169 million.
margin increased 2.4 percentage points, reecting SG&A growth below the rate of turnover growth, partially offset by higher costs Operating profit related to programmes to deliver future cost savings and lower other operating income.
The analysis below of operating profit and subsequent discussion compares the 2006 results with 2005 results.
Gains from asset disposals were 169 million 2005 290 million, 2006 2005 Growth costs for legal matters were 333 million 2005 430 million, the m % m % CER% % fair value movements on the Quest collar and Theravance options resulted in an income of 29 million 2005 19 million and charges Turnover 23,225 100.0 21,660 100.0 9 7 relating to cost-saving programmes were 205 million 2005 141 Cost of sales 5,010 21.6 4,764 22.0 6 5 million.
The total operating profit impact of these items was a 340 Selling, general million charge in 2006, compared with a 262 million charge in 2005. and administration 7,257 31.2 7,250 33.5 Research and profit before taxation development 3,457 14.9 3,136 14.5 11 10 Other operating The discussion below compares the 2006 results with the 2005 results.
income 307 1.3 364 1.7 Share of profits losses of joint ventures and associated Operating profit 7,808 33.6 6,874 31.7 17 14 undertakings The share of profits of associates arises principally from the Groups Cost of sales holding in Quest Diagnostics Inc.
Cost of sales declined as a percentage of turnover by 0.4 percentage points.
At constant exchange rates the decline was 0.6 percentage Disposal of interest in associates points reecting favourable price and regional mix impact.
There were no disposals of interests in associates in 2006 and 2005.
The Groups shareholding in Quest as at 31st December 2006 was 18.7%.
GSK Annual Report 2006 35 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review Financial review 2006 continued GSK has open issues in Japan and Canada, which were the subject Net finance costs of court proceedings in 2006.
In Japan the tax authorities are claiming 2006 2005 Finance income m m approximately Yen 39 billion 169 million in respect of transactions Interest income 285 276 in 1998.
GSK has paid the tax claimed, as required by law, and applied Fair value adjustments and hedges 2 19 for a refund.
A court decision is expected in late March 2007.
287 257 A court decision in the Groups dispute with the Canadian Revenue Authority over the pricing of Zantac in the years 1989 1993 is Finance costs expected in the first half of 2007.
Interest costs 314 427 GSK uses the best advice in determining its transfer pricing Unwinding of discount on liabilities 36 25 methodology and in seeking to manage transfer pricing issues to a Fair value adjustments and hedges 2 1 satisfactory conclusion and, on the basis of external professional 352 451 advice, continues to believe that it has made adequate provision for the liabilities likely to arise from open assessments.
The ultimate liability Finance income increased compared with 2005 predominantly due to for such matters may vary from the amounts provided and is increased income on extended credit on receivables and increased dependent upon the outcome of litigation proceedings and interest income due to higher US dollar interest rates.
Finance costs negotiations with the relevant tax authorities.
reduced due to the renancing of two expensive bonds in December 2005 and January 2006 as well as lower swap costs resulting from profit for the year reduced interest rate differentials.
2006 2005 Growth m m CER% % Taxation profit after taxation for the year 5,498 4,816 17 14 2006 2005 m m profit attributable to UK corporation tax 400 172 shareholders 5,389 4,689 18 15 Overseas taxation 2,310 1,847 Earnings per share pence 95.5p 82.6p 19 16 Current taxation 2,710 2,019 Earnings per ADS US$ $3.53 $3.00 Deferred taxation 409 103 Weighted average number of shares millions 5,643 5,674 Total 2,301 1,916 Diluted earnings per share pence 94.5p 82.0p The charge for taxation on profit amounting to 2,301 million, Diluted earnings per ADS US$ $3.50 $2.98 represents an effective tax rate of 29.5% 2005 28.5%.
The Group Weighted average number balance sheet at 31st December 2006 included a tax payable liability of shares millions 5,700 5,720 of 621 million and a tax recoverable asset of 186 million.
As reported last year, GSKs largest unresolved tax issues were with profit for the year was 5,498 million, an increase of 17% 14% in the US Internal Revenue Service IRS and UK HM Revenue and sterling terms.
profit attributable to minority interests was 109 Customs HMRC in respect of transfer prices related to the Glaxo million and profit attributable to shareholders was 5,389 million, an heritage products.
increase of 18% 15% in sterling terms.
Earnings per share increased 19%, reecting higher profits and also the reduction in the weighted On 11th September 2006, GSK and the IRS agreed to a resolution of average number of shares resulting from the Groups share buy-back their dispute.
Under the agreement, GSK has made gross payments programme.
The interest cost of this programme also adversely to the IRS of approximately $3.3 billion.
The final net cash cost to the impacts the Groups earnings.
At actual rates of exchange, earnings Group is approximately $3.1 billion, which covers federal, state and per share increased 16%.
The unfavourable currency impact on EPS local taxes, interest and the benefit of tax relief on the payments of three percentage points reects a strengthening of Sterling against made.
The settlement resolved all the transfer pricing issues in dispute other major currencies and compares with a two percentage point for the period 1989 2000, which were due to go to trial in February unfavourable currency impact on turnover.
2007, and also covers the subsequent years 2001 2005.
GSK had previously made provision for the dispute and this settlement did not Dividend have any significant impact on the Groups reported earnings or tax The Board has declared a fourth interim dividend of 14 pence per share rate for the year.
resulting in a dividend for the year of 48 pence, a four pence increase over the dividend of 44 pence per share for 2005.
The equivalent GSK continues to be in dispute with HMRC primarily in respect of interim dividend receivable by ADR holders is 55.1628 cents per ADS transfer pricing and Controlled Foreign Companies legislation matters based on an exchange rate of 1 $1.9701.
The dividend had an exfor the years 1994 to date and the parties are now preparing for dividend date of 14th February 2007, a record date of 16th February litigation.
HMRC has not formally quantied its claims in respect of 2007 and will be paid on 12th April 2007.
The liability for an interim these matters but there continues to be a wide difference between dividend is only recognised when it is paid, which is usually after the the Group and HMRC positions on these matters.
accounting period to which it relates.
The 2006 financial statements recognise the dividends paid in 2006, namely the third and fourth interim dividends for 2005 and the first and second interim dividends for 2006, which total 2,598 million 2005: 2,390 million.
GSK Annual Report 2006 36 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review Financial review 2006 continued The US Medicaid programme is a state-administered programme Critical accounting policies providing assistance to certain poor and vulnerable patients.
In 1990, The consolidated financial statements ar f e prepared in accordance the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program was established to reduce state with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted for use and federal expenditure on prescription drugs.
GSK participates by in the European Union, following the accounting policies approved providing rebates to states.
Accruals for Medicaid rebates are by the Board and described in Note 2 to the financial statements, calculated based on the specic terms of individual state agreements Accounting policies.
Management is required to make estimates and using a combination of historical experience, product and assumptions that affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and population growth, anticipated price increases and the impact of expenses reported in the financial statements.
Actual amounts and contracting strategies.
results could differ from those estimates.
The following are considered Cash discounts are offered to customers to encourage prompt to be the critical accounting policies adopted.
These are accrued for at the time of invoicing and adjusted Turnover subsequently to reect actual experience.
Revenue is recognised when title and risk of loss is passed to the Where there is historical experience of customer returns, GSK customer and reliable estimates can be made of relevant deductions.
records an accrual for estimated sales returns by applying historical Gross turnover is reduced by rebates, discounts, allowances and experience of customer returns to the amounts invoiced, together product returns given or expected to be given, which vary by product with market related information such as stock levels at wholesalers, arrangements and buying groups.
These arrangements with anticipated price increases and competitor activity.
purchasing organisations are dependent upon the submission of claims some time after the initial recognition of the sale.
Accruals are A reconciliation of gross turnover to net turnover for the US made at the time of sale for the estimated rebates, discounts or pharmaceuticals business is as follows: allowances payable or returns to be made, based on available market 2006 2005 2004 information and historical experience.
Because the amounts are m % m % m % estimated they may not fully reect the final outcome, and the amounts are subject to change dependent upon, amongst other Gross turnover 13,131 100 11,875 100 10,835 100 things, the types of buying group and product sales mix.
The level of Managed care, GPO accrual is reviewed and adjusted regularly in the light of contractual rebates and Medicare, and legal obligations, historical trends, past experience and projected Part D 912 7 686 6 575 5 market conditions.
Market conditions are evaluated using wholesaler Chargebacks 846 6 786 7 732 7 and other third-party analyses, market research data and internally US Government and generated information.
Future events could cause the assumptions on State programmes 507 4 775 6 734 7 which the accruals are based to change, which could affect the future Cash discounts 248 2 227 2 208 2 results of the Group.
Customer returns 140 1 155 1 86 1 Prior year adjustments 69 34 51 1 The Groups largest business is US pharmaceuticals, and the US market Other items 194 1 174 1 126 1 has the most complex arrangements for rebates, discounts and allowances.
The following briey describes the nature of the Total deductions 2,778 21 2,769 23 2,410 22 arrangements in existence in the Groups US pharmaceuticals Net turnover 10,353 79 9,106 77 8,425 78 business.
Rebates given under the US Government Medicaid programme have Customer rebates are offered to key managed care and group fallen in 2006 and been replaced with rebates granted under the purchasing organisations GPO and other direct and indirect Medicare, Part D programme.
The overall level of rebates has fallen customers.
These arrangements require the customer to achieve slightly, partly as a result of products with traditionally higher rebate certain performance targets relating to value of product purchased, percentages becoming subject to generic competition and being formulary status or pre-determined market shares relative to replaced with sales of newer products with lower rebate percentages.
Rebates given under Medicare, Part D are included in this category.
The Medicare, Part D programme was introduced The total accruals for rebates, discounts, allowances and returns in the during 2006 and replaces the Government Medicaid subsidies for US pharmaceuticals business were as follows: some individuals with subsidised coverage provided through private At 31st At 31st prescription plans.
The accrual for these rebates is estimated based December December 2006 2005 on the specic terms in each agreement, historical experience and m m product growth rates.
Managed care, GPO rebates and GSK has arrangements with certain key parties, whereby the party Medicare, Part D 435 401 is able to buy products from wholesalers at lower prices.
A Chargebacks 50 56 chargeback represents the difference between the invoice price to US Government and State programmes 283 417 the wholesaler and the indirect customers contractual discounted Cash discounts 24 27 price.
Accruals for estimating chargebacks are calculated based on Customer returns 184 146 the terms of each agreement, historical experience and product Other 69 53 growth rates.
Total 1,045 1,100 GSK Annual Report 2006 37 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review Financial review 2006 continued A monthly process is operated to monitor inventory levels at Intangible assets wholesalers for any abnormal movements.
This process uses gross Where intangible assets are acquired by GlaxoSmithKline from third sales volumes, prescription volumes based on third party data sources parties the costs of acquisition are capitalised.
Licences to compounds and information received from key wholesalers.
The aim of this is to in development are amortised from the point at which they are maintain inventories at a consistent level from year to year based on available for use, over their estimated useful lives, up to 20 years.
On this basis, US pharmaceutical Estimated useful lives are reviewed annually and impairment tests are inventory levels at wholesalers and in other distribution channels at undertaken if events occur which call into question the carrying values 31st December 2006 were estimated to amount to approximately of the assets.
Brands acquired with businesses are capitalised one month of turnover.
This calculation uses third party information, independently where they are separable and have an expected life of the accuracy of which cannot be totally veried, but is believed to be more than one year.
Brands are amortised over their estimated useful sufciently reliable for this purpose.
lives, not exceeding 20 years, except where the end of the useful economic life cannot be foreseen.
Where brands are not amortised, Taxation they are subject to annual impairment tests.
Impairment tests are Current tax is provided at the amounts expected to be paid, and based on risk-adjusted future cash ows discounted using appropriate deferred tax on temporary differences between the tax bases of assets interest rates.
These future cash ows are based on business forecasts and liabilities and their carrying amounts, at the rates that have been and are therefore inherently judgemental.
Future events could cause enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
the values of these intangible assets to be impaired and this would The Group has open tax issues with a number of revenue authorities, have an adverse effect on the future results of the Group.
principally in relation to transfer pricing disputes.
GSK uses the best Pensions and other post-employment benets advice in determining its transfer pricing methodology and in seeking The costs of providing pensions and other post-retirement benets are to manage transfer pricing issues to a satisfactory conclusion and, on charged to the income statement in accordance with IAS 19 over the the basis of external professional advice, continues to believe that it period during which benefit is derived from the employees services.
has made adequate provision for the liabilities likely to arise from open The costs are assessed in accordance with advice received from assessments.
However, there continues to be a wide difference of independent actuaries on the basis of assumptions selected by views where open issues exist.
The ultimate liability for such matters management for use under both IFRS and USGAAP.
These may vary from the amounts provided and is dependent upon the assumptions include future earnings and pension increases, discount outcome of litigation proceedings and negotiations with the relevant rates and expected long term rates of return on assets and are tax authorities.
disclosed in Note 26 to the financial statements, Pensions and other Legal and other disputes post-employment benets.
The expected long term rates of return GSK provides for anticipated settlement costs where a reasonable on bonds are determined based on the portfolio mix of index-linked, estimate may be made of the likely outcome of the dispute and legal government and corporate bonds.
An equity risk premium is added and other expenses arising from claims against the Group.
Discount rates are based on appropriate long-term companys Directors, having taken legal advice, have established indices, including the iBoxx over 15 year AA index for the UK, and provisions after taking into account the relevant facts and Moodys Aa index for the USA.
Sensitivity analysis is provided in Note circumstances of each matter and in accordance with accounting 26, but a 0.25% reduction in the discount rate would lead to an requirements.
Provisions for product liability claims on certain products increase in the net pension deficit of approximately 369 million and have been made on an incurred but not reported basis where an increase in the annual pension cost of approximately 4 million.
sufficient history of claims made and settlements is available.
No The selection of different assumptions could affect the future results provisions have been made for other unasserted claims or for claims of the Group.
for which no reasonable estimate of the likely outcome can yet be Product rights and goodwill made.
The ultimate liability for pending and unasserted claims may In addition to the critical accounting policies outlined above, the vary from the amounts provided, if any, and is dependent upon the accounting policy for product rights and goodwill is deemed to be outcome of litigation proceedings, investigations and possible important in respect of the balance sheet prepared in accordance settlement negotiations.
with US generally accepted accounting principles.
Under US GAAP the Impairment of xed assets merger of Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham in 2000 was The carrying values of xed assets subject to depreciation and accounted for as an acquisition which gave rise to product rights of amortisation are reviewed for impairment when there is an indication 24 billion and goodwill of 16 billion being recognised.
Goodwill and that the values of the assets might be impaired.
Impairment is those product rights determined to have indefinite lives are not determined by reference to the higher of net realisable value and amortised but rather reviewed annually for impairment.
These value in use, measured by reference to risk-adjusted future cash ows impairment reviews assess business projections prepared as part of the discounted using appropriate interest rates.
These future cash ows Groups annual budgeting and planning process to determine are based on business forecasts and are therefore inherently whether or not an impairment in value has occurred.
Future events could cause the assumptions used in these projections include assumptions about future events.
Changes in impairment reviews to change with a consequent adverse effect on future events could cause the assumptions in the business projections the future results of the Group.
to change with a consequent adverse effect on the future results of the Group as reported under US GAAP.
GSK Annual Report 2006 38 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review Financial position and resources Financial position Property, plant and equipment The total cost of the Groups property, plant and equipment at 31st 2006 2005 m m December 2006 was 13.3 billion, with a net book value of 6.9 billion.
Of this, land and buildings represented 2.8 billion, plant and Assets equipment 2.7 billion and assets in construction 1.4 billion.
In 2006, Non-current assets GSK invested 1,485 million in new and renewal property, plant and Property, plant and equipment 6,930 6,652 equipment.
This is mainly related to a large number of projects for the Goodwill 758 696 renewal improvement and expansion of facilities at various worldwide Other intangible assets 3,293 3,383 sites.
Property is mainly held freehold.
New investment is nanced Investments in associates and from Group liquid resources.
At 31st December 2006, GSK had capital joint ventures 295 276 contractual commitments for future expenditure of some 521 million Other investments 441 362 and 2007 operating lease commitments of 374 million.
Deferred tax assets 2,123 2,214 Other non-current assets 721 438 GSKs business is science-based, technology-intensive and highly Total non-current assets 14,561 14,021 regulated by governmental authorities.
The Group allocates significant financial resources to the renewal and maintenance of its property, Current assets plant and equipment to minimise risks of interruption of production Inventories 2,437 2,177 and to achieve compliance with regulatory standards.
A number of Current tax recoverable 186 416 its processes use chemicals and hazardous materials.
Trade and other receivables 5,317 5,348 The Group observes stringent procedures and uses specialist skills to Liquid investments 1,035 1,025 manage environmental risks from these activities.
Environmental Cash and cash equivalents 2,005 4,209 issues, sometimes dating from operations now modied or Assets held for sale 12 2 discontinued, are reported under Responsibility for environment, Total current assets 10,992 13,177 health and safety page 24 and in Note 43 to the financial Total assets 25,553 27,198 statements, Legal proceedings.
GSK believes that its facilities are adequate for its current needs.
Liabilities Other intangible assets Current liabilities Other intangible assets include the cost of intangibles acquired from Short-term borrowings 718 1,200 third parties and computer software.
The net book value of other Trade and other payables 4,871 5,147 intangible assets as at 31st December 2006 was 3,293 million 2005 Current tax payable 621 2,269 3,383 million.
The decrease in 2006 reects currency movements Short-term provisions 1,055 895 and amortisation of existing intangibles, partly offset by additions of Total current liabilities 7,265 9,511 444 million.
The largest element of the additions relates to the acquisition of CNS, Inc. which added to the GSK portfolio Breathe Non-current liabilities Right nasal strips and FiberChoice dietary products.
Long-term borrowings 4,772 5,271 Deferred tax provision 595 569 Investments Pensions and other postGSK held investments, including associates and joint ventures, with employment benets 2,339 3,069 a carrying value at 31st December 2006 of 736 million 2005 638 Other provisions 528 741 million.
The market value at 31st December 2006 was 1,461 million Other non-current liabilities 406 467 2005 1,487 million.
The investments are mainly in equity shares Total non-current liabilities 8,640 10,117 where the holding derives directly from the Groups business.
The largest of these investments is in the associate, Quest Diagnostics Inc. Total liabilities 15,905 19,628 which had a book value at 31st December 2006 of 262 million 2005 Net assets 9,648 7,570 244 million.
The investments include stakes in companies where the Group has research collaborations, which provide access to Equity biotechnology developments of potential interest or interests in Share capital 1,498 1,491 companies that arise from business divestments.
Share premium account 858 549 Retained earnings 6,965 5,579 Trade and other receivables Other reserves 65 308 Trade and other receivables include 80 million 2005 180 million Shareholders equity 9,386 7,311 of derivative financial instruments now held at fair value.
The remaining increase from 2005 reects increased sales and higher VAT Minority interests 262 259 recoverables partly offset by the impact of weakening overseas currencies on the translation of foreign currency receivables.
Total equity 9,648 7,570 Trade and other payables Trade and other payables include 41 million 2005 171 million of derivative financial instruments now held at fair value.
The remaining decrease reects the impact of weakening overseas currencies on the translation of foreign currency payables.
GSK Annual Report 2006 39 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review Financial position and resources continued Provisions Share purchases The Group carried deferred tax provisions and other short-term and In 2006, the ESOP Trusts did not make any market purchases of shares non-current provisions of 2,178 million at 31st December 2006 in GSK plc 2005 nil.
Shares are held by the Trusts to satisfy future 2005 2,205 million in respect of estimated future liabilities, of exercises of options and awards under the Group share option and which 1,105 million related to legal and other disputes.
A proportion of the shares held by the Trusts are in respect of awards where the rules of the scheme require the company Provision has been made for legal and other disputes, indemnified to satisfy exercises through market purchases rather than the issue of disposal liabilities and the costs of manufacturing restructuring and new shares.
The shares held by the Trusts are matched to options and merger integration to the extent that at the balance sheet date an actual awards granted and diminish the dilutive effect of new share issues or constructive obligation existed and could be reasonably estimated.
on shareholders equity and earnings.
Pensions and other post-employment benets At 31st December 2006, the ESOP Trusts held 153.5 million GSK The Group accounts for pension and other post-employment shares against the future exercise of share options and share awards.
arrangements in accordance with IAS 19.
The net deficit before The carrying value of 1,999 million has been deducted from other allowing for deferred taxation was 2,338 million 2005 3,069 reserves.
The market value of these shares was 2,062 million.
The pension and other post-employment liabilities decreased following improvements in asset values, further special funding GSK repurchased 1,348 million of shares in 2006, to be held as contributions to the UK and US pension funds of 346 million 2005 Treasury shares.
The company completed its second 4 billion share 366 million and a strengthening of long-term interest rates, repurchase programme in September, and in October commenced a including an increase in the rate used to discount UK pension liabilities new share buy-back programme totalling 6 billion.
is expected to be completed over a three year period including 2 billion in 2007.
The exact amount and timing of future purchases, and the Net debt extent to which repurchased shares will be held as Treasury shares rather 2006 2005 than being cancelled, will be determined by the company and is m m dependent on market conditions and other factors.
At 31st December Cash, cash equivalents and liquid 2006, GSK also held 235.5 million shares as Treasury shares, at a cost investments 3,040 5,234 of 3,147 million, which has been deducted from retained earnings.
Borrowings repayable within one year 718 1,200 Borrowings repayable after one year 4,772 5,271 Commitments and contingent liabilities Financial commitments are summarised in Note 37 to the financial Net debt 2,450 1,237 statements, Commitments.
Other contingent liabilities and Net debt increased by 1,213 million primarily due to the gross obligations in respect of short and long-term debt are set out in Note payment of $3.3 billion 1.8 billion under the transfer pricing dispute 29 to the financial statements, Contingent liabilities and Note 30 to settlement with the US Internal Revenue Service see Taxation on the financial statements, Net debt.
page 36 and higher share repurchases partly offset by increased Amounts provided for pensions and post-retirement benets are set operating profits.
out in Note 26 to the financial statements, Pensions and other postTotal equity employment benets.
Amounts for restructuring and integration A summary of the movements in equity is set out below.
plans and legal, environmental and other disputes are set out in Note 27 to the financial statements, Other provisions.
2006 2005 m m Contractual obligations and commitments Total equity at beginning of year 7,570 5,937 The following table sets out the Groups contractual obligations and Implementation of accounting for commitments at 31st December 2006 as they fall due for payment.
financial instruments under IAS 39 12 Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs Total equity at beginning of year, as adjusted 7,570 5,925 m m m m m Total recognised income and expense Loans 5,351 676 1,505 11 3,159 for the year 5,395 4,576 Interest on loans 2,875 215 344 307 2,009 Dividends to shareholders 2,598 2,390 Finance lease obligations 139 42 63 22 12 Ordinary shares issued 316 252 Operating lease Ordinary shares purchased and held as commitments 374 94 129 74 77 Treasury shares 1,348 1,000 Intangible assets 3,219 558 465 645 1,551 Ordinary shares issued by ESOP Trusts 151 68 Property, plant & equipment 521 381 140 Share-based payments 247 265 Investments 196 192 4 Changes in minority interest shareholdings2 40 Business combinations 258 258 Minority interests 87 86 Purchase commitments 299 151 128 20 Total equity at end of year 9,648 7,570 Pensions 975 325 650 Theravance put option At 31st December 2006, total equity had increased from 7,570 million agreement 258 258 at 31st December 2005 to 9,648 million.
The increase arises principally Other commitments 65 31 25 4 5 from retained earnings and actuarial gains on dened benefit pension Total 14,530 3,181 3,453 1,083 6,813 plans in the year, partially offset by further purchases of Treasury shares.
GSK Annual Report 2006 40 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review Financial position and resources continued Commitments in respect of future interest payable on loans are Cash ow disclosed after taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps.
A summary of the consolidated cash ow statement is set out below: The Group has entered into a number of research collaborations to 2006 2005 m m develop new compounds with other pharmaceutical companies.
The terms of these arrangements can include up-front fees, equity Net cash inow from operating activities 4,357 5,958 investments, loans and commitments to fund specified levels of Net cash outow from investing activities 1,521 1,660 research.
In addition the Group will often agree to make further Net cash outow from nancing activities 4,792 2,914 payments if future milestones are achieved.
As some of these Decrease Increase in cash and bank overdrafts 1,956 1,384 agreements relate to compounds in the early stages of development, milestone payments will continue for a number of years if the Exchange adjustments 254 233 compounds move successfully through the development process.
Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 3,972 2,355 Generally the closer the product is to marketing approval the greater Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year 1,762 3,972 the possibility of success.
The payments shown above within intangible assets represent the maximum that would be paid if all Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year milestones are achieved.
A number of commitments were made in comprise: 2006 under licensing and other agreements, including with Cash and cash equivalents 2,005 4,209 ChemoCentryx Inc. EPIX Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Genmab A S. Overdrafts 243 237 In 2006, GSK formalised an agreement with the trustees of the UK 1,762 3,972 pension schemes to make additional contributions of up to 325 million per year, in addition to the normal contributions, over a fourThe net cash inow from operating activities after taxation paid was year period ending 31st December 2009 in order to eliminate the 4,357 million, a decrease of 1,601 million over 2005, arising mainly then pension deficits on an IAS 19 basis by that point.
The table on from the gross taxation payment of $3.3 billion 1.8 billion under page 40 shows this commitment, but excludes the normal ongoing the transfer pricing dispute settlement see page 36, partially offset annual funding requirement of approximately 200 million.
GSK has by higher operating profits.
also committed to eliminate any future deficits that may arise over a The net cash outow from investing activities was 1,521 million, a rolling five-year period.
No other commitments have been made past decrease of 139 million which reected increased capital expenditure 31st December 2009. and the purchase of businesses including CNS in 2006 for 273 million Contingent liabilities purchases of businesses in 2005 were over 1 billion reecting the The following table sets out contingent liabilities, comprising purchase of Corixa and ID Biomedical.
discounted bills, performance guarantees, letters of credit and other Free cash ow was 2,623 million, a decrease of 44% over 2005, items arising in the normal course of business and when they are principally reecting the US tax settlement and higher levels of capital expected to expire.
Free cash ow is the amount of cash generated by the business after meeting its obligations for interest, tax and dividends Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs m m m m m paid to minority interests, and after capital expenditure on non-current tangible and intangible assets.
Guarantees 221 74 28 5 114 Other contingent liabilities 37 12 10 4 11 Free cash ow is used by GSKs management for planning and Total 258 86 38 9 125 reporting purposes and in discussions with and presentations to investment analysts and rating agencies.
GSKs free cash ow measure In the normal course of business GSK has provided various is not dened in IFRS.
This measure may not be directly comparable indemnification guarantees in respect of business disposals in which with similarly described measures used by other companies.
A legal and other disputes have subsequently arisen.
A provision is made reconciliation of net cash inow from operating activities, which is where a reasonable estimate can be made of the likely outcome of the closest equivalent IFRS measure, to free cash ow is shown below.
the dispute and this is included in Note 27 to the financial statements, Reconciliation of free cash ow Other provisions.
2006 2005 It is the Groups policy to provide for the settlement costs of asserted m m claims and environmental disputes when a reasonable estimate may Net cash inow from operating activities 4,357 5,958 be made.
Prior to this point no liability is recorded.
Legal and Purchase of non-current tangible assets 1,366 903 environmental costs are discussed in Risk factors on pages 44 to 47.
Purchase of non-current intangible assets 224 278 GSK uses the best advice in determining its transfer pricing Disposal of non-current tangible xed assets 43 54 methodology and, on the basis of external professional advice, Interest paid 414 381 continues to believe that it has made adequate provision for the Interest received 299 290 liabilities likely to arise from open taxation assessments.
The ultimate Dividends received from joint ventures and liability for such matters may vary signicantly from amounts provided associated undertaking 15 10 and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation proceedings and Dividends paid to minority interests 87 86 negotiations with the relevant tax authorities.
This is discussed further Free cash ow 2,623 4,664 in Note 12 to the financial statements, Taxation.
GSK Annual Report 2006 41 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review Financial position and resources continued Reconciliation of net cash ow to movement in net debt Payment performance At 31st December 2006, the average number of days purchases 2006 2005 m m represented by trade and xed asset creditors of the parent company was nil 2005 nil and in respect of the company and its UK Net debt at beginning of year 1,237 1,984 subsidiaries in aggregate was 24 days 2005 22 days.
Decrease increase in cash and bank overdrafts 1,956 1,384 Treasury policies Cash outow inow from liquid investments 55 550 Net increase in long-term loans - 912 GlaxoSmithKline plc reports in Sterling and pays dividends out of Net repayment of short-term loans 739 857 sterling profits.
The role of Corporate Treasury in GSK is to manage Exchange and other movements 51 32 and monitor the Groups external and internal funding requirements Net debt at end of year 2,450 1,237 and financial risks in support of Group corporate objectives.
Treasury activities are governed by policies and procedures approved by the Investment appraisal Board and monitored by a treasury management group.
GSK has a formal process for assessing potential investment proposals GSK maintains treasury control systems and procedures to monitor in order to ensure decisions are aligned with the Groups overall foreign exchange, interest rate, liquidity, credit and other financial strategy.
This process includes an analysis of the impact of the project risks.
on earnings, its return on invested capital and an assessment of the return based on discounted cash ows.
The discount rate used to Liquidity perform financial analysis is decided internally, to allow determination GSK operates globally, primarily through subsidiary companies of the extent to which investments cover the Groups cost of capital.
established in the markets in which the Group trades.
Due to the For specic investments the discount rate may be adjusted to take into nature of GSKs business, with patent protection on many of the account country or other risk weightings.
products in its portfolio, the Groups products compete largely on product efcacy rather than on price.
Selling margins are sufficient to Capital expenditure and financial investment exceed normal operating costs and the Groups operating subsidiaries Cash payments for tangible and intangible xed assets amounted to are substantially cash generative.
Cash payments to acquire equity investments Operating cash ow is used to fund investment in the research and of 57 million 2005 23 million were made in the year and sales development of new products as well as routine outows of capital of equity investments realised 32 million 2005 35 million.
expenditure, tax, dividends and repayment of maturing debt.
The Group may, from time to time, have additional demands for finance, Future cash ow such as for share purchases and acquisitions.
The Group expects that future operating cash ow will be sufficient to fund its operating and debt service costs, to satisfy normal levels GSK operates with a high level of interest cover and at low levels of of capital expenditure, to meet obligations under existing licensing net debt relative to its market capitalisation.
In addition to the strong agreements and to meet other routine outows including tax and positive cash ow from normal trading activities, additional liquidity dividends, subject to the risk factors discussed on pages 44 to 47. is readily available via its commercial paper programme and shortGSK may from time to time have additional demands for finance, term investments.
The Group also has a European Medium Term Note such as for acquisitions.
It has access to other sources of liquidity from programme of 10 billion, of which 3.5 billion was in issue at 31st banks and other financial institutions, in addition to the cash ow December 2006.
In 2004, the Group established a US Shelf from operations, for such needs.
Registration of $5 billion: at 31st December 2006 $2.4 billion 1.2 billion was in issue.
Payment policies Treasury operations Group companies are responsible for monitoring and managing their The objective of treasury activity is to manage the post-tax net working capital.
The terms of sales collections and supplier payments cost income of financial operations to the benefit of Group earnings.
Corporate Treasury does not operate as a profit centre.
GSK uses a variety of financial instruments, including derivatives, to finance its In the UK, the company and each of its UK subsidiaries have policies operations and to manage market risks from those operations.
to ensure that suppliers are paid on time.
In particular, the UK companies seek: Derivatives, principally comprising forward foreign currency contracts, to settle terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms interest rate and currency swaps, are used to swap borrowings and of the transaction liquid assets into the currencies required for Group purposes and to manage exposure to funding risks from changes in foreign exchange to ensure that suppliers are made aware of the agreed terms rates and interest rates.
of payment to abide by the terms of payment.
The policy includes arrangements for accelerated payment of small suppliers.
GSK Annual Report 2006 42 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review Financial position and resources continued GSK balances the use of borrowings and liquid assets having regard Based on the composition of net debt at 31st December 2006, a 10% to the cash ow from operating activities, the currencies in which it appreciation in Sterling against major currencies would result in a is earned, the tax cost of intra-Group distributions, the currencies in reduction in the Groups net debt of approximately 210 million.
which business assets are denominated, and the post-tax cost of A 10% weakening in Sterling against major currencies would result borrowings compared with the post-tax return on liquid assets.
in an increase in the Groups net debt of approximately 256 million.
Liquid assets surplus to the immediate operating requirements of Interest rate risk management Group companies are generally invested and managed centrally by GSKs policy on interest rate risk management requires that the Corporate Treasury.
Requirements of Group companies for operating amount of net borrowings at xed rates increases with the ratio of finance are met whenever possible from central resources.
forecast net interest payable to trading profit.
External borrowings, mainly managed centrally by Corporate Treasury, The Group uses a limited number of interest rate swaps to comprise a portfolio of long and medium-term instruments and shortredenominate external borrowings into the interest rate coupon term finance.
The duration of these swaps matches the duration of the principal debt instruments.
Interest rate derivative GSK does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading instruments are accounted for as fair value or cash ow hedges of the purposes and the Groups Treasury policies specically prohibit such relevant assets or liabilities.
All transactions in financial instruments are undertaken to manage the risks arising from underlying business activities, not for The Group manages centrally the short-term cash surpluses or speculation.
borrowing requirements of subsidiary companies and uses forward contracts to hedge future repayments back into the originating Funding, maturity and counterparty risk currency.
The Group invests centrally managed liquid assets in government bonds, short-term corporate debt instruments with a minimum Sensitivity analysis considers the sensitivity of the Groups net debt to short-term credit rating of A-1 P-1, money market funds with a credit hypothetical changes in market rates and assumes that all other rating of AAA Aaa and other structured investments credit ratings variables remain constant.
Based on the composition of net debt and shown are from Standard and Poors and Moodys Investors Services, nancing arrangements at 31st December 2006, and taking into respectively.
consideration all xed rate borrowings in place, a one percentage point 100 basis points decrease in average interest rates would result The Group manages its net borrowing requirements through a in an increase in the Groups annual net interest charge of portfolio of long-term borrowings, including bonds, together with approximately 5 million.
short-term finance under the US$10 billion commercial paper programme.
Equity risk management Equity investments classied as current assets are available-for-sale The Groups long-term borrowings mature at dates between 2007 and the Group manages disposals to meet overall business and 2034.
These include a private nancing which, although maturing requirements as they arise.
The Group regularly monitors the value of in 2032, may be redeemed by GSK at any time and, in particular, in its equity investments and only enters into hedges selectively with the the event of any accelerating event that would increase the cost of approval of the Board.
GSKs long-term debt rating is AA from Standard and Poors and Aa2 from Moodys Investors Services.
The Financial assets and liabilities agencies short-term ratings for paper issued under the Groups An analysis of net debt is given in Note 30 to the financial statements, commercial paper programme are A-1 and P-1 respectively.
An analysis of financial assets and liabilities at carrying value and fair value and a reconciliation to net debt are given in Note Foreign exchange risk management 39 to the financial statements, Financial instruments and related In GSK foreign currency transaction exposure arising on normal trade disclosures, together with a discussion of derivative financial ows, in respect of both external and intra-Group trade, is not instruments and quantitative disclosures about market risk in hedged.
The policy is to minimise the exposure of overseas operating accordance with the requirements of IAS 32 and IAS 39. subsidiaries to transaction risk by matching local currency income with local currency costs.
For this purpose, intra-Group trading transactions The Group continues to benefit from strong positive cash ow.
Group are matched centrally and intra-Group payment terms are managed net debt would have decreased signicantly in the year to 31st to reduce risk.
Exceptional foreign currency cash ows are hedged December 2006, but for the Groups purchase of its own shares in the selectively under the management of Corporate Treasury.
market of 1.3 billion, the gross US tax settlement of US$3.3 billion 1.8 billion and acquisitions of approximately 0.3 billion.
The Group seeks to denominate borrowings in the currencies of its principal assets and cash ows.
These are primarily denominated in The financial assets and liabilities at 31st December 2006 are US dollars, Euros and Sterling.
Certain of these and other borrowings representative of the treasury policies and strategies of GSK, applied are swapped into other currencies as required for Group purposes.
There were no significant changes in such policies throughout the year.
Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign currencies that match investments in overseas Group assets are treated as a hedge against the relevant net assets.
GSK Annual Report 2006 43 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review Outlook and risk factors Outlook Risk factors Sales growth of existing products and launch of new products are There are risks and uncertainties relevant to the Groups business.
The key drivers of GSKs business performance.
The sales growth seen factors listed below are among those that the Group thinks could from key products such as Seretide Advair, the Avandia group of cause the Groups actual results to differ materially from expected and products, Vaccines, Lamictal, Valtrex, Coreg and the high potential historical results.
products, Requip, Avodart and Boniva is expected to continue in 2007.
Risk that R&D will not deliver commercially successful new Typically, sales of existing products decline dramatically when generic products competition is introduced either on patent expiry or earlier if there is Continued development of commercially viable new products is critical a successful challenge to the Groups patent.
In Q4 2006, generic to the Groups ability to replace sales of older products that decline competitors to Wellbutrin XL 300mg tablet approximately 60% of upon expiration of exclusive rights, and to increase overall sales.
Wellbutrin sales and Zofran entered the US market.
GSK is engaged Developing new products is a costly, lengthy and uncertain process.
in legal proceedings regarding the validity and infringement of the A new product candidate can fail at any stage of the process, and one Groups patents relating to many of its products.
These are discussed or more late-stage product candidates could fail to receive regulatory in Risk factors below and in Note 43 to the financial statements, approval.
New product candidates may appear promising in development but, Five major new pharmaceutical product launches are expected in after significant investment, fail to reach the market or have only 2007.
These include Tykerb, for breast cancer, Cervarix, for cervical limited commercial success.
This, for example, could be as a result of cancer in Europe, Allermist, for allergic rhinitis, Coreg CR, for heart efcacy or safety concerns, inability to obtain necessary regulatory failure and Trexima, for migraine.
approvals, difficulty or excessive costs to manufacture, erosion of GSK also expects to launch several other important products during patent term as a result of a lengthy development period, infringement the year including: Arixtra, to treat acute coronary syndromes ACS : of patents or other intellectual property rights of others or inability to Altabax Altargo, for skin infections, and Entereg, for the management differentiate the product adequately from those with which it of post-operative ileus.
GSKs consumer brand portfolio will be strengthened further in 2007, Risk of unplanned loss of patents with the launch of 10 products, including alli, a new treatment for Patent infringement litigation weight-loss in the USA.
Two more brands, Breathe Right, nasal strips The Groups patents, in common with all patents, can be challenged and FiberChoice, dietary bre supplements, were added to the at any time.
Efforts by generic manufacturers may involve challenges portfolio, following the acquisition of CNS, Inc. which was completed to the validity of a patent or assertions that their generic product does in December 2006. not infringe the Groups patents.
If the Group is not successful in defending an attack on its patents and maintaining exclusive rights Several new products are expected to be led for approval with the to market one or more of its major products, particularly in the USA regulatory authorities in 2007, including vaccine opportunities: US where the Group has its highest turnover and margins, the Groups ling of Cervarix, for cervical cancer and Rotarix, for rotavirus and the turnover and margins would be adversely affected.
See Note 43 to European ling of Synorix, a vaccine for pneumococcal disease.
GSK the financial statements, Legal proceedings, for a discussion of continues to progress development of vaccines for use before, and in patent-related proceedings in which the Group is involved.
In January 2007, GSK submitted its H5N1 vaccine to European regulators for approval for pre-pandemic Generic drug manufacturers are seeking to market generic versions use.
of many of the Groups most important products, prior to the expiration of the Groups patents, and have exhibited a readiness to GSK now has 31 major product opportunities in phase III development do so for other products in the future.
The US launch of generic or registration, comprising 13 NCEs, 6 new vaccines and 12 product products competing with Paxil IR and Wellbutrin had a significant line extensions.
impact on the Groups overall turnover and earnings.
GSKs published earnings guidance for 2007 is that earnings per share Weakness of intellectual property protection in certain growth is expected to be 8% to 10% in CER terms.
countries The Group has net debt of 2.5 billion, which is low relative to its In some of the countries in which the Group operates, patent market capitalisation, and this positions it to take advantage of any protection may be signicantly weaker than in the USA or the opportunities that might arise to build the business.
In addition, in an effort to control public health crises, some developing countries, such as South Africa and Brazil, There are risks and uncertainties inherent in the business that may have considered plans for substantial reductions in the scope of patent affect future performance including R&D projects, anticipated sales protection for pharmaceutical products.
In particular, these countries growth and expected earnings growth.
These are discussed in Risk could facilitate competition within their markets from generic factors below.
manufacturers who would otherwise be unable to introduce competing products for a number of years.
GSK Annual Report 2006 44 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review Outlook and risk factors continued Any loss of patent protection, including abrogation of patent rights Anti-trust litigation or compulsory licensing, is likely to affect adversely the Groups In the USA it has become increasingly common that following operating results in those national markets but is not expected to be publicity around government investigations or an adverse outcome material to the Group overall.
Absence of adequate patent protection in prosecution of patent infringement actions, the defendants and could limit the opportunity to look to such markets for future sales direct and indirect purchasers and other payers initiate anti-trust growth.
Claims by direct and indirect purchasers and other payers are typically led as class actions and the relief sought may Risk of substantial adverse outcome of litigation and include treble damages and restitution claims.
Damages in adverse government investigations anti-trust verdicts are subject to automatic trebling in the USA.
See Note 43 to the financial statements, Legal proceedings, for a Similarly, anti-trust claims may be brought following settlement of discussion of proceedings and governmental investigations in which patent litigation, alleging that such settlements are anti-competitive the Group is currently involved.
Unfavourable resolution of these and and in violation of anti-trust laws.
similar future proceedings or investigations may have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial results.
The Group has made Sales, marketing and regulation material provisions in 2004, 2005 and 2006 related to legal The Group operates globally in complex legal and regulatory proceedings and investigations which reduced its earnings.
The Group environments that often vary among jurisdictions.
The failure to may also make additional significant provisions related to legal comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations in these proceedings and investigations in the future, which would reduce its jurisdictions may result in civil and criminal legal proceedings.
In many cases the practice of the plaintiff bar is to claim those rules and regulations change or as governmental interpretation damages compensatory, punitive and statutory in amounts that of those rules and regulations evolve, prior conduct may be called bear no relationship to the underlying harm.
Accordingly it is into question.
In the USA, for example, the Group is responding to potentially misleading to quantify the potential exposure to claims, federal and state governmental investigations into pricing, marketing proceedings and investigations of the type described in Note 43. and reimbursement of its prescription drug products.
These investigations could result in related restitution or civil false claims act Recent insurance loss experience, including pharmaceutical product litigation on behalf of the federal or state governments, as well as liability exposures, has increased the cost of, and narrowed the related proceedings initiated against the Group by or on behalf of coverage afforded by, insurance for pharmaceutical companies consumers and private payers.
Such proceedings may result in generally, including the Group.
trebling of damages awarded or fines in respect of each violation of In order to contain insurance costs in recent years the Group has law.
Criminal proceedings may also be initiated against Group continued to adjust its coverage prole, accepting a greater degree companies or individuals.
In addition, where claims are made under Risks of competition, price controls and limitations on sales insurance policies, insurers may reserve the right to deny coverage on Third party competition various grounds.
If denial of coverage is ultimately upheld on these The Group operates in highly competitive businesses.
In the claims, this could result in material additional charges to the Groups pharmaceuticals business, it faces competition both from proprietary earnings.
products of large international manufacturers and producers of Product liability litigation generic pharmaceuticals.
significant product innovations, technical Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the development advances or the intensication of price competition by competitors of potential products to determine the safety and efcacy of products could adversely affect the Groups operating results.
Continued for use by humans following approval by regulatory bodies.
consolidation in the pharmaceutical industry could adversely affect Notwithstanding these efforts, when drugs and vaccines are the Groups competitive position, while continued consolidation introduced into the marketplace, unanticipated side effects may among the Groups customers may increase pricing pressures.
The Group is currently a defendant in a number of Group had 13 products with over 500 million in annual global sales product liability lawsuits, including class actions, that involve in 2006. substantial claims for damages related to the Groups pharmaceutical Among these products is Augmentin IR, with respect to which the products.
Litigation, particularly in the USA, is inherently Group has generic competition, and Avandia, Valtrex, and Wellbutrin unpredictable and excessive verdicts that are not justied by the XL, with respect to which the Groups intellectual property rights in evidence can occur.
Class actions that sweep together all persons the USA are currently the subject of litigation, and two others Zofran who were prescribed the Groups products can inate the potential and the 300 mg tablet version of Wellbutrin XL with respect to liability by the force of numbers.
Claims for pain and suffering and which the Group has had generic competition since the fourth quarter punitive damages are frequently asserted in product liability actions of 2006. and, if allowed, can represent potentially open-ended exposure.
GSK Annual Report 2006 45 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review Outlook and risk factors continued If these or any of the Groups other major products were to become Regulatory controls subject to a problem such as unplanned loss of patent protection, The Group must comply with a broad range of regulatory controls on unexpected side effects, regulatory proceedings, publicity affecting the testing, approval, manufacturing and marketing of many of its doctor or patient confidence or pressure from competitive products, pharmaceutical and consumer healthcare products, particularly in the or if a new, more effective treatment should be introduced, the USA and countries of the European Union, that affect not only the adverse impact on the Groups revenues and operating results could cost of product development but also the time required to reach the be significant.
In particular, the Group faces intense competition from market and the uncertainty of successfully doing so.
Stricter regulatory manufacturers of generic pharmaceutical products in all of its major controls also heighten the risk of withdrawal by regulators on the markets.
Generic products often enter the market upon expiration of basis of post-approval concerns over product safety, which would patents or data exclusivity periods for the Groups products.
reduce revenues and can result in product recalls and product liability Introduction of generic products typically leads to a dramatic loss of lawsuits.
sales and reduces the Groups revenues and margins for its proprietary In addition, in some cases the Group may voluntarily cease marketing products.
The expiration dates for patents for the Groups major a product for example, the withdrawal of Lotronex in 2000 shortly products are set out on page 23 and legal proceedings involving after its initial launch in the USA or face declining sales based on patent challenges are set out in Note 43 to the financial statements, concerns about efcacy or safety, whether or not scientically justied, Legal proceedings.
even in the absence of regulatory action.
The development of the Governmental and payer controls post-approval adverse event prole for a product or the product class Pharmaceutical products are subject to price controls or pressures and may have a major impact on the marketing and sale of the product.
other restrictions in many markets, including Japan, Germany, France Risk of interruption of product supply and Italy.
Some governments intervene directly in setting prices.
In The manufacture of pharmaceutical products and their constituent addition, in some markets major purchasers of pharmaceutical materials requires compliance with good manufacturing practice products whether governmental agencies or private health care regulations.
The Groups manufacturing sites are subject to review providers have the economic power to exert substantial pressure on and approval by the FDA and other regulatory agencies.
Compliance prices or the terms of access to formularies.
failure by suppliers of key materials or the Groups own manufacturing The Group cannot predict whether existing controls will increase or facilities could lead to product recalls and seizures, interruption of new controls will be introduced that will reduce the Groups margins production and delays in the approvals of new products pending or affect adversely its ability to introduce new products profitably.
Non-compliance can also result in fines and disgorgement of profits.
Any interruption of supply or fines For example, in the USA, where the Group has its highest margins and or disgorgement remedy could materially and adversely affect the most sales for any country, pricing pressures could signicantly Groups financial results.
The Groups Cidra, Puerto Rico facility has increase following implementation of the pharmaceutical benefit worked at resolution of FDA observations of deficiencies in under Medicare or in the event that other state programmes to control manufacturing practices and is subject to a consent decree entered the cost of prescription drugs are adopted.
As experience develops into with the FDA during 2005, as referred to in Note 43 to the under the Medicare programme outpatient pharmaceutical coverage financial statements, Legal proceedings.
As a consequence of those for its beneciaries that began in 2006, the US government, or the discussions, supplies of certain products manufactured at Cidra were private insurers through which coverage is offered, through their curtailed or constricted which had an adverse impact on sales in 2005 enormous purchasing power under the programme could demand and 2006. discounts that may implicitly create price controls on prescription drugs.
Changes to the enabling legislation could afford the US Although the Group undertakes business continuity planning, single government a direct role in negotiating prices under the Medicare sourcing for certain components, bulk active materials and nished programme.
Additionally a number of states have proposed or products creates a risk of failure of supply in the event of regulatory implemented various schemes to control prices for their own senior non-compliance or physical disruption at the manufacturing sites.
citizens programmes, including importation from other countries and Risk from concentration of sales to wholesalers bulk purchases of drugs.
The growth in the number of patients In the USA, in line with other pharmaceutical companies, the Group covered through large managed care institutions in the USA, which sells its products through a small number of wholesalers in addition is likely to increase with implementation of the Medicare benefit, also to hospitals, pharmacies, physicians and other groups.
Sales to the increases pricing pressures on the Groups products.
These trends may three largest wholesales amounted to approximately 80% of the adversely affect the Groups revenues and margins from sales in the Groups US pharmaceutical sales.
At 31st December 2006 the Group USA.
had trade receivables due from these three wholesalers totalling 1,044 million 31st December 2005 1,051 million.
The Group is exposed to a concentration of credit risk in respect of these wholesalers such that, if one or more of them is affected by financial difficulty, it could materially and adversely affect the Groups financial results.
GSK Annual Report 2006 46 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review Outlook and risk factors continued Reliance on information technology Accounting standards The Group is increasingly dependent on information technology New or revised accounting standards, rules and interpretations systems, including Internet-based systems, for internal communication promulgated from time to time by international or US accounting as well as communication with customers and suppliers.
Any standard setting boards could result in changes to the recognition of significant disruption of these systems, whether due to computer income and expense that may adversely impact the Groups reported viruses or other outside incursions, could materially and adversely financial results.
International and US accounting standards changes affect the Groups operations.
in the market valuation of certain financial instruments such as the equity collar linked to the Groups investment in Quest Diagnostics, Taxation the put and call options linked to the Groups strategic alliance with The effective tax rate on the Groups earnings benets from the fact Theravance and impairments of equity investments are reected in that a portion of its earnings is taxed at more favourable rates in some the Groups reported results before those gains or losses are actually jurisdictions outside the UK.
Changes in tax laws or in their application realised and could have a significant impact on the income statement with respect to matters such as transfer pricing and the risk of double in any given period.
Also, under international accounting standards, taxation that relate to the portion of the Groups earnings taxed at accounting for deferred taxation on inter-company inventory may more favourable rates, or a restriction in tax relief allowed on the give rise to volatility depending upon the ownership of the inventory interest on intra-Group debt, could increase the Groups effective tax at the balance sheet date.
rate and adversely affect its financial results.
In 2006 the Group resolved the claims by the US Internal Revenue Service related to Glaxo Regulators regularly review the financial statements of listed heritage products.
The Group has open issues with the revenue companies like GSK for compliance with accounting and regulatory authorities in the UK, Japan and Canada.
These matters are discussed requirements.
in Note 12 to the financial statements, Taxation.
The Group believes that it complies with the appropriate regulatory Disruption from pandemic inuenza requirements concerning its financial statements and disclosures.
In the event of pandemic inuenza, the Group could be subject to However, other companies have experienced investigations into disruption from a range of factors.
National governments may be potential non-compliance with accounting and disclosure more willing to abrogate intellectual property rights for medicines requirements that have resulted in restatements of previously reported that might otherwise be in short supply.
In a country aficted by results and sometimes significant penalties.
pandemic u, there would be a risk that employees and their families Human resources will be affected with the consequence that sales and distribution and The Group has approximately 100,000 employees around the world manufacturing activities could be shut down and supply continuity and is subject to laws and regulations concerning its employees for active ingredients and nished goods affected.
ranging from discrimination and harassment to personal privacy to Environmental liabilities labour relations that vary signicantly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction.
The environmental laws of various jurisdictions impose actual and Failure to continue to recruit and retain the right people and maintain potential obligations on the Group to remediate contaminated sites.
a culture of compliance could have a significant adverse effect on the The Group has also been identied as a potentially responsible party Group.
under the US Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act at a number of sites for remediation costs relating to the Groups use or ownership of such sites.
Failure to manage properly the environmental risks could result in additional remedial costs that could materially and adversely affect the Groups operations.
See Note 43 to the financial statements, Legal proceedings, for a discussion of  proceedings in which the Group is involved.
Global political and economic conditions The Group conducts a substantial portion of its operations outside the UK.
The Groups management of foreign exchange rates is discussed in Business Review, Foreign exchange risk management see page 43.
Fluctuations in exchange rates between Sterling and other currencies, especially the US dollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen, could materially affect the Groups financial results.
The Group has no control over changes in ination and interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and controls or other economic factors affecting its businesses or the possibility of political unrest, legal and regulatory changes or nationalisation in jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
These factors could materially affect the Groups future results of operations.
GSK Annual Report 2006 47 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review Financial review 2005 In accordance with US SEC disclosure requirements, the following Pharmaceutical turnover discussion compares results for the year to 31st December 2005 with Total pharmaceutical turnover in 2005 was 18,661 million compared the results for the year to 31st December 2004.
The information has with 17,100 million in 2004, an increase of 8% CER.
In sterling terms been prepared under IFRS.
turnover increased 9%, principally due to the strength of the Euro and All growth rates are at constant exchange rates CER unless otherwise other International currencies.
The sterling growth rates may be found in the tables of pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area on page 50.
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area Exchange GSKs ability to continue to deliver pharmaceutical turnover growth is primarily due to an exceptionally broad product portfolio of fastThe currencies that most inuence the Groups results are the US growing, high-value products.
Sales of GSKs largest product, dollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen.
Seretide Advair, were up 22% to 3.0 billion and continued to gain In 2005, the US dollar strengthened by over 10% against the pound, market share across all regions.
Market share by value in the antirising to $1.72 at the year-end following two years of weakness.
asthma and COPD therapy class was 27% in Europe and 33% in the Both the Euro and Japanese Yen year-end rates weakened against USA, an increase of 2 percentage points in both cases compared with the pound by just over 3%.
Sales of diabetes treatments were also strong, with Avandia Avandamet up 18% to 1.3 billion.
GSK launched Avandia World market pharmaceuticals for the treatment of type 2 diabetes in 1999 and a combination product, Avandamet, for blood sugar control in 2002.
The product Global pharmaceutical sales increased by 6% in 2005 to 302 billion.
group was expanded further in February 2006 with the launch in the World market by Value % of Growth USA of a xed-dose combination treatment, Avandaryl, which geographic region bn total % combines Avandia with a sulfonylurea.
In 2005, Avandia Avandamet USA 132.0 44 3 achieved a market share by value in oral anti-diabetics of 14% in Europe 86.8 29 8 Europe and 35% in the USA, up 3 and 6 percentage points, Germany 16.4 5 8 respectively.
France 15.9 5 9 Other fast growing products were Lamictal for epilepsy bipolar UK 10.5 3 disorder, up 24% 0.8 billion, Valtrex for herpes, up 21% 0.7 Italy 9.9 3 3 billion, Coreg for heart disease, up 32% 0.6 billion and vaccines, Japan 32.5 11 4 up 15% 1.4 billion.
Asia Pacic 20.5 7 13 Latin America 13.7 4 15 In addition, in 2005 there was a rapid uptake of a number of high Middle East, Africa 9.8 3 17 potential products such as Requip, for restless legs syndrome sales up Canada 7.0 2 14 34% to 156 million, Avodart for benign prostatic hyperplasia sales Total 302.3 100 6 doubled to 129 million and Boniva Bonviva for the treatment of osteoporosis, which was launched in 2005 and captured a 10% share Growth in the US market has slowed to 3%, but it still represents of new prescriptions for oral bisphosphonates in the US market.
44% of the global prescription pharmaceutical market compared with Respiratory 30% a decade ago.
GSK continues to be the global leader in respiratory pharmaceuticals At 30th September 2005, GSK held second position in the world with sales of its three key products, Seretide Advair, Flixotide Flovent pharmaceutical market with a market share of 6.3%, behind Pzer and Serevent, amounting to 4.0 billion, up 15%.
Seretide Advair with a market share of 8.9%.
GSK had eight of the worlds top 60 sales rose 26% to 1.7 billion in the USA.
Sales were also strong in pharmaceutical products.
These were Avandia, Flixonase, both European and International markets, which were up 16% to 1 Imigran Imitrex, Lamictal, Seretide Advair, Seroxat Paxil, Wellbutrin billion and 0.3 billion, respectively.
Central nervous system CNS CNS sales declined 8% to 3.2 billion.
Sales declined in the USA and World market Value % of Growth Europe, with a small gain in International.
Total Paxil sales fell 42% to top five therapeutic classes bn total CER% % 615 million, due to generic competition and the interruption in Cardiovascular 50.7 17 7 6 supply to Paxil CR during the year.
See Product supply on page 49.
Central nervous system 49.7 16 6 4 Partially mitigating this decline was the strong performance of Paxil Alimentary tract and metabolic 36.6 12 6 5 in Japan, up 17% to 197 million.
Anti-infectives bacterial, viral and fungal excluding vaccines 32.2 11 7 5 Respiratory 20.7 7 8 7 Note: data based on 12 months to 30th September 2005.
GSK Annual Report 2006 48 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review Financial review 2005 continued Total Wellbutrin turnover fell 2% to 739 million.
Wellbutrin IR and Cardiovascular and urogenital SR sales fell 68% to 92 million due to generic competition, but this Sales of Coreg for heart disease grew 32% to 573 million.
was largely offset by the very strong performance of Wellbutrin XL up Avodart for benign prostatic hyperplasia enlarged prostate had a 38% to 647 million.
very strong year, with sales doubling to 129 million.
By January 2006 The strong growth of GSKs epilepsy and bi-polar disorder treatment the product accounted for 42% of new prescriptions in the US Lamictal continued, with sales up 24% to 849 million, driven by the 5-Alpha Reductase Inhibitor market.
indication for the maintenance treatment of bi-polar disorder.
Other therapeutic areas Requip sales rose 34% to 156 million.
By Q1 2006, weekly new Sales of Zantac fell 12% to 244 million, with declines in all regions.
prescriptions for the product have quadrupled in the USA since it was Product supply launched for restless legs syndrome RLS in Q2 2005.
Following FDA inspections in October 2003 and November 2004, Anti-virals which identied possible deficiencies in manufacturing practices at the Global HIV product sales grew 5% to 1.6 billion, with sales from Groups facility at Cidra in Puerto Rico, the FDA halted distribution of new products Epzicom Kivexa and Lexiva together more than supplies of Paxil CR and Avandamet in March 2005.
This site is doubling to 226 million offsetting the performance of Trizivir down engaged in tableting and packaging for a range of GSK products, 6% to 303 million and Epivir down 12% to 261 million.
Sales of primarily for the US market including Paxil, Paxil CR, Coreg, Avandia the herpes treatment Valtrex grew 21% to 695 million.
In April 2005, the Group reached agreement with is being driven by the USA up 26% to 470 million where the the FDA on a Consent Decree, which provides for an independent product is the clear market leader in treatments for genital herpes.
expert to review manufacturing processes at the site for compliance with FDA Good Manufacturing Practice requirements.
The Decree Anti-bacterials also allows for potential future penalties, up to a maximum of $10 Anti-bacterial sales declined 3% worldwide.
In the USA the decline million a year, if GSK fails to meet its terms.
was 27% reecting increased generic competition.
In June 2005, the Group began re-supplying the US and other markets Metabolic with both Paxil CR and Avandamet.
The sales of these products were The diabetes treatments Avandia Avandamet continued to perform signicantly impacted in 2005 by this interruption in supply.
The very strongly, with overall sales of 1.3 billion, up 18%.
In the USA, impact on Avandamet was mitigated by the switching of patients to sales grew 14% to 977 million.
Avandia Avandamet are also Avandia.
In 2005, the Group also established a provision for the establishing strong positions in Europe, with sales rising 52% to 157 external costs required to rectify the manufacturing issues at the plant.
million, helped by the launch of Avandamet.
Sales in International For further details see Risk factors on pages 44 to 47 and Note 43 to markets rose 13% to 195 million.
the financial statements, Legal proceedings.
Boniva Bonviva, a new once-monthly oral bisphosphonate for the Consumer Healthcare sales treatment of osteoporosis, which was developed with Roche, had a 2005 2004 Growth strong launch in the USA and in February 2006 had a 10% share of m m CER% % new prescriptions for oral bisphosphonates.
Boniva injection, the firstOTC medicines 1,437 1,400 1 3 ever quarterly treatment for osteoporosis, was approved in the USA Analgesics 362 333 6 9 in January 2006 and received a positive opinion from the CHMP in Dermatological 161 180 12 11 Europe on 27th January 2006.
Gastro-intestinal 249 241 1 3 Respiratory tract 154 145 5 6 Vaccines Smoking control 336 327 2 3 The vaccines business performed well, with total sales rising 15% to Natural wellness support 133 136 4 2 1.4 billion, led by Infanrix.
Vaccine sales were particularly strong in the USA, where turnover rose 26% to 338 million, helped by the Oral care 943 913 2 3 launch of two new products, Fluarix and Boostrix.
Nutritional healthcare 619 573 7 8 In July, GSK acquired Corixa Corporation for 150 million and in 2,999 2,886 2 4 December, completed the acquisition of ID Biomedical Corporation for The growth in Consumer Healthcare sales of 2% to 3.0 billion 0.9 billion.
comprised an OTC medicines sales increase of 1%, a Nutritional Oncology and emesis healthcare sales increase of 7% and an Oral care sales increase of Sales of Zofran grew 9% to 837 million, driven by the US market, 2%.
GSK Annual Report 2006 50 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review Financial review 2005 continued This was due to lower charges related to legal matters, equal to a 2% OTC medicines reduction in total SG&A, and lower share-based payment charges, Over-the-counter medicine sales were 1,437 million, up 1%.
Growth equal to a 1% decrease in total SG&A, partly offset by higher costs from analgesics, up 6%, and respiratory tract, up 5%, helped offset related to programmes to deliver future cost savings equal to a 1% the loss of sales from the dermatological products divested in 2004. increase in total SG&A.
Panadol growth of 12% in International markets was the key driver of the growth in analgesics.
Research and development Oral care R&D expenditure as a percentage of turnover was 14.5%, in line with Oral care sales grew 2% to 943 million.
Sales of Sensodyne and the 2004, and increased 8% compared with the previous year, partly as denture care brands Polident, Poligrip and Corega grew by 12% and a result of some write-offs of intangible assets.
Excluding these write- 6%, respectively, helping to offset lower sales of other toothpaste offs, R&D expenditure grew slightly below turnover growth.
Pharmaceuticals R&D expenditure represented 16.2% of pharmaceutical turnover.
Nutritional healthcare Other operating income Nutritional healthcare product sales grew 7% to 619 million.
Other operating income includes royalty income, equity investment Lucozade, up 11%, continued to grow strongly in Europe.
disposals and impairments, product disposals and fair value Operating profit adjustments to the Quest collar and Theravance options.
Other operating income was 364 million in 2005 compared with 235 The analysis below of operating profit and subsequent discussion million in 2004.
The increased income in 2005 is predominantly due compares the 2005 results with 2004 results.
to increased product and asset disposal gains compared with 2004, 2005 2004 Growth and a favourable fair value movement of 19 million in the Quest m % m % CER% % collar and the Theravance options.
Turnover 21,660 100.0 19,986 100.0 7 8 Operating profit Cost of sales 4,764 22.0 4,360 21.8 8 9 Overall, the operating profit margin increased 2.9 percentage points Selling, general as operating profit of 6,874 million increased 19% in sterling terms.
and administration 7,250 33.5 7,201 36.0 1 At constant exchange rates operating profit increased 16% and the Research and margin increased 2.5 percentage points, reecting the lower charges development 3,136 14.5 2,904 14.5 8 8 relating to legal matters and share-based payments, higher product Other operating and asset disposals and increases in advertising, promotion and selling income 364 1.7 235 1.1 that were below the rate of turnover growth.
Partially offsetting these Operating profit 6,874 31.7 5,756 28.8 16 19 items were higher costs related to programmes to deliver future cost savings and increased R&D expenditure.
Cost of sales Cost of sales as a percentage of turnover increased 0.2 percentage profit before taxation points.
At constant exchange rates, the increase was also 0.2 The discussion below compares the 2005 results with the 2004 results.
percentage points, reecting higher costs related to the ongoing Gains from asset disposals, including associates, were 290 million rectification of manufacturing issues at the Cidra site in Puerto Rico, 2004 295 million, costs for legal matters were 430 million 2004 which were only partly offset by operating efficiencies compared with 595 million and charges relating to cost-saving programmes were the previous year.
Share-based payments in 2005 Selling, general and administration were 236 million 2004 333 million.
Selling, general and administration SG&A as a percentage of Share of profits losses of joint ventures and associated turnover decreased 2.5 percentage points.
At constant exchange undertakings rates, the decrease was 2.2 percentage points, reecting at The share of profits of associates arises principally from the Groups expenditure compared with the prior year on a turnover increase of holding in Quest Diagnostics Inc.. 7%.
SG&A costs were in line with 2004 overall, with higher advertising, promotion and selling expense being offset by lower Disposal of interest in associates general and administration expenditure.
Advertising, promotion and There were no disposals of interests in associates in 2005.
During selling expenses increased 3% and accounted for a 2% increase in 2004, the Group disposed of 3.8 million shares from its investment total SG&A.
General and administration costs declined 4% and in Quest Diagnostics Inc. for cash proceeds of 188 million.
A profit accounted for a 2% reduction in total SG&A.
The Groups shareholding in Quest as at 31st December 2005 was 18.4%.
GSK Annual Report 2006 51 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review Financial review 2005 continued Net finance costs profit for the year 2005 2004 2005 2004 Growth Finance income m m m m CER% % Interest income 276 173 profit after taxation for the year 4,816 4,022 17 20 Unwinding of discount on assets 3 profit attributable to Fair value adjustments 19 shareholders 4,689 3,908 17 20 257 176 Earnings per share pence 82.6p 68.1p 18 21 Earnings per ADS US$ $3.00 $2.49 18 21 Weighted average number Finance costs of shares millions 5,674 5,736 Interest costs 427 346 Unwinding of discount on liabilities 25 16 Diluted earnings per share pence 82.0p 68.0p Fair value adjustments 1 Diluted earnings per ADS US$ $2.98 $2.49 Weighted average number 451 362 of shares millions 5,720 5,748 Finance income increased compared with 2004 predominantly due to higher interest rates and higher cash balances.
Finance costs increased profit for the year was 4,816 million, an increase of 17% 20% in due to higher interest rates as well as higher interest costs resulting sterling terms.
profit attributable to minority interests was from the issue of two 750 million bonds in 2005.
127 million and profit attributable to shareholders was 4,689 million, an increase of 17% 20% in sterling terms.
Taxation Earnings per share increased 18%, reecting higher profits and also 2005 2004 the reduction in the weighted average number of shares resulting m m from the Groups share buy-back programme.
The interest cost of this UK corporation tax 172 148 programme also impacts the Groups earnings.
Overseas taxation 1,847 1,519 At actual rates of exchange, earnings per share increased 21%.
The Current taxation 2,019 1,667 favourable currency impact on EPS of three percentage points reects Deferred taxation 103 90 a strengthening of the US dollar and Euro average exchange rates Total 1,916 1,757 relative to 2004 and compares with a 1% favourable currency impact on turnover.
This difference principally arises from a different mix of The charge for taxation on profit, amounting to 1,916 million, currencies in profits compared with turnover.
represents an effective tax rate of 28.5% 2004 30.4%.
The tax rate in 2005 of 28.5% benefited from higher tax relief on the actual or potential exercise of share options by employees, arising from the increase in the share price in the year.
The integrated nature of the Groups worldwide operations, involving significant investment in research and strategic manufacture at a limited number of locations, with consequential cross-border supply routes into numerous end-markets, gives rise to complexity and delay in negotiations with revenue authorities as to the profits on which individual Group companies are liable to tax.
Disagreements with, and between, revenue authorities as to intra-Group transactions, in particular the price at which goods should be transferred between Group companies in different tax jurisdictions, can produce conicting claims from revenue authorities as to the profits to be taxed in individual territories.
Resolution of such issues is a continuing fact of life for GSK.
The Group had significant open issues with the revenue authorities in the USA, UK, Japan and Canada, details of which are set out in Note 12 to the financial statements, Taxation.
GSK Annual Report 2006 52 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
