BUSINESS REVIEW PARTNERED TECHNOLOGIES DIVISION Our partners DePuy Mitek, Gynecare, Ethicon Endosurgery, Guidant, ConMed, Rhytec.
Overview In 2006 we enjoyed strong revenue The Partnered Technologies Division growth from all our partners and we exploits the Groups proprietary technology by out-licensing it, usually commenced a new relationship in the in conjunction with a manufacturing growing area of robot-assisted surgery.
contract, for markets outside our core areas of sales and marketing competence.
The business consists of development, license and supply relationships with Johnson & Johnson DePuy Mitek, Ethicon Endo-Surgery and Ethicon Womens Health and Urology, Guidant, ConMed and Rhytec.
In May 2006 a new relationship commenced with Intuitive Surgical Inc. in the area of robot-assisted laparoscopic surgery.
Arthroscopy electrode: Licensed to, and manufactured Overall, the Partnered Technologies for, DePuy Mitek.
This suction electrode is used for the removal, shrinkage and extraction of cartilage and soft business grew revenue by 14% to tissue from knee and shoulder joints.
26.2 million in 2006 2005: 23.0 million, reflecting strong performances from the Divisions principal partners.
Arthroscopy DePuy Mitek supplies the VAPR3 system into arthroscopic markets for the removal and shrinkage of soft tissue primarily in the knee and shoulder joints.
This comprises a dedicated generator and a suite of partially and fully disposable devices.
New, lower manufactured cost products, launched into this market have continued to drive Gyrus Group PLC 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Intuitive Surgical EndoWrist PK Dissecting Forceps A combination of Gyruss PK technology in the form of PK Dissecting Forceps and Intuitive Surgical Incs EndoWrist technology for the da Vinci Surgical System allows the surgeon, to grasp, dissect and coagulate during robot-assisted procedures.
volume growth although at lower selling Gastro-intestinal Cosmetic Surgery Other Analysis of Partnered Technology prices.
Overall revenue increased by just This comprises relationships with Ethicon Division Revenues over 10% year-on-year on a constant Endo-Surgery, ConMed and Rhytec.
Arthroscopy 44% Hysteroscopy 18% currency basis and now represents Sales to these partners grew by 16% in approximately 44% of Divisional sales.
local currency and now represent 17% Cardiovascular 21% Gastro-intestinal cosmetic surgery of Divisional revenues.
During 2006 other 17% Hysteroscopy the Partnered Technologies Division In hysteroscopy, the Division entered a new relationship with Intuitive manufactures the Versapoint system for Surgical inc. relating to the emerging hysteroscopic gynaecology on behalf of area of robot-assisted surgery.
Under Ethicon Womens Health and Urology.
the agreement, which was signed in The range comprises a dedicated May 2006, the Division licensed certain 14% generator and disposable instruments for PK Technology to Intuitive and began Revenue 26.2m the removal of Benign Uterine Pathologies a programme to develop specific 2005: 23.0m and the removal of the endometrial instruments for the da Vinci robotic lining.
The Divisions sales increased Surgical System.
by approximately 17% on a constant currency basis and now represent approximately 18% of Divisional sales.
Cardiovascular Guidant utilises a series of endoscopic instruments for the harvesting of vessels for coronary artery bypass grafts in the cardiovascular field.
Product sales to Guidant increased by approximately 27% in local currency as purchasing patterns returned to normality after the hiatus experienced in the final quarter of 2005 as Guidants takeover by Boston Scientific was occurring.
In addition, we launched the VasoView 7 platform in H1 2006.
Cardiovascular sales now represent approximately 21% of Divisional revenues.
Gyrus Group PLC 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2006
