BUSINESS REVIEW ENT DIVISION Bob Hoxie President, Gyrus ACMI ENT Division Overview In 2006 we restructured our The ENT Division is based in Memphis, business to improve profitability USA.
During 2006 the Division reported revenues in sterling 4% lower than the and made changes to the sales previous year at 38.5 million 2005: force to support the launch of 40.1 million, although excluding the effect of a product line which was sold our PlasmaCision derived Head in late 2005, on a continuing operations basis the revenue was flat year-on-year.
The chart opposite shows the underlying revenues of the Division in local currency.
The ENT Division focuses on three principal areas: The provision of implants and associated instruments for the otology market Dissector PlasmaKnife DPK : The DPK designed for including vent tubes and prosthetic radical surgery of the head and neck, thyroidectomy and parotidectomy procedures.
This area of the business contributed US sales revenue of approximately $23.2 million in 2006, a decline of 3% on the previous year 2005: $23.8 million.
This performance is consistent with normal variations between periods for this mature market in which we hold the leading position.
The second area is Sinus and Rhinology, comprising microdebriders and associated products for procedures in the upper airway nasal passages.
This product range contributed US sales of $16.3 million in 2006, approximately 6% Gyrus Group PLC 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 higher than the previous year 2005: International performance The Diego Microdebrider $15.4 million.
During the first nine Internationally, the ENT Division grew The PK Diego System, launched in 2005, months of the year revenue was adversely revenue by 4% excluding the comparative enables sinus and rhinology surgeons to affected by litigation mounted against the revenue from the continental European use the same instrument to debride and Division by Medtronic Xomed in respect ENT product range, which was sold in achieve haemostasis when operating in of the Divisions Diego microdebrider 2005.
New products, which were the nasal cavity.
In September 2006, Medtronic restricted to the US, did not have a dropped the case and sales of the Diego significant impact on the International range have improved since that time to Divisions performance in the year.
record annual growth of 12% compared with 9% at the half year stage.
Sales and Marketing Repositioning During the year the Division restructured The third focal area for the Division its marketing function, taking out cost is Head and Neck surgery.
This area and refocusing on the more surgical comprises a number of different products aspects of the business.
This and other but the primary focus for the future is restructuring activities substantially on the Divisions PlasmaCision derived improved the Divisions contribution to products, which were launched in the Group profits during the year.
The primary contributor to the during the last quarter of the year the Head and Neck portfolios overall sales Division significantly restructured its sales of $9.5 million in 2006 2005: $10.2 force and associated commission plans million, was the Somnoplasty range of to redirect attention towards growth and products that continued its long running disposable surgical products.
The reimbursement driven decline in sales restructuring involved replacing which fell by 16% to $5.3 million 2005: approximately 40% of the existing sales $6.3 million.
force through the termination of the majority of independent representatives New products contracts.
The sales force now comprises During the second half of the year, two approximately 70 representatives, of new PK products were launched whom 94% are directly employed and incorporating the Groups proprietary 6% are independent.
These changes, PlasmaCision cut and seal technology.
together with realigned commission In September, the j PlasmaKnife JPK structures and the recently launched was introduced into the tonsillectomy PlasmaCision products, are expected market.
It is the successor to the Tonsil to improve the ENT Divisions sales PlasmaKnife, which was launched in performance in 2007.
March 2005 and it incorporates changes based on market feedback on the original product.
The initial feedback has been positive.
In October the Dissector PlasmaKnife DPK was introduced to the market for complex head and neck surgery such as thyroidectomy and parotidectomy.
Once again the initial response has been positive.
Revenue from these products and the G3 generator that powers them, increased substantially to $0.9 million 2005: $0.3 million and they are expected to perform well in 2007.
Analysis of revenue US North American Free Trade Area Int World ex NAFTA 2005 2006 - % US $m 49.3 49.0 -1% Int m 11.4 11.8 4% 1.6 n a Int m Discontinued product 40.1 38.5 -4% m Total Division Gyrus Group PLC 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2006
