BUSINESS REVIEW UROLOGY & GYNAECOLOGY DIVISION Andy Zappas President, Gyrus ACMI Urology & Gynaecology Division Overview In 2006 we have successfully focused The Urology & Gynaecology Uro Gynae on the disposable product portfolio Division is based in Massachusetts, USA.
During 2006 the Divisions reported and built our SuperPulse PK product revenues reached 96.1 million a 93% business in bladder and prostate increase on prior period 5.5 month period in 2005: 49.7 million principally treatments.
At the same time we as a result of the full year effect of the acquisition of ACMI.
The chart opposite look forward to the extension of our shows the underlying revenues of Invisio digital visualisation range.
the Division in local currency.
In the last quarter of 2005 the Uro Gynae Division swapped certain product lines with the Surgical Division to ensure an orderly approach to the market by each sales force.
This resulted in the Division PK SuperPulse Generator: The PK SuperPulse Generator transferring products with net 2005 powers PK products for safer, faster treatment of BPH benign prostate hyperplasia and bladder tumours.
On a proforma basis, US revenue grew 4% in constant currency when compared against a strong pre-acquisition comparative.
The Uro Gynae Division now focuses on the provision of visualisation products and instruments for the endoscopic applications of the urology and gynaecology markets, where we are a leading supplier of such devices.
The business today comprises the Divisions historically strong position in the field of cysto-resection bladder tumours and benign prostate hyperplasia equipment, Gyrus Group PLC 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 where we lead the US market by volume The endoscopic gynaecology portfolio Invisio Digital Hysteroscope of procedures.
The other major area of performed well with US sales growing A product to be introduced in 2007, focus is in the diagnosis and treatment of by just over 13% to $18.7 million it combines the visualisation benefits kidney stones by a number of methods.
supported by strong performances of distal tip sensor technology with Gyrus In the gynaecology field the Division has in fluid management and disposable ACMIs historic strength in dual deflection to a variety of hysteroscopic devices for the instruments.
Finally the Divisions nascent enable maximum field of view in the uterus.
Finally Office therapy area benefited from the the Division also has a small but growing Smartflow Urodynamics diagnostic business in the provision of diagnostic portfolio which increased sales by tools into the Doctors office setting.
75% to $2.9 million partly as a result of favourable reimbursement conditions Product performance for urological diagnostic procedures.
In the US domestic cysto-resection market sales grew by approximately 7% International performance in 2006 to just over $67 million.
The PK Internationally, the Uro Gynae Division SuperPulse products for prostate and grew by 26% primarily associated with bladder treatment, which the Division the full year effect of the ACMI acquisition.
received in 2005 as part of the product New products, which were largely swap with the Surgical Division, performed focused on the US, did not have a increasingly strongly during the course of significant impact on the International the year.
Having posted $3.4 million in Divisions performance in the year.
revenue in the first six months of the year, PK product sales accelerated in Sales and Marketing the third quarter and finished the year at During the year the Divisions US $10.1 million 2005: $5.9 million, of which domestic sales force stayed constant $8.6 million related to sales of disposable at 104 regional and local representatives.
This represented The marketing team was strengthened overall growth of 89% and reflected the specifically to support PK SuperPulse Divisions increasing focus on the value of in cysto-resection and other disposable disposable product sales.
The $1.5 million products in the stone management revenue associated with the sale of portfolio.
SuperPulse generators represented 64% of the 179 generators, which were installed into the US Urology market.
The remainder were placed under a variety of long-term loan arrangements.
The performance of the Divisions stone management portfolio in the US was mixed with overall sales down by just under 2% on the proforma full year comparative to a total of $60 million.
Some important products in the range performed well, with semi rigid ureteroscopes showing sales growth of 55% following the launch of the new MR- 6A autoclaveable scope and laser fibres and accessories growing by 7%.
There was a decline in sales of the Divisions conventional fibre optic-based flexible ureteroscopes, primarily as a result of customers delaying capital investment on replacement scopes until the launch of the Divisions new Invisio Digital Ureteroscope, the DUR-D.
This scope was only introduced to market late in the year and is expected to generate significant revenue in 2007.
Analysis of revenue US North American Free Trade Area Int World ex NAFTA 2005 2006 - % US $m 78.8 164.4 109% Int m 5.3 6.7 26% 49.7 96.1 93% Total Division m Gyrus Group PLC 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2006
