BUSINESS REVIEW OPERATIONS, INTEGRATION AND RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT Roy Davis Chief Operating Officer Gyrus is committed to delivering worldWe have successfully implemented class operations, high quality innovative a significant part of our integration products, improved profit margins and a sustainable continuous improvement programme and look forward to culture.
seeing the results of our continued Operations lean manufacturing initiative in 2006 saw Gyrus continue to achieve positive results from its lean the coming period.
Our gross margin increased to 60.5% 2005: 58.8% as all plants continued the roll out.
Our Stamford facility saw an 11% reduction in inventory, an 85% reduction in lead-times and a 35% reduction in space utilised within the plants.
Our Memphis plant reduced the leadInvisio DUR-D Digital Ureteroscope and stone retrieval basket: time of its main product Diego by A combination of the Invisio DUR-D Digital Ureteroscope and stone retrieval basket allows the surgeon to see clearly, catch and remove 20% while reducing scrap by over 50%.
Our Cardiff plant improved the productivity associated with our generator production, combining manufacturing cells, outsourcing circuit board testing and as a result reduced associated raw material inventory by 25%.
All plants are now fully implementing Lean techniques and we expect to continue to see significant benefits being delivered.
Gyrus Group PLC 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Integration Research & Development PlasmaSpatula Progress on our three-year integration 2006 saw major developments in our A cutting and sealing instrument which, plan has been good and running ahead approach to R&D across the Group.
is most commonly used in the fully of expectations.
In March 2006, we Following a review we decided to laparoscopic hysterectomy procedure.
increased our estimated cost savings focus all of our internal R&D activity to $25 million up from $22 million and on our two proprietary See and Treat are well on the way to achieving this technologies: new target with approximately 70% of the actions required to deliver them Digital Visualisation technology already in train.
which will be undertaken in our US Southborough & Stamford and During 2006 we: Israeli locations and PK Bipolar technology, which will be Announced and commenced closure led by our Cardiff R&D team.
of the Racine, Wisconsin plant this is due for completion in Q2 2007.
To further improve our new product Commissioned a new Customer commercialisation process we introduced Service Centre for the combined a new Programme Management function Surgical and Uro Gynae Divisions to co-ordinate and manage all new in Maple Grove.
This facility is now projects.
These changes are already fully operational and designed to deliver starting to deliver results.
world-class customer service and distribution to our customers.
Some of the planned 2007 product Commissioned a new low cost launches include: manufacturing facility in Saltillo, Mexico.
This includes a Class 10,000 A Digital Percutaneous Nephroscope clean room and production is in the a rigid scope for use in the kidney process of being transferred from Two new Digital Ureteroscopes for existing manufacturing locations.
improved trans-ureteral visualisation Commenced the implementation of A new Cysto-Resection System Oracle, a global ERP system designed for improved TURP and bladder to fully integrate business operations tumour diagnosis and removal across the Group.
The implementation The third generation Plasma J Hook plan will take two years to complete.
for ENT an evolution of the Implemented supplier rationalisation j PlasmaKnife to treat adenoids and consolidation initiatives.
We remain confident that the integration By focusing on our core endoscopic of ACMI and Gyrus will deliver the cost visualisation and tissue management savings and expected benefits.
technologies Gyrus is aiming to ensure its continued leadership in these areas.
Gyruss approach to achieving operational excellence is built on: Implementation of lean manufacturing across the Group Achieving operational excellence Training and Leveraging best developing practice global our greatest networks for asset our key functional employees areas Gyrus Group PLC 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2006
