BUSINESS REVIEW SURGICAL DIVISION Charlie Goodwin President, Gyrus ACMI Surgical Division Overview In 2006 we grew our PK portfolio of The Surgical Division is based in instruments by over 40% compared Minneapolis, USA.
During 2006 the Division increased its reported revenues with market growth of circa 25%.
We in sterling by 40% to 52.5 million continue to build our position in this 2005: 37.6 million.
The chart opposite shows the underlying revenues of the significant and growing area of surgery.
In the last quarter of 2005 the Surgical and Urology & Gynaecology Divisions swapped certain product lines between them in order to ensure that predominantly laparoscopic devices were to be marketed by the Surgical Division only.
This resulted in an annualised total of approximately $20 million revenues PlasmaSeal: A PlasmaCision product designed to being transferred into the Surgical electronically seal blood vessels in open surgery.
Division comprised principally of insufflation and suction irrigation equipment, laparoscopes and related disposables.
The PK SuperPulse urology platform and related disposable PK instruments, representing approximately $5 million annualised revenues, were transferred out to the Urology & Gynaecology Division.
Underlying proforma revenue growth for the Division was approximately 19% year-on-year.
The Surgical Division now focuses on the minimally invasive general surgery market.
This comprises the Divisions historically Gyrus Group PLC 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 strong position in the laparoscopic the US, did not have a significant G400 General Surgery Generator hysterectomy area together with its impact on the International Divisions Launched in March 2006, the growing position in other procedures performance in the year.
workstation drives the Surgical within the field of general abdominal Divisions suite of PK products.
This growth is driven by the PlasmaCision in General Surgery Groups proprietary PK tissue In March 2006, the Division introduced management technology and its latest its first laparoscopic instruments for evolution, PlasmaCision, which brings a general surgery using PlasmaCision, our combined cutting and sealing capability simultaneous cut and seal technology.
to a portfolio of single use disposable The Plasma Trissector and Plasma J Hook instruments.
It is this portfolio that joined the PlasmaSeal for open surgery enables a broad range of procedures to and the PlasmaSpatula gynaecology to be carried out whilst minimising trauma form the Surgical Divisions PlasmaCision and blood loss during surgery.
This in portfolio which represented sales of turn can save operating time, instrument $4.6 million in 2006, an increase of requirements and improve recovery approximately 250% on the prior prospects.
The patient benefits by year 2005: $1.3 million.
returning to normal activities more quickly.
The two lead products, PlasmaSeal Product performance and Plasma Trissector for open and Overall US sales of the Divisions PK laparoscopic surgery respectively disposable instruments range grew by underwent significant optimisation over 40% to $38.9 million 2005: $27.5 processes during the period from launch million.
Of this, PK Cutting Forceps, the to the end of the year.
During this period product through which the Division has they were only available to the market grown consistently over the last five years, on a restricted basis.
Since the year end continued their strong performance in both products have performed well in 2006 posting sales of just under $27.3 surgery and there is a clear market million in the US, representing growth of position for them relative to over 34% on the prior year 2005: $20.3 competitive instruments.
The Division continues to build its position in the laparoscopic hysterectomy Sales and Marketing market and, last year approximately 400 During the year the Division increased its surgeons were trained in laparoscopic US domestic sales force by approximately gynaecological techniques under Gyrus 15 representatives to finish the year with ACMIs sponsored programmes.
It is anticipated that this number will increase The Division increased sales of PK progressively in line with our penetration generators, which power our disposable of the general surgery market.
PK tissue management instruments, to just under $4 million in the US, a 64% At the same time substantial effort increase year-on-year 2005: $2.4 million.
has been made to build the Divisions This reflects market interest in the G400 marketing and field training capability.
Generator, which is now the Surgical We expect to continue spending Divisions workstation and can power the significant sums on surgeon training full range of conventional PK and newer programmes and developing specialist PlasmaCision instruments for use in training partnerships among our surgeon both gynaecology and general surgery.
In so doing we look to 407 new generators were installed into build upon our successful experience the US market during the period, of which in the field of laparoscopic gynaecology.
41% were sold and the remainder placed under the Groups capital equipment loan programmes.
International performance Internationally, the Surgical Division grew by 28% primarily associated with the full year effect of the ACMI acquisition.
New products, which were largely focused on Analysis of revenue US North American Free Trade Area Int World ex NAFTA 2005 2006 - % US $m 54.6 78.7 44% Int m 7.5 9.6 28% 37.6 52.5 40% m Total Division Gyrus Group PLC 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2006
