22 Halma p. l. c. 2006 Business and financial review Group overview Business overview Halma protects lives and improves quality of Halma is made up of three sectors each comprising autonomous life for people worldwide through innovation operating companies which mainly manufacture innovative in market leading products which make our electronic and electrical products for niche markets with global dimensions.
We are an international group with businesses in customers safer, more competitive and 20 countries and major operations in Europe, the USA, Asia and, more profitable.
You will find a description of our products, the industries in which we operate and trends in our markets in the sector reviews on pages 26 to 31.
These sectors are: Infrastructure Sensors detecting hazards, and protecting people and property in buildings Health and Analysis improving public and personal health: protecting the environment Industrial Safety protecting property and people at work Key performance indicators KPI Group target 2006 2005 Financial key performance indicators KPIs used by the 1 Organic revenue growth 5% 11% 5% Board to monitor progress are listed in the table on the 1 left.
Similar indicators are used to review performance in Organic profit growth 5% 15% 1% our three sectors.
KPIs are calculated on results from 2 Return on sales 18% 18.7% 18.0% continuing operations.
3 ROCE Return on We have performed well this year against our KPI targets.
Capital Employed 45% 56.9% 48.8% This impressive operating performance is not uncommon 3 for Halma although 2005 06 demonstrated levels of organic ROTIC Return on Total revenue and profit growth well above those seen in recent Invested Capital 12% 12.8% 12.1% years.
The stated targets represent the shape we aim for in 4 R&D as a % of sales 4% 4.3% 4.2% our business.
5 Operating cash to operating profit 100% 117% 121% We achieved a higher percentage of organic profit growth 15% than organic revenue growth 11% and this is a relationship 1.
Organic growth measures the change in the revenue and profit from continuing Group operations.
The effect of acquisitions made during the current or prior we expect to see because of our high operating leverage.
financial period has been equalised by subtracting from the current year results a Our ROCE and ROTIC both increased this year and these are pro-rated contribution based on their revenue and profits at the date of acquisition.
important measures of our creation of value for shareholders.
Return on sales is defined as adjusted profit before taxation from continuing Further discussion of the Groups financial performance can operations expressed as a percentage of revenue from continuing operations.
be found in the Financial review below.
ROCE and ROTIC are non-GAAP measures used by management in measuring the returns achieved from the Groups asset base.
See note 3 to the Accounts for details of the calculation basis.
Research and development expenditure as a percentage of revenue from continuing operations.
Cash generated from continuing operations is expressed as a percentage of 6 adjusted operating profit from continuing operations.
Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
This Business and financial review is based on the guidelines for Operating and Financial Reviews published by the Accounting Standards Board.
To help shareholders get a clear insight into our business we look at issues affecting the Group as a whole on pages 22 to 25, followed by an analysis of our three principal operating sectors in more detail on pages 26 to 31, and then we summarise Operating environment, risks and uncertainties, concluding with a Financial review.
Business and financial review Halma p. l. c. 2006 23 Strategy and business objectives Organic growth is the key to our value creation strategy.
Our strategy for driving growth and creating shareholder value The blended long-term growth rate of our markets is around centres on five key principles: 5% per year and our aim is grow faster than our markets.
Achieving organic revenue and profit growth above 10% this Operate in specialised global markets offering long-term year was, therefore, a very good performance, especially growth underpinned by robust growth drivers: since organic growth has been disappointing in recent years.
Build businesses which lead specialised global markets R&D and innovation play an important role.
Strategically, we through innovative products differentiated on performance aim to provide technical resources within each business as and quality rather than price alone: close as possible to the customer.
We encourage collaboration Recruit and develop top quality boards to lead our businesses between Halma companies and see this as a potential and nurture an entrepreneurial culture within a framework of competitive advantage that has been under-utilised in the rigorous financial discipline: past.
The creation of three major market-focused sectors will provide greater transparency and already we are seeing new Acquire companies and intellectual assets that extend collaboration opportunities.
our existing activities, enhance our entrepreneurial culture, fit into our decentralised operating structure and meet our demanding financial performance expectations: Achieve a high Return on Capital Employed to generate cash efficiently and to fund organic growth, closely targeted acquisitions and sustained dividend growth.
Growth drivers Safety regulations and legislation Risk and cost of accidents Construction industry growth new build and refurbishment Capital investment in industrial facilities Population growth, ageing and urbanisation Rising expectations of health and safety Industrial growth in developed countries Industrialisation of developing world Energy and water resources markets growth New technology 24 Halma p. l. c. 2006 Business and financial review Group overview continued Our businesses build competitive advantage and strengthen These management teams are chaired by Halmas Divisional barriers-to-entry in many ways including patents, product Chief Executives DCEs who understand the market needs and approvals, technical innovation, product quality, customer service can contribute broadly to the individual companys strategy in levels and branding.
We look for these qualities in the businesses technical, operational and commercial areas.
These DCEs meet we seek to acquire.
We like regulated markets which require with the Group Chief Executive regularly to review progress suppliers to achieve compliance with demanding product against their operating divisions strategic objectives.
standards but also look for other long-term growth drivers such When new acquisitions join Halma they invariably retain their as demographic change.
For example, during the year our name and identity, and vendors often continue to work with Fire detectors business added 500 new product approvals us.
Elsewhere entrepreneurs typically find working in a large totalling over 2,500 international, national and local approvals.
international organisation too constraining but our autonomous We cultivate a highly decentralised operating culture which culture and decentralised structure allows them to develop encourages our businesses to focus on establishing market further.
Over the years, many of our top executives have joined leadership in their selected niche within a global market.
Each subsidiary is led by a management team who enjoy genuine autonomy and the freedom to grow in an entrepreneurial environment.
Halma p. l. c. 2006 25 Results The 2005 06 results are summarised as follows: Revenue Profit before taxation million 2006 2005 % change 2006 2005 % change Infrastructure Sensors 131.9 118.2 11.6% 24.1 23.7 1.7% Health and Analysis 111.7 93.1 20.0% 23.4 15.0 56.0% Industrial Safety 67.6 57.9 16.8% 12.9 10.1 27.7% Inter-segmental sales 0.4 0.5 Central companies 0.4 0.6 310.8 268.7 15.7% 60.0 49.4 21.5% Amortisation of acquired intangibles 1.5 0.3 Net finance expense 1.9 1.1 Continuing operations 310.8 268.7 15.7% 56.6 48.0 17.9% Taxation 17.0 14.5 39.6 33.5 Discontinued operations 26.5 30.4 1.3 1.1 Result for the year 337.3 299.1 12.8% 40.9 34.6 18.2% See the individual sector reviews and the Financial review below for a discussion of these results.
Outlook As well as achieving excellent short-term progress during 2005 06 by substantially raising organic growth, we established firm foundations for the long-term growth of our business.
We will pursue geographic expansion and new product development energetically.
Continued investment to extend our presence in key developing markets and continuing development of senior management are key actions aimed at sustaining profitable revenue growth.
Key growth drivers, like regulation, legislation and attitudes to the risk of accidents, will continue to play an important role in creating favourable market conditions.
Growth in the coming year will be aided by a full years contribution from our new acquisitions and we will continue to explore collaboration opportunities between our businesses.
Our underlying growth prospects are positive and we are in a better position to exploit them following the rapid recovery of our Water business and the acquisitions and disposals completed during the year.
We enter the new year in good shape.
