Headlam Group plc 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business Review We continue to actively invest in sales and marketing initiatives throughout our businesses in the UK and Continental Europe Conditions in the UK floorcovering market during 2006 in both to provide an excellent service.
During 2006, the businesses residential and particularly commercial flooring were positive.
This enabled us to grow our UK businesses by 4.1% on a like for like basis and total sales by 4.6%.
National multi-product: Mercado has a comprehensive distribution network enabling it Our businesses in Continental Europe prospered with solid to supply residential and commercial flooring throughout performances from France and Switzerland and a particularly England, Wales and Northern Ireland.
Through its experienced strong performance from the Netherlands.
These businesses sales team, substantial stock holding and delivery achieved a collective like for like sales increase of 5.6%.
infrastructure, Mercado increased its business by 5.8%.
UK operations Regional commercial: We have previously categorised our businesses into four The newly formed sector, developed through the emergence of specific sectors.
However, due to the growing importance of existing businesses and also recent acquisitions, now has nine our Regional multi-product commercial operations, we have locations throughout England and Northern Ireland.
The now increased our business sectors to five: businesses benefit from strong relationships in the commercial flooring market, with both manufacturers and particularly with Regional multi-product: flooring contractors.
Whilst they were able to increase their We have 20 businesses throughout the UK which provide a business by 7.9% in 2006, there are significant opportunities comprehensive product offering of both residential and to increase the geographical coverage both through acquisition commercial floorcovering.
Through close liaison with our and organic growth.
manufacturers and local relationships with customers, these businesses create a substantial market presence and endeavour The Year in Review Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 13 The sales and marketing activities are supported by our comprehensive distribution network Headlam Group plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business Review continued Residential specialist: Products These 12 businesses supply medium to premium end carpet Carpet is still our largest product group, representing 49% of products.
Through their product innovation and additional UK sales.
During the year we launched 2,690 2005: 2,486 marketing initiatives they were able to increase their business new products supported by 665,000 2005: 626,482 point of by 6.0%.
Through further investment in sales and marketing sale items positioned in independent retailers.
This ongoing we can substantially increase the presence of these businesses activity enabled us to increase sales by 1.1%.
Sales of carpet in the premium sector.
in the UK are dominated by plain product consisting of twist pile in either polypropylene or wool and loop pile natural Commercial specialist: effects, again in polypropylene or wool.
These three businesses are focused in specific areas of the commercial flooring market, principally healthcare, education and government installations.
All three businesses performed to expectations in 2006 and were able to grow their business by 8.7%.
Business Sectors Customers Customers, who are principally independent floorcovering Regional multi-product 61% retailers and contractors, continue to prosper.
With the benefit National multi-product 14% of our distribution network, extensive product range and sales Regional commercial 9% and marketing initiatives we have increased the number of active accounts to 36,225 2005: 35,748.
Residential specialist 11% Commercial specialist 5% Proportion by Product The management teams of these Carpet 49% Vinyl 13% individual businesses Laminate & Wood 5% Accessories 6% are clearly focused Commercial 27% on delivering the objectives before them The Year in Review Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 15 Residential vinyl business, which accounts for 13% of UK sales, increased by 4.2%.
During the year we placed 132,000 2005: 167,360 new point of sale items to support the launch of 622 2005: 693 new products.
The residential vinyl market in the UK has moved significantly towards slip resistant products.
This gives the benefit of both safety and an enhanced reproduction of various types of natural flooring.
We believe this improved product has increased our sales of residential vinyl, particularly through the independent retail sector.
Wood and laminate, which contribute 5% to the UK sales, have seen a recovery during the year, increasing by 10.2%.
We believe there are still extensive opportunities to increase our market presence not only in laminate flooring, but also in engineered and solid wood.
Commercial Flooring represents 27% of UK sales.
Through the various activities of our regional and national multi-product businesses and also the regional commercial and commercial specialist businesses, we were able to increase sales of commercial products by 10.2% during 2006.
Market information would suggest that this particular sector has been fairly buoyant, but we believe our increase will have outperformed the market and consequently increased our market share.
Information Technology and Material Handling We continue to enhance our software and invest in the latest hardware to position our businesses at the forefront of technology, both operationally and financially.
As previously reported, with the introduction of our IT platform into the French business in 2006, we now operate all businesses in the UK and Continental Europe from the same platform which gives both operational consistency and standardised financial disciplines.
Headlam Group plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business Review continued New facilities will incorporate the We made a major step forward in material handling during 2005 with the introduction of the despatch sortation system at despatch sortation Tamworth.
This system was incorporated into the construction of the new facility for Wilkies in Leeds which became system which operational in October 2006.
We also installed a sortation system into the Coleshill distribution centre in the first quarter significantly enhances of 2007.
We envisage that our new facilities will incorporate this system which significantly enhances material handling material handling capability and improves cost effectiveness.
Investments During 2006 we completed the construction of the 105,000 square foot purpose built freehold distribution facility for Wilkies, our regional multi-product business based in Leeds.
This facility became operational in October 2006 and we anticipate that Wilkies will be able to significantly develop their residential and commercial business in the north of England over the coming years.
Following the appropriate planning permission, we have now purchased land in Bridgend, South Wales to enable us to rehouse MCD Wales.
This will be constructed during the course of this year and will be operational towards the end of 2007.
The strong cash generation by our operations allows continued investment to strengthen further the groups position.
We have other projects at various stages of the planning and development process, to ensure that the group remains the leader in European floorcovering distribution.
Europe It is particularly pleasing that we recorded a continued improvement in all three of our Continental European businesses in France, Switzerland and the Netherlands.
This combined performance showed a sales increase of 5.6% and an increase in operating profit of 12.6%.
The Year in Review Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 17 Each of our businesses has seen improving market conditions progressively during 2006.
This, in conjunction with sales, marketing and operational improvements that we have made over previous years, has contributed to this result.
With this improving trend, we have continued to assess other opportunities to enlarge our presence in Continental Europe.
Acquisitions In October 2006 we acquired the business of Concept Midlands Limited, based in West Bromwich.
The acquisition of this business, along with the development of other regional commercial operations, has enabled us to increase the structure of our business sectors from four to five.
We continue to evaluate potential acquisitions in both the commercial and residential markets in the UK, in addition to opportunities in Continental Europe.
We envisage further additions to the group over the coming months.
Outlook We continue to actively invest in sales and marketing initiatives throughout our businesses in the UK and Continental Europe, supported by our comprehensive distribution network.
The management teams of these individual businesses are clearly focused on delivering the objectives before them and we look forward to achieving another successful year.
Tony Brewer, Group Chief Executive
