Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 06 Directors report Business and financial review 06 Business and financial review Across our three business segments Branded, Injectables and 20 Corporate social responsibility Generics, we have three key strategic aims: 24 Board of Directors Consolidate our strong market position in the MENA region 25 Senior management by launching new products, expanding our geographic reach and 26 Corporate Governance Principles increasing market share: 29 Audit Committee report 31 Other matters Grow our Injectables business by expanding our product portfolio, developing our manufacturing capabilities and strengthening our sales and marketing network: and, Continue to pursue profitable growth in the United States by focusing on high margin, niche product opportunities.
The Directors are pleased to present their report and audited In 2006, we continued to make significant progress towards financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006. achieving these objectives.
During the year we achieved market For the purposes of this report, Company means Hikma share gains in each of our three largest markets in the Branded Pharmaceuticals PLC and Group means the Company and its business Algeria, Saudi Arabia and Jordan, by launching new subsidiary and associated undertakings.
products and leveraging our sales and marketing capabilities.
We have also expanded into new markets and strengthened Our business our position in the fast growing Gulf Cooperation Council Hikma is a multinational pharmaceutical group focused on GCC region through the acquisition of the remaining developing, manufacturing and marketing a broad range 52.5% of our associate Al-Jazeera Pharmaceutical Industries of generic and in-licensed pharmaceutical products in solid, JPI that we did not previously own.
We continue to drive semi-solid, liquid and injectable final dosage forms.
At the end growth in our Injectable business, where we have significantly of 2006, we had 176 generic pharmaceutical products in 397 developed our sales and marketing capabilities.
In the challenging dosage strengths and forms in our product portfolio, including US generic market, we achieved gross margin of 52.6% despite 1 26 pharmaceutical products under promotion and distribution continued price erosion and a limited contribution from new agreements with, or licences from, 16 originator pharmaceutical product launches.
companies and three generic pharmaceutical companies.
Our progress on our strategic objectives is monitored by the Board The majority of our operations are in the Middle East and by reference to five key financial performance indicators applied on North Africa MENA region, the United States and Europe.
These same indicators are used Our strategy for growth is to build a strong and diverse product by executive management to manage the business.
Performance in portfolio: to expand our geographic reach: to develop and leverage 2006 against these indicators is set out in the table below, our global research and development capabilities and API sourcing together with the prior year performance data.
strengths: and to continue to maintain the very high standards of our manufacturing capabilities.
Hikmas key performance indicators Year ended 31 December 2006 2005 Change Revenue growth 20.9% 23.5% -2.6% Gross margin 50.0% 51.8% -1.8% Operating margin 23.7% 26.4% -2.7% R&D costs as a percentage of revenue 5.8% 6.3% -0.5% Profit attributable to shareholders $54.5m $43.9m $10.6m 1 Two additional under-licensed products were launched in early 2007 and a further five under-licensed products are pending launch, including three products from JPI.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Directors report 07 1 Group performance Research and Development Revenue for the Group increased by 20.9% to $317.0 million, In the year to 31 December 2006, Hikma submitted 88 regulatory compared to $262.2 million in 2005.
On an underlying basis, filings, including 32 ANDAs.
These included filings for new excluding JPI, revenue increased by 16.4%.
The increase was products, which include pharmaceutical compounds not yet primarily due to strong increases in revenue in both the Branded launched by Hikma, existing compounds being introduced into and Injectable businesses.
new regions and countries, and line extensions the registration of new dosage strengths or forms of existing products.
In 2006, 41.0% of revenue was generated by our Branded Pending business, 35.9% of revenue was generated by our Generic approvals business and 21.3% by our Injectable business.
Geographically, Pending of new New product approvals as of products as of 49.7% of revenue was generated in the MENA region, while Filings in filings in 31 December 31 December 40.9% of revenue was generated in the United States and 2006 2006 2006 2006 9.3% in Europe.
Generics The Groups gross profit increased by 16.7% to $158.5 million, United States 20 17 31 23 compared to $135.8 million in 2005.
Group gross margins for Branded 2006 were 50.0% of revenue, compared to 51.8% in 2005.
2 MENA 28 14 17 9 On a segmental basis, gross margins improved in the Injectable business, but declined in the Branded business, due to an increase Europe and RoW 31 11 2 in overheads related to the new Algerian plant and the impact of 31 15 28 11 reference pricing in Algeria, and in the Generic business due to continued price erosion.
Injectables United States 12 92520 Group operating expenses increased in 2006 by 23.8% to 2 $84.2 million, compared to $68.0 million for 2005, mainly due to MENA 15 9 18 9 higher sales and marketing expenses in the Injectable business, an Europe 10 4 15 8 increase in corporate expenses related to being a public company and the consolidation of JPI for the last four months of the year.
37 22 58 37 88 54 117 71 Sales and marketing expenses increased by 27.9% to $35.0 million, due primarily to an increase in investment in sales and marketing infrastructure in the Injectable business We estimate that the currently marketed equivalent products and the consolidation of the sales and marketing expenses of of the 71 new products covered by the Groups pending JPI.
Sales and marketing expenses represented 11.0% of Group approvals had sales of approximately $23.7 billion in the year revenue in 2006, compared to 10.4% in 2005. ended 31 December 2006 in the markets covered by our The Groups general and administrative expenses increased by 3 pending approvals.
At 31 December 2006, we had a total of 105 new products As anticipated, the change can be attributed to an increase under development, the majority of which should receive in corporate expenses, which increased by $5.0 million to several marketing authorisations, including separate marketing $13.2 million as we continued to strengthen corporate functions authorisations in differing strengths and or product forms to support the demands of being a publicly listed company.
General and administrative expenses represented 9.6% of Group revenue in 2006, compared to 8.6% in 2005.
Investment in R&D for the Group increased by 10.8% to $18.3 million, compared to $16.5 million in 2005.
This increase can be attributed to ongoing investment in the development of our product portfolio.
Total investment in R&D represented 5.8% of Group revenue in 2006, compared to 6.3% in 2005.
Other net operating expenses, which consist mainly of provisions against slow moving items partially offset by foreign exchange gains and management fees from an associate, were $0.6 million, 1 Products are defined as pharmaceutical compounds sold by the Group.
New products are defined as pharmaceutical compounds not previously launched The share of results of associates was $0.9 million in 2006, by the Group and existing compounds being introduced into a new segment or a new region.
This change reflects JPIs status Line extensions are new forms or dosage strengths of existing compounds.
as an associate business for only eight months of 2006.
Filings include filings for new products and the first filing of line extensions in a new segment or new region.
Operating profit for the Group increased by 8.7% to $75.2 million, Approvals are comprehensive and include approvals for new products and line compared to $69.2 million in 2005.
Group operating margin extensions and approvals in new segments, regions and countries.
declined by 2.7 percentage points to 23.7% in 2006, compared Pending approvals include only applications that are pending for new products to 26.4% of revenue in 2005, primarily as a result of increased and the first filing of a line extension in a new segment or a new region.
2 overheads related to our new Algerian plant, the continued price Includes only the first filing of a product or line extension in the MENA region.
erosion in the Generic business and the increase in the Groups 3 Source: IMS Health.
This figure does not include the market potential of our general and administrative expenses.
pending injectable approvals in the MENA region.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Directors report 08 Consolidate our strong market position in the MENA region Social dynamics fuelling demand Fast growing pharmaceutical markets Our growing market share The availability of healthcare is expanding IMS Health predicts that the worlds The increase in demand for in the Middle East and North Africa and emerging markets, which currently pharmaceuticals in the MENA region is the need for pharmaceutical products, represent 17% of the global market, driving market growth.
Through our particularly treatments associated with will contribute 30% of the global superior sales force and expanding product chronic diseases, is rapidly increasing.
pharmaceutical market growth in 2007. portfolio, we continue to grow faster than most of the underlying markets in which we operate.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Directors report 09 Branded Growth in the Jordanian market was also strong in 2006 and well ahead of the underlying market.
As in Saudi Arabia, we The pharmaceutical market in the MENA region tends to benefited in the Jordanian market from the investment in sales be a branded market, in which patented, generic and and marketing that was made in the second half of 2005, when OTC pharmaceutical products are marketed under specific 16 sales representatives were added.
We received seven new brand names.
Our Branded business manufactures branded product approvals and launched three new products in the generic pharmaceutical products for sale across the MENA Jordanian market during the year and increased our market share region and, increasingly, Europe.
to 7.3%, compared to 6.8% in 2005, maintaining our position as 1 Revenue in the Branded business, our largest business market leader.
segment, increased by 39.9% to $130.1 million, compared Sudan, the Branded businesss fourth largest market, performed to $93.0 million in 2005.
Excluding JPI, which contributed extremely well, largely due to an increased product focus and $11.4 million, underlying sales growth was 27.6%, primarily better geographical coverage, combined with a more stable due to focused sales and marketing efforts and new product operating environment.
While market data is not readily available registrations.
for the Sudanese market, we believe that we now have a leading Algeria, Saudi Arabia, Jordan and Sudan were the Branded position in this market.
In Algeria we recovered strongly We also achieved strong performances in some of our newer and from the disruptions caused by the introduction of reference smaller markets, including Libya, UAE and South Africa, driven pricing in the beginning of the year, delivering double-digit sales mainly by better brand recognition and product launches.
Following the approval of our new manufacturing facility in Algeria, new product registrations and local manufacturing Revenue from the Branded businesss top-ten sellers represented approvals have helped to drive growth in this market.
During the 73.0% of Branded revenue in 2006.
Leading products included year, we received 26 product approvals in Algeria, including four Amoclan, Oprazole, Penamox, Prograf and Suprax.
Sales from for new products and 20 local manufacturing approvals.
In 2006, under-licensed products represented 34.1% of sales in 2006. our market share in Algeria increased to 3.9%, compared to During the year, two new licensing agreements were signed, 3.3% in 2005 and we are now the sixth largest pharmaceutical bringing the total number of products under-licence in the 2 manufacturer and second largest generic pharmaceutical Branded business to 25.
1 manufacturer by value in the Algerian market.
While we expect Gross profit of the Branded business increased by 29.3% to the reference pricing system introduced by the Algerian Ministry $69.5 million, compared to $53.7 million in 2005.
The Branded of Labour and Social Security Affairs in early 2006 will continue to Pharmaceuticals businesss gross margin decreased to 53.4%, impact prices in the Algerian market, we believe that the strength compared to 57.8% in 2005.
This change in gross profit margin is of our current market position and our developing product attributed to an increase in overheads associated with the new portfolio will enable us to mitigate further price reductions.
Algerian manufacturing facility that came on stream in early 2006, In Saudi Arabia, we delivered excellent growth as we continued to and an increase in discounts granted in the Algerian market in see the benefits of the investment in sales and marketing that was relation to the new reference pricing system.
made in 2005, when 35 sales and marketing representatives were The Branded businesss operating profit before associates added to the sales team.
In 2006, we increased our market share, increased by 36.9% in 2006, to $39.4 million.
Through a strict which includes JPI, to 4.0%, compared to 3.8% in 2005, making focus on operating efficiencies, operating margins in the Branded 1 us the fifth largest player in the Saudi Arabian market.
During the business remained stable at 30.3% in 2006, compared to 30.9% year three new products were launched in Saudi Arabia.
in 2005, despite the inclusion of additional operating expenses During the year we increased our shareholding in JPI, our associate from JPI.
As previously indicated, JPI will have a slightly dilutive in Saudi Arabia, to 100% for a cash consideration of $21.0 million.
effect on Branded operating profit margins in 2007.
We expect Through this acquisition we are benefiting from an enhanced this will be most apparent in the first half of the year, given the product portfolio and faster product delivery in the GCC region, seasonality we traditionally see in the Branded business.
improved registration times, and an increase in the number of In line with our strategic objectives for the Branded business, sales representatives covering the region.
At the end of 2006, we launched a total of six new products in 2006, three in Jordan JPI had a total of 31 products in 82 dosage strengths in its product and three in Saudi Arabia.
The total number of Branded sales and portfolio, including 13 products in 21 dosage strengths that are marketing staff at year end was 443, which includes 128 sales new to Hikma.
and marketing staff at JPI.
Excluding JPI, the number of sales and marketing staff increased slightly to 315, compared to 286 in 2005, as we benefited from the investment in sales and marketing that was made in 2005.
2 At the end of 2006, 18 of these products were sold in the Branded business.
A further two were launched in the beginning of 2007 and an additional five are pending launch.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Directors report 10 Grow our Injectable business Developing our sales reach Building a strong pipeline We now have 58 sales representatives We currently have 37 new molecules marketing injectables in the MENA pending approval in the Injectable region.
In addition, we have 14 sales business, including 20 ANDAs.
We have representatives in Europe and five in a further 21 line extensions pending, the United States.
as well as 97 applications pending in new markets.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Directors report 11 Injectables Across the Injectable business, 14 new products were launched during the year, including six in Jordan, three in the United States Our Injectable business manufactures injectable generic and five in Europe.
pharmaceutical products in powder, liquid and lyophilised forms for sale across the MENA region, Europe and the Revenue from the Injectable businesss top-ten sellers represented United States.
The Injectable business contributed 21.3% 68.7% of Injectables revenue in 2006.
Cephalosporins continue of total Group revenue in 2006, compared to 18.8% to be the segments top sellers.
Gross profit of the Injectable business increased by 53.9% to Revenue in our Injectable business increased by 37.1% to $28.3 million, compared to $18.4 million in 2005.
The Injectable $67.6 million, compared to $49.3 million in 2005.
The increase businesss gross margin increased to 41.9%, compared to 37.4% was due primarily to strong performances in Europe and the in 2005.
Injectables operating profit increased by 57.4% to MENA region, where sales grew as a result of our continued $13.4 million, compared to $8.5 million in 2005, despite an focus on sales and marketing.
increase in spending on sales and marketing in anticipation of a number of new product launches.
Injectables operating During the year, the Injectable business received 63 regulatory margins improved to 19.8% in 2006, up from 17.2% in 2005. approvals, including 28 in Europe, 32 in the MENA region The increase in both gross and operating profit margin reflects and three in the United States.
12 of these approvals were for the increased scalability of the business as we achieved higher new products, the rest were for new dosage strengths or forms.
Revenues were strong in Europe, particularly in Germany, where Also in 2006, we completed the construction of our new sales were driven by an increasingly strong product portfolio and cephalosporin plant in Portugal, which is on track to begin our enlarged sales and marketing presence.
Demand for our production in the first half of 2007. lyophilised injectable products and a strong performance in Portugal also boosted European Injectables sales, as did the sales In January 2007, we acquired Ribosepharm GmbH, an oncology and distribution agreements signed with Hospira in the beginning company specialising in the marketing and distribution of of 2006.
At the end of December we had 14 sales and marketing injectable oncology products both to private practices and representatives in Europe.
hospitals in Germany, for a cash consideration of $45.0 million.
This acquisition provides us with an excellent platform from The Injectable business also performed well in the MENA region, which to enter the large and fast-growing oncology market.
especially in Saudi Arabia and Sudan.
This strong performance Ribosepharm currently has 11 sales representatives in the was driven by more focused sales efforts, the continuous German market.
introduction of new products and formulations and the development of newer markets including Lebanon and Libya.
Strong demand for tender business also boosted sales, especially in the second half of the year.
At the end of December we had a total of 58 sales and marketing representatives in the MENA region.
In the United States, at the beginning of the year we established a specialised injectable distribution company Hikma Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc.
Sales in this part of the business grew modestly due to a lower than expected contribution from new product sales as a result of delays in new product approvals.
Building customer relationships Our developing sales force is building new relationships with hospitals and hospital buying groups, our key customers in the injectable market.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Directors report 12 Focus on high margin, niche product opportunities to generate profitable growth in the United States Lowering our costs The price erosion we have seen in the US market in recent years forces us to be vigilant about reducing our cost base.
We are continuously looking to secure cheaper sources of the active pharmaceutical ingredient or API, our most significant cost.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Directors report 13 Generics Generic operating profit decreased by 7.1% to $36.0 million.
Operating profit margins in the Generic business decreased to With higher growth rates in Branded and Injectables, 31.7% of revenue, compared to 33.6% in 2005.
The decrease in the Generic business contributed 35.9% of total operating margin is attributed to price erosion and the increase Group revenue in 2006, compared to 43.9% in 2005. in overheads mentioned above, as operating expenses remained Consistent with 2005, all Generic revenues were generated largely unchanged.
As anticipated, 2006 was a challenging year for our Generic Other businesses business.
Revenue decreased by 1.3% to $113.7 million, compared Other businesses, which include primarily Arab Medical Containers, to $115.2 million in 2005.
The change was primarily due to a manufacturer of specialised plastic packaging, and International continued price erosion, which was only partially offset by volume Pharmaceuticals Research Centre IPRC, which conducts increases, and a limited contribution from new product launches.
bio-equivalency studies, had aggregate revenue in 2006 of During the year, three new products were launched.
$5.7 million, or 1.8% of total Group revenue.
Other businesses Revenue from the Generic businesss top-ten sellers represented delivered an operating loss of $1.2 million in 2006, compared to 70.8% of Generic revenue in 2006.
Leading products included $0.03 million in 2005, as a result of an increase in investment in lisinopril, doxycycline and methocarbamol.
In December 2006 we successfully renewed our sales contract with the Department of Veterans Affairs, an agency of the government of the United States, for the supply of lisinopril.
This renewal represented the exercise of the 4th Option Year for the contract with a contract period between 21 December 2006 and 20 December 2007.
The contract was renewed at a slight discount to last years renewal price.
All other terms and conditions of the contract remain unchanged.
Lisinopril accounted for 34.6% of Generic revenue and 12.4% of Group revenue in 2006.
Gross profit of the Generic business decreased by 4.1% to $59.8 million, compared to $62.3 million in 2005.
Gross margin in the Generic business was 52.6%, compared to 54.1% in 2005.
This reflects the price erosion experienced in this market, as well as an increase in overheads as new facilities and machinery came on line during the year.
These factors were only partially offset by an improvement in raw material costs.
Strengthening our product portfolio Positive market outlook We submitted 20 ANDA filings in our We expect the pricing environment in Generic business in 2006, including 17 the United States to remain competitive, for new products.
This brings the total but also see evidence of positive market number of products pending approval trends.
IMS Health is currently forecasting to 31, or 23 new products.
global generic market growth of 13% to 14% in 2007.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Directors report 14 Financial performance Finance income Dividend The Groups financing income includes interest income and The Board has recommended a final dividend of 4.0 cents per net foreign exchange gains from non trading activities.
The proposed final dividend Financing income increased by $3.7 million to $5.3 million will be paid on 18 June 2007 to shareholders on the register on in 2006, compared to $1.6 million in 2005.
The increase 18 May 2007, subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting.
was due primarily to interest earned on proceeds generated Cash flow and capital expenditure from the Groups IPO and interest generated from cash deposits $35.1 million of generated cash flows were invested in working in the United States.
capital to support sales growth, resulting in a net cash inflow from Finance costs operating activities of $35.2 million as of 31 December 2006, Financing costs decreased by $0.2 million to $5.0 million, compared to $32.7 million in 2005. compared to $5.2 million in 2005.
While overall debt levels Debtor days increased from 101 days in 2005 to 126 days in 2006, increased during the year, this is due to the consolidation of JPI.
due to the consolidation of JPI.
Excluding JPI, debtor days increased On an underlying basis, excluding JPI, total debt decreased by slightly to 107 days.
This increase was mainly as a result of a 14.2% to $46.5 million as of 31 December 2006. temporary increase in receivables during the fourth quarter of Profit before tax the year.
Using the count back method to calculate debtor days Profit before taxes and minority interest for the Group increased i. e. counting back the year end receivable balance by respective by $11.2 million, or 17.4%, to $75.6 million, compared to monthly sales, debtor days were stable at 102 days and 103 days $64.4 million in 2005. as at 31 December 2005 and 31 December 2006, respectively.
Tax Inventory days increased from 168 days to 194 days primarily The Group had a tax expense of $19.6 million in 2006. due to a strategic decision in the United States to enhance service The effective tax rate was 26.0%, a year on year decrease of levels by increasing inventories and due to the consolidation of JPI.
The tax rate decrease was due to a shift Without JPI, inventory days increased to 183 days.
in the geographic mix of sales towards lower tax countries, Net cash used for investing activities was $72.7 million in the year particularly in the MENA region, as well as to a change in the to 31 December 2006 compared to $16.4 million in the same geographic mix of the origin of production towards subsidiaries period in 2006.
The most significant investing activity in 2006 in lower tax countries.
was purchases of property, plant and equipment amounting to Minority interest $49.7 million, which relates primarily to the construction of the Hikmas minority interest increased to $1.4 million in 2006, new cephalosporin plant in Portugal, expansions in production compared to $1.1 million in 2005. capacity in Jordan and the US, in addition to the completion of the manufacturing facility in Algeria.
During the year the Group Profit for the year also made regular investments in upgrading and maintaining The Groups profit for the year attributable to equity holders of existing facilities in all other areas, as well as setting up a new the parent grew by 24.3% to $54.5 million for the year ended quality control laboratory and research and development facility 31 December 2006, compared to $43.9 million in 2005. in Jordan.
Earnings per share The second significant component of investing activities during Diluted earnings per share for the year to 31 December 2006 were 2006 was the $21.0 million paid for the acquisition of the 52.5% 31.0 cents, up 9.5% from 28.3 cents in 2005. of JPI that we did not already own.
Net cash used in financing activities in the 12 months to 31 December 2006 was $13.6 million, primarily representing a long term debt including capital leases decrease of $8.9 million and dividends paid of $7.0 million.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Directors report 15 Cash balance and net cash position Consolidation of our position in the MENA region and expansion The Groups cash and cash equivalents decreased by of our Injectable business remain key strategic objectives and we $49.7 million in 2006 to $86.2 million, primarily as a result of will continue to look for opportunities to expand our operations capital expenditures, the acquisition of JPI, debt repayments and both organically and through acquisitions.
dividends, partially offset by normal operating activities, which In 2007, the intangible assets excluding goodwill acquired in the generated $35.2 million.
JPI and Ribosepharm transactions will be amortised, in accordance The Groups net cash position at 31 December 2006 was with the accounting standard IFRS 3 Business combinations.
$25.0 million, compared to a net cash position of $86.9 million As a result, we expect to incur an annual amortisation charge of at 31 December 2005.
Net cash is calculated as the total of approximately $0.3 million for JPI, based on associated intangible investments in cash deposits, collateralised cash and cash and assets that we have valued at $4.9 million.
We will undergo a cash equivalents less bank overdrafts and the current and similar valuation exercise with respect to Ribosepharms intangible long-term portion of loans and obligations under finance leases.
assets over the course of the year and expect to incur an associated annual amortisation charge.
Generally, we expect future Share price amortisation charges will increase consistent with the acquisitive The Groups share price closed at 365.25 pence on 29 December nature of the Group.
The Groups total shareholder return for this period was 9.3%, compared to 32.7% for the FTSE 250 and 2.2% for the FTSE 350 Basis of preparation and forward-looking statements pharmaceuticals sector, with the stock underperforming both This Business and financial review has been prepared solely to provide additional information to shareholders as a body to assess the Companys strategies and the indices over the period.
During this period the shares closing price potential for those strategies to succeed, and should not be relied on by any other ranged from a low of 329.5 pence on 29 June 2006 to a high of party or for any other purpose.
Certain statements in the above review are forward- 458 pence on 25 April 2006. looking statements which have been made by the Directors in good faith based on the information available to them up to the time of their approval of this report.
Future outlook By their nature, forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties Group performance in 2007 is on track and we are pleased or assumptions that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from to be able to reiterate the guidance we gave in January of this those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements, and should be treated year and are updating this guidance to reflect the acquisition with caution.
These risks, uncertainties or assumptions could adversely affect the outcome and financial effects of the plans and events described in this review.
Forward-looking statements contained in this review regarding past trends or activities should not be taken as a representation that such trends or activities will Incorporating Ribosepharm, which will be consolidated from continue in the future.
You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking 1 January 2007, we now expect to deliver Group sales growth statements, which speak as only of the date of this the approval of this report.
Ribosepharm will also impact positively Except as required by law, the Company is under no obligation to update or keep on gross margin, which we now expect to be in line with 2006. current the forward-looking statements contained in this review or to correct any We expect Ribosepharms sales and marketing expenses as a inaccuracies which may become apparent in such forward-looking statements.
percentage of sales, however, to be approximately 35% to 40% in 2007.
We will continue to invest in R&D at a rate of 5% to 6% of sales and we now expect that our effective tax rate will improve slightly from the 26% we have achieved in 2006.
We expect our results in 2007 will continue to reflect the seasonality of our business, which will be further emphasised by the consolidation of JPI.
In addition, we continue to expect that JPI will have a slightly dilutive effect on Branded operating margins in 2007.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Directors report 16 Financial performance continued Risk Management Pricing dynamics Pricing for the Groups products reflects a variety of factors, Operational risks including changes in API and other raw material costs, intensity There are a number of factors that have or could in the future of competition, industry practice, governmental regulation and affect the Groups results of operations, including the following: general market conditions.
Generic pharmaceutical markets in Regulatory the United States and Europe are extremely competitive and or In common with other companies operating in the pharmaceutical regulated by governments, both of which result in downward industry, Hikma is subject to extensive regulation in all its markets.
We aim to maximise the margins we achieve There is no single worldwide harmonised set of regulations relating on our products through competitive pricing strategies, together to the development, manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical with initiatives to minimise raw materials and other manufacturing products and we are, therefore subject to different laws, and operating costs.
regulations and codes depending on the regions or countries in Government tender bids which our businesses operate.
Whilst the majority of Group sales have been to the private sector, In 2007 it is possible that regulatory changes could impact our each of our three businesses participates in government tenders.
In the United States, the Medicare Act 2003 was fully The timing and outcome of these tenders are unpredictable, and implemented in 2006.
As a result, we expect an increase in the the Groups results could be affected by the gain or loss of a overall volume of drugs sold, as well as the government-funded significant government contract.
Given the governments emphasis on Research and development and commercialisation containing costs, the generic share of the overall market should of new products increase by volume albeit at lower prices.
It is very difficult to The Groups results of operations may be impacted significantly predict what impact, if any, implementation of the Medicare Act by the timeliness of its research and development and product will have on Hikmas profitability.
In order to bring a drug to market In early 2006, the Algerian Ministry of Labour and Social Security successfully, the Group must identify products for which it can Affairs announced changes to its reimbursement system, including generate attractive margins and growth, undertake the required the introduction of reference pricing for a number of reimbursable research and development and obtain regulatory approvals.
This new legislation impacted the pricing of some of our Additional costs may be incurred, and sales opportunities lost, products sold in Algeria.
We expect this reference pricing system if there is any significant delay in any of these steps.
Given the will continue to impact prices in the Algerian market, but believe importance of research and development, Hikma has expanded that the strength of our current market position and our its investment in research and development, particularly in Jordan developing product portfolio will enable us to mitigate further price where it can benefit from lower labour and bio-equivalency costs.
reductions in the Algerian market.
Industry, economic and political dynamics The Group operates in diverse markets and geographic regions and is therefore subject to diverse industry, economic and political dynamics.
However, we believe the geographic spread of our operations gives the Group unique strength and flexibility, and also lessens the impact on the Groups results and financial conditions of any disruption in, or any other extraordinary events at, any one of our three businesses or a change in the economic conditions or political environment or sustained civil unrest in any particular market or country.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Directors report 17 API and other raw material costs Interest rate risk Raw materials accounted for approximately 31.7% of the Groups The Group manages its exposures to interest rate risks by changing net sales in the year ended 31 December 2006, with the most the proportion of fixed rate debt and variable rate debt in its total significant portion of these costs relating to APIs.
Whilst the prices debt portfolio.
To manage this mix the Group may enter into of the APIs that the Group uses have in general fallen in recent interest rate swap agreements, in which it exchanges the periodic years, these prices are volatile and can vary significantly from payments based on notional amounts and agreed upon fixed supplier to supplier.
In some cases, increase in API and other raw and variable interest rate.
Using these swap agreements has material costs may not be able to be passed on to customers and not had a material impact on the Groups financial position at can therefore have a significant impact on the Groups results of 31 December 2006.
See Note 27 to the Groups consolidated operations.
Hikma has a dedicated API sourcing function that has financial statements for a description of the Groups interest been successful in sourcing lower cost APIs through more rate risks.
Credit risk Seasonality In most cases, the Group grants its buyers credit terms for The Groups business, in particular the Branded Pharmaceuticals settlement of sales invoices.
Credit risk is managed through the business, is seasonal, and it generally experiences higher net sales Group Credit policy and the Group may also make use of factoring and net profit in the first half of each financial year, as compared and or credit insurance arrangements to mitigate this risk.
to the second half of its financial year.
Accordingly, the Groups Further details are set out in Note 27 of the Groups consolidated outstanding borrowings historically have been higher during the financial statements.
first half of the financial year in order to finance the working Liquidity risk capital requirements of the Group.
The Group has constant financing requirements, both for Financial risks short-term working capital needs and for long-term strategic plans.
The Group Treasury Manager is responsible for Financial Risk Group Treasury ensures the Group debt capital structure and Management and setting the appropriate controls and risk policies.
banking arrangements can accommodate these financing needs.
He is supported by treasury and budgeting managers at the Inflation risk operating company and segmental levels, and reports to the Hikma believes it is not subject to material risk due to inflation in Chief Financial Officer.
any of its core markets at present.
Foreign exchange risk The Group uses the USD as its reporting currency and is therefore exposed to foreign exchange movements primarily in European, Algerian and Sudanese currencies.
Consequently, it enters into various contracts, that change in value as foreign exchange rates change, to preserve the value of assets and profitability.
Using these derivative financial instruments has not had a material impact on the Groups financial position at 31 December 2006.
See Note 27 to the Groups consolidated financial statements for a description of the Groups foreign exchange risks.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Directors report 18 Financial performance continued Critical accounting policies and estimates Charge backs The Groups accounting policies are more fully described in Note 1 The provision for charge backs is the most significant and complex of the Groups consolidated financial statements.
However, certain estimate used in the recognition of revenue.
In the United States, of the Groups accounting policies are particularly important to the the Group sells its products directly to wholesalers, generic presentation of the Groups results and require the application of distributors, retail pharmacy chains and mail-order pharmacies.
significant judgement by the Groups management.
The Group also sells its products indirectly to independent pharmacies, managed care organisations, hospitals, and group In applying these policies, the Groups management uses its purchasing organisations, collectively referred to as indirect judgement to determine the appropriate assumption to be customers.
The Group enters into agreements with its indirect used in the determination of certain estimates used in the customers to establish pricing for certain products.
The indirect preparation of the Groups results.
These estimates are based customers then independently select a wholesaler from which on the Groups previous experience, the terms of existing contracts, they purchase the products at agreed-upon prices.
The Group will information available from other outside sources and other factors, provide credit to the wholesaler for the difference between the as appropriate.
agreed-upon price with the indirect customer and the wholesalers The Groups management believes that, among others, the invoice price.
This credit is called a charge back.
The provision following accounting policies that involve management for charge backs is based on historical sell-through levels by the judgements and estimates are the most critical to understanding Groups wholesale customers to the indirect customers, and and evaluating the Groups financial results.
As sales are made to the large wholesalers, the Group continually monitors the reserve for Revenue recognition charge backs and makes adjustments when it believes that actual Revenue represents sales of products to external third parties and charge backs may differ from estimated reserves.
excludes inter-company income and value added taxes.
Sales of goods are recognised when the risk of loss and title are transferred to customers and reliable estimates can be made of relevant deductions.
The Groups revenue recognition policies require management to make a number of estimates, with the most significant relating to charge backs, product returns and rebates and price adjustments which vary by product arrangements and buying groups.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Directors report 19 Accounts receivable and bad debts Contingent liabilities The Group estimates, based on its historical experience, the level In the normal course of business, contingent liabilities may arise of debts that it believes will not be collected.
Such estimates are from product-specific and general legal proceedings, from made when collection of the full amount of the debt is no longer guarantees or from environmental liabilities connected with probable.
These estimates are based on a number of factors our current or former sites.
The Groups management believes including specific customer issues and industry, economic and that potential liabilities have a remote probability of crystallising.
Bad debts are written off when identified.
These are treated as contingent liabilities in the Group financial statements, and accordingly disclosed in Note 36.
Although there Goodwill and intangible assets can be no assurance regarding the outcome of legal proceedings, The Groups management has significant investments in goodwill we do not expect them to have a materially adverse effect on our and intangible assets as a result of acquisitions of businesses financial position or profitability.
and purchases of such assets as product development and marketing rights.
Tax The Group provides for income tax according to the laws and Under IFRS, goodwill is held at cost and tested annually for regulations prevailing in the countries where it operates and the impairment, whilst intangibles are amortised over their estimated likelihood of settlement.
The tax expense represents the sum of useful lives.
Estimated useful lives are reviewed annually and the current and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on impairment reviews are undertaken if events occur which indicate taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as an impairment to the carrying values of the assets.
reported in the income statement because it excludes items of Purchases of intellectual property and product rights to income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years supplement our R&D portfolio are capitalised as intangible assets.
and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
Such intangible assets are amortised from the launch of the The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates underlying products and are tested for impairment.
This policy that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance is in line with practice adopted by other major pharmaceutical sheet date.
The critical area of judgement is in relation to the useful economic life of these product related intangibles and the impairment tests for that are performed at least annually.
