6707-01 IPreport2006 AW tp 3 21 07 11:52 Page 8 Group overview International Power plc is a leading independent electricity generating company with interests in over 32,000 MW gross of power generating capacity, located in 20 countries.
We add value and manage risk through a portfolio management approach, which involves maintaining a balance in the portfolio in terms of geographical spread, fuel diversity and contract type.
This portfolio approach gives us access to multiple opportunities to create value whilst mitigating the risks associated with over exposure to any particular market, fuel or contract type.
As electricity is a critical service for any economy, governments carefully Our strategy decide whether or not they wish to liberalise this key sector.
Several We aim to maximise value to our shareholders over time through: governments have retained full control of the sector and others have a portfolio approach: fully liberalised both the production and supply of electricity.
The skills maximising the value of our existing portfolio: required for operating in liberalised merchant or non-liberalised contracted markets are very different and we have both.
The government controlled markets offer opportunities to sell power Our portfolio approach to government bodies via long-term contracts that offer stable and Our balanced geographical presence gives us access to growth regulated returns.
Assets in the liberalised or merchant markets are opportunities with attractive risk reward profiles whilst protecting subject to the forces of supply and demand, and these markets are the overall business from a downturn in any particular market.
generally cyclical and more volatile.
Both these markets offer attractive risk reward environments for investments.
International Power maintains The portfolio approach also extends through to our operational a balanced presence in both types of markets, providing the business capabilities.
We are able to operate a range of power plant with a stable platform of contracted earnings and cash flow overlaid technologies, namely thermal, hydro, pumped storage and wind.
by merchant generation which offers greater potential when markets These technologies produce electricity using different fuel types that are favourable.
include gas, oil, coal and renewable sources such as wind and water.
This operational experience allows us to capture opportunities that are most economic and best suited to the market in question.
IPR portfolio The Business and financial review is based on Geography P the guidelines for Operating and Financial Reviews North America published by the Accounting Standards Board.
Europe To assist shareholders with their understanding of Middle East our business we look at issues affecting the Group as Australia a whole on pages 8 to 25 followed by reviews of our Asia five regions on pages 26 to 37.
We cover our financial position and resources on pages 38 to 43.
All charts are presented based on net operating MW 8 Business and financial review Group overview 12% 28% 17% 10% 33% 0.5% 8% 61% 2.5% 6707-01 IPreport2006 AW tp 3 23 07 09:05 Page 9 Maximising the value of our existing portfolio Our growth Our specific strategies for value enhancement in each country and for Following the establishment of the business in October 2000, on the each individual asset are tailored to local requirements, but generally demerger of National Power PLC, the Group has grown significantly, we seek to achieve the following: more than doubling our operational capacity through successful acquisitions and greenfield developments in our core markets.
Optimise the operations of our power plants We optimise the operation of our power plants through several means, including Growth continues to be an important part of our business model, and managing all of our assets to high standards of safety and operating when we look at opportunities we have very clear investment criteria.
performance: managing our assets on a portfolio basis, particularly In merchant markets, we focus on the following key factors: with regard to contingency and strategic spare parts planning, so as to the balance of supply and demand for power, both current and minimise the loss of generation during planned and forced outages: future to ensure that conditions for a wholesale power generator closely co-ordinating plant operation with trading activity to maximise are attractive: the value of our uncontracted output: standardising management the regulatory framework to ensure the market structure reporting for all investments: and utilising our management experience encourages open competition, and that the playing field is level: to prepare successfully, certain of our plants, for the introduction of ensuring that our assets will deliver reliable power at margins that competition in some of the energy markets in which we operate.
Leverage our existing assets We leverage our investments to Although we do not take any significant price risk in our long-term enhance earnings in several ways, including financing at a variety contracted markets, we do look for many of the same key factors.
of corporate, project and intermediate corporate levels: capturing Essentially, we want to ensure that we generate power that is affordable operational, trading, and administrative economies of scale in asset to the local economy, that we are in countries that have high growth in aggregation: capitalising on market knowledge derived through asset demand and encourage inward foreign investment, and that our plants ownership and leveraging off the skills, expertise and ideas of the are well situated close to the major centres of demand.
We do, of people we and our associates employ.
course, require all the necessary legal and contractual safeguards in Trade assets to maximise value We expect to increase the size of our offtake contracts, but our best guarantee of long-term contractual our portfolio over time.
However, as part of our strategy to maximise security is the economic viability of the power plant in the local the value of our investments, we will sell an asset if this generates a economy in which it operates.
higher return, or if we can obtain a comparable return with lower risk elsewhere.
Seek effective routes to market We seek to improve our access and routes to the market in those geographical areas where it is appropriate.
In July 2005, for example, we formed a partnership with EnergyAustralia to supply power and gas to retail customers, predominately in South Australia and Victoria.
Fuel type Contract type P P 11% Gas Uncontracted 3% Coal Long-term contracted PPA 43% Oil Pumped storage Pumped storage Short-term Hydro contracted Wind 2007 full year position as at 38% 20 February 2007 and excludes assets under construction.
8% Annual Report 2006 9 25% 6707-01 IPreport2006 AW tp 3 23 07 09:05 Page 10 We review very carefully market fundamentals before making any Our overarching criterion, irrespective of the market structure in which investment in new markets.
We consider entering into alliances with we operate, is that our investments make money for our shareholders other companies through partnerships, if we believe such alliances will over the long-term.
We subject new investment opportunities to enable us to implement our strategy, in relation to particular markets rigorous evaluation criteria, with a focus on the following elements: or more generally.
We ensure that all acquisitions and greenfield Financial return New investments must meet stringent financial return projects are quickly and efficiently integrated into our regional business criteria.
We use a range of financial criteria in our project evaluations structures.
The expected returns from the acquisitions are built into including assessing the effect of the transaction on our financial key regional business performance targets and we measure delivery against performance indicators KPIs : profit from operations, EPS and free these targets at a regional and Group level through growth in profit cash flow, but the fundamental principle is that we must reasonably from operations, earnings per share EPS and free cash flow.
believe any prospective capital investment will yield, on an after-tax cash flow basis, a return adjusted for risk in excess of our estimated cost of capital.
As part of this evaluation, we test investment International Powers net generation capacity GW projections to ensure that they are both reasonable over the life of the investment and balanced in terms of timing of cash flow, 20 based on realistic assumptions.
18.8 Market suitability We intend to invest in countries that have a track record of respecting foreign direct investment, that offer a significant 16.2 15.7 opportunity for future investment and growth, have strong market 15 fundamentals in terms of demand supply balance and that complement our portfolio of assets.
Degree of control We focus our investments where we have a 11.1 10.9 10 controlling share or are otherwise able to contribute directly to the 9.1 realisation of projected return on investment.
Generally we do not 8.4 intend to make passive investments.
In some cases we have agreed to share management control of our investments where we have 5 partners that have complementary or similar commercial, technical and operating expertise.
With non-recourse project debt as a fundamental building block, our capital structure is prudently balanced to provide us with the flexibility 0 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 to carry out growth initiatives without overstretching our financial As at 31 December each year resources.
We have access to multiple financial resources including strong cash generation from our portfolio, our borrowing facilities North America Middle East Asia and capacity, and our partnering capabilities to execute selected Europe Australia opportunities which meet our stringent investment criteria.
In addition to pursuing the development and acquisition of single assets, we will also seek to acquire portfolios of generation assets if they become available on attractive terms.
In conjunction with our focus on value enhancing growth opportunities, we also remain committed to delivering free cash flow needed to fund that growth and, of course, our dividend policy.
10 Business and financial review Group overview Umm Al Nar, UAE 6707-01 IPreport2006 AW tp 3 21 07 11:52 Page 11 Acquisitions We have demonstrated our ability to execute acquisitions Our capabilities at the right time and at the right value, together with the capability to Our core capabilities for implementing our strategy can integrate quickly and seamlessly newly acquired assets into the portfolio.
be categorised into the following seven areas: An excellent example of International Powers acquisition capabilities is the successful purchase of the EME international asset portfolio, in Greenfield association with Mitsui, which was completed in late 2004.
The portfolio Existing asset development Acquisitions has since met or exceeded financial and operational performance and construction management targets.
Other examples are the acquisitions of Saltend UK in 2005, management and Coleto Creek Texas in 2006. Financing Given the very capital intensive nature of our business, the ability to fund projects is vital for success.
International Power Financing has consistently proven its financing capabilities through the execution of numerous greenfield and acquisition financings, together with refinancings of existing assets.
We have completed this in different parts Plant operation of the world, under different circumstances and through the combined use of local and international capital.
As examples, Shuweihat S1 and Umm Al Nar, two power and water projects in the Middle East, were Long-term both financed in a challenging geopolitical environment, and Saltend, Trading contracts when acquired in 2005, was the first merchant plant in the UK to be project financed with non-recourse debt in over five years.
In 2006 we refinanced Rugeley power station in the UK and successfully put in place International Powers high quality asset portfolio, together with the project finance for the acquisition of Coleto Creek in Texas.
Non-recourse capabilities of our teams around the world, forms a strong combination project finance is at the core of International Powers financing strategy for revenue optimisation, effective risk management and future growth and capital structure this provides the most appropriate level of debt in earnings and cash flow.
for each asset and also excellent risk mitigation for the Group.
International Power has in-depth experience in plant operations and Plant operations We have comprehensive power station operational engineering.
This not only ensures smooth plant operations, but also experience and skills.
Through-life engineering and maintenance plans, ensures that we understand all operational and technical issues relating meticulously implemented, ensure maximum availability and are key to the potential acquisition or development of new power plants.
Today, for delivering value in both our merchant and long-term contracted the Group has skills to execute power projects right from inception markets.
Effective plant operations are enhanced by ensuring through to the delivery of power in the most advanced and complex information is shared around the portfolio and key operational staff traded markets of the world.
are rotated to different assets on a regular basis.
Safe behaviour is Greenfield development and construction management We have a cornerstone of International Powers operations, and we share best excellent experience of developing large capital intensive infrastructure practices across the portfolio to ensure all of our assets operate to projects from selecting the appropriate site to securing multiple the highest possible safety standards.
government stakeholder approvals and project managing the entire construction programme right through to successful commercial operation.
International Powers successful growth in the Middle East is the most graphic example of our greenfield development expertise, where, in the six years from 2000 to 2006 the Company has developed and has an interest in six major projects with a total enterprise value of approximately 4 billion.
Annual Report 2006 11 Spanish Hydro, Spain 6707-01 IPreport2006 AW tp 3 21 07 11:52 Page 12 Long-term contract expertise We have strong commercial skills Guiding philosophy to structure and negotiate long-term power and water contracts Our capabilities are underpinned by our core values which form in regulated markets such as Asia and the Middle East.
Under these the guiding philosophy for everyone within International Power.
contracts, key cost risks such as fuel and turbine maintenance are Our corporate values are set, reviewed and refreshed by representatives mitigated through long-term hedging and supply arrangements.
from assets and regional offices around the world.
They are: Overall, the contracts provide visibility and stability of earnings and cash generation over the long-term.
Financial discipline Trading We operate in a number of merchant markets.
We have Integrity of communication developed the skills necessary to maximise our returns in these markets, Respect for the individual with a practical focus on co-ordinating trading and operations to ensure we optimise our returns by having our plant available whenever our Safe behaviour trading teams see value.
For us, trading predominately means selling Team first culture the physical output generated by our plants.
Our traders operate within strict guidelines and risk policies to ensure our traded position is carefully monitored and managed.
This includes matching fuel purchases with power sales and carrying out only a very limited amount of non-asset backed trading.
Where possible we will forward sell output if we consider the return is favourable, which provides some certainty for near-term earnings and cash flow.
We also ensure that lessons learnt in any particular market for example experience of the environmental legislation in Europe relating to CO allocations 2 are shared across the business.
Existing asset management All our investments have to deliver performance targets on a standalone basis first, and then as part of the regional and global portfolio.
Through regular and robust technical, commercial and financial reviews, the corporate headquarters and regional offices together monitor the performance of each asset in the portfolio.
We work to ensure that we maximise fleet efficiencies where we operate plants with similar technologies, for example through global spare parts supply agreements or by bringing certain engineering services in-house.
In addition, we have a Health, Safety and Environment Committee which co-ordinates the Groups activities and enables best practices to be adopted at all plants.
This co-ordinated approach helps us manage operational risk and extract the full portfolio benefits.
12 Business and financial review Group overview 6707-01 IPreport2006 AW tp 3 21 07 11:52 Page 13 Coleto Creek, Texas Annual Report 2006 13
