Business review by division The key growth drivers in Consumer Goods Consumer Goods remain strong, principally the sourcing of 2006 2005 products from China, the increasingly wide Performance in 2006 m m Change range of products being sold by retailers, shorter Revenue 155.2 136.7 13.5% product lifecycles and the growth in demand from 1 Operating pro t 49.5 44.2 12.0% consumers and regulatory bodies for assurance of 1 Operating margin % 31.9 32.3 40 bp quality and safety.
Companies are coming under increasing pressure 1.
Stated before the amortisation of business combination to be socially responsible and the Consumer Goods intangibles 0.5m 2005: 0.2m and the impairment of goodwill nil 2005: 2.0m.
division provides auditing and consultancy services in this sector.
The division will continue to expand The Consumer Goods Labtest division provides its network of facilities in 2007. services to the textiles, toys, footwear, hardlines, food and retail industries.
Services include testing, Commercial & Electrical inspection, auditing, advisory services, quality 2006 2005 assurance and hazardous substance testing.
Performance in 2006 m m Change Customers are often retailers but can include Revenue 174.4 150.9 15.6% manufacturers and suppliers within a global 1 Operating pro t 26.7 22.7 17.6% supply chain.
1 Operating margin % 15.3 15.0 30bp The market for the services of the Consumer Goods division is diverse.
Demand is driven by retailers who 1.
Stated before the amortisation of business combination require the goods they sell to be produced to a intangibles 2.0m 2005: 1.2m.
quality set by either their own internal standards or by legislation in a particular country.
Increasingly, The Commercial & Electrical ETL SEMKO division goods are manufactured in locations that are remote provides services to a wide range of industries from the eventual consumer, causing supply chains including those in the home appliances, medical, to be longer and more complicated.
The market is building, industrial and HVAC R heating, increasingly being driven by regulations issued to ventilation and air conditioning and refrigeration, address safety and environmental concerns over such IT and telecom and automotive sectors.
Customers issues as carcinogenic dyes in textiles and chemicals are mostly manufacturers but also retailers, industry in toys and cosmetics.
Services include testing and certi cation, The Consumer Goods division performed well electromagnetic compatibility testing EMC, in 2006, with revenue growth of 13.5% and systems auditing, outsourcing, benchmark and operating pro t growth of 12.0%.
The high performance testing and environmental testing.
operating margin in Consumer Goods was The Group has the widest range of owned marks maintained at over 30% but decreased 40 basis and accreditations, including the ETL listed mark points over last year.
Most of this decline was and Warnock Hersey mark for North America and attributable to the lower margin equipment and the S mark, as well as being a leader in the issuance building inspection business that was acquired last of the CB certi cation mark and the CE mark and year.
On an organic basis, revenue growth was GS mark for Europe.
11.9% and operating pro t growth was 11.8%.
The market for the services of the Commercial & Toys, food and hardlines grew particularly well, Electrical division is driven by increasing regulations driven in part by an increase in the testing of over the safety of products.
This includes current hazardous substances caused by a European Union concerns over climate change and the impact on the directive, which became mandatory on 1 July 2006. environment of electrical products.
The division has The global textile market continued to be unsettled a global strategy for each of its key industry sectors, by the impact of changes in import quotas but for example expertise in the United States in despite these challenging market conditions, automotive component testing and building revenue from textile testing grew well in key products testing has been extended into China by countries such as China and India.
The volume the opening of a new automotive facility in Shanghai of textile testing in Europe remained stagnant and a building products facility in Guangzhou.
as the market shifted increasingly to Asia and Latin America.
The Commercial & Electrical division performed well in 2006, with revenue growth of 15.6% and operating Over 60% of the revenue in Consumer Goods pro t growth of 17.6%.
The operating margin is generated in China, Hong Kong and Taiwan.
increased by 30 basis points to 15.3%.
All service Revenue from these countries grew well and sectors performed well apart from automotive prospects continue to look good.
The textile component testing, which suffered from the decline laboratory network was expanded with new in the domestic motor industry in the United States.
facilities in India, Guatemala and Vietnam On an organic basis, revenue increased by 8.7% and and three new laboratories in China.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report 15 Business review by division The electrical, building products and HVAC R in establishing a global network of operations businesses grew strongly, with double digit organic and laboratories.
The analytical services market revenue growth.
Revenue from the operations in continues to expand driven by the increasing mainland China continued to grow strongly and the demand from industries which seek to outsource network was extended by the opening of six of ces non-core services including testing.
The more and four laboratories in China.
Two of ces were stringent environmental and regulatory also opened in India.
requirements for fossil fuels and the drive for seeking alternative energy sources are expanding In February 2006, the Japanese EMC business of the market for testing services.
Intertek developed Akzo Nobel was acquired.
Japan is an important outsourcing initially in the oil sector, but now market for Commercial & Electrical and this is extending its reach to the chemical, acquisition will allow quicker penetration of that pharmaceutical, biotech, automotive and minerals market for both EMC testing and other services industries.
Interteks successful track record is offered by the Group.
This business performed well creating more opportunities and has reinforced in 2006.
The division also acquired a small electrical Intertek as the market leader in laboratory testing business in Italy during the year.
outsourcing in the oil and chemical sector.
Customer demand for safe, energy ef cient Oil, Chemical & Agri had an excellent performance products continues to increase and the market in 2006 with revenue growth of 29.1%, operating for Commercial & Electrical continues to evolve pro t growth of 67.6% and an increase in margin which presents opportunities for growth.
On an organic basis, revenue Concerns over global warming and climate growth was 17.5% and operating pro t growth change are driving new directives regarding was 52.1%.
Excluding the impact of the hurricane the energy usage of products.
This is evident in which affected the 2005 results, organic revenue the HVAC R industry and is expected to extend increased by 16.5% and organic operating pro t over other industry sectors.
There are many small increased by 27.0%.
All service sectors contributed niche players in the market and this provides to this growth.
With high volumes of trade and opportunities for bolt-on acquisitions.
increased demand for petroleum products, market conditions were favourable and increased trading activity was evident across all regions.
Demand for Oil, Chemical & Agri analytical services increased, in part due to the expansion of the global biofuels market and from 2006 2005 new environmental regulations coming into force Performance in 2006 m m Change for road and marine fuels.
Revenue from analytical Revenue 281.5 218.0 29.1% services as a percentage of total revenues grew 1 Operating pro t 30.0 17.9 67.6% to 43% in 2006 up from 36% in 2005.
1 Operating margin % 10.7 8.2 250bp In the Americas, revenue grew strongly, led by the US cargo inspection and testing business with 1.
Stated before the amortisation of business combination intangibles 1.2m 2005: 0.7m and the impairment of market expansion throughout the US as well as goodwill 0.3m 2005: nil.
An early investment in multiple facilities for testing ultra low sulphur diesel paid off, The Oil, Chemical & Agri Caleb Brett division as demand was strong, driven by the requirement offers independent cargo inspection, testing to comply with new US regulations.
Demand was and analytical services to the oil and chemical, also strong for ethanol testing due to a change in agricultural, mineral and pharmaceutical sectors.
regulations regarding the use of ethanol as an Global customers include the major oil companies additive to petrol.
and leading chemical companies and the division also provides outsourcing services to many other In Europe, revenue growth was assisted by the full major manufacturers.
implementation of outsourced analytical contracts which were awarded in 2005.
Downstream, two The cargo inspection and testing market is a well new contracts for a biofuels plant and a re nery in established global market in which Intertek is one the UK were won.
A new contract was also awarded of the leading service providers.
High barriers to by BP to provide upstream analytical and technical entry are principally due to the xed costs required support services to all offshore and onshore oil and gas production facilities in the North Sea.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report 16 In Asia, new minerals testing and agri services Government Services were established to take advantage of the growth 2006 2005 in these sectors.
Upstream oil and gas services Performance in 2006 m m Change capabilities were expanded utilising the support Revenue 53.4 74.5 28.3 % and technology from the Westport laboratory in 1 Operating pro t 6.6 16.3 59.5 % the US, which was acquired from Halliburton at 1 Operating margin % 12.4 21.9 950 bp the end of 2005.
The division continued its strategy of extending 1.
Stated before the amortisation of business combination its service offering by acquiring companies with intangibles 0.1m 2005: nil.
specialist skills that complement the existing business and can be leveraged to existing and The Government Services FTS division offers new clients through the Groups global network.
a range of services to governments, national Details of the larger acquisitions are given below.
standards organisations, customs departments and industrial companies.
Services offered include From 1 September 2006, under an outsourcing ensuring imports comply with relevant safety, agreement, Intertek began providing all of the quality and other standards.
Goods and analytical service support to the manufacturing commodities are tested and or inspected prior operations of Sabic and DSM in the Netherlands.
to shipment which prevents dumping of unsafe This is one of the largest outsourcing contracts goods and improves the quality of imported and for analytical services within the chemical industry sold goods.
Ministries of Finance retain services to to date, with over 170 chemists and technicians increase import duty and help improve ef ciency.
Imports are inspected and valued in the country before shipment to enable import duties to be In November 2006, the Group acquired the accurately assessed and certi ed.
Container bioanalytical divisions of Alta Analytical Laboratory scanning services are offered to help protect Inc. which is based in California, USA.
Alta against security risks associated with international provides analytical services to North American trade.
Interteks worldwide laboratory coverage pharmaceutical and clinical research organisations allows for rapid inspection, certi cation and and provides Intertek with a platform to build a valuation of shipments, anywhere in the world.
global presence in this area.
Most of the customers of the Government In December 2006, the Group acquired Caleb Brett Services division are governments or departments Iberica, a leading testing and inspection business in linked to governments in countries which do not Spain and Portugal, providing technical inspections have the necessary infrastructure to enforce import and fuel analysis services to petroleum, chemical and controls effectively.
This acquisition provides the Group with the opportunity to extend its full range As expected, the cessation of pre-shipment of services into this strategically important region.
inspection contracts in Nigeria and Venezuela had an adverse effect on the divisions performance in In January 2007, the Group acquired Umitek Ltd 2006.
Revenue in 2006 was 28.3% lower than the and its subsidiaries, CAPCIS and Smith Rea Energy previous year and operating pro t declined 59.5% Ltd SREL in the UK, which provide specialist due to the loss of pro t from those contracts and testing and consultancy services to the oil and gas the lost contribution towards overheads.
The industries in the North Sea and globally.
These operating margin reduced from 21.9% to 12.4%.
businesses will allow the Group to extend the range The division was restructured to minimise its cost of services provided by Interteks current upstream base, incurring costs of 0.3m 2005: 2.0m.
operations to Europe and the Middle East.
Standards contracts in Nigeria and Kenya which The outlook for Oil, Chemical & Agri is positive with started at the end of 2005 were fully operational oil price volatility expected to continue generating in 2006 and performed well.
A new container trading opportunities requiring third party scanning contract with the Guinean Ministries of inspection and testing and continued expansion Transport and Finance commenced operation in of the analytical services business driven by new the second half of 2006 and will run for ten years.
The pipeline of potential outsourcing projects remains strong and the strategy of The Government Services division will continue supplementing organic growth with acquisitions to work with governments to develop innovative will continue.
programmes that are tailored to their speci c requirements.
There are a number of potential opportunities for new contracts, particularly in the areas of container scanning and standards programmes.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report 17
