From left to right: Tim Bowdler - Chief Executive Officer Stuart Paterson - Chief Financial Officer Danny Cammiade - Chief Operating Officer Business Review Our Marketplace: Our digital operations comprise 317 local websites which The focus of our business is on meeting the wide ranging cover the entire geographic spread of our print information needs of numerous local communities across publications.
These websites, whilst reflecting the brands many parts of the UK and Ireland.
By maintaining the and content of our local newspapers, offer a far greater position we generally hold of being the market leading range of regularly updated local news and information in provider of such information in the communities we serve, text, pictures and increasingly audio visual formats.
we also offer advertisers the primary means of reaching Embedded within these sites are our classified advertising those communities to promote their goods and services.
websites operating under our Today brands which are Through our portfolios of related print and digital used consistently throughout the Group, both online and in publications, we achieve extremely high levels of household print.
The range of our digital services extends much further penetration, thereby providing advertisers with unparalleled than this to include commonly branded local directories, levels of market access.
auction services, personal announcements, communities of common interest, blogs user-generated web content and From our origins as a publisher of local newspapers, chatrooms.
Additionally, we are making growing use of Johnston Press now offers an increasingly wide range of mobile communications to further extend the range of channels which encompass both print and digital media.
In a typical Johnston Press marketplace we publish a range of local newspapers, usually comprising both paid-for and The marketplaces in which we operate vary considerably in free formats, sometimes daily as well as weekly, with the their size and structure but, with very few exceptions, they market leading title heading our portfolio.
Our companies have a well-defined local geographic focus.
We publish in also publish a number of related print publications including numerous local communities throughout the UK and Ireland free distribution community newsletters, lifestyle ranging from rural areas and small towns to larger urban magazines, advertising-only publications covering jobs, and metropolitan centres.
The common thread in all these property, motor vehicles and general items for sale and cases is our ability to reach all parts of the local community special interest publications aimed at target groups such as through the range of publishing channels we offer, the student population or particular activities like angling.
irrespective of age or demographic.
Apart from 305 daily evening, weekly paid-for and free newspapers targeted at such local communities, we also own The Scotsman, Scotland on Sunday, the Yorkshire Post and the Belfast News Letter, all paid-for morning newspapers.
These are THROUGH OUR PORTFOLIOS OF based out of three of our key local publishing centres but RELATED PRINT AND DIGITAL reach a much wider geographic audience with a distinct PUBLICATIONS, WE ACHIEVE appeal to particular demographics and interest groups within their coverage area.
EXTREMELY HIGH LEVELS OF HOUSEHOLD PENETRATION, The Market Environment: THEREBY PROVIDING ADVERTISERS As outlined above, our local publishing operations generally hold market leading positions in terms of the provision of WITH UNPARALLELED LEVELS OF local news and information and also in enabling advertisers MARKET ACCESS.
to achieve high levels of local market reach.
However competition for our audience and our advertisers has been 10 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Development and investment ONLY THROUGH CONTINUALLY INVESTING IN NEW TECHNOLOGIES AND SYSTEMS CAN WE MAINTAIN OUR POSITION OF DELIVERING INDUSTRY LEADING MARGINS.
INCREASING CUSTOMER DEMAND MORE CHOICE INCREASING CUSTOMER DEMAND MORE CHOICE OUR INVESTMENT OF 60M IN THE NEW PRESS FACILITIES AT DINNINGTON CLEARLY DEMONSTRATES THAT COMMITMENT.
THIS FIRST TRIPLE WIDTH WEB PRESS IN THE UK FACILITATED THE CLOSURE OF 5 OLD, INEFFICIENT AND COLOUR LIMITED PRESSES.
GREATER SPEED WIDER ACCESS GREATER SPEED WIDER ACCESS GREATER SPEED WIDER ACC OUR INVESTMENT IN NEW SYSTEMS HAS ALLOWED THE CONSOLIDATION OF PRE-PRESS AND CREDIT CONTROL INTO REGIONAL CENTRES OF EXCELLENCE Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 11 Business Review - continued a consistent theme within our markets for many years and established players in the market.
Despite the impact of comes in an increasing variety of forms.
these competitors, we have in all such cases retained market leadership.
Competition in the form of other print In some of our markets we face direct competition from publications has been widespread for some years with another established regional newspaper publishing group.
numerous examples of advertising-only publications aimed In a small number of such cases, we are the secondary at the various classified advertising categories, lifestyle publisher in the market but, in the main, our publications magazines and very local publications such as parish occupy the market leading position.
In a number of markets magazines.
Although many of these publications are we face competition from independent newspaper individually owned, some are part of larger media publishers, usually, though not invariably, of free organisations.
The presence of these publications has in newspapers: some of which are relatively well established part expanded the total market for advertising revenues, although others were only launched more recently.
With low whilst also exerting competitive pressure.
barriers to entry, such start-ups have not been uncommon in the history of our business and some have become Newsroom of the future THE NEW EDITORIAL ONLINE TEMPLATE PIONEERED AT THE LANCASHIRE EVENING POST HAS SEEN SIGNIFICANTLY INCREASED CONTENT RESULTING IN A QUADRUPLING OF UNIQUE USERS AND PAGE IMPRESSIONS.
PRESTON THE NEWSROOM OF THE FUTURE PRESTON THE NEWSROOM OF THE FUTURE PRESTON AS WELL AS THE INCREASED STORY COUNT AUDIO VISUAL CONTENT IS ROUTINELY AVAILABLE WITH POPULAR FEATURES BEING THE LEP.
TV NEWS REPORTS AND CCTV FOOTAGE OF LOCAL INCIDENTS.
12 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 More recently, and with increasing intensity, the emergence content to the web although we are working hard to build an of the internet and various websites carrying news, equivalent online capability of our own and to promote this as information and advertising has been an increasing part of a unique local print and online package so that our challenge.
From a news content standpoint, our focus on advertisers can reach the largest possible local audience.
The very local markets coupled with our first rate journalistic concept of total audience, combining our various online and resource has enabled us to maintain a strong position, print platforms, is now deeply embedded in our commercial despite growing competition at the local level from a variety and marketing processes.
of sources including the BBC.
Of greater concern is the threat posed by websites aimed at our key advertising In a wider context, the lack of hard evidence illustrating a categories, particularly major online brands seeking major movement from our print-based advertising to the classified advertising content, not least, Google.
Through web and the clearly evident cyclical changes in our markets the regular monitoring of market share movements against points strongly to the principal cause of the advertising these online competitors as well as those in print, the available downturn witnessed in 2006 being the economic evidence does not suggest widespread migration of advertising environment.
The main factors which have impacted IN 2007 THE NEWSROOM OF THE FUTURE PROJECT WILL BE ROLLED OUT ACROSS THE GROUP.
THE NEWSROOM OF THE FUTURE PRESTON THE NEWSROOM OF THE FUTURE PRESTON THE OUR STAFF HAVE BEEN TRAINED TO IMPROVE THEIR UNDERSTANDING OF DIGITAL SALES, PARTICULARLY FOR THE PROPERTY, MOTORS AND JOBS MARKETS.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 13 Business Review - continued employment advertising volumes, the worst affected Consistent with that theme, the house builders also advertising category, include rising unemployment advertised more heavily during the period.
With print exacerbated by the influx of immigrant workers and both advertising volumes now at record highs, the year-on-year public and private sector employers regarding vacancies as comparatives will make it much more difficult to achieve an opportunity to reduce headcount.
The public sector in continued growth in 2007.
However, in overall terms, particular has witnessed a sharp reversal in its market conditions remain satisfactory and we have made a expansionary growth of recent years.
The geographic positive start to the year.
Our Property Today website variations in our employment advertising also suggest a continues to be well supported by many estate agents with cyclical rather than structural effect, with the south of both unique users and page impressions growing strongly, England suffering much earlier than the north and latterly especially since its relaunch during 2006.
Our experience exhibiting signs of stabilisation whilst the north still remains suggests that estate agents continue to value newspaper more subdued.
Elsewhere, new car sales have been down advertising.
for the third year in succession and consumer confidence fell during the course of 2006 with some parts of the retail An overall like-for-like decline of 15% reflected continued sector badly affected and as a consequence, reducing difficulties in the motors market throughout 2006.
of 1%, Scotland was the only market to be ahead of the previous year.
South of the Border, decreases ranged from Advertising Performance: 12% to 21% reflecting the challenging market conditions In this Review, reference to like-for-like compares the Group faced by motor dealers with new car sales continuing to businesses excluding the acquisitions in the second half of reduce and exacerbated by continuing dealer consolidation.
It reflects the businesses that traded The expectations are for industry restructuring to continue in the Group throughout the whole of 2005 and 2006. into 2007 and for the market to remain difficult.
Our Motors Today website was also relaunched during the year and As indicated above, performance across England and continues to carry more cars than its rivals in many of our Scotland did not follow a consistent pattern in the local markets.
Our commercial strategy is based on working employment advertising category which in overall terms closely with local motor dealers, offering a combination of was down by 17% on a like-for-like basis.
In the south of platforms including print and online.
England, the overall decline was 9% with the performance year-on-year much improved in the latter months.
The north The others category of advertising, which was down by of England did not experience any real improvement as the 6% like-for-like, suffered in the second half of 2006 due to year progressed and ended 22% down.
On a like-for-like the unrepeatable public notice revenues in the basis, Scotland performed much better, being down only corresponding prior year period as a result of the 1%.
However at TSPL, the pattern was more closely introduction of new licensing laws in England.
With the aligned to our larger metropolitan centres in the north of remaining components of this category remaining relatively England.
Whilst there was no clear evidence of strong stable, overall performance ranged from declines of 2% to migration away from print to the web, online employment 9% with no discernable geographic pattern other than that advertising did grow strongly overall and there is a risk that associated with the licensing law change.
Although parts of the benefits of any upturn in performance could be taken the entertainments advertising component have experienced disproportionately by the internet.
However, the fact that a some online migration, particularly cinema advertising, this is large element of our employment advertising relates to very not on a scale to suggest a major structural challenge.
The local jobs, which are primarily aimed at the lower entry of Google into local search is a more significant demographic groupings, does offer a degree of resilience in development and one to which we are responding with our the face of any online threat, as does our own differentiated own searchable online directory initiative, described more fully offering which packages print and online thereby providing on page 25 of this report.
unparalleled levels of local market penetration.
Display advertising suffered a difficult year across the board Property advertising was the one category which with an overall like-for-like decline of 8% and performances experienced growth across all divisions with increases in each of the divisions being very close to that figure.
ranging from 4% in the north to 14% in the north west of Difficult High Street trading for a number of our key England.
The overall like-for-like increase of 7% reflects a advertisers, including some furniture retailers, was an marketplace in which transaction volumes have remained important factor behind the decline.
Reduced Government healthy but where vendors have had to work harder to sell advertising through the Central Office of Information was a their properties than was the case a year or two ago.
Performance was poorer from the major 14 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 national advertising agencies, with a decline of 10% than it possible.
In terms of current challenges, apart from the was locally, which fell by 7%.
Around three quarters of our ongoing integration programmes, one of our principal display advertising is generated by our local sales teams concerns is the review of advertising expenditure being who attribute the revenue shortfall to cutbacks by our retail carried out by the Northern Ireland Executive in an effort to customers rather than a switch of spending to other media.
Whilst the final outcome is not expected for 2007 will be measured against weaker comparatives but a some months, this could well have a negative effect on positive change in consumer sentiment and in the their overall newspaper advertising spend.
Similarly in the performance of some of our key retail advertisers will be Republic of Ireland, we do not have historic data at the required if a real improvement is to be achieved.
category level but in overall terms this marketplace has remained buoyant with overall year-on-year growth of The overall decline in advertising of 8% can be broken 7.5%.
Forecasts suggest that the Irish economy should down into a 1% reduction in volumes and a 7% reduction remain strong with the challenges we face being more in the average yield.
The reduction in yield is mainly due to concerned with the integration process, the introduction of the mix of advertising where the growth in the lower new systems and managing a series of new product yielding property and the decrease in higher yielding launches to maximise our market position.
recruitment categories have distorted the year-on-year average comparison.
Table 1 below provides a divisional analysis of advertising revenue movements by category.
This compares 2006 with In overall terms, advertising performance in Northern the previous year excluding the effect of acquisitions made Ireland was better than the rest of the UK being down by during those two years to provide meaningful like-for-like 3.2%, but the lack of a reliable historic breakdown by comparisons.
Table 2 breaks down the advertising revenue by advertising category, due to outdated systems, means that category between the two half years.
It is now standard practice for our sales teams to offer advertisers a package of publications which comprise both print-based and online platforms.
This recognises the fact that our audience now extends well beyond the readers of our newspapers and, indeed, where we have research the increase in total audience in a daily evening centre can be as high as 50%.
THE NEWSROOM OF THE FUTURE The newsroom of the future project in Preston has PROJECT IN PRESTON HAS completely restructured the way in which that centre COMPLETELY RESTRUCTURED THE gathers, processes and disseminates news and related WAY IN WHICH THAT CENTRE content, transforming it into a genuine multi-media news operation.
The results have been hugely encouraging with a GATHERS, PROCESSES AND fourfold increase in unique visitors to their lep.
Based on this success, the Preston template will be rolled out across all of the Groups core news operations during 2007 with the objective of achieving further rapid growth in the number of people attracted to our local websites.
The Preston experience also suggests that far importance of the internet to our communities as a news from damaging newspaper sales, there can be a positive medium and communications platform, an opportunity which benefit from the much increased interaction between we are determined to capitalise upon.
At the same time, we newspaper and website.
The rate of decline in the sale of have experienced a continued modest decline in the the Lancashire Evening Post fell from 8.1% in the first half circulation of our paid-for newspapers with our dailies down to 6.4% in the second half of 2006, despite the by 6.5% and 6.4% in the first and second halves respectively substantially increased size of their online audience.
and our weeklies by 2.5% and 2.8%, over the same period.
A number of factors lie behind these declines, including the The continued rapid growth we are experiencing in unique weaker advertising environment advertising content is users and page impressions underlines the increasing important to readers, distribution challenges the closure of THE UNIVERSITY OF CENTRAL LANCASHIRE TRAINING TOMORROWS JOURNALISTS THE UNIVERSITY O University of Central Lancashire JOHNSTON PRESS HAS DEMONSTRATED ITS CLEAR COMMITMENT TO THE FUTURE OF COMMUNITY MEDIA BY ESTABLISHING THE CHAIR OF DIGITAL JOURNALISM AT THE UNIVERSITY OF CENTRAL LANCASHIRE.
16 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 newsagents and a decline in the number of people willing to Reflecting the benefits of a progressive cover price increase deliver newspapers, changes in peoples shopping habits strategy and despite modest circulation declines, overall particularly the growing importance of the major like-for-like circulation revenues were up by 1.4% for the supermarkets, and to an extent the growth of internet usage.
year with gains of 1.9% and 0.9% for the first and second However, the most important factor by far is changing halves.
Our experience suggests that regular cover price lifestyles which have impacted most on the daily titles with increases do not have a significantly adverse effect on frequency of purchase during the week diminishing at a newspaper sales, provided the quality and depth of content significantly faster rate than the complete loss of readers.
appeals to the target audience.
Despite this, we remain totally confident that the newspaper will remain a central and durable part of the local media mix, Other Revenues: reflecting its ongoing attraction to readers and continuing The largest source of non-publishing revenue comes from value to advertisers seeking to reach local communities.
contract printing which accounts for 5% of total Group However, we also recognise the vital importance of building a turnover.
This percentage only takes account of external linked digital capability to extend and supplement the reach printing revenues of 27 million but, in addition there is a and content of our print publications.
further amount of 69 million of inter-group print revenue not reflected in the Groups turnover.
Our contract print It is important to emphasise that many of our newspapers, businesses include several of the UKs national daily as well as weekly, continue to achieve high levels of newspapers, a number of regional newspapers and a range household penetration, delivering an excellent response to of specialist newspaper format magazine publications.
Additionally, during the year and in prior number of these jobs are covered by long term periods, we have launched a large number of other print agreements, in total accounting for around 60% of our total publications providing advertisers with extended audience contract print revenue.
This percentage will grow over the reach when packaged with our principal newspaper next two years as we increase the volumes on the long publications and, of course, further enhancements can be term contracts we have secured to print the Sun and News achieved by adding our rapidly growing access to the of the World at Dinnington in South Yorkshire and at online community.
These contracts were won as a direct consequence of our decision to invest in major state-ofThe appointment of a Newspaper Sales and Marketing the-art print works in these locations.
Director at the beginning of the year has done a great deal to focus efforts more closely on circulation performance and measures which can be adopted across the Group to bring about improvements.
F CENTRAL LANCASHIRE TRAINING TOMORROWS JOURNALISTS THE UNIVERSITY OF CENTRAL LANCASHIRE A SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENT IN TRAINING HAS TAKEN PLACE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH UCLAN Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 17 Business Review - continued The market for contract printing is expected to become suggests that this is an activity which can achieve further more competitive as a result of a number of new growth for the Group as a whole.
The organisation of local investments being made across the industry.
From a events and exhibitions produced around 1.2 million Johnston Press perspective, contract printing accounts for revenue in the year though this was down by 11% on the only 21% of our total capacity utilisation and if the work previous period, partly due to lost share to a new which is contracted on a long term basis is removed, this competitor in one of our larger markets but mainly due to figure falls to just 8%.
Since our capacity has broadly been lower exhibition revenues from Outbound Publishing.
configured to meet our own printing requirements, the Typical activities include Job Fairs, Fashion Shows, Group is not unduly exposed to short term commercial Wedding Fairs, and Motor Shows and, in general, we pressures in the contract printing market.
believe that there is scope for growth, in part by utilising the experience of our better performing centres as a Our publishing centres are involved in a range of activities template for others to follow.
which utilise the strengths of our local brands and operational infrastructure as well as being complementary The syndication of our journalistic copy produced over 900k to our main-stream community media businesses.
This performance is a direct result of largest of these activities, much of which is managed by a negotiating Group arrangements with a limited number of specialist subsidiary known as Letterbox Direct, is the news agencies and, by that means, extending the service delivery of leaflets and inserts utilising our newspaper across all of our titles.
Further growth should be possible now distribution capability.
Total revenues of 12 million that the mechanisms are in place and working well.
represent a like-for-like reduction of 6% from 2005, reflecting the general downturn in advertising revenues.
Apart from the various activities mentioned above, there are a Delivery volumes have not been helped by the fact that our number of similar initiatives contributing lesser amounts to distribution of free newspapers has fallen by 4% in the year overall turnover and thus very small in relation to the Group resulting in less coverage.
This reduction is the result of a as a whole.
In addition, we have several specialist publishing conscious decision, in part to reduce costs, especially of businesses and the largest of these, with total revenues of newsprint.
Leaflet distribution is a relatively mature activity more than 3 million, publishes the weekly Trials and Motor and, whilst there are alternative distribution channels, no Cross News and the monthly Dirt Bike Rider.
Together these major variations in performance are anticipated.
titles occupy the market leading position in the specialist offroad biking sector and produce a valuable profit contribution.
The second largest of these activities is Reader Holidays The brands are extremely well established and highly which accounts for more than 2 million of revenues and respected in their industry, providing a solid foundation for makes a strong profit contribution.
Promoted through the future performance which should be enhanced by the pages of our newspapers, these are holidays and events development of a web-based offering.
which are operated by third parties on our behalf.
Given the growth in the broad leisure market and a programme which is Outbound Publishing, mentioned above, has a range of aimed at bringing best of class performance to all parts of the specialist newspapers aimed at potential emigrants to a Group by process standardisation, utilisation of our websites number of foreign countries, mainly ex-Commonwealth, and better coordination, we expect this activity to grow.
With and two publications which focus on overseas properties revenues of around 1.5 million, Premium Lines is the next together with a series of related exhibitions.
The business largest such area and is primarily aimed at assisting users in has a turnover of more than 2 million and also makes a making social contacts but increasingly include voting lines good profit contribution.
Outbound is the leading publisher and the provision of added value services such as text alerts.
in the emigration market which, in turn, is greatly influenced Again, these services utilise the pages of our newspapers for by the immigration policies of the countries concerned.
The print based dating services, which to several such adverse policy changes, this resulted in a are operated by a third party on our behalf, appear at best to revenue reduction in the year and suggests that significant have reached a plateau, however there is scope for growth will be difficult to achieve.
The recent launch of our developing related online revenues by utilising our websites.
Emigrate2 website is designed to enhance performance and initial results are encouraging.
The overseas property Sponsorship is an area of good growth, increasing by 7% market is highly fragmented and very competitive.
like-for-like in 2006 to produce over 1.3 million revenue.
Outbound is not one of the leading players and our strategy This involves the sponsorship of specific sections of our for growth is based on the development of a related online newspapers, related supplements or events by various third listings service with the promotional benefit of a connection parties.
The success achieved by some of our companies to our Property Today website.
18 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Generating new income DURING THE YEAR WE LAUNCHED 60 NEW COMMUNITY NEWSLETTERS TARGETING ADVERTISERS AT THE ULTRA LOCAL LEVEL.
INCREASING CUSTOMER DEMAND MORE CHOICE INCREASING CUSTOMER DEMAND MORE CHOICE ALTHOUGH PREMIUM LINE REVENUES FOR DATING SERVICES HAVE BEEN DECLINING AS USERS MIGRATE TO ONLINE PROVIDERS WE HAVE BEEN REPLACING IT WITH REVENUES FOR TEXT VOTING, TEXT ALERTS AND OTHER VALUE ADDED SERVICES.
GREATER SPEED WIDER ACCESS GREATER SPEED WIDER ACCESS GREATER SPEED WIDER ACC WE HAVE ENLARGED OUR FREE NEWSPAPER PORTFOLIO, WITH THE LAUNCH OF 14 NEW TITLES.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 19 most effective means of achieving unparalleled market Group Strategy reach and high levels of response in local communities, it is essential that the Group harnesses the opportunities which digital publishing channels provide.
Indeed by doing so in The essence of Johnston Press corporate strategy lies in the definition of our business as a community media an effective manner we will be able to achieve even higher levels of household penetration than hitherto.
Our long-held company slogan Life is Local indicates very clearly that we concentrate on meeting This objective can be achieved in two distinct ways which, the news, content, information and advertising needs of local communities.
Our entire strategy is built on the in turn, should not be regarded as mutually exclusive.
These are by organic development of the required premise that local communities will continue to demand locally focussed media services.
Based on our very capability or by acquiring existing internet businesses which operate in the same marketplace.
Whilst not clear and deep understanding of local media markets, our central objective is to deliver best of class multidismissing the future possibility of such acquisitions, the Johnston Press strategy is firmly dependent upon the media services to those communities we serve and to be the pre-eminent community media company, organic development route.
The reasons for this are several: producing financial results which are commensurate with that.
The transition from newspaper publisher to community Multi-Media Publishing: media company needs to happen in each and every one of our publishing centres, however small.
The new During the past twelve months, Johnston Press has made very considerable advances in the development of a opportunities and channels must be embraced by the entire organisation.
This requires a major cultural shift genuine multi-media offering to the numerous local communities in which we publish.
The rationale for which is underway but it can only be achieved by strong leadership and an extensive training programme.
It will pursuing this approach is to ensure that our portfolio of publications and services meets the changing needs of not happen by simply grafting on an acquired business which anyway could be stifled if not given the freedom consumers and advertisers.
Whilst newspaper readership, which continues in modest decline as outlined above, to develop in a manner which suits it best.
remains strong with high household penetrations being achieved in very many of our local markets, there is no Given adequate investment and a clear vision of what needs to be achieved, the organic development route doubt that consumers are increasingly turning to the internet for a range of information and services.
In order to can be delivered with much greater certainty than the necessarily haphazard nature of an acquisition-led preserve our position of being able to offer advertisers the EDITORIAL EXCELLENCE EDITORIAL EXCELLENCE EDITORIAL EXCELLENCE EDITORIAL EXCEL Campaigning journalism FROM TOPICAL ISSUES SUCH AS CAMPAIGNING TO MAINTAIN THE PROVISION OF HEALTH SERVICES OUTSIDE THE MAIN METROPOLITAN AREAS TO PROVIDING OUR 254TH GUIDE DOG FOR THE BLIND SINCE 1966 IN MANSFIELD, OUR PAPERS NEVER STOP CHAMPIONING WHAT IS IMPORTANT TO THE LOCAL COMMUNITIES WE SERVE.
20 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 approach.
With clear milestones and close of audio visual as well as text and picture news gathering.
management, progress can be carefully monitored and This template with its new generation website is being rolled when required, remedial action taken.
out across the entire Group during 2007.
We have launched and are developing a variety of new web offerings and Whilst some acquisitions in this space may prove to be enhancements to our existing services in an ongoing process successful, many carry the real risk of destroying to ensure that our local digital offerings are regarded as the shareholder value.
Acquisition multiples are typically first choice destination for the range of local content which daunting and the target businesses generally immature we carry.
And to sustain this continuing programme, we have with untested brand loyalty or resilience.
With low rolled out a comprehensive Group-wide training initiative in barriers to entry, there is a constant stream of new startconjunction with the Department of Journalism at the up internet businesses which, in turn, could easily University of Central Lancashire UCLan.
The achievements challenge existing online players and seriously during the past year give us confidence that we are well undermine their performance and value.
A well judged placed to deliver the business transformation which this organic development route will require significantly less strategy envisages.
To accelerate progress in 2007, we will cash to deliver and is more likely to create sustainable increase annual expenditure on our digital activities by 5 long term shareholder value.
million which will be split between enhanced site development, more sales resource and greater marketing Our organic approach is aimed at creating a activity.
differentiated business model which exploits our trusted brands as well as the unique relationship between our Market Layering: print and digital activities thereby producing a more As indicated above, paid-for daily newspaper circulations resilient and robust outcome than would be possible in have been in modest decline for some years and although the online only world.
the weeklies have fared rather better, the long term trend is also downwards.
That said, in very many instances, local In pursuit of this objective, we have significantly increased the newspapers continue to achieve high household scale of our digital publishing operation in Peterborough penetrations.
Johnston Press has pursued a strategy of where the principal design, development and maintenance of layering our local markets with a range of print publications our websites takes place.
We have upgraded and relaunched which extend the reach achieved by our principal titles.
By our key classified websites, consistent with our aim for these layering the market in this way and packaging a to represent best of class in their respective sectors.
We have combination of these publications, advertisers can be successfully restructured our newsroom at the Lancashire assured of continuing high market penetration and Evening Post which is now a multi-media operation capable commensurate response, a position which has recently LLENCE EDITORIAL EXCELLENCE EDITORIAL EXCELLENCE EDITORIAL EXCELLENCE EDITORIAL WE ALSO HABITUALLY BREAK THE BIG LOCAL STORIES FIRST AND CAN OFFER COVERAGE AND INSIGHT IN AN UNRIVALLED WAY.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 21 Group Strategy - continued been further strengthened by the addition of our growing Central to this, is good communications.
We continue to digital capability.
improve the way in which our Employee Forums operate and to take a variety of additional steps to ensure that the Operational Efficiency: Groups strategy is well understood and that there are open A major element of the strategy which has enabled lines of communication on the full range of issues which are Johnston Press to produce consistent industry leading of interest and relevance to our staff.
Training is equally performance has been a willingness to invest in modern IT important and, in addition to the wide-ranging suite of skillsystems and production capability coupled with the based courses which have operated within the Group for determination and a clear plan to maximise the related some time, we have developed a training programme in opportunities which such investments afford.
This approach conjunction with UCLan which is being used to help all of remains a consistent and fundamental part of the Johnston our companies embrace the digital publishing initiatives Press business approach.
which are in the process of being rolled out.
In that connection, Jane Singer, previously Associate Professor in 2006 was an especially important year for the Group in the School of Journalism and Mass Communication at the terms of the evolution of our printing strategy which has University of Iowa, has now taken up her appointment to seen the progressive retirement of older, less capable the Johnston Press Chair in Digital Journalism at UCLan colour limited presses and their replacement by fewer, and will be a valuable additional resource in helping to drive larger modern print centres with full colour capability.
Dinnington investment and developments elsewhere have resulted in a total of 7 of our older print centres closing During the year, we have made continued progress with the during the year.
The resultant improvements in quality, full implementation and consistent use of the programmes waste, reliability, speed and colour availability have been of we have for personal development.
We have taken further considerable benefit to the Group as a whole as well as steps to address the perennial problem of advertising sales assisting us in meeting our objectives in terms of increased staff turnover.
We continue to encourage employee share efficiency and energy consumption.
ownership through our various share schemes: the Groups Share Incentive Plan paid out for the third year in Equally important is our continuing strategy of upgrading succession, albeit at a reduced rate, reflecting the impact our IT systems infrastructure and, through that process, of the more difficult trading conditions on the outcome for achieving standardisation across the Group.
We continue to pay close attention to ensuring advances have also enabled us to make it easier for that our remuneration levels are set fairly and that we have advertisers to prepare and transmit their own advertising attractive and appropriate bonus arrangements in place.
In copy, improving accuracy and reducing errors whilst at the overall terms, we remain acutely conscious of the need to same time enabling later deadlines.
There are considerable ensure that we have a clear HR strategy which recognises opportunities for more progress in this aspect of our the need to enable our employees to reach their potential business.
and to contribute in a positive manner to the overall objectives we have set ourselves.
That we have achieved As we look ahead, there is no doubt whatsoever that a so much in a difficult year, speaks volumes for the critical element in making further improvements in dedication and commitment which our staff have performance will be the extent to which we continue to demonstrated.
exploit the advantages which modern IT systems and production capability provide.
Based on what we have Organisational Structure: achieved to date, we remain confident in our ability to do The management philosophy of Johnston Press is to this.
maintain a flat, lean structure in which lines of communication are kept as short as possible.
The Our Employees: Executive Directors are actively involved in the Groups The rapid transformation of our business and our ability to daily operations, travelling extensively around the operating successfully grasp the opportunities which are offered by centres and reviewing each of the Groups 55 businesses the new digital channels and advances in IT systems is formally at least twice a year.
Informal communications are entirely dependent upon our employees.
To ensure that our strong and authority levels are clearly defined with a culture staff are equipped with the necessary skills and are well of openness and rapid decision making.
motivated, a high priority has been placed on a range of related initiatives which form part of a clear strategic HR programme.
22 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 The fundamental management structure of the Group has Whilst competition rules will continue to exert constraints, remained broadly unchanged following the recent with only around 15% UK market share by number of expansion through the acquisitions made in 2005 and copies sold or distributed, there will be future potential 2006.
The Head Office team has remained constant acquisitions which ought not to present difficulties with the throughout the period and works closely across the full regulator.
Indeed, over time, we would expect an easing of range of business issues.
The Group Management Board the regulatory view on market definition and the range of meets formally on a monthly basis and follows a fixed relevant competition, reflecting a better understanding of agenda to review overall performance.
After the end of the the competitive environment in which regional and local year, Nigel Eccles joined the Group Management Board in newspapers operate.
the Business Development Manager role replacing Simon Kennedy who had earlier moved to Northamptonshire Although we would not preclude venturing outside our Newspapers as General Manager.
existing boundaries of the UK and Ireland, this is not something which falls within our current strategic plans.
As a result of the acquisition of TSPL, the Scottish Nor, as indicated above, are we planning to acquire an divisional management structure has been strengthened internet business, but, again, we do not rule out this and is now based in Edinburgh.
Several new senior possibility in the event that we were to identify a target management appointments have been made to the which would enhance our existing operations and represent management teams in our two Irish divisions.
In total we a sensible use of our resources.
These are supported by four senior functional heads responsible for HR, IT, Digital Subsequent to the year end we have agreed to purchase Publishing and Newspapers Sales & Marketing.
Divisional eight Scottish titles from Archant, subject to clearance from meetings chaired by the Chief Operating Officer take place the regulatory authorities.
The turnover multiple is less than monthly.
Each publishing division comprises a number of two times with a consideration price of 11.2 million.
individual publishing companies with a managing director and functional reports.
Acquisitive Growth: Over a number of years through the pages of our Annual Reports and elsewhere, we have consistently stated our view that industry consolidation is set to continue and the shape of the UKs regional press should not be regarded as being in its final form.
That view was fully vindicated by various events of 2006, with the ultimately abortive sale of Northcliffe by DMGT and the results of the Trinity Mirror strategic review which envisages the disposal of significant parts of their regional newspaper portfolio.
We continue to believe that further industry consolidation is inevitable and positive for readers and advertisers alike.
Given our clear focus on being a successful community media company, we remain interested in any opportunities for judicious growth.
Thus we will examine carefully all developments in our sector but pursue only those which make good operational and financial sense, focussing very clearly on the need for any acquisition to create additional shareholder value.
In identifying the most attractive acquisition targets, we must be convinced of the quality of the business to be acquired and the sustainability of its revenues: we must be able to see how we can reliably improve the business to meet our investment hurdles.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 23 entries, enables our sales teams to provide a more Operational Review professional service and to up-sell by having access to an extensive database of high quality and creative advertising copy.
We also continued with our strategy of producing a Print Publications: In pursuit of our policy of layering markets to extend number of common advertising platforms such as Food & Drink, Travel, Parent & Child, 50 and an additional advertisers reach and grow our revenue, we launched 150 new publications during 2006.
These included 60 supplement for the 2006 World Cup.
These were inserted in a number of our newspapers around the UK and have community newsletters, 4 lifestyle magazines, 14 new free newspapers and 72 targeted publications covering specific created an opportunity for national brand advertising including, for example, Kelloggs, which we would not subjects such as weddings, gardening and home improvements.
normally carry in our mainstream titles.
Community newsletters are generally aimed at groups of During the year, the sales structures, bonus arrangements and overall remuneration packages of our advertising staff around 4,000-6,000 homes in rural, urban and metropolitan areas where distinct geographic communities can be were reviewed and improved in order to ensure that our sales people are clearly focussed on revenue growth for our identified and these publications provide local High Street advertisers with the opportunity to reach a very local increasing range of print and digital publications.
audience in an extremely cost effective manner.
Typical launch areas in 2006 were in Oundle near Peterborough, Digital Publishing: Total expenditure in the year at our central Digital Kirkham in Lancashire and urban districts in Sheffield such as Dore, Totley and Bradway.
Our programme of providing Publishing operation in Peterborough was 3 million, and staff was increased by 31% to a total of 38.
Additionally, a these smaller communities with very localised news will continue during 2007 and newsletters have already been number of new positions were created around the Group to give greater impetus to our digital publishing activities.
launched in a number of markets including the Bruntsfield and Morningside areas of Edinburgh.
We anticipate having Specific training courses have been designed, and the majority of our sales staff have benefited from seminars to around 180 such publications by the end of 2007.
Each is monitored to ensure that it continues to make a positive improve their understanding of digital sales and, in particular, the impact of the internet on the property, motors contribution to profit.
Typical lifestyle magazines include Image in Northampton, Lancashire Design and Living in the Northwest of England, Our relationship with UCLan has been invaluable in helping to create new multi-media newsrooms capable of providing Exclusive in the Midlands and Etc in the South.
These publications create a high quality environment for content both online and in print.
The digital newsroom of the future project, which was successfully trialled in advertisers, typically for up-market and luxury items which would not normally be found in the pages of our Preston, is now being rolled out across the Group and will be largely completed by the middle of 2007 with more than newspapers.
Lifestyle magazines extend our reach by featuring content which attracts an audience that such 50 newsrooms equipped with this new capability.
The key features of the newsroom are the ability to provide breaking advertisers are keen to target.
news online, the opportunity to use video and audio to add another dimension to our local news offering as well as During the year we also launched 14 free newspapers, including 10 titles in the Republic of Ireland under the online only services covering topics not normally included in our local newspapers.
Numerous examples of these Weekender brand and 2 in the Northern Ireland division.
A free weekly was added to our paid-for weekly and related services include breaking stories such as the East Sussex firework factory fire which was extensively covered by our print portfolio in Market Harborough, and in Aylesbury the Commuter Herald was introduced for travellers to London, Lewes website and coverage of the helicopter disaster in the Northwest which was extensively reported on all our being distributed at railway stations in the area.
The latter has been particularly well received and provides a template websites in the region.
for other centres to follow.
We have established a new digital-only sales operation in London directed at obtaining new online revenues from Our focus on revenue growth has been assisted by regular meetings of senior advertising directors to ensure that new recruitment agencies.
Mediaforce, our established independently-owned national sales operation, has also ideas and best practice are disseminated quickly around the Group.
Our Ads4U database, with more than 4,500 created an online only sales team and our local centres 24 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 have introduced sales units focussed on capturing new newspaper readers and the users of the websites, our online revenues from advertisers who do not traditionally digital capability has enabled us to reach an entirely new use our newspapers.
In terms of measurable milestones on audience.
a monthly basis we now reach 6.6 million unique users with over 57 million page impressions.
Encouragingly, our digital We naturally continue to place considerable emphasis on revenues grew by 36% with the benefit of scotsman.
newspaper sales both of our weekly and daily titles.
A The greatest increase came from new services such as CV number of initiatives have been introduced as a direct matching and Local Pages, the former growing by 80% consequence of the appointment of our Newspaper Sales & year-on-year.
Marketing Director, including the establishment of best practice groups for daily and weekly newspaper sales, Our CV matching service, which was launched in 2005, greater emphasis on high value reader offers and achieved revenues in excess of 2 million and we now have competitions and improved market research.
Amongst 80,000 registered users and 9,200 active CVs on our these initiatives, the increased professionalism and use of database.
This is proving to be extremely popular with market research is having a significant beneficial impact on advertisers and our sales systems automatically provide our newspapers, as is the growing interaction between print advertising staff with information on the number of relevant and digital platforms.
We have also seen benefits from the CVs to facilitate easier sale of the service to customers.
We growth of user-generated content and the development of plan further improvements during 2007, for example with citizen journalism.
All this activity enables editors to identify jobseekers being able to upload their CVs electronically as which stories have been of most interest to our readers, opposed to inputting the relevant data.
creating the opportunity to build upon this both in paper and online.
An important initiative has been building Following its launch in January 2006, the online directory databases of our audience to enable us to target our service Local Pages achieved revenues of 1.2 million.
publications better and stay close to changing media We have signed an agreement with Miva to enhance this consumption habits.
service by incorporating a contextual search capability to generate pay-click revenues from advertisers.
This will be In addition to the growing importance of our websites, we part of a portfolio of directory services which will include a are also making increasing use of mobile technology.
This common print format across the Group, an online local enables us to send text alerts to inform our customers of directory and the ability to search locally for services and forthcoming content as well as providing them with a associated advertising.
further opportunity to give us feedback and contribute to the stories and features we have been running.
We have an extensive programme of digital developments in 2007, including the further enhancement of our jobs site, IT Systems: in part to ensure that we have fully structured data from all Continued progress is being made on the use of modern IT advertisers to enable comprehensive online searching.
A systems to improve the efficiency of our operations and the number of other developments are under way, including all services we offer to readers and advertisers.
During 2006, of our local websites changing to an improved format, we made substantial progress in the introduction of a integration of dating services print, mobile and online, common advertising front-end system across the entire further developments for motors and property sites Group and this exercise will be completed in 2007.
The introducing new homes, and providing more services on benefits include improved service levels to advertisers such mobile platforms such as job alerts.
as the ability to see instant examples of their proposed advertisements, the clients history being immediately Albeit from a low level, digital revenues have been growing available at the point of contact providing more information strongly for several years and given the increasing level of for our sales staff, and reduced costs for the Group with commitment across the Group, we anticipate further rapid common training and system management now possible.
A number of other key IT projects have been completed or Audience Delivery: are under way.
The introduction of a common newspaper 2006 saw a radical shift in the way in which the Group is sales system has greatly improved the management of the addressing local audiences, fundamentally as a direct result newspaper sales function and enabled best practice to be of the increasing success and growth of our websites.
As a established across the Group.
We have consolidated the IT result of this, the total audience we reach is growing at a functions for both traditional and digital publishing to rapid rate.
Whilst there is some duplication between ensure that the digital function is an integrated part of our Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 25 Operational Review - continued business and the introduction of a single Group helpdesk Acquisition Integration: has removed duplication and improved internal The integration of acquisitions made during 2005 and at the management.
beginning of 2006 has made excellent progress, and each business has achieved the objectives set out prior to The roll-out of Voiceover IP Telephony will also be virtually acquisition.
complete by the end of 2007 allowing the Group to take advantage of the latest internet phone technology which TSPL has been established as the hub of our enlarged both reduces costs and creates the opportunity over time divisional activities in Scotland.
Among the key changes are for further improvements to voice and data transfer.
One of the appointment of a new divisional management team, the the principal benefits of our IT investment has been the creation of a central function for IT, the separation of consolidation of various backroom activities, including the publishing and printing, the transfer of national advertising closure of a number of pre-press departments, the sales to the Group sales house, Mediaforce, and the centralisation of credit control at a divisional level, a integration of the award winning scotsman.
com website common approach to the planning of our newspapers and into the Groups digital publishing activities.
As a result of the benefit of a single knowledge base for the technology these changes, total headcount reduced by approximately that we use.
As a direct result of these improvements there 20%.
has been a headcount reduction in 2006 of over 300 in these areas.
In Northern Ireland, the consolidation of Morton Newspapers Limited, Century Newspapers Limited and the With the increasing emphasis on consolidation of Derry Journal Limited has been completed, and the Group infrastructure and the need to provide a robust platform for approach to common systems fully implemented in the first a rapidly expanding digital presence, all subsidiary year of ownership.
Belfast News Letter journalists have companies plans to meet any disruption to business were been moved to a new city centre office and centralised reviewed during the year.
In 2007, the Group will invest backroom facilities relocated to Carn, the former base of substantially at the hosting centres where data is stored to Morton Newspapers allowing the closure of the Century improve resilience and further enhancements will be made Newspapers site on the outskirts of Belfast.
New free to the Group network allowing greater mobility of data both newspapers have been launched by the Derry Journal Ltd internally and online.
and Donegal Democrat Ltd and the organisational structure has been simplified with the formation of two operating Installation of equipment to enable our journalists to work companies.
in sound and video to provide multi-media reports for our websites was completed for the daily centres by the end of In the Republic of Ireland, the disparate operating companies 2006.
All daily publications now have a digital newsroom acquired from Score Press and the Leinster Leader have which is fully integrated into our editorial publishing been consolidated into three regional operating units with systems and IT staff have been trained to support the new new management introduced at both senior and regional initiative.
New products and websites have been launched including a range of free newspapers which will complement the newspapers of record in each of the local communities served by our companies.
The websites include search engines for jobs, property and motors and whilst these are THE INTEGRATION OF embryonic they have already proved successful in winning ACQUISITIONS MADE DURING new business, particularly in Limerick, where Property Today has become the market leader for property advertising in 2005 AND AT THE BEGINNING OF print and online.
During 2007, we will introduce new 2006 HAS MADE EXCELLENT advertising, editorial and accounting systems with the latter PROGRESS, AND EACH already integrated into the Groups central accounting function.
Good progress is also under way to introduce BUSINESS HAS ACHIEVED THE further new products with lifestyle magazines and niche OBJECTIVES SET OUT PRIOR TO publications planned for 2007.
26 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Printing: 2006 was a major year for our Printing Division with the completion of the new 60 million press investment at Dinnington, the largest ever project undertaken by the Group, which came in ahead of schedule and under budget.
It is now fully operational, printing 68 titles and 3 external contracts, including Times Educational Supplement and titles for News International.
The new installation can print a maximum of 224 pages in colour at speeds of 40,000 copies per hour, or 120 pages in full colour at 86,000 copies per hour from each of its folders.
2006 WAS A MAJOR YEAR FOR The versatility of a press with three folders means that a OUR PRINTING DIVISION WITH combination of newspapers can be printed at the same time.
Other major benefits include an increase in operating THE COMPLETION OF THE NEW efficiency, with a productivity gain of 50%, and a very 60 MILLION PRESS INVESTMENT significant improvement in print quality.
In addition, AT DINNINGTON, THE LARGEST inserting facilities with stitching and trimming provide opportunities for further revenue growth and the production EVER PROJECT UNDERTAKEN BY of higher added value publications.
THE GROUP, WHICH CAME IN AHEAD OF SCHEDULE AND As a result of this new installation and other work across the Group, we have been able to close five older and less UNDER BUDGET.
capable pressrooms in Scarborough, Forfar, Wakefield, Hartlepool and Sheffield.
A similar installation at Portsmouth will be completed Staff Development and Welfare: during 2007, which will enhance our printing capability to the point where 90% of our total pages will be printed in Our focus on health and safety is given the highest priority and this has resulted in a 26% reduction in the annual full colour.
accident rate, a 37% reduction in RIDDOR reportable accidents and a decline of 38% in working days lost.
In Northern Ireland, the ageing pressrooms, which came with acquisitions in 2005, in Belfast and at the Derry The development and training of our staff continues to play Journal were closed and plans to enhance our printing facilities in Carn are under way.
a vital part in our Human Resource strategy.
During the year we delivered 86 different courses to more than 4,000 During the year we improved the downstream publishing staff, involving in excess of 12,000 training days.
Our training courses cover all aspects of our business, including facilities at Leeds and also increased the colour capacity on the new full colour press at Peterborough by 32 to 160 Advertising Sales, Editorial, Newspaper Sales, Digital Media, Leadership & Management, Finance, Health & pages through two additional colour towers.
The publishing area there was also refurbished, providing inserting, Safety, IT and HR.
The Group has introduced new Policies and Procedures and training to ensure that we comply with stitching and trimming capability for all products printed in the Midlands.
Work began at Caledonian Offset Edinburgh the new Age Discrimination legislation and initial steps have been taken towards the creation of a European Works to increase colour capacity within the newly acquired press hall which will lead to additional revenue opportunities as Council as well as preparing for the introduction of new smoking restrictions in England and Northern Ireland in 2007. well as further efficiencies.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 27 Performance Review In what has been an extremely challenging trading Table 3 environment, the business has responded well and has Turnover 2006 by Division managed to mitigate substantially the impact on our profit margins of the reduction in advertising revenues in the existing businesses which were part of the Group throughout 2005 and 2006.
At the same time the businesses we acquired in 2005 and 2006 have all been earnings accretive.
The turnover by division of the enlarged group is shown in Table 3.
In order to assess the underlying like-for-like performance of the Group, Table 4 summarises the businesses operating at the beginning of 2005, with additional columns for both 2005 and 2006 showing the acquisitions in those years adding to the reported total figure.
Table 4 - Summary of 2006 and 2005 results on a like-for-like basis.
Although some of these cost savings relate ongoing investment programmes which the Group has to the reduced trading volumes, a significant proportion are undertaken over recent years.
The opening of our new permanent savings and reflect costs that have been state of the art printing and distribution operation at removed from the business and will not return even with Dinnington has facilitated older press closures, increased volumes.
Specific points to note are: delivering labour savings of around 2.0m per annum.
The ongoing investment in production and operating a The mitigation of increased newsprint costs.
The cost of systems has allowed the Group to continue with its newsprint increased by around 7.0% on the levels streamlining and centralising of pre-press operations charged in 2005 but this has been offset by reductions whilst at the same time offering improved services to in the weight and web width of paper used along with our advertisers.
reduced wastage levels by closing older less efficient printing presses.
28 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 c Overhead cost savings of 7.7m have been made cost that the business incurred was 25.6m, 5m lower despite inflationary pressures.
Reductions in headcount than the incremental operating profit generated by the reflecting reduced advertising volumes have been acquired businesses.
further augmented by increased efficiencies in our back room activities.
Like most other industries we have had Looking forward the performance of the Group will be to contend with significantly increased utility costs and, dependent on a number of factors: despite the consolidation of our printing operations into more efficient presses referred to above, this is an a The advertising cycle and our ability to ensure that we increased cost the business has been forced to absorb.
maintain our market leadership at a local level.
The overall operating margin in the existing businesses b Our ability to grow new revenue streams in our existing has decreased by 1.6% points to 33.2%.
This will certainly include digital media through our ever increasing internet based presence but will also The businesses acquired in 2005 and 2006 performed well include new print and related revenue streams through during 2006.
Due to the influence of the Republic of Ireland, exploiting our penetration of local markets with well where advertising revenues grew by 7.5%, the pressure on established and trusted brands.
the top line was not as great as in the existing businesses.
c Our ability to find further acquisition opportunities within The proforma operating margin of these combined our current areas of operation which can add value to businesses prior to their acquisition was 22.4% and over the Group and which can be suitably financed.
the last year we have managed to increase this to 23.2% d Our ability to continue to improve the efficient operation through benefits of being part of a larger group, better of our business through appropriate investment in procurement, the introduction of new systems and the technology which improves both customer service and consolidation of back room activities.
This increase in our methods of operation.
margin has been achieved notwithstanding a decrease in e Our ability to adapt to our consumers needs in terms of total revenues.
how they wish to access and address their local media information needs in such a way that we continue to The acquisition of TSPL was completed on 4 January 2006 offer our advertisers an unparalleled penetration in the and in the period ended 31 December 2006 the business local market.
achieved an operating profit of 10.8m, a margin of 17.9%, compared to the profit of 8m achieved in 2005 at a margin Non-Recurring Items of 12.5%.
These improvements have been made possible The Group incurred non-recurring net costs in the year of because of the speed of integration into our Scottish 15.1m pre-tax.
These came from structural changes in Division, with TSPL becoming the central hub of that four different aspects of the business: enlarged business.
There have also been significant savings related to the consolidation of the back room activities i With the successful opening and ramp up of our new within the enlarged Group.
printing press at Dinnington, we have managed to accelerate ahead of our expectation the closure of The above clearly demonstrates a very creditable some of our older presses.
This, together with the performance in what have been extremely challenging assumption that we can replicate this performance at market conditions across the sector.
The margins achieved our other new press investment in Portsmouth, has led by the Group are still the benchmark for the rest of the the Directors to shorten their estimate of the remaining industry and have largely been protected despite the useful life of certain of our presses as well as reducing significant reductions in like-for-like turnover.
the net book value of those presses closer to their potential realisable value in the secondhand market.
The acquisitions have all exceeded the investment criteria This has led to a one-off, non-cash, incremental which the Group has consistently applied, namely an depreciation charge of 9.0m.
acquisition should be earnings enhancing in its first full ii There have been one-off costs associated with the year, before any restructuring and integration costs, and: closure of the older presses as well as structural that any acquisition should be value enhancing by the end changes in the existing business which have of the third full year such that the rate of return on the contributed to the cost savings disclosed above.
investment should exceed our weighted average cost of The total of these non-recurring redundancy and capital WACC.
In the year ended 31 December 2006, the reorganisation costs in the existing business was 5.0m.
first full year for the acquisitions, the incremental interest Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 29 Performance Review - continued iii During 2006 we also incurred a significant level of nonInvestment Strategy recurring costs associated with the reorganisation and As mentioned above when reviewing the performance of integration of the businesses acquired in 2005 06.
The our acquisitions, the Board has clearly defined criteria when total costs associated with these changes, which in turn evaluating such investments.
As well as considering the have led to the structural improvement in these returns criteria noted above the Board also takes account businesses is 3.8m with a future benefit to operating of the alternative opportunities available when making any margins.
This process of reorganisation and integration investment including the potential buy back of our own will continue into 2007 and we would expect a further shares.
When looking at capital investment proposals, cost associated with these changes of 3-4m in the with the exception of those that represent coming year.
replacement maintenance capital, the Board consistently iv Finally, the business disposed of three freehold examines the payback period as well as the earnings properties which were excess to requirements having impact and cash flows associated with any capital historically housed old presses which have closed.
All investments in excess These disposals resulted in gains of approximately of this are routinely reappraised one year after completion 2.7m which partially offset the costs detailed above.
both locally and at Board level to ensure that the expected outcomes have been delivered.
Finance Income Costs Net finance income was 3.4m as the expected return on Finance Strategy Net Debt our pension fund assets exceeded the interest cost on our Group policy has been historically, and continues to be pension liabilities by that amount.
The level of expected where possible, to finance all investments through debt.
return as detailed in note 23 has proved prudent in the last This strategy has been followed because of the strong year with actual returns being 7.8m higher and these are levels of cash generation within the business.
Periodically recognised in the Group Statement of Recognised Income the Group does re-examine lease versus buy options, and Expense.
Finance costs in the year were 44.1m with a especially where these have associated tax related blended effective rate of 5.8%.
benefits, to determine if there is any sustainable advantage to be gained.
The Groups policy continues to be that Tax Rate borrowings should be arranged at the lowest possible cost The Group tax rate for the year was 27.3% with the UK tax and with covenants within which it can comfortably rate of 30% being reduced proportionately by the operate.
The policy requires that a minimum of 50% of the businesses in the Isle of Man and Republic of Ireland where debt should be hedged against potential movements in the corporation tax rates are considerably lower, the Isle of interest rates whilst the balance is kept under constant Man rate now being zero.
The Group rate has also review.
At 31 December 2006, 440m of the debt was benefited because no tax has been provided on the profit hedged or fixed for an average of 4 years.
The only other on sale of properties because rollover relief will be claimed.
significant financial risk the Group faces is in relation to its A significant element of this tax charge is in deferred tax as investments in the Republic of Ireland which are obviously the capital allowances on our recent press investment Euro denominated.
The debt drawn down to finance the programme are in excess of depreciation.
acquisition of The Leinster Leader Group in December 2005 was in Euros, and this provides a natural hedge, whilst at Earnings per Share Dividends the same time minimising our borrowing costs.
Basic earnings per share at 33.24p were well down on 2005 because of the significantly higher level of nonIn terms of working capital, the Groups largest investment recurring items detailed above.
Excluding those nonis in Trade Debtors.
The management of Trade Debtors is recurring items, the earnings per share at the basic level therefore seen as a key task which is subject to both was 36.66p down 5.3% on 2005 reflecting the difficult Executive reviews and forms part of local management market environment experienced by the sector over the incentive arrangements.
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting on 27 April 2007, the total dividend for the year will Net debt at the end of the year, allowing for the fixed rate be 9.3p, an increase of 11%.
This increase will continue the of our currency hedges, was 746m, a reduction of 37m move made last year to reduce the level of dividend cover from the peak debt of 783m immediately after the which had grown to levels which the Board considered to acquisition of The Scotsman Publications Limited on 4 be unnecessarily prudent.
This reduction was achieved despite the 30 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 higher than normal levels of capital expenditure in the year.
Pensions The acquisition was financed by a combination of an Aided by improved market conditions, the steps taken by extension of our existing 5 year bank facilities and a new the Group in recent years to address the pension fund private placement loan note issue of 83m with terms deficit continue to bear fruit and, allowing for taking on the varying between 8 and 10 years.
deficit of 6.0m in The Scotsman Pension Plan, the overall pension deficit has reduced by 15.8m in the year.
Financial Reporting There have been no significant changes in the Financial Control Processes Reporting regulations which have materially impacted the As discussed in the Directors report the Group operates Group this year, other than the format of this report.
We what it views as rigorous internal control processes which have endeavoured to comply with best practice through assist in the efficient operation of our business.
With all the early adoption, in terms of content and structure, of the General Ledgers, Fixed Asset Registers, Expenses, Business Review as outlined in the Companies Act.
Payables Systems and Payrolls being controlled through our shared service centre in Peterborough, we can ensure a This is our second Annual Report and Accounts under consistently high level of control right across our International Financial Reporting Standards and therefore geographically spread operations.
This is further the year-on-year impact of any changes is limited.
As augmented by our recent moves to consolidate our credit mentioned last year, under the requirements of International control and cash processing into larger regional centres of Accounting Standard 12 IAS 12 the Group is required to excellence.
provide for deferred tax on the value of the intangible assets publishing titles acquired.
The acquisition of TSPL increased the Groups intangible assets by 143.3m which necessitates an increase in our deferred tax balance of 43.0m with the offset in goodwill.
This increases the deferred tax balance related to the value attributed to Publishing titles acquired to 397.4m.
As mentioned in last years report, the Board believes it is important to communicate to shareholders and to the wider investment and financial community that we do not agree with the logic of this adjustment and the Board would ensure that, other than any enforced disposals, any titles sold would be within a company structure.
This would result in no tax being payable.
As permitted under the relevant accounting standard, the Group has taken the opportunity to re-state certain of the fair value entries made in regard of the acquisition of Score Press Limited and Local Press Limited.
At the time of last years accounts, the value of publishing titles acquired had not been broken down to an individual title level.
Now that this exercise has been completed the deferred tax position as noted above in relation to IAS 12 requires to be restated at the date of acquisition for those titles in the Republic of Ireland where the tax rates applicable are lower.
The adjustment made is purely between deferred tax and the offsetting goodwill adjustment with no impact on net assets or net income in the period.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 31
