14 K A Z AK HM YS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 BUSINE SS RE v IE w RISK S managing groUP risK The Directors do not consider it to be in the interests Kazakhmys risk framework has improved over the of the shareholders to reduce the Groups exposure year with the foundations being laid for a robust risk to commodity price fluctuations.
The only commodity management system and progress being made in hedging carried out is that performed by MKM in order better understanding and managing the Groups to mitigate the risk of an increase in the purchased cost significant risks.
The Groups approach to internal of copper cathode, where natural hedging is not control is business risk driven, with emphasis on available.
The businesss sensitivity to fluctuations both business and financial risks as explained in in commodity prices is kept under regular review, the Corporate Governance Report on page 64. and a sensitivity analysis is set out on page 23.
The following represent the significant risks identified sUbsoil Use righTs by the Directors that could materially affect the Non-compliance with mining legislation and subsoil Groups financial condition, performance, strategies use contracts may lead to regulatory challenges and and prospects.
subsequently the loss of access to resources.
bUsiness inTerrUPTion In Kazakhstan, all subsoil reserves belong to the State.
The business of mining, smelting and refining metals Subsoil use rights that are granted to the Group may involves a number of risks and hazards which can cause be conceivably suspended or terminated if it does disruption to operations.
Most of the Groups revenues not satisfy its licensing or contractual obligations, are derived from copper produced at the Zhezkazgan which include periodic payment of royalties to the and Balkhash Complexes.
If processing or smelting Government and the satisfaction of mining, refining operations in either of these two complexes environmental, health and safety requirements.
were materially reduced, interrupted or curtailed, due The Groups management make every effort to to equipment failure, the loss of electrical power, ensure compliance with all mining legislation and weather or other factors, the Groups financial subsoil use contracts.
condition could be materially affected.
healTh, safeTy and The environmenT A combined property damage and business The nature of the Groups operations means that there interruption catastrophic insurance policy has been is always the potential for accidents in the workplace purchased to mitigate the risk of business interruption.
and the possibility of excessive pollution of water, air In accordance with the policy, the underwriters have or soil.
instructed independent risk engineers to visit and assess the Groups facilities.
The Zhezkazgan and The Group Health, Safety and Environment Committee Balkhash Complexes have already been visited and continues to drive a number of initiatives to reduce the a third visit is scheduled to include the Karaganda number of fatalities and serious accidents occurring Combined Heat and Power Plant.
Recommendations and to further advance the standards of environmental made in the risk engineers reports for the reduction safety and protection.
These initiatives, which have of operational risk are being addressed as a priority.
been given further emphasis with the appointment of a Group HSE Manager during the year, are set out in CommodiTy PriCes more detail in the Corporate Responsibility Report The Group is exposed to the risks of fluctuations in on pages 48 to 53. copper and other commodity prices and its revenues would be significantly affected by a material collapse in copper prices.
B U S I N E S S R E v I E w K A Z AK HM YS PLC 15 ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 PoliTiCal risK capital equipment and external support services, and Political instability or social unrest may lead to a to recruit and retain top quality people, at prices which change in Government policy or have a material represent real value to shareholders.
adverse effect on the Groups operations.
The Directors believe that the Groups historically Most of the Groups operations are in Kazakhstan.
strong presence, reputation and knowledge of Kazakhstans Government has actively pursued a resources in the region, combined with the progress programme of economic reform, helping to make it made in enhancing its systems, tools and talent, place the most politically stable and economically developed it in a unique position to thrive in this challenging country in Central Asia.
While a number of former environment.
Soviet republics have experienced periods of political instability, this has not been the case for Kazakhstan.
ProJeCT managemenT The Directors continue to view the political, social and As new projects are identified, developed and economic environment within Kazakhstan favourably, brought into production, many risks are engaged and looking forward, remain enthusiastic about the that may detrimentally affect the Groups profitability.
conditions for business in the region.
For example, insufficient or inadequate geological surveying may result in actual reserves and the volume TaxaTion and grade of ore finally recovered falling below The interpretation and application of tax legislation expectations.
In addition, the economic viability and regulations in Kazakhstan are evolving, which of projects is also dependent upon substantial increases the risk of increased tax liabilities or expenditure that must be carefully managed.
penalties with respect to the Groups operations and investments in Kazakhstan.
The Group ensures that sufficient expertise, both in-house and supplied by third party specialists, The Group makes every effort to comply with tax is brought to bear on projects throughout their life legislation, and works closely with the tax authorities cycle.
Furthermore policies have been introduced, to ensure compliance.
concerning areas such as the budgeting and management of capital expenditure projects, to marKeT CondiTions develop more disciplined project management.
Expectations of value in the natural resources sector have been elevated by a period of above average commodity prices.
The mining industry in our region is experiencing unprecedented levels of activity giving rise to an extraordinary demand for Russian speaking talent.
Under these market conditions the Group faces greater challenges as it seeks to identify suitable acquisition targets, to obtain the necessary high quality
