B U S I N E S S R E v I E w K A Z AK HM YS PLC 13 ANNUAL REPORT 2 0 0 6 BUSINE SS RE v IE w GRO U P S T R AT EGY The Groups overall objective is to create value for shareholders by building an effectively managed, regionally focused, diversified natural resources company managemenT PrioriTies The Group will pursue output growth by actively In our region, Kazakhstan and its neighbouring states investing in small scale expansion and expediting have significant potential for the development of projects.
To this end, significant sums have been natural resources.
Indeed, the area is comparable invested in the expansion of the Karagaily and with Southern Africa, Australia or Brazil in terms of the Nurkazgan concentrators.
diversity and quality of its mineral wealth.
The stable The Group will bring into operation, over a number political and economic climate of Kazakhstan make it of years, the major growth projects in its portfolio.
an ideal base in the region, with a well-educated and These projects will partly serve to replace existing motivated workforce and a rapidly developing legal production from mines where ore reserves are and business framework.
The region is well placed depleting, and partly to increase our copper logistically to serve two of the worlds most important output.
Significant production from the Aktogay resource markets, China and Europe, enabling it to and Boschekul copper projects is expected switch its focus from year to year to meet changes early in the next decade.
in supply demand and cost factors.
The Group will actively seek out and acquire attractive, undeveloped natural resource assets The strong position that the Group already has in in the region.
This will be achieved partly through copper in Kazakhstan is supported by a powerful an in-house exploration programme, partly through balance sheet, outstanding local business contacts exploration partnerships with other companies, and good relationships with national authorities.
The and partly by seeking to acquire discovered but Groups growing reputation facilitates ready access undeveloped deposits from existing owners.
to new projects and encourages the recruitment and And finally, the Group will seek to acquire interests retention of high calibre people.
in existing regional natural resource businesses with attractive internal and external growth potential, In the coming years the Groups primary focus will be such as our option to buy a significant stake in the on growing through acquisition and major projects, Eurasia Natural Resources group during 2007. but it will also concentrate on organic growth through optimising the performance of existing assets: all The Board will undertake a further review of its strategy within the context of continuous improvement in the during 2007 to keep pace with the fast changing protection and safety of its staff and others affected environment in the region and the markets the Group by its operations.
This will update the Groups objectives as well as the ranking of the targets it wishes to pursue.
However, The Groups strategy can be broken down into five execution of the external growth element of the strategy elements: will remain fundamentally opportunistic and depend on The Group will develop management tools focusing where value can be found among a multitude of on developing systems compatible with our postpotentially interesting projects.
Soviet culture and existing ways of working.
This will not only enable us to improve the performance of existing assets, but also create opportunities to add value to every acquisition.
Particular objectives will be controlling costs, improving yields and increasing productivity.
