BUSINESS REVIEW Matalans core objective remains to consistently provide well designed, quality benchmarked, low priced products for our customers.
In the 52 week period ended 25th February 2006 sales from Profit continuing operations reduced by 3.9% to 1,068.9m 52 week Operating profit from continuing activities, before the impact of a period ended 26th February 2005: up 12.3% to 1,112.3m, with 20.4m charge relating to the impairment of software and like for like sales down 6.9% 2005: up 4.5%.
development costs, reduced to 59.8m 2005: 86.3m, with the operating margin dropping from 7.8% to 5.6%.
Sales Performance Despite the difficult trading conditions, gross margins were ahead 52 week period ended 25th February 26th February of last year at 42.8% 2005: 42.0%.
This reflected improved gross 2006 2005 margins within our core clothing business, partly as a consequence Like for like growth of locking in favourable exchange rates and the withdrawal from the grey market, offset by additional markdown to clear through Clothing exc.
promotional grey market -1.6% 3.0% underperforming Homewares ranges.
Clothing inc. promotional grey market -5.0% 3.3% The decline in operating profits before exceptional items therefore Total like for like growth -6.9% 4.5% reflects a 3.0% increase in the overhead cost to sales ratio.
This increase is principally attributable to the impact of the decline in New space 3.0% 7.8% sales on a substantially fixed cost base and the ongoing increases Total growth -3.9% 12.3% in rent, uniform business rates and utility costs.
Lee Cooper was sold in May 2005 and its trading results for the As the table indicates, our core clothing offer has performed period prior to disposal are incorporated in the loss from relatively well, with market share being maintained.
Much of the discontinued operations.
decline in like for like sales can be attributed to the poor performance in Homewares together with the planned withdrawal Profit before tax decreased to 36.3m 2005: 80.5m after net from the grey market for promotional branded goods.
3 3 BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED Consistent value delivery Exceptional item Matalans core objective remains to consistently provide well In the financial year 2001 2 the Company commenced a designed, quality benchmarked, low priced products for our programme of investment designed to replace existing software customers.
which no longer had manufacturer support and lacked functionality.
The key replenishment and merchandising systems Progress was made during the period in core clothing areas such still remain to be completed.
as Ladies tops, skirts and tailoring, Mens t-shirts and formal trousers and our Childrenswear ranges.
We plan to continue this During the course of the programme, existing systems have been progress in the coming period whilst also bringing product re-developed and re-platformed to ensure that they remain able to innovation and range development to our Homewares product meet the Companys requirements.
However, in the last twelve ranges which performed poorly during the period.
These months, the manufacturer of Matalans current systems has been improvements will be driven by a strengthened team, led by our acquired by Torex plc, which is now committed to supporting the newly recruited Homewares Buying and Merchandising Director.
software for the foreseeable future.
The Board considered, therefore, that the Torex systems give the Company the enhanced Effective customer communication functionality it requires but more quickly and at a much reduced The core of our marketing efforts remains our database of over 8 level of risk and cost compared to the implementation of wholly million active households to whom we send regular mailers.
the period we completed a programme of detailed research using As a result the Board has decided not to continue with the customers drawn from both our database and elsewhere.
In implementation of the software developed from 2001 2.
The response to this feedback, we have restructured our mailing impairment of software and development costs of 20.4m has programme from 10 generic monthly mailings to 6 key range been charged to the income statement as an exceptional item.
communications, supported by targeted mailers sent to specific The issues in connection with the software concerned are now the customer segments, such as buyers of Childrenswear and subject of possible legal proceedings against Kurt Salmon Ladieswear.
Associates Limited, the consultants who provided Matalan with In addition to our direct communication activities, we have started advice which led to this work being undertaken.
to refresh the Matalan brand through an integrated marketing campaign covering all media television, national and local press, Agenda direct mailings and in-store point of sale.
The campaign has been The tough trading conditions experienced throughout the period led by our largest product area, Ladieswear, with greater emphasis currently show little sign of easing and our planning for the coming being given to fashionability, quality and choice, celebrity endorsed period does not anticipate any relaxation in the pressure on by TV personality Melanie Sykes.
Early feedback from our customers consumer spending.
Consequently we are expecting the coming has been positive.
period to continue to be characterised by weak consumer demand and therefore high levels of retail competition.
Improving customer shopping experience In this context our fundamental agenda remains unchanged, with Customer service and shopping environment remains core to our our objectives remaining improvements to margin and cash flow, strategy and good progress has already been made in terms of improved cost efficiency and enhanced value and shopping improved retail standards and improved product availability.
Work experience for our customers.
on reducing stock levels within the business as well as the 4 introduction of dedicated clearance stores is in part aimed at In terms of gross margin we will continue to drive sourcing gains reducing the time required by our people in handling stock within and improve our currency position into the new financial period.
stores and hence to improve customer service still further.
The improvements to controls over buy plans and stock commitments made this period will be built upon in order to reduce Development of our store portfolio will continue to be better the levels of markdown incurred.
balanced between new store openings, which will only be opened where compelling opportunities arise, and the refurbishment of our Cash flow generation existing estate.
8 new stores were opened during the period and it The Matalan business model continues to generate good operating will continue to be our aim to open up to 10 stores per annum with cash flows of 106.3m 2005: 126.3m.
A key area of focus for an average of 30,000 square feet.
This represents a significant the year has been the management of buy plans and stock reduction in new store openings when compared to the record commitments.
Stock levels, after adjusting for Lee Cooper, are up opening period of 2002 3 when 20 stores were opened.
The year on year reflecting the decision to bring forward new Spring reduction in capital investment on new stores allows us to Summer merchandise to give greater exposure to full margin sale.
aggressively refurbish the estate at an ongoing rate of approximately 35 stores per annum.
We have now completed the second year of Net capital investment has been reduced by 14.5m from 59.6m to 45.1m principally driven by investment in IT systems and a five year rolling refurbishment programme.
After interest, tax and dividends, During the period we opened 8 new stores 2005: 14 new stores net debt was 32.0m 2005: 30.9m.
including 4 re-sites, refurbished 32 stores 2005: 30 stores and down-sized 3 stores 2005: nil to remove surplus space and Dividend and share buy back reduce rental commitments.
This increased our net selling space by Given the strength of underlying cash flows, the Board is 0.1 million square feet 2005: 0.5 million square feet.
At the end of recommending a final dividend of 6.0p per share 2005: 6.0p per the financial period the store chain totalled 196.
Total net selling share which, together with the interim payment, will give full year space amounted to 5.7 million square feet at the period end 2005: dividends of 8.9p per share 2005: 8.9p per share at a cost of 5.6 million square feet.
The sale of Lee Cooper generated a cash inflow of 24.4m which enabled the Group to buy back shares at a Improving operational efficiency total cost of 21.3m.
This programme is aimed at improving the efficiency of the Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend business in all areas but particularly in terms of stock levels.
The will be paid on 14th July 2006 to shareholders on the register at the programme is ongoing, with further significant opportunities close of business on 16th June 2006.
The shares will be quoted as identified to reduce stock levels in the business, but it has already ex-dividend on 14th June 2006. borne fruit with cash markdowns tightly managed despite the decline in sales performance.
Risks and challenges As part of this programme, we have also completed the significant Treasury operations and controls rationalisation of our distribution network.
This has involved the The Group is exposed to a number of different market risks, including closure of our centre at Warrington and the commissioning of our movements in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
new Southern Distribution Centre at Corby, which became fully The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing the exposures operational by the financial year end, serving half of the estate.
Treasury operations are conducted in Improving profitability and cash flow accordance with these policies and derivative instruments are In what is a very challenging environment, emphasis continues to be entered into as appropriate.
The Group Treasury function is subject given towards improving gross margins, controlling markdowns and to independent review by the Business Risk department.
The Group restructuring our cost base in order to mitigate the inflationary cost enters into financial instruments solely for the purpose of managing pressure being felt across the industry.
risk and the undertaking of speculative transactions is not permitted.
5 BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED Foreign currency risk Health and safety A significant proportion of the Groups purchases of goods are This review summarises the organisation and arrangements in denominated in US Dollars.
The Group hedges its exposure to place to deliver the Companys health and safety policy.
It also movements in the US Dollar exchange rate through forward covers enforcement action and a commentary on health and safety contracts, options and short term currency swaps.
These contracts during the year.
are designed to cover purchases for up to the next two seasons at Our policy statement clearly states our vision for health and safety any point in time.
Where the Group has potential exposures to other and is available for viewing on notice boards in all stores and at exchange rate fluctuations, currency contracts may be taken out to head office as well as on our intranet.
The policy is based around the following key principles: Interest rate risk fire, health and safety are line management responsibilities The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained which are delivered through the line management structure in profits, bank borrowings and trade finance.
Bank borrowings are at the business.
a mixture of fixed and variable rates of interest with interest rate swaps used where appropriate to maintain the desired profile.
employee consultation is facilitated by team member forums Surplus funds are invested mainly in short term deposits with and where established, health and safety committees.
groups of employees are consulted directly on matters that may affect their specific circumstances.
Liquidity risk competent advice is available to all businesses via the Group The Group Treasury function is responsible for ensuring that the Health and Safety department which employs suitably qualified Group has access to an appropriate level of cost effective funding and experienced managers.
Since the year end, the Group has entered into revolving bank facilities totalling 70m which are committed until Health and safety reports are considered by the Board at each 2009.
Short term flexibility is achieved through the use of money meeting and the Chief Executive through the Company Secretary market lines and overdraft facilities.
has management responsibility for this function.
Counterparty risk Each area of the business is responsible for its own organisation The risk of financial loss arising as a result of the default of a and arrangements for delivering the Companys health and safety counterparty is managed by spreading financial transactions policy.
This responsibility flows through the normal channels of across a number of third party financial institutions which meet the management accountability from the Board to the Directors of credit criteria approved by the Board.
Counterparty credit ratings each part of the business and then through the line management and exposures are monitored on a regular basis.
structure to the local operating teams.
6 At differing levels, accountability is recognised by the appointment Corporate Social Responsibility CSR of safety champions and key players in the organisation include The Company has developed its CSR policies and procedures fire marshals, employee safety representatives and first-aiders.
during the period through the work of the CSR Committee.
There were no fatalities or reported dangerous occurrences during The Committee was established during 2004 and is comprised of the year.
the Chief Executive, who takes the chair, and various other colleagues that represent such areas as retail, distribution, The rate of incidents per 100,000 employees reported under the marketing, human resources and quality assurance.
In Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences accordance with the terms of reference of the Committee, which Regulations is 32% below the national average source: HSE are available on the Companys website, there were two meetings based on year 2002 3. held during the year.
An analysis of types of accidents within stores shows that manual Further details relating to the Companys policies on employment, handling, striking against, being struck or walking into fixed objects, equal opportunities and charitable donations are outlined in the with slips and trips were the most frequent causes of incident.
Within Directors Report on pages 10 to 12. the distribution network, manual handling, moving falling objects and slips and trips were the main factors involved in accidents.
The Committee discusses issues of a social, ethical and environmental nature which impact the business and where appropriate The Executive Committee monitors accident rates and trends and recommends further investigation and corrective action.
suggests remedial actions, as appropriate, for example, changes to fixture design and the introduction of new work equipment.
During 2006, Matalan will become involved with Cares, an initiative of Business in the Community of which the Company is a member.
We are committed to learning from accidents and incidents so that The Cares programme focuses on engaging employees with we can introduce appropriate measures to reduce the likelihood of initiatives that address important local issues and encourage the any recurrence.
We aim to avoid or eliminate risk in the workplace development of key business skills.
The first project will involve store as practicable, for example, by improving store design and management teams in the North East of England.
Where assessment indicates that it is necessary, we expand this opportunity into other areas of the business during 2007. provide personal protective equipment.
Serious consideration will always be given to any suggestion made Ethical for improvement.
We aim to respond to all Enforcing Authority The ethical performance and commitment of the Companys correspondence within 14 days.
suppliers is an important consideration in the decision to appoint new suppliers as well as in existing relationships.
A Socially It is pleasing to report that during the year the Company has not Responsible Trading Policy has been developed based upon the been prosecuted for any offence under either the Health & Safety internationally accepted standards set out in the Ethical Trading at Work Act 1974 or the Fire Precautions Act 1971.
Initiatives Base Code of Labour Standards.
This policy is displayed We follow trends in work related absence, together with the cost of on notice boards throughout the business and is available on the investigations, insurance and claims.
The annual cost of claims Companys website.
A copy is also contained within the Supplier for accidents is monitored closely and the Group Health and Manual which is issued to all suppliers.
Safety Manager works closely with the Insurance Manager to The Chief Executive retains responsibility for ethical issues within ensure that all incidents are investigated and that appropriate the business.
Whilst we believe that there are no fundamental weaknesses in Suppliers our current organisation or arrangements for health and safety, we During the period the Company has maintained its policy of have now established a requirement for all Business Units to appraising its supply base on issues relating to social compliance, prepare an annual safety plan.
The plans are designed to focus childrens safety and product quality.
attention on those aspects which cause accidents and drive our A detailed supplier appraisal system is in place which assesses approach towards a step change in performance.
ethical, social, health and safety and workers rights issues.
A further Safety plans consider new legislation, policy and arrangements, 53 assessments were carried out in the year and the number of risk assessment and safe systems of work, health and safety child safety product audits increased from 54 last year to 82.
were all carried out prior to any products being manufactured which allows the opportunity for any corrective actions and improvements The Company is keen to develop a proactive approach to health to be implemented.
and safety and discussions have already taken place with a number of local councils with regard to the Lead Authority A policy is in place to use external audits where serious issues Partnership Scheme.
The aim of the partnership scheme is to have been identified and for the period under review no such develop best practice and consistency in enforcement.
audits were required as a consequence of the comprehensive supplier appraisal system outlined above.
The Business achieved a Silver Award in the 2005 Annual Royal Evaluations are currently being carried out into a number of our Society for the Prevention of Accidents safety awards, building on the Merit Award received during 2004. suppliers in order that they can become Disney approved in order 7 BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED to comply with the Companys new licensing agreement.
Only further improvements in the levels of cardboard and plastic suppliers complying with exacting standards can enter into recycling are planned for 2006 7. supplier agreements and third party audits are then carried out to historically the Company has distributed its products from a Code of International Labour Standards.
facilities in the North West of England but in 2004 a new By the ongoing training of agents and suppliers the Company is Distribution Centre, based in Corby, Northamptonshire was able to ensure that its policies are adopted and implemented.
established and this has resulted in a reduction of 800,000 fleet miles between 2004 5 and 2005 6.
However, as Corby A project is currently underway to re-write the Supplier Manual and has increased its processing capacity it is anticipated that a as part of this process the opportunity will be taken to review the further 3.8 million fleet miles will be saved in 2006 7.
This will CSR policies to be adopted by all suppliers.
significantly reduce CO emissions and energy usage, 2 together with associated cost savings.
Environmental The Finance Director has Board responsibility for environmental confidential wastepaper is recycled throughout the Business issues and the Companys environmental policy is available on and is backhauled through the Matalan fleet, which reduces the Companys website.
the mileage involved in recovery.
The volume of paper recycled during the year was 300 tonnes.
As a clothing and homewares retailer the main issues of an environmental nature relate to packaging, waste, energy use and green energy was secured for the period for the supply of logistics.
The procurement of such energy attracts an exemption from the Climate Change Levy that is charged on A number of internal targets were set by the Company during the all non-renewable energy sources.
year and progress has been made: various initiatives have been commenced with suppliers, on a following the installation of cardboard balers at stores a product specific basis, with a view to reducing packaging.
For recycling target of 7,000 tonnes was established and during example a number of suppliers have now stopped bagging the year 9,000 tonnes of cardboard was recycled.
garments individually and instead they are boxed which during 2004 5 700 tonnes of plastic was recycled through the reduces the overall level of packaging.
use of plastic balers at stores.
A target of 1,000 tonnes was met in 2005 6.
