Annual Report and Financial Statements Annual General Meeting Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 39-41 Parker Street, London WC2B 5LN on Thursday 22 May 2003 at 12 noon for the following purposes: 1.
To receive and approve the reports of the directors and auditors and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2002.
To declare a final dividend on the ordinary share capital of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2002 of 2.3p per share.
To re-elect S. J. Ingham as a director of the Company note 2 4.
To re-elect S. R. Puckett as a director of the Company note 2 5.
To re-elect M. Stewart as a director of the Company note 2 6.
To re-elect H. V. Reid as a director of the Company note 2 7.
To propose the following ordinary resolution: That the directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2002 be received and approved.
To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche as auditors of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next Annual Meeting at a remuneration to be fixed by the directors.
To propose the following ordinary resolution: That the directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined in Section 80 2 of the Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,212,209 to such persons upon such conditions as the directors may determine, such authority to expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired note 4.
"To propose the following special resolution: That the directors be and are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the ""Act"" to allot equity securities as defined in Section 94 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 9 above as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to such allotment provided that this power shall be limited to: a the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue and so that for this purpose rights issue means an offer of equity securities open for acceptance for a period fixed by the directors to holders of equity securities on the register on a fixed record date in proportion to their respective holdings of such securities or in accordance with the rights attached thereto but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws of any overseas territory or requirements of any recognised regulatory authority or stock exchange in any country or any matter whatever, and Michael Page International plc - 53 Annual Report and Financial Statements Annual General Meeting Notice of Meeting b the allotment other than within the authority conferred in sub paragraph a above of equity securities for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 181,831: and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company when the general authority under Resolution 9 shall expire, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired note 5."
To propose as special business the following special resolution: That pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association and Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases of ordinary shares of 1p each in the capital of the Company provided that: a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 36,366,280. b the minimum price which may be paid for each ordinary share is 1 pence.
c the maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary share is in respect of an ordinary share contracted to be purchased on any day, an amount equal to 105% of the average of the mid-market quotations for an ordinary share of the company as derived from The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary share is contracted to be purchased.
d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the date of passing this resolution, unless such authority is renewed prior to such time.
e the Company may conclude a contract to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be exercised wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract as if the authority hereby conferred had not expired note 6.
By order of the Board R. A. McBride Secretary 39-41 Parker Street London WC2B 5LN Registered in England No.
3310225 26th February 2003 54 - Michael Page International plc Annual Report and Financial Statements Annual General Meeting Notice of Meeting Notes 1.
Any member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint another person, whether a member or not, as his proxy to attend and on a poll, to vote instead of him.
A form of proxy is enclosed for this purpose and to be valid must be deposited with the Companys registrars together with any power of attorney or other authority under which it is signed, not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the meeting.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not preclude a member from attending and voting at the meeting.
Messrs Ingham, Puckett and Stewart retire by rotation and are seeking reappointment at the Annual General Meeting.
H. V. Reid was appointed after the last Annual General Meeting and must therefore retire and seek re-appointment at this Annual General Meeting.
Biographical information on each of the directors is contained on pages 9 and 10 of the annual report and accounts.
The register of directors interests required to be kept under section 325 of the Act will be available for inspection by members at the registered office of the Company on any weekday during normal business hours from the date of this announcement until the day of the Annual General Meeting and at the place of the meeting not less than 15 minutes before the meeting commences and after the meeting concludes.
This authority is in respect of 33% of the issued share capital of the Company and is in accordance with the recommendations of the Association of British Insurers ABI.
It is the directors intention to seek renewal of this authority annually.
The directors have no present intention of exercising this authority.
This authority is in respect of 5% of the issued share capital of the Company and is in accordance with the recommendations of the ABI.
This authority is in respect of 10% of the issued share capital of the Company and the power given by this resolution will only be exercised if the directors are satisfied that any purchase will increase the Earnings per Share of the Ordinary Share Capital in issue after the purchase and accordingly, that the purchase is in the interests of shareholders.
If the Company buys any ordinary shares under this authority they will be cancelled.
To have the right to attend and vote at the meeting and also for the purpose of calculating how many votes a person may cast, a person must have his her name entered on the register of members by no later than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
Changes to entries on the register after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote and the number of votes they may cast at the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Michael Page International plc - 55 Michael Page International plc Page House, 39-41 Parker Street, London WC2B 5LN Tel: 020 7831 2000, Fax: 020 7269 2280 Visit our Investor Relations Centre on our website at www.
