accounting policies ACCOUNTING CONVENTION Revenue on certain larger composite contracts is recognised on a The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost percentage of completion method over the period from delivery of the product to customer acceptance.
convention, in accordance with applicable accounting standards and the accounting policies set out below.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Research and development expenditure, including the cost of NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS software products developed in-house, is expensed in the year in United Kingdom Financial Reporting Standard FRS 17 which it is incurred.
Retirement Benefits mandates that certain disclosures relating to retirement benefits be made in financial statements for accounting INCENTIVE SCHEMES periods ending on or after 22 June 2001.
These disclosures are The cost of rights to acquire shares under the Share Plans is shown in note 29.
The full requirements of the standard, which charged as an operating cost over the period of performance of the will change the basis of accounting for retirement benefits, will be employee in respect of which the rights are granted.
required to be implemented, at the earliest, for the accounting periods ending on or after 22 June 2003.
This standard will not PENSIONS have a significant impact on Misys reported results.
The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension schemes covering the majority of its employees.
The costs of these FRS 18 Accounting Policies became mandatory for accounting pension schemes are charged to the profit and loss account as periods ending on or after 22 June 2001.
The Group operates a number of small defined benefit that Misys selects the most appropriate accounting policies and schemes that are accounted for in accordance with the Statement treatments in all circumstances.
The adoption of this standard of Standard Accounting Practice 24, Accounting for Pension Costs.
has resulted in a change in the Groups accounting policy in respect of goodwill.
Comparative financial information has been The cost of pensions in respect of the Groups defined benefit restated note 34. schemes is charged to the profit and loss account so that it is spread over the working lives of the employees.
Variations to pension FRS 19 Deferred Tax became mandatory for accounting periods costs caused by differences between the assumptions used and ending on or after 23 January 2002 and requires that full provision actual experience are spread over the average remaining working be made for certain timing differences between the recognition lives of the current employees at each actuarial valuation date.
of profits for accounting purposes and the recognition of profits for tax purposes.
The adoption of this standard has resulted in a LEASES decrease in reported net liabilities as of 31 May 2001 of 4.3m.
Fixed assets held under finance leases are capitalised in the balance Comparative financial information has been restated note 28. sheet and are depreciated over their useful lives.
The capital elements of future obligations under leases are included as BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION liabilities in the balance sheet.
The interest elements of the lease The Groups financial statements consolidate the financial obligations are charged to the profit and loss account over the statements of Misys plc and its subsidiary and associate period of the lease.
Rentals paid under operating leases are undertakings to 31 May 2002. charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis No profit and loss account is presented for Misys plc as permitted over the lease term.
by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985.
Subsidiary undertakings acquired during the year have been included in the ONEROUS PROPERTY CONTRACTS financial statements using the acquisition method of accounting Provision for onerous lease commitments is made based on the Directors best estimate of the net unavoidable lease payments on from the date of acquisition.
Subsidiary undertakings disposed of these properties, being the difference between the rental due and are included in the financial statements up to the date of disposal.
any income expected to be derived from the properties being Accordingly, the profit and loss account, statement of total sublet.
The provisions are discounted at an appropriate rate to recognised gains and losses and statement of cash flows include take into account the effect of the time value of money.
the results and cash flows for the period of ownership.
Associate undertakings are accounted for using the equity method.
DEFERRED TAXATION Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all timing differences that REVENUE RECOGNITION have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where Turnover represents amounts invoiced to customers net of sales transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in taxes, for goods and services.
Revenue from system sales are an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less, tax in the future.
recognised upon delivery to a customer when there are no Resultant deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that significant vendor obligations remaining and the collection of the it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable resulting receivable is considered probable.
In instances where a taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences can significant vendor obligation exists, revenue recognition is delayed be deducted, or where there are deferred tax liabilities against until the obligation has been satisfied.
Maintenance fees are which the assets can be recovered.
recognised rateably over the period of the contract.
EDI and remote processing services transaction processing are recognised Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates as the services are performed.
Professional services, such as that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing implementation, training and consultancy, are recognised as the differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or services are performed.
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
48 Misys Annual Report 2002 FOREIGN CURRENCIES Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 June 1998 has been The results and cash flows of overseas undertakings are translated set off against reserves in the year of acquisition as a matter of into sterling at the average rates ruling throughout the period.
Merger relief offered by section 131 of the balance sheets of overseas undertakings are translated into sterling Companies Act 1985, representing the excess of fair value over at the rates ruling at the balance sheet dates.
Exchange differences the nominal value of the shares issued in connection with the arising on consolidation are taken directly to reserves.
Assets and acquisition of subsidiary undertakings, was credited to a merger liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are converted at the reserve.
The merger reserve so created was used to write off rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date or at rates goodwill up to the level of the reserve.
On disposal of a previously specified in related derivative instruments.
Transactions in foreign acquired subsidiary undertaking any attributable goodwill currencies are converted at the rate ruling at the date of each previously set off against reserves is written back to reserves transaction or at rates specified in related derivative instruments.
brought forward and charged through the profit and loss account.
Exchange differences are included in the profit and loss account CONTINGENT CONSIDERATION where they relate to trading transactions.
Exchange differences arising on foreign currency borrowings, to the extent that they are Where part or all of the amount of purchase consideration is used to provide a hedge against foreign equity investments, are contingent on future events, the cost of acquisition initially taken directly to reserves, together with the exchange differences recorded is a reasonable estimate of the fair value of amounts on the carrying amount of the related investments.
expected to be payable in the future.
The cost of acquisition is adjusted when revised estimates are made, with corresponding DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS adjustments continuing to be made to goodwill until the ultimate Derivative instruments are used by the Group solely to reduce outcome is known.
These liabilities are reported under provisions or eliminate exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
for liabilities and charges in the balance sheet.
Derivative instruments used include forward currency rate agreements, currency swaps, interest rate caps and currency TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS options.
Derivative instruments are considered to be hedges Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
because they are used to reduce the risk profile of an existing Depreciation is calculated on a straight line basis so as to write off underlying exposure in accordance with the Groups risk the cost, less estimated residual value of each asset, over its expected management policies.
When instruments are used for hedging useful life.
The rates applied from the date of purchase are: purposes, the Group defers the instruments impact on profit until Freehold and long leasehold property 2% pa it recognises the underlying hedged item in the profit and loss account.
Premiums or discounts arising on the purchase of Short leasehold property over lease term derivative instruments are amortised over the shorter of the Computer and other equipment 10% 25% pa life of the instrument or the underlying exposure.
Fixtures and fittings 10% 25% pa Where a forward rate agreement is used to hedge an on-balance sheet item, the balance sheet item is translated at the rate of IMPAIRMENT OF INTANGIBLE AND TANGIBLE ASSETS exchange contained within the hedge.
Where the instrument is The need for any tangible fixed asset or goodwill impairment writeused to hedge against future transactions, gains and losses are down is assessed by comparison of the carrying value of the asset deferred until the transaction occurs.
against the higher of net realisable value and value in use.
The Where an instrument ceases to be a hedge, either as a result of value in use is determined from estimated discounted future cash the underlying exposure which it was hedging being extinguished, flows.
Discount rates used are based on the circumstances of the or because a future transaction is no longer likely to occur, the relevant individual businesses.
instrument is cancelled either by termination of the instrument or by matching it against a new exposure.
The cost of termination STOCKS is recognised in the profit and loss account.
Where the instrument Stocks and contract work in progress are valued at the lower of is matched by a new instrument, both are valued at the appropriate cost and net realisable value.
In respect of contracts where revenue market rate and any resultant gain or loss is recognised in the profit is recognised on a percentage of completion basis, work in and loss account.
progress represents the costs associated with the ongoing contract net of amounts invoiced to date to the extent they are recoverable.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS GOODWILL Goodwill on acquisitions comprises the excess of the fair value of BORROWINGS the purchase consideration over the fair value of identifiable assets Borrowings are initially stated as the net proceeds, being the and liabilities acquired.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions after principal loan element, net of issue and finance costs.
Issue costs 1 June 1998 is recognised within fixed assets in the year of together with finance costs are allocated to the profit and loss acquisition.
Amortisation is calculated on a straight line basis so account over the term of the facility at a constant rate on the carrying as to write off the goodwill over its economic life, depending on value of net debt.
Accrued finance costs attributable to borrowings the nature of the acquisition, for a period normally not exceeding where the maturity at the date of issue is less than 12 months are 10 years.
Goodwill is denominated in the functional currency of included in accrued charges within creditors due within one year.
the operating business to which it relates and is retranslated as part For all other borrowings, accrued finance charges and issue costs of the retranslation of the balance sheets of overseas subsidiaries, are included in the carrying value of those borrowings.
with exchange differences taken to reserves.
