ACCOUNTING POLICIES For the year ended 31 March 2002 Accounting Convention The financial statements have been long leasehold properties.
The prepared under the historical cost financial statements have been convention as modified by the prepared in accordance with revaluation of certain freehold and appropriate accounting standards.
Basis of Consolidation The consolidated Profit & Loss undertakings.
The results of subsidiary Account and Balance Sheet include undertakings acquired or sold are the financial statements of MITIE included from or up to the effective Group PLC and all its subsidiary date of acquisition or sale.
Goodwill and Intangible Fixed Assets Goodwill is calculated as the surplus Intellectual property rights are valued of cost over fair value attributed to at cost on acquisition and are the net assets of subsidiary depreciated over their estimated undertakings acquired.
Following the useful economic life of up to 20 years.
introduction of FRS 10, goodwill in respect of acquisitions made after the In the event of a disposal of the financial year ended 31 March 1998 businesses concerned this goodwill has been capitalised and amortised will be included in determining the over its estimated useful economic life gain or loss on disposal in the Profit & of up to 20 years.
made before 1 April 1998, goodwill was written off directly to reserves.
Tangible Fixed Assets Tangible fixed assets are stated at Freehold and long cost or valuation, less depreciation.
leasehold buildings 50 years Depreciation is provided on tangible No depreciation is provided on land.
fixed assets on a straight line basis Plant 3-14 years over the expected useful lives.
Vehicles 4 years Financial Instruments The Group uses financial instruments accounted for using hedge to hedge its exposure to foreign accounting.
Gains or losses and currency risk.
To the extent that such premiums or discounts are matched instruments are matched against an to the underlying transactions being underlying asset or liability, they are hedged.
Leased Assets Assets acquired under finance leases rental payments is charged to the are included in tangible fixed assets Profit & Loss Account over the period and depreciated in accordance with of the lease.
Operating lease rentals the above policy.
Outstanding future are charged to the Profit & Loss lease obligations are shown in Account in equal instalments over the creditors.
The finance element of the lease term.
21 ACCOUNTING POLICIES For the year ended 31 March 2002 Work in progress and stocks Work in progress and stocks are on estimated percentage completion valued at the lower of cost, including if the final outcome can be reliably appropriate overheads, and net assessed.
Provision is made for foreseeable losses.
All bid costs are expensed as incurred until the stage is reached where it is Long term contracts are dealt with in virtually certain that the contract has accordance with SSAP 9 revised.
prudent level of profit is taken based Deferred Tax FRS 19 Deferred Tax has been the inclusion of items of income and adopted this year.
FRS 19 requires full expenditure in tax computations in provision to be made for deferred tax, periods different from those in which as stated below.
It replaces the they are included in financial partial provision rules previously statements.
Deferred tax is not allowed under SSAP 15.
This change provided on timing differences arising had no material impact on the Group from the revaluation of fixed assets and Company and hence there is no where there is no commitment to sell restatement of the opening reserves.
the asset, or on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and associates where Deferred tax is provided in full on there is no commitment to remit these timing differences that result in an earnings.
Deferred tax assets are obligation at the balance sheet date recognised to the extent that it is to pay more tax, or a right to pay less regarded as more likely than not that tax, at a future date, at rates they will be recovered.
Deferred tax expected to apply when they assets and liabilities are not crystallise based on current tax rates discounted.
Timing differences arise from Turnover Turnover represents the total amount, completed in the year.
Intra Group excluding sales taxes, receivable in transactions are excluded.
All turnover respect of goods and services arose within the United Kingdom.
supplied and contract work Pensions The Group operates two defined payable by the Group in the year.
The regular scheme closed to new entrants pension cost is charged to the Profit & during the year.
Loss Account and is based on the expected pension cost over the The Group has continued to account service lives of the employees.
The for pensions in accordance with SSAP current pension surplus is spread over 24 as illustrated above.
FRS 17 the remaining service lives of current Retirement Benefits was issued in employees.
November 2000 but will not be mandatory for the Group and The Group also operates a fully Company until the year ended 31 insured defined contribution pension March 2004 at the earliest.
In the scheme, the assets of which are held interim, the Group has decided to in independently administered funds.
follow the transitional arrangements In respect of this scheme, the pension set out in paragraph 94 of the cost charge represents contributions Standard.
