Shareholder information Shareholder enquiries For additional copies of the Annual Report and Accounts or further information about the Group, please contact the Company Secretary at: National Express Group PLC 75 Davies Street London W1K 5HT Tel: 44 0 20 7529 2000 Fax: 44 0 20 7529 2100 Information about the Group including the Report and Accounts and the Groups Corporate Responsibility Report is available on the internet at www.
com Registrar Administrative enquiries concerning shareholdings in National Express Group PLC, such as the loss of a share certificate, dividend payments or a change of address, should be directed, in the first instance, to the Registrar at Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland, PO Box 28448, Edinburgh EH4 1WQ.
Correspondence should refer to National Express Group PLC and state clearly the registered name and address of the shareholder.
If you have received more than one copy of this Annual Report there may be multiple accounts in your name on the share register.
To rectify this and save the Company unnecessary expenditure, please write to the Registrar, giving details of the accounts concerned and instructions as to how they should be amalgamated.
Payment of dividends to mandated accounts Shareholders who do not currently have their dividends paid directly to a bank or building society account, and who wish to do so, should complete a mandate form obtainable from the Registrar, at the address shown above.
Tax vouchers are sent to the shareholders registered address under this arrangement unless requested otherwise.
Shareholder electronic communications Log on to www.
co. uk if you would like to: check the balance of your shareholding: register your e-mail address so that future shareholder information can be sent to you electronically: or submit your vote on-line prior to a general meeting.
Unclaimed Assets Register The Company participates in the Unclaimed Assets Register UAR which provides a search facility for shareholdings and other financial assets that may have been forgotten.
For further information contact UAR, Lloyds Chambers, 1 Portsoken Street, London E1 8DF.
