Notice of Annual General Meeting NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, that the sixteenth Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at The Millennium Hotel, Grosvenor Square, London W1K 2HP on Tuesday 3rd June 2003 at 12.30 pm for the following purposes: Ordinary business 1.
To receive and consider the financial statements, together with the reports of the directors and auditors, for the year ended 31st December 2002.
To re-elect S M Booty as a director.
To re-elect W F Holmes as a director.
To re-elect D Howell as a director.
To re-elect S R Page as a director.
To re-elect M A Ellis as a director.
To approve the Remuneration Report of the directors for the year ended 31st December 2002.
To re-appoint  LLP as auditors of the Company, to hold ofce until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration.
"To consider and if thought t, to pass the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution: That the directors be and are hereby authorised and empowered during the period expiring at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company, or on 2nd September 2004 whichever is earlier, to allot relevant securities as dened in Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 ""the Act"" and to make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after that date, so long as the nominal value of the relevant securities allotted under this authority shall not exceed the nominal value of the authorised but unissued share capital of the Company at the date hereof."
To consider and if thought t, to pass the following resolution as a Special Resolution: That the directors of the Company be and are hereby authorised and empowered during the period expiring at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or on 2nd September 2004, whichever is the earlier, to exercise all powers of the Company to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 of the Act as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply in the case of: a allotments in connection with a rights issue to shareholders where the directors shall have the right to make such exclusions or other arrangements as they may deem necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements that would otherwise arise or with legal or practical problems under the laws of or requirements of any recognised regulatory body or any stock exchange in any territory, or otherwise howsoever: b other allotments of equity securities for cash where this authority shall be limited in aggregate to the allotment of or involving equity share capital not exceeding in nominal value 5% of the nominal value of the issued share capital of the Company as at the date hereof.
To consider and if thought t, to pass the following resolution as a Special Resolution: That, pursuant to Article 44 of the Companys Articles of Association, the Company be and is hereby granted renewal of its general and unconditional authority to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Act of ordinary shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company provided that: a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 8,500,000, representing approximately 10% of the issued ordinary share capital at 3rd March 2003: b the minimum price which may be paid for each ordinary share is 10 pence per ordinary share which amount shall be exclusive of expenses: c the maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary share is, in respect of an ordinary share contracted to be purchased on any day, an amount exclusive of expenses equal to 105% of the average of the mid-market quotations for an ordinary share of the Company as derived from the Daily Ofcial List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary share is purchased: d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the date of passing this resolution, unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: and e the Company may conclude a contract to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be exercised wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract as if the authority hereby conferred had not expired.
70 Nestor Healthcare Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 By order of the Board Emma Thomas Group Company Secretary Registered ofce: The Colonnades Beaconseld Close Hateld Hertfordshire AL10 8YD 3rd March 2003 1.
A form of proxy is enclosed with this notice.
A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the above meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
To be valid, proxies must be lodged with the Registrar of the Company, Computershare Investor Services PLC, PO Box 1075, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 3FA, no later than 12.30 pm on Sunday 1st June 2003.
Appointment of a proxy will not prevent a member from attending and voting at the Annual General Meeting should he she decide to do so.
Copies of directors service contracts are available for inspection at the Companys registered ofce during normal business hours on any weekday public holidays excepted and at The Millennium Hotel for 15 minutes prior to and during the Annual General Meeting.
71 Nestor Healthcare Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
