Directors Report continued Disabled employees It is the Groups policy that disabled persons should be considered for employment, training, career development and promotion on the basis of their abilities and aptitudes in common with all employees.
The Group applies employment policies that are fair and equitable for all employees and which ensure entry into and progression within the Group are determined solely by application of job criteria and personal ability and competency.
Full and fair consideration having regard to the persons particular aptitudes and abilities is given to applications for employment and the career development of disabled persons.
The Groups training and development policies make it clear that the Group will take all steps practicable to ensure that employees who become disabled during the time they are employed by the Group are able to continue to perform their duties.
Employee involvement The Group attaches considerable importance to ensuring that all its employees are provided with information concerning them as employees, particularly the economic and financial factors affecting the Groups performance and the market in which the Group operates.
Involvement of employees in the Groups performance is also encouraged by the availability of performance-related bonuses as well as share option schemes, which are described in more detail elsewhere in this report.
Internal circulars and newsletters are issued regularly and consultation between management and staff is an ongoing process.
Employees are consulted on issues directly affecting them wherever practicable.
Further details of the Groups policies and practices relating to employee involvement may be found on page 23 of this report.
Creditor payment policy It is the Groups policy to have appropriate terms and conditions for transactions with suppliers, ranging from standard terms and conditions to those which have been specically negotiated, and that in the absence of dispute, payment will be made in accordance with those terms and conditions and conforming to the CBI Code of Best Practice: copies are available from the CBI at Centrepoint, 103 New Oxford Street, London.
The directors reports of the Groups United Kingdom operating companies give information about their creditor payment policies as required by the Companies Act.
The Company, as a holding company, does not itself make any relevant payments in this respect.
Auditors A resolution proposing the reappointment of  LLP, Chartered Accountants, as auditors to the Company and authorising the directors to determine their remuneration will be put to the Annual General Meeting.
Approved by the Board on 3rd March 2003 and signed on its behalf by: Emma Thomas Group Company Secretary Directors Responsibilities In respect of the preparation of financial statements: The directors are required by company law to prepare financial statements which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at the end of the financial year and of the profit and cash ows of the Group for the period to that date.
The financial statements must be prepared in compliance with the required formats and disclosures of the Companies Act 1985 and in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
In addition, the directors are required: to adopt suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: to make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: to take account of expenses and income relating to the period being reported on, whether or not they have been paid or received in that period: and to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The directors confirm that the financial statements comply with the above requirements.
The directors are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Nestor Healthcare Group plc web sites on which the financial statements are published.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors are also responsible for maintaining adequate accounting records so as to ensure that the financial statements comply with the requirements of the Companies Act, for safeguarding the assets of the Group, and for preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities.
30 Nestor Healthcare Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
