NEXT PLC SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Company website Shareholder enquiries A full copy of this Annual Report and Accounts, together with The Companys share register is maintained by Lloyds TSB that for prior years and other information, can be found on the Registrars.
Please contact them if you have any enquiries about Next plc website at www.
co. uk your Next plc shareholding including the following matters: change of name or address Financial diary loss of share certificate, dividend warrant or tax voucher The recommended final ordinary dividend, if approved, will be paid on 1 July 2002 to holders of ordinary shares registered on if you receive duplicate sets of company mailings as a 31 May 2002.
The ordinary shares will trade ex-dividend from result of an inconsistency in name or address and wish, if 29 May 2002. appropriate, to combine accounts.
The trading results of the group are normally announced as The Shareview Portfolio service from our registrar, Lloyds TSB follows: Registrars, gives you more online information about your Next Interim results September plc shares and other investments.
Final results March For direct access to information held for you on the share Annual General Meeting register including recent balance movements and a daily The Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.00 a. m. on valuation of investments held in your portfolio visit Thursday 16 May 2002 at One Great George Street, www.
The notice of the meeting on page 46 sets out business to be transacted.
Please detach the For shareholders with disabilities Lloyds TSB Registrars provide attendance card from the form of proxy and bring it to the the following: meeting.
Presentation of this card will show that you have the Textphone number 0870 600 3950 is available for right to attend, speak and vote.
Full access is available to the shareholders with hearing difficulties.
venue for those with special requirements.
If requested future communications produced by them will Proxy card be sent in the appropriate format.
The proxy card is enclosed for you to detach, complete and The installation of hearing loop facilities in their buildings send to Lloyds TSB Registrars.
It must be received by 11.00 for use by visiting shareholders.
Share price data 2002 2001 Payments of dividends to mandated accounts Share price at 26 January 949p 778p Shareholders who do not at present have their dividends paid Market capitalisation 3,138m 2,622m directly into a bank or building society may wish to do so.
A mandate form is attached to your dividend warrant and tax Share price movement during year: voucher or is available from Lloyds TSB Registrars.
Telephone High mid market quotation 1022p 820p 0870 600 3970.
Low mid market quotation 778p 430p Crest Discount voucher The Companys ordinary shares are available for electronic The Company offers a discount voucher to any first named, settlement.
registered shareholder holding 500 or more ordinary shares as at 1 April each year.
The voucher entitles the recipient or their Registrars and transfer office immediate family to a 25% discount against most purchases at Lloyds TSB Registrars any one time of full price merchandise in Next Retail stores.
The The Causeway voucher has no monetary purchase limit but expires on Worthing 30 September of the same year.
Shareholders holding shares West Sussex in nominee or PEP ISA accounts are also eligible, but must BN99 6DA request the voucher through their nominee or PEP ISA account Telephone 0870 600 3970 manager.
forty-seven NEXT PLC SHAREHOLDERS NOTES forty-eight forty-five NEXT Annual Report and Accounts January 2002 www.
