NEXT PLC NOTICE OF MEETING Notice is hereby given that the 111th Annual General Meeting of Next plc will be held at One Great George Street, Westminster, London, SW1P 3AA on Thursday 16 May 2002 at 11.00 a. m. at which the following resolutions will be proposed: resolutions 1 to 7 as Ordinary Resolutions and 8 as a Special Resolution.
Ordinary business 1 To receive and adopt the accounts and reports of the directors and auditors for the year ended 26 January 2002.
2 To declare a final dividend of 18.5p per share in respect of the year ended 26 January 2002.
3 To re-elect David Jones as a director who retires by rotation according to Article 74.
4 To re-elect Alistair Mitchell-Innes as a director who retires by rotation according to Article 74.
5 To re-elect Derek Netherton as a director who retires by rotation according to Article 74.
6 To re-elect John Barton as a director who retires according to Article 73 having been appointed by the Board since the last Annual General Meeting.
7 To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors and authorise the directors to set their remuneration.
Biographies of directors seeking re-election are shown on page 8 of the Annual Report.
Special business To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution, which will be proposed as a Special Resolution.
8 That in accordance with Article 1 L of the Articles of Association of the Company and Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, the Company be hereby granted general and unconditional authority to make market purchases as defined in Section 163 of the Act of any of its own ordinary shares provided that the authority conferred by this resolution shall: i be limited to the lesser of 33,000,000 ordinary shares of 10p each or 10% of the issued ordinary share capital outstanding at the date of the Annual General Meeting: ii the minimum price which may be paid for ordinary shares is 10p per ordinary share: iii the maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary share is an amount not more than 5 per cent over the average of the middle market price of the ordinary shares of the Company according to the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: iv the authority hereby conferred shall expire on whichever is the earlier of: a 18 months after the date on which this resolution is passed, and b the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company held in 2003: v the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority.
W R Barnes, Secretary Registered Office Desford Road, Enderby Leicester, LE19 4AT 11 April 2002 All members who hold ordinary shares are entitled to attend and vote at the meeting.
Members who are entitled to attend and vote may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him, and a proxy need not also be a member.
A form of proxy is enclosed.
If you do not intend being present at the meeting please sign and return it so as to reach the Companys registrar at least 48 hours before the meeting.
The return by a member of a fully completed form of proxy will not preclude any such member from attending in person and voting at the meeting.
The Company pursuant to Regulation 34 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 1995, specifies that only those shareholders registered in the register of members of the Company as at 10pm on 14 May 2002 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the aforesaid general meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the relevant register of securities after 10pm on 14 May 2002 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
Copies of directors contracts of service are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during the usual business hours and will be available at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
