NEXT PLC ACCOUNTING POLICIES Accounting convention The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention modified to include the revaluation of certain land and buildings.
The accounts are prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
No profit and loss account is presented for Next plc in accordance with Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985.
Basis of consolidation The Group consolidates the accounts of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
The results of companies acquired during the year are dealt with from the effective date of acquisition.
The results of companies disposed of during the year are dealt with to the effective date of disposal.
The Group accounts include the appropriate share of the results and net assets of all associated undertakings based upon either audited accounts or management accounts to January 2002.
Goodwill The amount by which the fair value of the consideration paid in prior years for acquisitions exceeded that of the separable net assets has been eliminated against reserves.
On disposal goodwill realised is accounted for through the profit and loss account.
Tangible fixed assets Land and buildings are shown at original cost or subsequent valuation.
Other fixed assets are shown at cost.
Depreciation is provided to write down the cost or valuation less residual value of fixed assets over their remaining useful lives by equal annual instalments.
The depreciation rates generally applicable are summarised as follows: Freehold and long leasehold buildings 2.0% Plant, shop fronts and retail fittings in the high street retailing business 16.7%-50.0% Plant, fixtures and fittings, computer equipment, motor vehicles and warehouse equipment 6.67%-50.0% Leasehold improvements over the period of the lease Investments Investments are included at cost less amounts written off where applicable.
Investment in own shares Investment in own shares held by the ESOP is included as a fixed asset and is shown at cost less any provision to reduce the shares to estimated realisable value on issue to Trust beneficiaries.
The difference between cost and estimated realisable value is charged to the profit and loss account over the period between the date of the share option grant and its first available exercise date.
Property development stock Properties held for redevelopment are stated at cost including interest capitalised during the period of development gross of corporation tax less provision for any known or anticipated future losses.
Stock Stock is valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Net realisable value is based on estimated normal selling prices less further costs to be incurred to disposal.
Debtors Provision is made for doubtful debts using an arrears based method, which is designed to provide fully for those debts which will be irrecoverable.
twenty-two NEXT PLC ACCOUNTING POLICIES Deferred tax In accordance with Financial Reporting Standard FRS 19 Deferred Tax, full provision is made for deferred tax arising from timing differences between the differing treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
The provision is calculated at the rates of taxation at which it is estimated the liability will arise and is not discounted.
No provision is made in respect of timing differences arising from the sale or revaluation of fixed assets unless there is a commitment to the disposal of the assets at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the directors consider there to be suitable taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Foreign currencies Upon consolidation assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies including overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Overseas subsidiary undertakings revenue items are translated at the weighted average rate during the period, and differences on translation of assets and liabilities are taken directly to reserves.
In the accounts of the Company, transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction or at hedged rates.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency are translated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Resulting exchange gains or losses are taken to the profit and loss account.
Financial instruments Foreign currency financial instruments are used to hedge the cost in sterling of the Groups future overseas product purchases.
No recognition is made of accrued but unrealised gains or losses on currency instruments until the relevant contract is concluded.
All premiums or costs paid in respect of currency instruments are charged to profit and loss account when incurred.
Short term debtors and creditors are not considered to be financial instruments for the purpose of disclosure under FRS13 Derivatives and Other Financial Instruments.
Pension cost The pension cost of the defined benefit section of the Group pension scheme is charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the costs of pensions over employees working lives with the Group.
The pension cost of the defined contribution section is charged as incurred.
Finance leases Assets used by the Group which have been funded through finance leases are capitalised and the resulting lease obligations are included in creditors.
The assets are depreciated over their useful lives and the interest element of the rental obligations is charged to profit and loss account over the period of the lease and represents a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
Operating leases The Groups principal leased assets are properties acquired under operating leases which are generally subject to periodic rent reviews.
The cost of property leases is charged to operating profit in the period to which it relates.
On acquiring short leasehold properties any premiums payable are charged to the profit and loss account over the period to the first rent review.
Capital contributions receivable are credited to the balance sheet and released to profit and loss account over the period to the first rent review.
Rent free periods are released to profit over the period from the date of commencement of the lease up to the first rent review.
The cost of all other operating leases is charged to operating profit on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
