20 ACCOUNTING POLICIES for the year ended 30 June 2002 The financial statements for the Group and Company have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards, which have been applied on a consistent basis to the previous year, except as explained below in relation to the adoption of FRS 19.
The most significant accounting policies are described below.
Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention.
Changes in accounting policies The Group has adopted FRS 19 Deferred tax in these financial statements.
The adoption of this standard represents a change in accounting policy and the comparative figures have been restated accordingly see note 17.
Turnover Turnover represents net invoiced sales of goods and supply of services excluding value added tax.
Franchise income is included in turnover when due under the terms of the relevant franchise agreement.
Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is provided at the following annual rates in order to write down to estimated residual values the cost of each asset over its estimated useful life on a straight-line basis: Plant 20% Furniture, fixtures and fittings 10% Motor vehicles 25% Short leasehold properties are depreciated over the length of the lease except where the anticipated renewal or extension of the lease is sufficiently certain so that a longer estimated useful life is appropriate.
Current legislation and the terms of the lease contracts are such that all of the leases are readily extendible by an additional 14 years.
The maximum depreciation period for short term leasehold properties is 30 years.
The cost of freehold and long leasehold properties is amortised over the lesser of 50 years or the outstanding term of the lease.
Assets under construction comprise tangible fixed assets acquired for restaurants under construction, including costs directly attributable to bringing the asset into use.
Assets are transferred to long leaseholds, short leaseholds and plant, fixtures and motor vehicles when the restaurant opens.
No depreciation is provided on assets under construction, as these assets have not been brought into working condition for intended use by the Group.
Pre-opening costs Pre-opening costs are expensed as incurred.
Stocks Raw materials and consumables are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is based on the purchase cost on a first-in, first-out basis.
Work-in-progress is stated at cost.
Deferred taxation Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less, tax in the future.
21 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Resultant deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences can be deducted, or where there are deferred tax liabilities against which the assets can be recovered.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Consolidation Acquisitions and disposals: The Group balance sheet includes all the assets and liabilities of the subsidiary undertakings including those acquired during the period.
The Group profit on ordinary activities after taxation includes only that proportion of the results arising since the effective date of control to the year end or, in the case of undertakings or interests disposed of, from the beginning of the period to the date of disposal.
Goodwill Goodwill represents the difference between the cost of acquisition and the fair value of the separable net assets acquired.
Prior to 23 December 1998, goodwill was eliminated against reserves.
Goodwill, including negative goodwill, on the acquisition of a business after that date is capitalised and amortised over its useful economic life.
Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at an average rate for the period.
The results of foreign subsidiaries are translated at the average rate for the period.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of opening net investments in subsidiary companies and on translation of the results for the period to closing rate are taken to reserves.
Leasing and hire purchase commitments Assets obtained under hire purchase contracts and finance leases are capitalised in the balance sheet and depreciated over their useful lives.
The interest element of the rental obligations is charged to the profit and loss account over the period of the contract and represents a constant proportion of the balance of capital payments outstanding.
Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to income on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
