37 NOTICE OF MEETING Notice is hereby given that the 2002 Annual General Meeting of the members of PizzaExpress PLC will be held at 80-81 St. Martins Lane, London, WC2N 4AA on 31 October 2002 at 10.00 a. m. for the following purposes.
Ordinary business 1 To receive and adopt the directors report and financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2002.
2 To declare a final dividend of 8.0p per ordinary share.
3 To re-elect Ms Janet Walker as a director.
4 To re-elect Mr John Metcalf as a director.
5 To re-elect Mr David Page as a director.
6 To elect Mr Ian Thomson as a director.
7 To elect Mr Paul Campbell as a director.
9 To authorise the directors to determine the remuneration of the auditors.
Special business To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions 10, 13 and 14 as Ordinary Resolutions and resolutions 11 and 12 as Special Resolutions: 10 That the directors be and are hereby authorised in accordance with the provisions of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot relevant securities within the meaning of Section 80 of the said Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,392,516, provided that this authority shall expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or on 30 January 2004, whichever is the sooner, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby has not expired.
11 That the directors be and are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 of the said Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by the previous resolution as if Section 89 1 of the said Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that this power shall be limited: a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue: and b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 358,877: and, unless previously revoked or varied, such power shall expire at the date of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or on 30 January 2004, whichever is the sooner, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
For the purpose of this resolution rights issue means an offer of equity securities to the holders of the Companys ordinary shares on the Companys register of members on a date fixed by the directors in proportion as nearly as may be to their holdings of ordinary shares.
Any such rights issued shall be subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements, directions from any holders of ordinary shares to deal in some other manner with their respective entitlements, legal and practical problems in any overseas territory or by virtue of shares being represented by depository receipt, or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange.
38 NOTICE OF MEETING continued 12 That the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of shares of 10 pence each in the Company subject to the following conditions: i. the maximum number of shares which may be purchased is 7,177,550: ii.
the minimum price which may be paid for each share is 10 pence: iii.
the maximum price which may be paid for each share is an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotations of a share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is contracted to be purchased: and iv.
this authority shall expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or on 30 January 2004, whichever is the sooner.
13 That the PizzaExpress PLC Long-Term Incentive Plan, a summary of which is set out in the circular to shareholders dated 10 September 2002, be and is hereby approved and that the directors be and are hereby authorised to do all things necessary to establish and carry it into effect.
14 That the PizzaExpress PLC 2002 Executive Share Option Plan, a summary of which is set out in the circular to shareholders dated 10 September 2002, be and is hereby approved and that the directors be and are hereby authorised to do all things necessary to establish and carry it into effect.
By order of the Board Registered Office: 1 Union Business Park Patrick Hartrey Florence Way Secretary Uxbridge UB8 2LS 10 September 2002 Notes: A member who is entitled to attend and vote at the above Meeting may appoint a proxy to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him or her.
Any proxy so appointed need not be a member.
To be effective a completed and signed form of proxy, together with any authority under which it is signed or a copy of such authority, must be deposited with the Companys registrars not less than 48 hours before the appointed time of the meeting.
Completion of a form of proxy does not preclude the member from attending and voting at the Meeting.
The following documents are available for inspection during normal business hours at the Companys registered office on any weekday except Saturdays and public holidays from the date of this Notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting, for a period of fifteen minutes prior to the Meeting and during the Meeting: 1 The Register of Directors Interests.
2 Copies of all contracts of service for periods in excess of 12 months between the directors and the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
3 Special business at the Annual General Meeting.
The authority given to the directors to allot further shares in the capital of the Company requires the prior authorisation of the shareholders in general meeting under section 80 of the Companies Act 1985.
Resolution 10 will be put to members as special business seeking authority to allot share capital with a nominal value of 2,392,516, being less than one third of the current issued ordinary share capital.
The directors have no present intention to exercise this authority.
Resolution 11 will seek to obtain power under section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 for the directors to allot for cash shares with an aggregate nominal value of 358,877, equal to approximately 5% of the Companys current issued share capital, without being required further to offer such shares to existing shareholders.
The Company will thereby be given greater flexibility in considering future opportunities, but the interests of existing shareholders will be protected as, except for the case of a rights issue or the allotment of shares under the Companys discretionary share option scheme or the conversion of Deferred Convertible Non-voting shares, the proportionate interest of shareholders cannot, without their consent, be reduced by the issue for cash of new shares representing more than 5% of the current issued share capital.
Save for the issue of shares pursuant to options granted under the Companys share option schemes or the conversion of Deferred Convertible Non-voting shares, the directors have no present intention to allot any part of the unissued share capital of the Company, or, without the prior approval of the members in general meeting, make any issue which would effectively alter the control of the Company or the nature of its business.
Any exercise by the directors of the authorities sought under resolutions 10 and 11 would be in accordance with current guidelines of the UK Listing Authority.
The authorities granted under resolutions 10 and 11 will expire at the earlier of the next Annual General Meeting or fifteen months after the date of the resolutions.
4 The Company specifies, pursuant to Regulation 34 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 1995, that only those shareholders registered on the register of members of the Company as at 5.00 p. m. on 29 October 2002 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the Annual General Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the register of members after 5.00 p. m. on 29 October 2002 shall be disregarded in determining the rights to any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
RESOLUTION FOR AGAINST 1 To receive and adopt the directors report and financial statements 2 To declare a final dividend of 8.0p 3 To re-elect Janet Walker as a director 4 To re-elect John Metcalf as a director 5 To re-elect David Page as a director 6 To elect Ian Thomson as a director 7 To elect Paul Campbell as a director 8 To re-appoint  as auditors 9 To authorise the directors to determine the remuneration of the auditors 10 To give the directors authority to allot shares 11 To disapply pre-emption rights 12 To give the Company authority to purchase its own shares 13 To establish the PizzaExpress PLC LTIP 14 To establish the PizzaExpress PLC 2002 Executive Share Option Plan Date....................................................................... 2002 Signature...............................................................................................................
If a member wishes to appoint any other person as proxy, strike out the Chairman of the Meeting above and insert the name of the proxy you wish to appoint in the space provided.
Please indicate how you wish your proxy to vote by placing a tick in the appropriate box.
Unless otherwise indicated the proxy will vote or abstain at his her discretion.
In the case of joint holders the vote of the senior who tenders a vote will be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders.
For this purpose seniority will be determined by the order in which the names stand in the register of members in respect of the joint holding.
In the case of a corporation this form of proxy should be executed under its common seal or as a deed or signed on its behalf by an attorney or officer duly authorised to sign it.
To be valid this form of proxy and the authority if any under which it is executed or a certified copy of such authority must be lodged with the Companys registrars not later than 48 hours before the time of the Meeting.
Please complete and return to: Capita IRG Plc at the address overleaf.
SECOND FOLD BUSINESS REPLY SERVICE Licence No.
MB 122 1 1 Capita IRG Plc Proxies PO Box 25 Beckenham Kent BR3 4BR THIRD FOLD FIRST FOLD 1 Union Business Park, Florence Way, Uxbridge, Middlesex UB8 2LS.
