Statement of accounting policies Principal accounting policies b Vehicles, plant and machinery and assets held The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost on contract hire accounting convention, and comply with applicable UK The cost of vehicles is depreciated to estimated residual accounting standards and with the requirements of the value on a straight line basis at annual rates between 20% Companies Act 1985 except as set out under Goodwill below.
Plant and machinery is depreciated on a straight line basis at annual rates between 7% and 20%.
FRS 17 Retirement benefits The Group is following the transitional arrangements under c Fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment which additional disclosure on retirement benefits is required The cost of fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment is in the notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December depreciated on a straight line basis at annual rates between 2002 see note 34.
Computer equipment is depreciated on a straight line basis at annual rates between 10% and 33%.
Consolidation The Group accounts include the accounts of the Company and Net interest payable and similar charges its subsidiary undertakings made up to 31 December 2002.
Net interest payable and similar charges includes stock Unless otherwise stated, the acquisition method of accounting financing charges.
Under this method, the results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of in the year are included Stocks Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable in the consolidated profit and loss account from the date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
Cost is arrived at principally on the average and first in, first out FIFO basis.
Provisions are made against and profits are eliminated fully on consolidation.
An associate is an undertaking in which the group has a Vehicles held on consignment from manufacturers are long-term interest, usually less than 50% of the equity voting rights, and over which it exercises significant influence.
The included in the balance sheet where it is considered that the Group enjoys the benefits and carries the risk of ownership.
Groups share of the profits less losses of associates is included in the consolidated profit and loss account and its Vehicles included in stocks which are subject to repurchase agreements are included at the agreed repurchase price or interest in their net assets is included in investments in the consolidated balance sheet.
net realisable value whichever is lower.
In both of these cases the associated liability is included in creditors.
A joint venture is an undertaking in which the Group has a long-term interest over which it exercises joint control.
The Deferred taxation Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences Groups share of the profits less losses of joint ventures is included in the the consolidated profit and loss account and that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, where transactions or events that result in an obligation its interest in their net assets is included in investments in the consolidated balance sheet.
to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
In relation to the associated undertakings and joint ventures, the amounts included in the consolidated accounts are taken A deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only, when on the basis of all available evidence, from the latest accounts of the undertakings details are set out on pages 55 and 71. it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the Under section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985 the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Company is exempt from the requirement to present its Deferred tax is not discounted.
own profit and loss account.
Turnover Pension costs and other post-retirement benefits The expected cost of providing pensions and other postTurnover is the value of goods and services invoiced.
Intercompany sales, value added tax, other sales taxes and sales retirement benefits is charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the cost over the expected remaining service of fixed assets are excluded.
Variations from regular costs are Tangible fixed assets spread over the expected remaining service lives of current Tangible fixed assets are stated at historical cost less eligible employees.
The pension cost is assessed in accumulated depreciation.
accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries, using the projected unit method.
Depreciation Depreciation is provided to write down tangible fixed assets Goodwill to their estimated residual values as follows: Purchased goodwill arising on consolidation in respect of acquisitions before 1 January 1998, when FRS 10 Goodwill a Land and buildings and intangible assets was adopted, was written off to The cost of each freehold, long and short leasehold building reserves in the year of acquisition.
When a subsequent is depreciated on a straight line basis over its estimated disposal occurs, any related goodwill previously written off to useful life.
The estimated remaining useful life of the buildings reserves is written back through the profit and loss account averages 21 years.
Long leases are defined as those having as part of the profit or loss on disposal.
50 or more years unexpired at the balance sheet date.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Purchased goodwill arising on consolidation in respect of acquisitions since 1 January 1998 is capitalised.
Positive 38 RAC plc Annual Report 2002 goodwill is amortised to nil by equal annual instalments Operating leases over its estimated useful life, normally 20 years.
On the Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss subsequent disposal or termination of a business acquired account on a straight line basis over the life of the lease.
since 1 January 1998, the profit or loss on disposal or Assets held for use in operating leases are recorded as fixed termination is calculated after charging the unamortised amount of any related goodwill.
assets and are depreciated over their useful lives to their estimated residual value.
Goodwill relating to the acquisition of RAC Holdings Limited amounting to 404.6 million has been capitalised.
The With the exception of Lex Vehicle Leasing Holdings Limited income from operating leases is credited to the profit and loss directors consider that this goodwill has an indefinite life due to the durability of the business as demonstrated over a large account on a straight line basis over the life of the contract.
number of years and accordingly is not amortised but is Lex Vehicle Leasing Holdings Limited, a joint venture, credit subject to annual review for impairment.
This is not in net income on operating leases, after charging interest, accordance with Schedule 4 to the Companies Act 1985 depreciation, maintenance and other costs, to the profit which requires that all goodwill be amortised.
The directors and loss account to give a constant rate of return on the consider that this would fail to give a true and fair view of operating lease asset over the period of the contract.
the profit for the year and that the economic measure of performance in any period is properly made by reference only Finance leases to any impairment that may have arisen.
It is not practicable Leases which confer rights and obligations similar to those to quantify the effect on the accounts of this departure.
Any attaching to owned assets are defined as finance leases.
The impairment charge is included within operating profits.
present value of future minimum lease payments of assets acquired under finance leases is included in fixed assets and Foreign currencies in creditors as an obligation to pay future rentals.
Depreciation Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of is provided at the same rates as for owned assets.
exchange at the date of the transaction or, if hedged forward, at the rate of exchange under the related forward exchange Rentals payable under finance leases are apportioned between contract.
Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies the finance charge and the outstanding obligation so as to are translated into sterling at the financial year end rates.
produce a constant rate of charge on the remaining balance.
The results of overseas subsidiary undertakings, associates Cash and liquid resources and joint ventures are translated into sterling at average rates Cash, for the purpose of the cash flow statement, comprises for the period except for material exceptional items which are cash in hand and deposits repayable on demand, less translated at the rate on the date of the transaction.
The overdrafts payable on demand.
adjustment to financial year end rates is taken to reserves.
Liquid resources are current asset investments which may be Differences on exchange arising from the translation of the disposed of without curtailing or disrupting the business and net assets of subsidiary undertakings and foreign currency are either readily convertible into known amounts of cash at debt financing those assets are taken to reserves and are or close to their carrying values or traded in an active market.
reported in the statement of total consolidated recognised gains and losses.
Other exchange differences are taken to Pre-contract costs the profit and loss account.
Pre-contract costs are written off as incurred, except that directly attributable costs are capitalised as an asset when it Derivatives and other financial instruments is virtually certain that the contract will be obtained and when Short term debtors and creditors as defined in FRS 13 have the contract is expected to result in future net cash inflows been excluded from the disclosures in note 37, save those with a present value no less than all amounts recognised as relating to currency risk.
