ACCOUNTING POLICIES 1 Basis of preparation The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention, and comply with applicable accounting standards on a basis consistent with the previous year except for the changes detailed below.
The Groups profit and loss account and balance sheet include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings, and the Groups share of profits or losses and reserves of its joint ventures and associated undertakings.
The profits or losses of subsidiary undertakings acquired or sold during the period are included as from or up to the dates on which control passed.
All business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition accounting method.
Changes in accounting policy The Group has adopted Financial Reporting Standard FRS 19 Deferred Tax in 2002.
FRS 19 requires deferred tax to be accounted for on a full provision basis rather than a partial provision basis as in 2001 and earlier years.
This change in accounting policy has been accounted for as a prior period adjustment and accordingly the results reported in 2001 and earlier years have been restated as set out in note 5 c. 2 Foreign currency Revenues, costs and cash ows of overseas undertakings are included in the Group profit and loss account at average rates of exchange.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date except where a forward exchange contract has been arranged when the contracted rate is used.
Exchange differences on the retranslation of opening net assets and results for the period of foreign subsidiary undertakings are dealt with through reserves net of differences on related foreign currency borrowings and are reported in the statement of recognised gains and losses.
Other gains and losses arising from foreign currency transactions, including trading, are included in the consolidated profit and loss account.
The principal exchange rates affecting the Group were: 2002 2001 Year end Average Year end Average US dollar 1.61 1.51 1.46 1.43 Canadian dollar 2.54 2.40 2.32 2.23 Euro 1.53 1.59 1.63 1.61 3 Income recognition Turnover consists of sales of goods and services and is generally recognised as goods are shipped or services are rendered.
Turnover for casinos includes the gaming win before deduction of gaming duty.
4 Contract advances The Deluxe businesses enter into contracts with major customers that span several years.
As part of these contracts, Deluxe provides advance cash payments to the customers.
Both Deluxe Media and Deluxe Film capitalise the total commitment payable under each contract within debtors at the date of the agreement and record a corresponding liability on the balance sheet for any outstanding amounts.
Within Deluxe Media capitalised contract costs are amortised against revenue on a straight line basis over the life of the contract.
Within Deluxe Film, contract advances are amortised on the basis of estimated total footage over the life of the contract, unless the terms of the contract indicate an alternative treatment would be more appropriate.
5 Goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisitions made before 31 December 1997 has been written off directly to reserves.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions subsequent to 31 December 1997 has been capitalised and is being amortised on a straight line basis over its useful economic life of 20 years or less.
6Stocks Stocks include work in progress and are valued at the lower of cost including an appropriate proportion of overhead and net realisable value.
7 Tangible xed assets Freehold properties are depreciated on a straight line basis over 100 years or their useful life, if less.
Leased properties are depreciated over the lesser of 100 years, their useful life or the term of the lease.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land.
Expenditure on major refurbishment of properties is amortised over periods of between three and 15 years.
Other fixed assets are depreciated mainly at rates between 5% and 33% per annum on a straight line basis.
Pre-opening costs are expensed as incurred.
Casino properties are depreciated over the useful economic life of the physical properties to their residual values.
Both the initial carrying amount and residual value take into account the trading potential of the property with the benefit of the casino licences.
In view of the high residual values, casino properties are reviewed annually for potential impairment.
48 The Rank Group Plc 8 Leased assets Assets acquired under finance leases are included in tangible fixed assets.
Depreciation is provided at rates designed to write-off the cost in equal annual amounts over the shorter of the estimated useful lives of the assets which are the same as those for assets purchased outright and the period of the leases.
The capital element of future rentals is treated as a liability and the interest element is charged to the profit and loss account over the period of the leases in proportion to the balances outstanding.
Operating lease payments are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
9 Pensions The pension costs as calculated under SSAP 24 relating to the UK defined benefit scheme are assessed in accordance with the advice of a qualified actuary using the attained age method.
Actuarial surpluses and deficiencies are amortised on a straight line basis over the expected average remaining service lives of the employees.
The pension costs relating to the UK dened contribution scheme represent the contributions payable by the Group.
Overseas schemes are accounted for in accordance with local conditions and practice such that the costs are charged against profits on a systematic basis over the service lives of the employees.
The disclosures required under the transitional arrangements for FRS 17 are presented in note 30 b.
10 Taxation Current tax is applied to taxable profits at the rates ruling in the relevant country.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Provision is made for the tax that would arise on remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences are expected to reverse.
The Groups previous accounting policy was to recognise a deferred tax liability to the extent that it was likely to arise in the future.
11 Financial instruments Derivative instruments that may be utilised by the Group are forward interest rate swaps and caps, cross currency swaps, forward starting swaps, forward rate agreements, interest rate swaps, interest rate swap options, forward foreign exchange contracts and currency options.
Derivative instruments that are currently utilised by the Group are interest rate swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts and short term currency swaps.
These instruments are used to manage interest rate and foreign exchange risk.
The forward foreign exchange contracts are used to hedge future transaction ows.
The resulting gains and losses are recognised as they arise and offset against gains and losses in the related underlying exposure.
During 2001, the Group entered into a series of interest rate swaps with banks, the effect of which has been to replace part of the Groups xed interest rate exposure with a floating rate exposure on an equivalent amount of notional debt.
The interest rate differentials from interest rate swaps used to manage the amounts and periods for which interest rates on underlying debt is fixed are recorded through an adjustment of net interest payable.
The underlying principal amounts of short term currency swaps are revalued at the exchange rates as at the balance sheet date and included in current asset investments or creditors to the extent that they are not related to underlying debt.
The interest rate element of these contracts is recognised as part of net interest payable over the term of the agreement.
If a legally enforceable right exists to set off recognised amounts of financial assets and liabilities, which are determinable monetary amounts, and the Group intends to settle on a net basis, the relevant financial assets and liabilities are offset.
