Post-retirement benets other than pensions Freehold buildings: not more than 50 years: The cost of providing post-retirement benets other than pensions is Leasehold land and buildings: the lesser of 50 years or the life of the determined on a consistent actuarial basis and charged to the profit lease: and and loss account.
To the extent that such costs do not equate to the cash contribution, a provision or prepayment is constituted in the Owned plant and equipment: not more than 15 years.
production plant and equipment and ofce equipment are written off over 10 years or less: motor vehicles and computer equipment Research and development over five years or less.
Research and development expenditure is written off in the year in which it is incurred.
Leased plant and equipment: assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included in tangible xed assets at fair value.
Each asset Stocks is depreciated on the same basis as owned plant and equipment or over Stocks are stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Cost the life of the lease, if shorter.
Obligations related to finance leases, net comprises materials, direct labour and an appropriate portion of of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included as overhead expenses.
Taxation Tangible xed assets are reviewed for impairment if events or changes The tax charge is based on the profit for the period and takes into in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be account taxation deferred due to timing differences between the appropriate.
treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
In adopting FRS 19 as stated above, the Group has adopted the full Operating leases provision basis for deferred tax.
Deferred tax liabilities are provided for in Operating lease rentals are charged against profit on a straight line full and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are basis over the period of the lease.
Derivatives Intangible xed assets The Group primarily uses cross currency swaps, interest rate swaps An acquired brand is only recognised on the balance sheet as an and forward foreign currency contracts to manage its exposures to intangible asset where it is supported by a registered trade mark, uctuating interest and foreign exchange rates.
These instruments is established in the market place, brand earnings are separately are accounted for as hedges when designated as such at the inception identiable, the brand could be sold separately from the rest of the of the contract.
Termination payments made or received in respect of business and where the brand achieves earnings in excess of those derivatives are taken to the profit and loss account over a period achieved by unbranded products.
The value of an acquired brand is appropriate to the derivative and the underlying instrument.
determined by allocating the purchase consideration of an acquired Cross currency swaps are used to hedge the Groups currency net assets business between the underlying fair values of the tangible assets, and to reduce the interest cost of borrowings in certain currencies.
The net exchange gains or losses on cross currency swaps are recorded Brands are not amortised, as it is considered that their useful economic on the balance sheet.
The movements in the balance sheet values are lives are not limited.
Their carrying values are reviewed annually by recorded in reserves to the extent that they hedge foreign currency the Directors to determine whether there has been any permanent net assets.
impairment in value and any such reductions in their values are taken Interest rate swaps and the interest rate swap element of cross to the profit and loss account.
The impairment review involves a currency swaps are not revalued to fair value or shown in the Groups comparison of the book amount with the higher of the net realisable balance sheet but are disclosed in the fair value table in note 26. value and the value in use.
The value in use is measured with reference Interest differentials are recognised by accruing the net interest to discounted cash ows based on future revenue and margin payable receivable in the profit and loss account.
The discount rate used in the 2002 brand impairment review Gains and losses on forward foreign exchange contracts are offset against was based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital including, the foreign exchange gains and losses on hedged financial assets where appropriate, an adjustment for the risks associated with the and liabilities.
Where the instrument is used to hedge against future relevant market.
transactions, gains and losses are deferred until the transaction occurs.
In accordance with FRS 10 Goodwill and Intangible Assets, as from Employee share schemes 4 January 1998, goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under share amortised on a straight line basis over periods not exceeding 20 years option and restricted share schemes.
Any shortfall between the cost to in line with the Directors view of their useful economic lives.
Goodwill the employee and the fair market value of the shares at date of grant written off to reserves prior to this date has not been reinstated.
is charged to the profit and loss account over the period to which the Payments made in respect of product registration and distribution rights performance criteria relate with the credit taken directly to the profit are capitalised where the rights comply with the above requirements for and loss reserve.
Additional employer costs in respect of options and recognition of acquired brands, and amortised over the expected period awards are charged to the profit and loss account over the same period of depletion.
with the credit included in creditors.
Where awards are contingent upon future events other than continued employment an assessment of the The profit or loss arising on the disposal of businesses acquired is likelihood of these conditions being achieved is made at the end of recognised in the accounts after taking into account any goodwill each reporting period and reected in the accounting entries made.
arising on acquisition which has not been previously written off Disclosures are provided in note 4 regarding the potential impact of in the profit and loss account.
These amounts have not been charged to the profit and loss Tangible xed assets account in 2002.
Tangible xed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Except for freehold land, the cost of properties, plant and equipment is written off on a straight line basis over the period of the expected useful life of the asset.
For this purpose, expected lives are determined within the following limits: Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2002 41
