Independent auditors report to the members of Reckitt Benckiser plc We have audited the financial statements which comprise the profit Basis of audit opinion and loss account, the balance sheets, the cash ow statement, the We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses, the by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on reconciliation of movements in total shareholders funds, the a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures accounting policies and the related notes.
We have also audited in the financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies remuneration report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant Act 1985 contained in the Report on Directors remuneration estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation the auditable part.
of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors and adequately disclosed.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Report on Directors remuneration and the financial statements in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide standards are set out in the statement of Directors responsibilities.
us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of the Report on Directors Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the remuneration are free from material misstatement, whether caused auditable part of the Directors remuneration report in accordance by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, the financial statements.
including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Opinion Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving In our opinion: this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose of the Company and the Group as at 31 December 2002 and of the hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent profit and cash ows of the Group for the year then ended: in writing.
the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements with the Companies Act 1985: and give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and those parts of the Report on Directors remuneration required the auditable part of the Directors remuneration report have been by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions is not  LLP disclosed.
Chartered Accountants We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and Registered Auditors and consider the implications for our report if we become aware London of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with 7 March 2003 the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review, the Operating Notes and Financial Review, the unaudited part of the Report on The maintenance and integrity of the Reckitt Benckiser website is the Directors remuneration and the Report of the Directors.
responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, We review whether the corporate governance statement reect the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the occurred to the financial statements since they were initially Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the presented on the website.
Financial Services Authority, and we report if they do not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in effectiveness of the Companys or Groups corporate governance other jurisdictions.
procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2002 39 Accounting policies Accounting convention of accounting for retirement benets, were to be implemented in 2003, The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention however these requirements have been postponed by the Accounting and in accordance with The Companies Act 1985 and applicable Standards Board to facilitate an orderly transition to International UK accounting standards.
There is no material difference between the result disclosed in the profit FRS 19 Deferred taxation has been adopted in these financial and loss account and the result on an unmodied historical cost basis statements.
As this represents a change in accounting policy, prior year and a note of historical cost profits and losses is not therefore included comparatives have been restated, as described in note 22. in these accounts.
The Group has presented disclosures under Financial Reporting Exposure Basis of consolidation Draft FRED 31 Share-Based Payment regarding the potential impact The accounts of the Group represent the consolidation of Reckitt on the Groups results had it been issued as an FRS.
Benckiser plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
The accounts of subsidiary Foreign currency translation undertakings which do not conform with Group policies are adjusted Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the on consolidation in order that the Group accounts may be presented on rate of exchange on the day the transaction occurs or at the contracted a consistent basis.
In the case of acquisitions and disposals of businesses, rate if the transaction is covered by a forward exchange contract.
the results of trading are consolidated from or to the date upon which control passes.
Assets and liabilities denominated in a foreign currency are translated at the exchange rate ruling on the balance sheet date or, if appropriate, The results and net assets of the Groups subsidiary in Zimbabwe have at a forward contract rate.
Exchange differences arising in the accounts been excluded from the consolidated Group results with effect from of individual undertakings are included in the profit and loss account 1 July 2002, on the basis that severe long-term restrictions exist that except that, where foreign currency borrowing has been used to hinder the exercise of the Groups rights over the assets employed, in finance equity investments in foreign currencies, exchange differences particular the remittance of funds.
The results for 2001 and the first half arising on the borrowing are dealt with through reserves to the extent of 2002 are included within discontinued and deconsolidated operations.
that they are covered by exchange differences arising on the net assets Results for the second half of 2002 and the balance sheet as at represented by the equity investments.
31 December 2002 are insignicant half year to 30 June 2002: net revenues of 13m, operating profit of 1m: 2001 full year: net revenues The accounts of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated into of 14m, operating profit of 2m.
Sterling on the following basis: Benckiser N. V. Shareholders Assets and liabilities at the rate of exchange ruling at the year end date.
The merger of Reckitt & Colman plc and Benckiser N. V. was completed profit and loss account items at the average rate of exchange for on 3 December 1999.
At the time of the merger Benckiser N. V. had the year.
two classes of shares: Benckiser A Common Shares A shares and Exchange differences arising on the translation of accounts into Sterling Benckiser B Shares B shares.
are recorded as movements on reserves.
Under the terms of the merger, the A shareholder agreed to exchange The accounts of subsidiaries operating in hyper-inationary environments its A shares for an equal number of A shares in Reckitt Benckiser are adjusted to reect current price levels before being translated Holdings BV.
Under a Shareholders Agreement, each Reckitt Benckiser into Sterling.
Holdings BV A Share was equivalent to five Reckitt Benckiser plc ordinary shares in terms of dividend and capital rights and, through The currencies that most inuence these translations and the relevant issue of a special share, voting rights.
exchange rates are: Under the Merger Agreement, the A shareholder had a right to 2002 2001 exchange its Reckitt Benckiser Holdings BV A Shares, at any time until 30 September 2005, into new Reckitt Benckiser plc shares on the Average rates: basis of five new Reckitt Benckiser plc ordinary shares for each Reckitt Euro 1.5893 1.6074 Benckiser Holdings BV A share.
US Dollar 1.5036 1.4404 Closing rates: On 19 and 23 December 2002, the A shareholder exercised its right to Euro 1.5345 1.6353 exchange the 13,655,000 A shares into Reckitt Benckiser plc ordinary US Dollar 1.6100 1.4546 shares.
Accordingly, 63,000,000 shares and 5,275,000 shares were issued and admitted to the Ofcial List on 27 December 2002 and 31 December 2002 respectively.
The rights attached to the special Net revenues voting share ceased following exchange, and the share will be Net revenues are dened as the amount invoiced to external customers cancelled in due course.
That is gross sales net of trade discounts and customer In order for the consolidated accounts to present a true and fair view allowances and exclusive of VAT and other sales-related taxes.
Net prior to the exchange, it was necessary to differ from the presentational revenues are recognised at the time products are dispatched to customers.
requirements of the Companies Act 1985 by including amounts Pension commitments attributable to the A shareholder in the capital and reserves section The cost of providing pensions to employees who are members of of the consolidated balance sheet.
The Companies Act would require dened contribution schemes is charged to the profit and loss account presentation of the capital and reserves attributable to the A as contributions are made.
shareholder as minority interests, but this presentation would not give a true and fair view of the Shareholders Agreement, under the terms For dened benefit schemes, the cost of providing benets is charged of which the A shareholder in substance ranks equally with the ordinary to the profit and loss account on a systematic basis, so as to spread the shareholders of Reckitt Benckiser plc.
cost over the average service lives of the employees in the schemes.
Actuarial surpluses and deficits arising are allocated over the average Adoption of new accounting policies and requirements expected remaining service lives of current employees.
Differences The transitional rules of Financial Reporting Standard FRS 17 between the amounts charged in the profit and loss account and Retirement benets require certain disclosures to be made in these payments made to pension schemes are treated as assets or liabilities.
The full requirements of the FRS, which will change the basis 40 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2002
