ACCOUNTING POLICIES The financial statements have been prepared in accordance c Turnover and profit recognition h Deferred taxation with applicable Accounting Standards in the United Kingdom.
Turnover represents sales of residential housing and Deferred tax is provided on timing differences arising A summary of the more important accounting policies is set commercial developments.
from the recognition of income and expenditure in different out below.
periods for taxation and accounting purposes where timing Profit is recognised on legal completion.
differences have originated but not reversed by the balance Changes in accounting policies sheet date in accordance with FRS19 Accounting for d Interest on borrowings The Group has adopted FRS19 Accounting for Deferred Deferred Taxation.
Interest is written off when incurred.
Taxation in the financial statements.
The adoption of this new standard represents a change in accounting policy and the Deferred tax is provided at the average tax rates that e Fixed assets comparative figures have been restated accordingly.
The effect are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing 1 Freehold properties are included at cost or valuation of this change in accounting policy was to increase tax on profit differences are expected to reverse.
as permitted under the transitional provisions of on ordinary activities by 0.3m 2001:2.6m and to decrease FRS 15.
The freehold land element is not depreciated Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that profit for the financial year by 0.3m 2001:2.6m.
whilst the buildings element is depreciated on a straight it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be line basis at an annual rate of 2%.
a Basis of accounting suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of The financial statements have been prepared under the the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred 2 All other assets are depreciated on a straight line basis historical cost convention, modified to include the tax assets and liabilities recognised have not been over their expected useful lives at the following revaluation of the investment in subsidiary companies.
principal annual rates: In accordance with FRS 15 Tangible Fixed Assets i Pension scheme Fixtures and fittings 20%-35% revaluations of freehold properties will not be undertaken The Group operates a contributory pension scheme for all but, as permitted under the transitional rules, the Group its staff.
The Scheme comprises two sections: a defined Plant and machinery 20% will continue to carry certain freehold properties at their benefits section and a defined contribution section.
The 3 The investment in subsidiary companies represents the existing revaluations less accumulated depreciation.
Scheme is externally invested and the funds of the Scheme book value of the underlying net assets, the surplus or are administered by trustees.
The Groups contributions to b Basis of preparation and consolidation deficit arising on the revaluation being transferred to the defined benefits section, which are made in accordance The Group financial statements incorporate the financial non-distributable reserves.
This basis of valuation with the recommendations of independent actuaries, are statements of Redrow plc and all its subsidiaries for has been adopted so as to present more fairly the charged against profits in accordance with Statement of the year ended 30 June 2002. investment by the Company in these companies.
Contributions to the defined contribution section are charged in the year in The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the f Stocks and work in progress which the contributions are made.
Further disclosures year are included from or up to the date of acquisition or Stocks and work in progress are stated at the lower of cost including those required under FRS 17 transitional rules are disposal.
On the acquisition of a subsidiary, fair values are and net realisable value less cash on account.
Cost includes contained within Note 7 to the financial statements.
attributed to the net assets acquired.
Prior to the materials, labour and sub-contract work.
introduction for the year ended June 1998 onwards of j Operating leases g Forward land FRS 10 Goodwill and Intangible Assets, the difference Costs in respect of operating leases are charged against All expenditure relating to forward land, including options, between the consideration paid and these values was profit on a straight line basis over the lease term.
is provided for when incurred.
After exercise of an transferred to reserves.
Since the introduction of FRS 10, option and acquisition of the land following the securing of the difference is capitalised and amortised.
k Treasury instruments planning permission, the provisions relating to that land are Hedge accounting principles are applied to these released.
instruments and the gains and losses are recognised in the profit and loss account within interest cost in the period to which they relate.
