NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN 11.
Special Resolution Special Business that the Annual General Meeting of Redrow plc will be held That, subject to the passing of Resolution 10 set out in the To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions of at St. Davids Park Hotel, St. Davids Park, Flintshire on Notice convening the Annual General Meeting at which which Resolution 10 will be proposed as an Ordinary Resolution 4 November 2002 commencing at 12 noon to transact the this resolution is to be considered and in place of any and Resolutions 11 and 12 will be proposed as Special following business: existing authority given pursuant to section 95 of the Resolutions: Companies Act 1985, the Directors be given power Ordinary Business 10.
Ordinary Resolution pursuant to section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to make 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors report and the That the Directors, in place of any existing authority allotments of equity securities as defined in section 94 of Financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2002, conferred upon them for the purpose of section 80 of the said Act pursuant to the authority contained in the together with the Auditors report.
the Companies Act 1985, be generally and unconditionally said Resolution 10 as if section 89 1 of the said Act did authorised pursuant to section 80 of the Companies Act not apply to such allotments provided that this power shall 2.
To receive and adopt the Remuneration Committee 1985 to exercise all powers of the Company to allot and be limited to: report.
to make offers or agreements to allot relevant securities i allotments of equity securities in connection with a as defined in section 80 of the said Act up to an aggregate 3.
To declare a final dividend for the year ended rights issue, being an offer of equity securities by way of nominal amount of 5,582,312 provided that this authority 30 June 2002. rights to ordinary shareholders of the Company in shall unless previously revoked or renewed expire on the 4.
To re-elect Mr J F Tutte as Director.
proportion as nearly as may be to their holdings date of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the but so that the Company may, before such expiry, make an 5.
To re-elect Mr B Duckworth as Director.
Directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation offer or agreement which would or might require relevant to fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems 6.
To re-elect Mr P L Pedley as Director.
securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors under the laws of or the requirements of any recognised may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such offer or 7.
To re-elect Mr N Fitzsimmons as Director.
regulatory body or stock exchange in any territory: agreement as if the authority had not expired.
To re-elect Mr B K Harvey as Director.
To re-appoint  as auditors and authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 56 Notes: ii any other allotments for cash of equity securities up to b the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary 1.
Proxies: A member entitled to attend and vote may appoint a proxy or a maximum nominal amount of 791,855 share is 10p exclusive of expenses payable by proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote instead of him.
A proxy need the Company: not be a member of the Company.
and shall unless previously revoked or renewed expire on the date which is the earlier of the next Annual General c the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary A form of proxy is enclosed which, if required, should be completed in accordance with the instructions set out therein and returned so as to Meeting of the Company or 4 February 2004, save that share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the reach the Companys Registrars not later than 48 hours before the time the said power shall permit the Company to make an offer middle market quotations for an ordinary share derived of the Meeting or any adjourned meeting.
Members who complete a or enter into an agreement before the expiry of such from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for form of proxy will not be precluded from attending the Meeting and power which would or might require equity securities to be the five business days immediately preceding the day voting in person if they so wish.
allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot on which the ordinary share is purchased exclusive of 2.
Documents available for inspection: equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as expenses payable by the Company : and The Register of Directors interests will be available for inspection at the if such power conferred had not expired.
place of the Meeting from 12 noon on 4 November 2002 until the d the authority conferred shall expire at the conclusion of conclusion of the Meeting.
Special Resolution the next Annual General Meeting of the Company 3.
Directors Service Contracts: None of the Directors has a service That, pursuant to Article 10 of the Companys Articles of or 4 February 2004 whichever shall be the earlier contract which cannot be terminated within one year without payment Association, the Company is generally and unconditionally except that the Company may before such expiry make of compensation.
authorised, in accordance with section 166 of the a contract to purchase its own shares which will or may 4.
The Company specifies, pursuant to Regulation 34 of the Uncertificated Companies Act 1985, to make market purchases within be completed or executed wholly or partly after Securities Regulations 1995, that only those shareholders registered in the meaning of section 163 3 of the said Act of ordinary such expiry.
the Register of Members of the Company as at 6pm on 1 November 2002 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the Meeting in respect of the shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company ordinary number of shares registered in their respective names at that time.
shares on such terms and in such manner as the Directors Changes to entries on the Register after that time will be disregarded in may from time to time determine provided that: By order of the Board determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the Meeting.
a the maximum number of ordinary shares authorised to R E Walker Secretary be purchased is 15,837,103.
9 September 2002 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 57
