140350 pp70-81 27 2 03 8:42 pm Page 77 REED ELSEVIER NV Accounting policies Reed Elsevier NVs investments in the In the financial statements of Reed Basis of preparation Reed Elsevier combined businesses are Elsevier NV, balance sheet amounts These statutory financial statements accounted for using the gross equity expressed in foreign currencies are report the profit and loss account, cash method, as adjusted for the effects of the translated at the exchange rates effective flow and financial position of Reed equalisation arrangement between Reed at the balance sheet date.
Currency Elsevier NV, and have been prepared in Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV.
The translation differences arising from the accordance with generally accepted arrangement lays down the distribution conversion of investments in joint accounting principles in the Netherlands.
of dividends and net assets in such a way ventures, expressed in foreign currencies, Unless otherwise indicated, all amounts that Reed Elsevier NVs share in the profit are directly credited or charged to shown in the financial statements are in and net assets of the Reed Elsevier shareholders funds.
All Tax is calculated on profit from Reed The accounting policies which have been settlements accruing to shareholders Elsevier NVs own operations, taking into applied consistently throughout the year from the equalisation arrangement are account profit not subject to tax.
The and the preceding year are summarised taken directly to reserves.
difference between the tax charge and tax below.
Because the dividend paid to payable in the short term is included in The financial statements have been shareholders by Reed Elsevier NV is the provision for deferred tax.
This prepared under the historical cost equivalent to the Reed Elsevier PLC provision is based upon relevant rates, convention in accordance with applicable dividend plus the UK tax credit, Reed taking into account tax deductible losses, accounting standards.
Elsevier NV normally distributes a higher which can be compensated within the proportion of the combined profit foreseeable future.
The basis of the merger of the attributable than Reed Elsevier PLC.
businesses of Reed Elsevier PLC and Other assets and liabilities are stated at Reed Elsevier PLCs share in this Reed Elsevier NV is set out on page 12. face value.
difference in dividend distributions is As a consequence of the merger of the settled with Reed Elsevier NV and has companys businesses with those of Reed been credited directly to reserves under Elsevier PLC, described on page 12, the equalisation.
shareholders of Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier NV can pay a nominal Reed Elsevier PLC can be regarded as dividend on its R-shares that is lower having the interests of a single economic than the dividend on the ordinary shares.
group, enjoying substantially equivalent Reed Elsevier PLC will be compensated ordinary dividend and capital rights in the by direct dividend payments by Reed earnings and net assets of the Reed Elsevier Group plc.
Equally, Reed Elsevier Elsevier combined businesses.
NV has the possibility to receive dividends Reed Elsevier NV holds a majority directly from Dutch affiliates.
The interest in Elsevier Reed Finance BV settlements flowing from these 61% and is therefore required to prepare arrangements are also taken directly to consolidated financial statements.
However, management believes that a better insight into the financial position Other accounting policies and results of Reed Elsevier NV is The accounting policies adopted in the provided by looking at the investment in preparation of the combined financial the combined businesses in aggregate, statements are set out on pages 26 as presented in the Reed Elsevier and 27. combined financial statements on pages 26 to 53.
Therefore, the Reed Elsevier These include policies in relation to combined financial statements form part goodwill and intangible assets.
Such of the notes to Reed Elsevier NVs assets are amortised over their estimated statutory financial statements.
useful economic lives, which due to their longevity, may be for periods in excess of five years.
REED ELSEVIER ANNUAL REPORTS & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2002 77
