140350 pp24-53 27 2 03 8:41 pm Page 26 COMBINED FINANCIAL ST COMBINED FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS Accounting policies Basis of preparation differences between balance sheet and which would become payable on the The equalisation agreement between profit and loss account rates are taken to distribution of retained profits by foreign Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV reserves.
subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures, has the effect that their shareholders can unless there is an intention to distribute Transactions entered into in foreign be regarded as having the interests of a such retained earnings giving rise to a currencies are recorded at the exchange single economic group.
Deferred tax assets are only rates applicable at the time of the combined financial statements the recognised to the extent that they are transaction.
The results of hedging combined financial statements considered recoverable in the short term.
transactions for profit and loss amounts represent the combined interests of both Deferred taxation balances are not in foreign currency are accounted for in sets of shareholders and encompass the discounted.
the profit and loss account to match the businesses of Reed Elsevier Group plc underlying transaction.
and Elsevier Reed Finance BV and their Goodwill and intangible assets respective subsidiaries, associates and The principal exchange rates used are set On the acquisition of a subsidiary, joint ventures, together with the parent out in note 27. associate, joint venture or business, the companies, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed purchase consideration is allocated Elsevier NV the combined businesses.
Turnover between the underlying net tangible and Turnover represents the invoiced value of These financial statements are presented intangible assets on a fair value basis, sales less anticipated returns on under the historical cost convention and with any excess purchase consideration transactions completed by performance, in accordance with applicable UK and representing goodwill.
excluding customer sales taxes and sales Dutch Generally Accepted Accounting between the combined businesses.
Acquired goodwill and intangible assets Principles GAAP.
are capitalised and amortised Sales are recognised for the various These financial statements form part of systematically over their estimated useful revenue sources as follows: subscriptions the statutory information to be provided lives up to a maximum of 40 years, over the period of the subscription: by Reed Elsevier NV, but are not for a subject to annual impairment review.
For circulation on despatch: advertising legal entity and do not include all the the majority of acquired goodwill and on publication or period of online display: information required to be disclosed by a intangible assets, the maximum exhibitions on exhibition date: company in its financial statements estimated useful life is 20 years, which is educational testing contracts on under the UK Companies Act 1985 or the rebuttable presumption under UK and performance against delivery milestones.
In view of the longevity of is given in the annual reports and the goodwill and intangible assets Development spend financial statements of the parent relating to the Harcourt publishing Development spend incurred on the companies set out on pages 56 to 81. business acquired in July 2001, and of launch of new products or services is A list of principal businesses is set out certain previously acquired goodwill and expensed to the profit and loss account on page 93. intangible assets within science and as incurred.
medical publishing, similar in nature to In addition to the figures required to be The cost of developing application the Harcourt assets, this presumption reported by applicable accounting infrastructure and product delivery has been rebutted in respect of these standards, adjusted profit and operating platforms is capitalised as a tangible assets and a maximum estimated useful cash flow figures have been presented as fixed asset and written off over the life of 40 years determined.
The longevity additional performance measures.
of these assets is evidenced by their long Adjusted profit is shown before the established and well regarded brands amortisation of goodwill and intangible Pensions and imprints, and their characteristically assets and exceptional items.
Adjusted The expected costs of pensions in respect stable market positions.
operating cash flow is measured after of defined benefit pension schemes are dividends from joint ventures, tangible Intangible assets comprise publishing charged to the profit and loss account so fixed asset spend and proceeds from the rights and titles, databases, exhibition as to spread the cost over the service sale of tangible fixed assets, but before rights and other intangible assets, which lives of employees in the schemes.
are stated at fair value on acquisition and Actuarial surpluses and deficits are are not subsequently revalued.
allocated over the average expected Foreign exchange translation remaining service lives of employees.
The combined financial statements are Pension costs are assessed in Tangible fixed assets presented in both pounds sterling and accordance with the advice of qualified Tangible fixed assets are stated in the euros.
For defined contribution balance sheet at cost less accumulated Balance sheet items are translated at schemes, the profit and loss account depreciation.
No depreciation is provided charge represents contributions made.
year end exchange rates and profit and on freehold land.
loss account items are translated at Freehold buildings and long leases are average exchange rates.
Exchange Taxation depreciated over their estimated useful translation differences on foreign equity Deferred taxation is provided in full for lives up to a maximum of 50 years.
Short investments and the related foreign timing differences using the liability leases are written off over the duration of currency net borrowings and on method.
No provision is made for tax 26 REED ELSEVIER ANNUAL REPORTS & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2002 140350 pp24-53 27 2 03 8:41 pm Page 27 COMBINED FINANCIAL ST COMBINED FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Accounting policies continued the lease.
Plant, equipment and Finance leases payable and interest receivable in the computer systems are depreciated on a Assets held under leases which confer profit and loss account.
Gains and losses straight line basis at rates from 5%33%.
rights and obligations similar to those on foreign exchange hedges, other than attaching to owned assets are capitalised in relation to net currency borrowings as tangible fixed assets and the hedging equity investments, are Investments corresponding liability to pay rentals is recognised in the profit and loss account Fixed asset investments in joint ventures shown net of interest in the accounts as on maturity of the underlying transaction.
and associates are accounted for under obligations under finance leases.
The Gains and losses on net currency the gross equity and equity methods capitalised values of the assets are borrowings hedging equity investments respectively.
Other fixed asset written off on a straight line basis over are taken to reserves.
Gains and losses investments are stated at cost, less the shorter of the periods of the leases or arising on hedging instruments that are provision, if appropriate, for any the useful lives of the assets concerned.
closed out due to the cessation of the impairment in value.
Short term The interest element of the lease underlying exposure are taken directly to investments are stated at the lower of payments is allocated so as to produce a the profit and loss account.
cost and net realisable value.
constant periodic rate of charge.
Currency swap agreements are valued at Inventories and pre-publication costs exchange rates ruling at the balance Inventories and pre-publication costs are Operating leases sheet date with net gains and losses stated at the lower of cost, including Operating lease rentals are charged to being included within short term appropriate attributable overheads, and the profit and loss account on a straight investments or borrowings.
Interest estimated net realisable value.
Preline basis over the period of the leases.
payable and receivable arising from the publication costs, representing costs swap is accounted for on an accruals incurred in the origination of content basis over the life of the swap.
Financial instruments prior to publication, are expensed Payments and receipts on interest rate Finance costs associated with debt systematically over the economic lives of hedges are accounted for on an accruals issuances are charged to the profit and the related products, generally up to five basis over the lives of the hedges and loss account over the life of the related years.
included respectively within interest borrowings.
REED ELSEVIER ANNUAL REPORTS & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2002 27
