140350 pp54-69 27 2 03 8:42 pm Page 59 REED ELSEVIER PL COMBINED FINANCIAL ST C ATEMENTS NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Accounting policies Basis of preparation The accounting policies adopted in the These statutory financial statements preparation of the combined financial report the profit and loss account, cash statements are set out on pages 26 flow and financial position of Reed and 27.
Elsevier PLC, and have been prepared in accordance with UK generally accepted Basis of valuation of assets and liabilities accounting principles.
Unless otherwise Reed Elsevier PLCs 52.9% economic indicated, all amounts shown in the interest in the net assets of the combined financial statements are in millions of businesses has been shown on the pounds.
balance sheet as interests in joint ventures, net of the assets and liabilities The financial statements have been reported as part of Reed Elsevier PLC prepared under the historical cost and its subsidiaries.
Joint ventures are convention in accordance with applicable accounted for using the gross equity accounting standards.
The basis of the merger of the In the parent company accounts, businesses of Reed Elsevier PLC and investments are stated at cost, less Reed Elsevier NV is set out on page 12. provision, if appropriate, for any As permitted by section 230 of the impairment in value.
Companies Act 1985, the Company has not presented its own profit and loss Foreign exchange translation account.
Profit and loss items are translated at average exchange rates.
In the Determination of profit consolidated balance sheet, assets and The Reed Elsevier PLC share of the Reed liabilities are translated at rates ruling at Elsevier combined results has been the balance sheet date or contracted calculated on the basis of the 52.9% rates where applicable.
The gains or economic interest of the Reed Elsevier losses relating to the retranslation of PLC shareholders in the Reed Elsevier Reed Elsevier PLCs 52.9% economic combined businesses, after taking interest in the net assets of the combined account of results arising in Reed businesses are taken directly to reserves.
Elsevier PLC and its subsidiary undertakings.
Dividends paid to Reed Taxation Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV Deferred taxation is provided in full for shareholders are equalised at the gross timing differences using the liability level inclusive of the UK tax credit method.
No provision is made for tax received by certain Reed Elsevier PLC which might become payable on the shareholders.
In the financial statements, distribution of retained profits by foreign an adjustment is required to equalise the subsidiaries or joint ventures unless benefit of the tax credit between the two there is an intention to distribute such sets of shareholders in accordance with retained earnings giving rise to a charge.
This Deferred tax assets are only recognised equalisation adjustment arises on to the extent that they are considered dividends paid by Reed Elsevier PLC to its recoverable in the short term.
Deferred shareholders and reduces the taxation balances are not discounted.
attributable earnings of the company by 47.1% of the total amount of the tax credit.
REED ELSEVIER ANNUAL REPORTS & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2002 59
