6005 Text 50 74 5 4 03 9:04 am Page 73 Notice is hereby given that the seventy-sixth annual general meeting of Rentokil Initial plc will be held at The British Notice of meeting NOTICE OF MEETING Library, 96 Euston Road, London NW1 2DB on 29th May 2003 at 10.30 a. m. 1.
To receive the Report of the Directors, the accounts for 2002 and the Auditors Report thereon.
To approve the Remuneration Report.
4. i To re-elect a director retiring by rotation, Sir Clive Thompson chairman : ii To re-elect a director retiring by rotation, Mr R C Payne finance director : 5. i To elect Mr P J Long a non-executive director and a member of the audit and remuneration committees as a director.
ii To elect Mr P Mason as a non-executive director.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution, special notice having been received of the intention to propose the resolution as an ordinary resolution: 6.
That  LLP be re-appointed auditors of the company having previously been appointed by the board to fill the casual vacancy arising by reason of the resignation of , to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the company and that their remuneration be determined by the directors.
To increase the annual fees of the board from a maximum of 500,000 to a maximum of 1,000,000.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following special resolution: 8.
That, in substitution for existing authorities, the company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 of that Act of Ordinary shares of 1p each in the capital of the Company provided that: i the maximum number of Ordinary shares which may be purchased is 277,417,587: ii notwithstanding paragraph i above, the company may not make market purchases pursuant to the authority conferred by this Resolution of such number of Ordinary shares as in aggregate amounts to 15 per cent, or more of the number of Ordinary shares which are in issue immediately following the general meeting or any adjournment thereof at which this Resolution is passed: iii the minimum price which may be paid for each Ordinary share exclusive of expenses is 1p: RENTOKIL INITIAL PLC 73 6005 Text 50 74 5 4 03 9:04 am Page 74 iv the maximum price which may be paid for each Ordinary share is an amount exclusive of expenses equal to NOTICE OF MEETING 105 per cent.
of the average of the middle market quotations for an Ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which such Ordinary share is contracted to be purchased: and v this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the company in 2004 or, if earlier, on 29th August 2004 except in relation to the purchase of shares the contract for which was entered into before the expiry of this authority and which might be executed wholly or partly after such expiry.
To transact any other business of the company.
By order of the board 14th April 2003 Registered Office: Felcourt, East Grinstead R Ward-Jones West Sussex RH19 2JY Secretary Registered No.
Following the conversion of  to a Limited Liability Partnership LLP from 1st January 2003,  resigned as auditors, and the directors appointed  LLP to fill the casual vacancy created by the resignation.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the company.
Only those persons who are on the share register 48 hours before the time of the meeting shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting.
Shares held in uncertified form i. e. in CREST may be voted through the CREST Proxy Voting Service in accordance with the procedures set out in the CREST manual.
A copy, or a memorandum of the terms, of every service contract between the company or any of its subsidiaries and any director of the company is available for inspection at the companys registered office and at the offices of Denton Wilde Sapte, One Fleet Place, London EC4M 7WS, during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excepted until 29th May 2003 and will also be available for inspection at the place of the annual general meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
The annual general meeting is being held at The British Library, 96 Euston Road, London NW1 2DB see map on proxy card.
The nearest underground stations are Kings Cross and Euston.
