Accounting policies Basis of accounting joint ventures and associated undertakings up Grants Principal accounting policies to 31 December is included in the Group Grants received from governments and other The Group accounts are prepared in profit and loss account on the basis of audited agencies, where they relate to expenditure accordance with applicable United Kingdom financial statements or, where these are not on fixed assets or are to finance the activities Accounting Standards.
A summary of the available, on the basis of unaudited of the Group over a number of years, are more important Group accounting policies management accounts.
recognised in the profit and loss account over follows.
These policies have been applied the expected useful economic lives of the consistently.
The Group has adopted FRS 19 Depreciation related assets or over that number of years, Deferred Tax for the year ended 31 December Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost and to the extent not so recognised are 2002 and prior year comparatives have been of tangible fixed assets over their expected treated as deferred income.
The Group has adopted the useful lives.
The expected useful lives of the intended to give immediate financial support transitional provisions allowed under FRS 17 assets to the business are reassessed or assistance or which are made to reimburse Retirement Benefits, these disclosures are periodically in the light of experience.
Annual costs incurred, are included in the profit and reported in Note 9 e. The Group accounts are rates of depreciation most widely used are: loss account so as to match with those costs prepared using the historical cost convention.
in the period in which they become receivable.
Land and buildings % Group accounts Freehold buildings 25 Deferred taxation The Group accounts comprise the audited Leasehold land and buildings 25 The Group has adopted FRS 19 Deferred accounts of the parent company and all its or over the life of the lease if shorter Tax, whereby provision for deferred tax is subsidiary undertakings made up to made on all timing differences that have 31 December, together with the Groups share Plant, machinery and equipment % originated, but not reversed at the balance of the results of its principal joint ventures and Fixed 2.510 sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is regarded associated undertakings.
Where necessary, the Mobile 12.5 as recoverable and therefore recognised only accounts of subsidiary undertakings, joint Motor vehicles 20 when it is regarded as more likely than not ventures and associated undertakings are that there will be sufficient future taxable adjusted to reflect Group accounting policies.
Excess depreciation arising on the disposal profits.
Deferred tax is not discounted.
A Where subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures of plant, machinery and equipment, and prior year adjustment has been made and and associated undertakings are acquired or motor vehicles, unless material, is included comparative figures have been restated.
disposed of during the year, the Group profit in operating profit.
Freehold land is not and loss account reflects their results from the depreciated.
The cost of mineral deposits is Pensions date of acquisition or to the date of disposal.
depleted in the proportion which the The expected costs of pensions are provided production for the year bears to the latest on systematic and rational bases over the Turnover estimates of mineral reserves.
When a review period of service of members of the schemes, Turnover is recognised as goods are invoiced for impairment is conducted, the recoverable so that pension charges represent a consistent to customers, which is normally at the point amount is assessed by reference to the net proportion of the related payroll costs.
It excludes salespresent value of expected future cash flows of related taxes and intra-Group transactions.
the relevant income generating unit.
The Operating leases discount rate applied is based upon the Costs incurred in respect of operating leases Joint ventures and associated Groups weighted average cost of capital with are charged in arriving at the operating profit undertakings appropriate adjustment for the risks associated for the year.
Joint ventures are undertakings in which with the relevant unit.
the Group holds an interest on a long-term Goodwill basis and which are jointly controlled by the Property disposals Goodwill arising on acquisitions made from Group, generally holding 50% of voting Property disposals, including depleted 1 January 1998 is capitalised and amortised rights, and one or more other parties under aggregates deposits, are regarded as part of over 20 years or over its estimated useful a contractual arrangement.
Associated the ordinary activities of the Group.
The life, if shorter in accordance with FRS 10. undertakings are those undertakings in which results of the Property division are disclosed Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of the Group has a participating interest of at separately in the segmental analysis by investment in new subsidiaries, joint ventures least 20% of voting rights and in which, in business.
Disposals of properties are included and associated undertakings over the fair the opinion of the Directors, the Group when contracts have been exchanged before value of net assets acquired.
The Group has exercises a significant influence in the end of the financial year and when elected as a matter of policy not to reinstate management without having joint control completion is due to take place within six goodwill written off to reserves prior to 1998. such as would require the undertaking to be months of that date.
Refer to the depreciation note above, in accounted for as a joint venture.
The Groups respect to the Groups policy on impairments.
share of turnover and results of its principal Profits or losses on disposals of businesses include attributable goodwill to the extent that it has not previously been charged in the profit and loss account with a corresponding credit being taken to reserves.
Annual Report and Accounts 2002 RMC Group 41 Accounting policies continued Stocks Investments of the relevant cash flows are valued at the Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net Investments held as current assets are valued relevant forward exchange rate, otherwise realisable value.
Work in progress is mainly in at the lower of cost or market value.
Profits gains or losses associated with the forward respect of short-term contracts which are or losses on sales are included in investment contract are deferred until they are realised.
Provision is made for any losses income for the year.
Fixed asset investments Where such forward exchange contracts expected to arise on completion of such are valued at cost less amounts written off.
cease to hedge future cash flows they are contracts.
Cost comprises direct materials, revalued at market rate with any gain or loss direct labour and appropriate production Provisions recognised in the profit and loss account.
Net realisable value comprises the Provisions are held in the balance sheets of Any premium paid to acquire a financial estimated selling price, less further production certain foreign Group undertakings covering instrument is recognised in the profit and loss costs to completion and appropriate selling their pension obligations.
The estimated costs account over the life of the instrument with and distribution costs.
Provision is made for of reinstating aggregate-bearing land are any unamortised premium at the time of obsolescent, slow-moving and defective stocks.
provided over the period of mineral extraction.
termination or cancellation immediately Where there is a legal obligation to recognised in the profit and loss account.
Debtors decommission plant or to monitor landfill All known bad debts in respect of trade sites, the costs of decommissioning debtors are written off or fully provided for.
monitoring are provided in full as soon as the obligation arises, with an equal and opposite Finance lease receivables amount being capitalised as a fixed asset and Income from finance leasing contracts, being amortised over the period the sites are the excess of total rentals received over the operated.
cost of the net investment in finance leasing contracts, is taken to profit in accordance with Financial instruments the investment period method of accounting The Group uses financial instruments primarily in direct relationship to the reducing capital to manage its exposure to fluctuations in invested during the primary leasing period.
currency exchange rates and interest rates.
Amounts written off the net investment in Principal instruments used are cross currency such leases are calculated to write off the cost swaps, interest rate swaps and forward over the primary periods of the contracts.
Cross currency swaps are used to manage the currency Foreign currencies profile of the Groups net debt and interest Assets and liabilities of subsidiaries and rate swaps are used to manage the interest interests in joint ventures and associated rate profile of the Groups net financial undertakings in foreign currencies are liabilities.
Currency assets and liabilities translated into sterling at rates of exchange inherent in cross currency swaps used to ruling at the end of the financial year and the hedge the net investment in foreign results of foreign subsidiaries, joint ventures subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated and associated undertakings are translated at undertakings are revalued at the closing rate the average rate of exchange for the year.
of exchange with the resulting gain or loss Differences on exchange arising from the recognised in the statement of total retranslation to closing rates of the opening recognised gains and losses.
In the event that net investment in subsidiary companies, cross currency swaps are not, or cease to be, loans designated as hedges, and from the treated as hedges of such net investments, translation of the results of those companies the gain or loss on currency revaluation is at average rates, are taken to reserves and are recognised in the profit and loss account.
reported in the statement of total recognised Interest payments and receipts and interest gains and losses.
All other foreign exchange differentials associated with cross currency differences are taken to the profit and loss swaps and interest rate swaps are treated as account in the year in which they arise.
interest in the profit and loss account and accrued over time.
Forward foreign exchange contracts are used to fix the local currency value of cash flows arising other than in local currency.
Assets and liabilities in anticipation RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2002 42
