Principal subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associated undertakings at 31 December 2002 Place of incorporation Activity and operation Principal subsidiary undertakings Great Britain The Rugby Group Limited Cement United Kingdom Hales Waste Control Limited Waste control United Kingdom RMC Aggregates UK Limited Aggregates United Kingdom RMC Building Products UK Limited Building products United Kingdom RMC Group Services Limited Central services United Kingdom RMC Readymix Limited Ready mixed concrete United Kingdom RMC UK Limited Building materials United Kingdom Germany Readymix AG Holding company building materials Germany Readymix Kies und Beton AG Ready mixed concrete Germany Readymix Betonbauteile GmbH Concrete products Germany Readymix Kies GmbH Aggregates Germany Rest of Europe Readymix Kies-Union AG 89.5% Holding company building materials Austria N. V. Readymix-Belgium SA Ready mixed concrete and aggregates Belgium Dalmacijacement-RMC Group d. d. 99.2% Cement Croatia v Readymix CR s. r. o.
Holding company building materials Czech Republic 4K-Beton A S Ready mixed concrete Denmark RMC France SAS Holding company France Danubiusbeton Kft Holding company building materials Hungary - Broceni A S 87.3% Cement Latvia RMC Holdings B. V. Holding company Netherlands Readymix plc 62.1% Ready mixed concrete, aggregates and Republic of Ireland concrete products Readymix Asland SA 50% Ready mixed concrete and aggregates Spain Betecna-Beto Pronto, S. A.
50% Ready mixed concrete and aggregates Portugal Cementownia Rudniki S. A.
Cement Poland Cementownia Chelm S. A.
Cement Poland RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2002 76 Place of incorporation Activity and operation United States of America RMC Industries Corporation Holding company United States of America RMC Carolina Materials, Inc. Ready mixed concrete and concrete products United States of America RMC Allied Readymix, Inc. Ready mixed concrete and concrete products United States of America Metromont Materials, LLC Ready mixed concrete and concrete products United States of America Metromont Prestress Company 80% Prestress concrete products United States of America RMC South Florida, Inc. Ready mixed concrete, concrete products United States of America and aggregates RMC Ewell, Inc. Ready mixed concrete and concrete products United States of America Jobe Concrete Products, Inc. Ready mixed concrete, aggregates and asphalt United States of America RMC Pacific Materials, Inc. Ready mixed concrete, aggregates and cement United States of America Krehling Industries, Inc. Ready mixed concrete and concrete products United States of America Rest of the World Adelaide Brighton Ltd 55% Cement, ready mixed concrete and lime Australia RMC Topmix LLC Ready mixed concrete and aggregates United Arab Emirates Readymix Industries Israel Ready mixed concrete and concrete products Israel Limited 67.55% RMC Industries Malaysia Sdn.
Bhd Ready mixed concrete, aggregates and asphalt Malaysia Issued Ordinary Place of incorporation Activity share capital and operation Principal joint ventures RMC Readymix India Private Ready mixed concrete and aggregates INR 540,000,000 India Limited 50% Lime and Stone Production Ready mixed concrete, aggregates NIS 36,700,000 Israel Company Limited 50% lime, asphalt and concrete products Principal associated undertakings Sievert AG & Co 24.5% Ready mixed concrete and 35,790,981 Germany concrete products Huttig Building Products, Inc. 29.3% Distribution $196,459 United States of America Notes to the principal subsidiary undertakings, principal joint ventures and associated undertakings 1.
The information provided above is given only for principal subsidiary undertakings that had a material effect on the consolidated results to 31 December 2002, in accordance with Section 231 5 a of the Companies Act 1985.
Unless otherwise stated the RMC Group holds 100% of the issued Ordinary share capital.
Readymix Asland SA and Betecna-Beto Pronto, S. A. are both consolidated on the basis of management control.
There is no loan capital in the principal joint ventures and associated undertakings.
The shares of the subsidiary undertakings and the joint ventures and associated undertakings so marked are held by subsidiary undertakings of RMC Group p. l. c. 5.
Undertakings not audited by the Auditors,  LLP.
The Groups interests in Readymix Industries Israel Ltd comprise 67.55% of both Ordinary and Preferred shares.
Annual Report and Accounts 2002 RMC Group 77
