INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to Independent auditors report to the members of The Sage Group plc the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also includes an assessment We have audited the financial statements which comprise the consolidated profit and loss of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of account, the consolidated balance sheet, the company balance sheet, the consolidated the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses, the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders funds and the related notes.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also the statement of directors responsibilities.
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with relevant legal Opinion and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Practices Board and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
This opinion has Company and the Group at 30 September 2002 and of the profit and cash flows of the been prepared for and only for the Companys members in accordance with Section 235 of Group for the year then ended and have been properly prepared in accordance with the the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept Companies Act 1985. or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or in to whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent  in writing.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Newcastle upon Tyne We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to 3 December 2002 you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans and Chief Executives Review, the Financial Review, the Directors Report and the Corporate Governance Statement.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys or Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
1 Overview 2 Chairmans and Chief Executives Review 16 Directors and Advisers 18 Financial Review 20 Directors Report 23 Corporate Governance Statement 26 Remuneration and Succession Committee Report 29 Independent Auditors Report 30 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 31 Consolidated Balance Sheet 32 Company Balance Sheet 33 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 34 Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses p 28 34 Reconciliation of Movements in Equity Shareholders Funds 35 Notes to the Accounts 56 Notice of Meeting 57 Financial Calendar p 29
