3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 13 3 2003 18:27 Page INS14 ll our customers have expressed great The contract also requires a sensitive and the organisation.
Regular internal audits provide satisfaction with our service since we responsible approach to the wellbeing of other assurance to management at all levels.
A A won the original contract in 1996.
The stakeholders our own employees, MOD centralised information reporting system provides new 110m three-year contract, negotiated personnel and neighbouring communities as a vehicle for problem solving and spreads best between August and November 2002, will take we transport fuel and explosives in the marine practice rapidly across all parts of the operation.
our service into its tenth year.
Management reviews at contract and support contract is fundamentally different.
Its designed office levels provide the structure for setting to prepare the way for a future public private Our safety management system integrates objectives and implementing new initiatives for partnership and PFI procurement programme and operational maritime safety, occupational safety improvement.
involves us in developing an innovative partnering and health and environmental protection along arrangement with the WSA.
It addresses both marine and onshore legislation, meets the Over the next three years well be working closely Code for ship safety and pollution prevention, with the WSA in consultation with employees and is certified to ISO 9001-2000 by Lloyds and their representatives to devise radical new Register.
ways of providing the MOD with marine services that will reduce costs over the long term.
Our Its based on stringent hazard identification and ability to establish this kind of relationship reflects risk assessment processes, and underpinned by the way customers trust Serco to balance the comprehensive training programmes for all staff long term interests of stakeholders and seek at the three ports.
Everyone is involved in safety, genuine win-win solutions.
and communication flows freely throughout 3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 13 3 2003 18:27 Page INS15 HOW do WE manage our responsibilities TO stakeholders?
3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 13 3 2003 18:27 Page INS16 our safety management system integrates operational maritime safety, occupational safety and health and environmental protection along with quality management principles.
3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 13 3 2003 18:27 Page 62 3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 11 3 2003 22:08 Page 63 63 HOW do WE WHAT KIND DEVELOP of a BUSINESS OUR people?
two kinds of product: our processes and our people.
To achieve our business goals we a want to excel on both counts.
Needless to say, weve developed systematic processes for developing our people.
We encourage them to learn and grow throughout their careers.
new people as we phase-in new contracts, weve devised ways of helping them assimilate our values and buy into the unique Serco culture.
And because we have such a diverse portfolio of contracts, our training and development processes are designed to produce managers who are versatile, WHAT YOU ARE READING now is not the finished copy.
The copy you are now reading flexible and inventive.
is set out to show you the TYPEFACE AND THE TYPESIZE in which the real copy will appear.
The real copy has been typed separately and will not be set until it has received FINAL APPROVAL.
The text has been placed here to show you the position where the text will appear and how much area it takes up on the page.
What you are reading now is not the FINISHED COPY.
3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 11 3 2003 22:09 Page 64 64 HOW DO WE DEVELOP OUR PEOPLE?
Instilling the values Whatever the method, the key criterion is relevance: can Change management is one of our core capabilities, and people apply their newly acquired skills back at work?
we constantly refine our processes for inspiring culture Hence our enthusiasm for linking performance reviews and change as we phase-in new contracts.
Research in 2002 found that the majority of people who attended our training workshops used their We do this through the Serco Best Practice Centre SBPC, newly acquired skills back at work within a very short time, which works not only with our own businesses but also and that their attendance at the workshop was part of a with their partners.
At Wishaw General Hospital, for example, wider development plan.
We encourage contract managers we worked with the local management team on workshops to work with their management teams on devolving designed to embed the Serco culture and values.
This helped responsibility and developing their own successors: the new organisation to get off to a successful start and meet individual learning is a crucial part of this process.
In the Middle East recently, the SBPC staged workshops with a prospective joint As Serco becomes increasingly global, distance learning is venture partner so we could share insights into each others likely to become more important.
Were currently investing businesses and processes.
This enabled us to develop a novel in solutions that will enable us to deploy and track learning in business solution based on a clear understanding of our geographically diverse locations enabling us to reach all our differing capabilities.
Combined with effective diagnostic tools, including performance appraisal and development centres, With new contracts, we can begin winning hearts and minds this will ensure we deliver learning solutions that meet even before the phase-in starts.
During 2002 we developed todays business needs and help us anticipate future needs.
a Serco Orientation CD-Rom to help people gain a firmer grasp of what we are and how we work particularly if Learning to lead theyre about to join Serco under a new contract phase-in.
One such forward-looking solution is the senior management programme weve developed with the Institute of Directors IoD.
It can be sent anywhere, and early feedback suggests that its Combining the best available external expertise with our own a successful way to start building relationships and helping experience and capability, the programme is underpinned by people to see where they fit in, what we can achieve together external assessment that may lead to Chartered Director status.
and how they can contribute within the Serco culture.
Initiatives like this reflect our desire to provide the combination Gaining the skills of personal and business capability that makes great business Distance-learning, using CD-Roms or our intranet, is just leadership.
In a business like ours, with its relatively flat one of many channels we use, from highly structured training hierarchy and high degree of autonomy at contract management environments to broader based learning on the job.
We aim to level, its essential to help our managers acquire real leadership identify and use the most effective method for the individual, ability and inspire it in others.
We continue to develop tools the business and the skills being taught.
to help all our teams identify potential and develop capability.
3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 11 3 2003 22:09 Page 65 65 INSIDE STORY HOW do WE DEVELOP OUR people?
On all our contracts, continuous improvement is part of the package.
"We constantly ask ourselves: ""Is there a better way to do this?"
Or should we be doing something else instead?
Were passionate about innovation, and always willing to work with quality partners who can enhance our capability.
Its an approach that works well for our customers and equally well when we apply it internally.
In the past year, its helped to transform the way we develop our future top managers 3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 11 3 2003 22:09 Page 66 HOW do WE DEVELOP OUR people?
Directors in the pipeline Institute of Directors Nobody in Serco is too senior to need training.
In a fast-changing world, we believe lifelong learning is a business necessity.
Towards the end of 2001, we reviewed the various options for developing our current and future senior managers and decided we needed something new.
The result was a unique programme weve developed with the Institute of Directors IoD.
y combining the best external capability Initially weve provided the programme in the UK with our internal expertise and external only, but weve been working with the IoD on a B assessment we believe weve come up version for European colleagues and are planning with a programme that provides excellence, further international variants.
rigour and relevance to our unusual corporate Serco is the first UK-listed company to develop structure, culture and management system.
such a programme, and IoD Chairman Christopher It consists of three sections.
In the first, delegates Beale has been impressed by our determination study and discuss the role of the company and to set a benchmark in top management the director, and relevant aspects of law, strategic development.
"""Its been a very exciting time, "" he business direction and finance."
"""The results have been extremely positive an exam leading to the IoD Serco Certificate in and its been great to work so closely with such a Company Direction."
The second section covers marketing strategy, Getting the programme up and running has taken human resources, leading change and board considerable investment of company resources and decision-making.
A second exam leads to the personal time by committed individuals.
But it IoD Serco Diploma in Company Direction.
The sends out a clear signal both inside and outside final section can lead to becoming a Chartered the business that were a meritocracy intent on Director.
This requires candidates to demonstrate establishing a pipeline of management talent relevant experience and pass an interview with leading all the way to the boardroom.
were already beginning to reap the rewards in management motivation, business performance, So far, 19 of our senior managers have passed differentiation and competitive advantage.
the Certificate programme in two groups and 15 have gone on to study for the Diploma.
The third Certificate group and first Diploma group will get their examination results in June.
The quality of the lecturers was really high and they brought a wide range of external experiences into their programme content.
Having an externally recognised awarding body does make a difference: you know you have to reach a national standard, not just an internal benchmark.
I found the whole experience intellectually demanding, challenging but really enjoyable.
LUCY ADAMS, CHANGE DIRECTOR, SERCO RAIL
