3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 11 3 2003 22:04 Page 31 31 WHERE DO WE operate?
a Our operations are widely distributed across selected markets in the UK, continental Europe, the ?
Middle East, Asia Pacific and North America.
The range of our activities varies from region to region.
We are finding increasing opportunities to transfer expertise.
3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 12 3 2003 15:37 Page 32 32 WHERE DO WE OPERATE?
United Kingdom SALES 2002: 930.5m up 17% The UK provides some 70% of our business and remains an Transport: We have built strong positions in both road exciting market for us.
Our expertise and proven track record, and rail transport: for example, we are national Rail combined with a receptive marketplace, enable us to continue Operator of the Year and a market leader in fields as innovating to develop value for money solutions for both diverse as road traffic management systems, passenger government and industry across a wide range of activities.
information and rail infrastructure maintenance.
We are currently building the Highways Agencys new Traffic Key sectors Control Centre for England.
We operate complete rail Defence: Since we began maintaining the Ballistic Missile franchises for the Docklands Light Railway and Early Warning System site at RAF Fylingdales in 1964, we Manchester Metrolink, maintain railway property and have built a business that now encompasses UK contracts infrastructure including nearly 1,800km of track, provide ranging from helicopter simulator training to managing, rail passenger information services from our Cardiff with our partners, the Atomic Weapons Establishment.
Call Centre and undertake infrastructure and rolling We are a market leader in task management, operational stock testing.
and logistic support to the UK armed services.
Science and technology: We have had our roots in science Civil government: We have over 25 years experience in and technology since the original Fylingdales radar delivering public services across a range of activities that contract.
Today we manage scientific establishments now spans justice, education, health and local authority including the National Physical Laboratory and are services.
We are in the forefront of the trend towards private also the UKs largest provider of nuclear safety and provision of public services through ever more sophisticated performance services.
Defence 27% Defence 29% Transport 27% Transport 25% Civil government 27% Civil government 27% Science 9% Science 8% Private sector 10% Private sector 11% 2002 Total turnover 1,325.9m 2001 Total turnover 1,141.2m Including joint ventures Including joint ventures SECTOR SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS TOTAL GROUP 3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 12 3 2003 15:37 Page 33 33 Continental Europe and Middle East SALES 2002: 170.6m up 22% From our roots in IT support contracts in Italy, Belgium and IT support: This was our original core activity in Europe the Netherlands, through our defence and government services and remains a growth area.
We now provide support to the business in Germany to our aeronautical and airport technical IT infrastructure of the European Commission, serving users services expertise in the Middle East, we have an increasingly in four countries.
Other customers include the European diverse business.
Space Agency ESA, European Parliament and Italian regional and central government.
Key sectors Defence: Our involvement in the defence sector on the Science and technology: We first worked for ESA in the European mainland is relatively new, but we have established 1970s and have become one of the agencys major suppliers increasingly important relationships with the German providing a range of spacecraft engineering, scientific, ministry of defence and the Dutch navy.
IT, project management and support services at sites across Europe.
Other customers include the European Civil government: Our services to local and national Particle Physics Laboratory, CERN, close to Geneva.
governments extend from buildings management to a range of technical services including development of safety cases Air traffic services: We began providing airport services for nuclear facilities.
including air traffic control ATC in Bahrain in the 1940s.
Now we have contracts for primary air traffic services across Transport: We are extending our light rail and traffic the region including ATC, engineering, meteorological management expertise into continental Europe and have had services, aeronautical information services, ATC training particular success in Scandinavia.
We operate the newlyand aviation systems development.
opened Copenhagen Metro and Stockholms Central Technical System, which facilitates traffic management and the dissemination of traffic and travel information for the region.
UK 70% UK 70% Europe and Middle East 12% Europe and Middle East 13% Asia Pacific 12% Asia Pacific 12% North America 6% North America 5% 2001 Total turnover 1,141.2m 2002 Total turnover 1,325.9m Including joint ventures Including joint ventures GEOGRAPHIC SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS TOTAL GROUP 3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 11 3 2003 22:04 Page 34 34 WHERE DO WE OPERATE?
Asia Pacific North America SALES 2002: 155.1m up 9% SALES 2002: 69.9m up 7% As well as large, broadly based operations in Australia and Having entered the North American market in 1993, we have New Zealand we have operations in Hong Kong and a foothold steadily built businesses in the US, Canada and Bermuda.
We provide a broad range of services in the federal, state and local government sectors, concentrating on air traffic control Key sectors operations and management, managed fleet services, and Defence: We are a major player in defence support in multi-activity base operations for the defence forces.
In Australia we provide 50% of all garrison support services and our port service contract Key sectors for the navy is seen as a case study for future public private Defence: We provide a wide range of base support services.
In New Zealand we are the largest service For example, at Wright-Patterson US Air Force Base we provider to the forces.
Looking ahead, we aim to build on provide vehicle operations and maintenance for a community our highly successful defence maritime services joint venture of 23,000 and thousands more visitors each year.
we have a full multi-activity contract employing over 300 staff for the Department of National Defence at Goose Bay.
Civil government: Our services include maintaining buildings and open spaces, warehousing and distribution, hospital Civil government: We are growing our business with state support and water and wastewater services.
Major contracts and local governments across a wide range of services.
For include providing civil, mechanical and electrical engineering example, we undertake parking management, enforcement services to City West Water in Melbourne, covering some and meter collection services, manage municipal vehicle 260,000 properties including Victorias largest petrochemical fleets, conduct environmental studies and operate leisure and manufacturing facilities.
facilities such as the multi award-winning ecological visitor centre at Hopewell Rocks in Canada.
Transport: In Australia we operate bus services, manage and maintain road infrastructure, build and support traffic Transport: We are a leading private air traffic control management systems and manage airports.
We own Great operator across the US, where we now operate 58 ATC Southern Railway, which we have restored to profit since towers.
We also provide meteorology and other services we bought it from the Australian government.
In Hong Kong at civil and military airports in the US, Canada and we have a number of road tunnel and parking management Bermuda.
Vehicle fleet maintenance is a growth activity contracts.
for us in several sectors, particularly defence, utilities and civil government.
In Seminole County, Florida, Health: We provide support services to a growing number we manage over 1,600 county vehicles and items of hospitals in Hong Kong and Australia.
3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 13 3 2003 18:21 Page 35 35 INSIDE STORY WHERE DO WE operate?
Wherever we operate, we apply the same skills and processes for managing change and maintaining continuous improvement.
These skills and processes can be successfully brought to bear on virtually any kind of contract or activity as these two very different examples demonstrate.
In Australia, we used them to transform a rail business rapidly after acquiring ownership while in Europe weve used them to evolve and develop our IT services to the European Space Agency over more than two decades of technological change 3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 13 3 2003 18:21 Page INS1 Exceeding expectations in six languages European Space Agency IT Weve been providing technical services support to the European Space Agency ESA for over 20 years since we were part of RCA.
Our activities today include spacecraft engineering and scientific research projects.
They also include activities that may not be rocket science, but are no less important to the organisations effectiveness such as supporting ESAs 3,500 computer users.
e won our first ESA computer In 1999 we began our first service level agreement experienced call agents operating a multilingual operations contract in 1980, when SLA contract for ESA, providing a range of IT service desk in Frascati, Italy, and theres a W computing was all about mainframes: services.
We determined how best to deliver the permanent force of technicians and engineers at our operators worked in computer rooms and services, then successfully tendered against other nine of the 15 sites.
In addition to the base services network centres at ESAs four major sites in bidders solutions.
defined in the SLA, we provide a wide range of Holland, Germany, Italy and France.
additional services from system management and Four years on, this approach has exceeded database administration, to graphic design.
Over time, computers changed beyond all the agencys expectations.
Applying our IT seat recognition, yet service contracts stayed much management approach, we now support 3,500 The contract has proved an important and the same.
They specified the number of people ESA users at 15 sites in nine countries as well innovative step for both ESA and Serco.
Its flexibility we should supply, and the hours they should as 5,000 external users of ESA applications.
has been a boon for such a diverse user population work.
Working this way, we provided a reliable which ranges from scientists and engineers to service and our role at ESA grew.
Now our Weve built a pan-European operation providing administrative staff.
With user satisfaction running contractual relationship has taken a significant desktop support, network management, email at over 98.5% were exceeding our contractual step forward.
A few years ago the agency and document management with libraries and service targets.
ESA recognised this achievement moved away from specifying the detailed inputs databases, and applications infrastructure support.
by extending the original three-year contract by to the contract: instead, it defines the outputs it We design and install systems, maintain them, a further two years.
And to confirm our quality needs and looks for best value and innovation in help people use them, and resolve any problems credentials, our ESA team achieved ISO 9001- delivering them.
For first-line support we have 23 2000 accreditation in 2002.
3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 13 3 2003 18:21 Page INS2 WHERE Turning the trains around DO WE Great Southern Railway operate?
Five years ago, the Australian national passenger railway service was losing around AUS$25m a year.
And it already has over 11,000 people lining up for its latest service which doesnt even launch until late 2003. e acquired the operation from the renamed it Great Southern Railway GSR.
We Australian government in 1997 as part refurbished the carriages and the service to W of a consortium, buying out our turn an Indian Pacific or The Ghan journey into partners in 1999.
Weve built it into a world-class a real travel experience.
We created a range of tourism business operating three long-distance products, from the budget-priced Red Kangaroo services.
The Indian Pacific spans the continent Class to the premium Gold Kangaroo Service from east to west, linking Sydney and Perth.
The and prestige heritage carriages.
Overland links Adelaide and Melbourne, while The Ghan runs from Adelaide to Alice Springs and on We expanded sales distribution across the to Darwin from late 2003, to complete a northworld, appointing GSR sales managers in south route across the continent.
And we made Indian Pacific and The Ghan journeys the centrepiece of our The turnaround was based on rethinking the own Trainways packaged holiday operation business from a marketing point of view.
We now one of Australias fastest-growing holiday programmes.
GSR retail outlets in Melbourne, Adelaide and Sydney support a wide network of travel agents and our own international call centre.
The result has been a dramatic growth in sales, with passenger revenue up 39% since we took over the business.
Despite the aftermath of September 11 and the Bali bombing, GSR again achieved record sales in 2002.
Growth will be further stimulated this year by the opening of the Alice Springs-Darwin link, allowing The Ghan to become a coast-to-coast service.
Over 11,000 people have already joined the Top End Club to gain priority access to tickets on the new route in its first 12 months of operation.
In just a few years weve transformed a burden on the taxpayer into an internationally acclaimed, customer-focused and profitable business.
3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 13 3 2003 18:21 Page INS3 3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 13 3 2003 18:21 Page INS4 with user satisfaction running at over 98.5% were exceeding our contractual service targets.
3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 13 3 2003 18:21 Page 36 3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 11 3 2003 22:04 Page 37 37 what ARE OUR opportunities for growth?
outsourced public services is expanding worldwide.
In a marketplace that is so large and growing so fast we have to be highly selective in the opportunities we choose to pursue.
Our strategy is to maintain a balanced portfolio of businesses, ensuring an appropriate mix of new opportunities and strong organic growth to maintain our success in the future.
At present we are focusing on selected opportunities in the UK, Italy and Germany, North America, the Middle East, Australia and New Zealand.
Given the scale of our addressable market and the diversity of sectors in which we are active, we have developed clear criteria for determining specific focus areas.
The criteria weve developed for selecting key targets in a worldwide marketplace will shape the way Serco evolves in the future.
3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 11 3 2003 22:05 Page 38 38 WHAT ARE OUR OPPORTUNITIES FOR GROWTH?
Our vision more opportunities than ever for developing long term Our vision is to become the leading global outsourcing relationships with our customers to deliver complex company.
To achieve this, we are pursuing and helping to outcomes.
The governments Comprehensive Spending Review shape multi-activity service contract opportunities with will take annual spending by government departments from governments around the world as they seek to harness 240bn in 2002 to 301bn in 2005 06 a 25% uplift in three commercial expertise and private finance to manage public years.
Coupled with the stated aim of improving public services better and more efficiently.
services, this presents us with a wealth of opportunity over the next few years.
The principal beneficiaries will be the Key geographic markets justice, education, health and defence sectors in which we Around the world the public and budgetary pressure on have tremendous strengths and significant experience.
We governments to improve service delivery and cost efficiency fully support the governments reform agenda and continue is ever-growing.
As a result, more and more of our key to enhance our core skills and capabilities in organisational geographic markets are looking to the private sector for change and the transformation of public service delivery.
To maximise our growth potential we are not only responding to conditions in the most favourable markets, but While aiming to enhance our reputation for trusted, working in partnership with government bodies to create new consistent service delivery, we also intend to be recognised opportunities based on long term relationships.
The relative as a reliable strategic partner for government in the design, attractiveness and development rate of these opportunities build and implementation of world-class public services.
will vary from one geographical market to another.
Because our customers are now looking for support at earlier United Kingdom stages in the development of sophisticated contract models, The UK remains our core market and continues to demand we are establishing a new public sector strategic consultancy innovation in the delivery of public services: we are seeing service.
This integrates our existing capability with a newly High Australia UK UK New Zealand North North America America Low Europe Europe Japan Japan 0% 1% 2% 3% 4% 5% 6% 7% 8% Annual growth rate GROWTH IN PUBLIC EXPENDITURE Source: EIU Country forecasts, inflation adjusted: Europe based on Germany, France, Italy and Spain.
Size of the boxes represents total government expenditure 2002 US$bn.
