3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 11 3 2003 22:09 Page 70 70 CAN A PRIVATE SECTOR COMPANY HAVE A PUBLIC SERVICE ETHOS?
Public service is 90% of our business.
If we couldnt We believe in safety first convince our customers that we understand what public We work in fields such as education, healthcare, justice, service is all about, we wouldnt still be here.
And well transport, defence and science.
Inevitably, many of our only succeed in the future if we and our employees activities involve a responsibility for the safety of the continue to deliver not only high-quality services and public as well as our staff.
And because we take a long value for money, but also the values and passions that view, we dont see a conflict between safety and profits: motivate public sector managers.
ultimately, a responsible approach to safety is the only way to safeguard profits.
In fields from food hygiene to We believe in accountability nuclear safety, governments trust us not just to maintain Public sector agencies are spending taxpayers money.
existing standards but to improve on them.
Last year, They demand a high level of performance assessment for example, our rail division launched a collaborative and accountability.
Weve always welcomed this investigation with the Institute for Occupational heightened scrutiny because it focuses everyones Ergonomics at the University of Nottingham to study track attention on customer satisfaction.
Were happy workers and identify the factors influencing safety culture to work with open books, as we do with a number and working behaviour.
The findings have been welcomed of existing clients.
by staff, union representatives and Network Rail alike, and action plans are being developed to address the The public expects those involved in delivering public issues raised.
services to have high ethical standards.
As well as applying our code of ethics, we foster the kind of climate We believe in people that ensures its observed.
The culture is open, people Public sector customers expect us to treat our employees communicate freely and there are clear channels for fairly and equitably.
In the complicated business of voicing concerns.
taking-over and change-managing hundreds of different These are just some examples of community initiatives from our education, we launched a worldwide appeal for stationery.
With the CSR programme: aid of the British Forces, over two tonnes of stationery were distributed to schools and refugee camps in and around Kabul.
Huntington, West Virginia, US Serco is involved in a programme that helps local people get back RAF Northolt, UK into employment by providing work experience.
Of the 13 interns who Our team at Northolt developed a training and lifelong learning have worked with Serco on the programme to date, including five last programme for ramp handlers.
Serco Aerospace Training Unit at year, seven have gone on to full-time employment with us.
Our contract RNAS Yeovilton, which developed the initial generic course for new manager is now a member of the Goodwill Business Advisory Board employees at RAF Brize Norton and Northolt, is now the National Council.
Vocational Qualification NVQ co-ordination centre.
In conjunction with on-job training and assessment, we train people to NVQ Level 2, Serco Group HK Limited, Hong Kong helping them develop specialist skills linked to their area of work.
Our Hong Kong hospital contracts provide job opportunities for people with disabilities, employing them on the same terms and Goose Bay, Canada conditions as other members of staff.
This won us a prestigious We identified a need in the local community for an alternative clean Caring Company award from the Hong Kong Government.
Were working with the Canadian Government to develop a new supply, and its expected to be complete in Spring 2003.
Afghanistan Stationery Appeal, UK Were also providing a scholarship to the College of the North Atlantic After Serco employees from Rollestone working with the British Military and helping fund a programme that raises high school students in Afghanistan saw that local children lacked the basic tools for their awareness of business and its needs.
3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 11 3 2003 22:09 Page 71 71 public service teams, we couldnt claim its always been fostering partnership and trust in every relationship.
Or that we never make mistakes.
But we just because thats a good thing to do, but because our do have generally excellent relations with staff and their competitive edge depends on attracting, developing and unions.
Were involved in the TUCs Partnership Initiative, motivating the best people.
We train and develop our people which fosters closer relationships between employers as well as we can.
We empower our people to do what it and unions.
takes to deliver noticeably superior service.
We welcomed the UKs Transfer of Undertakings Protection We believe in social responsibility of Employment TUPE regulations when they were first Apart from our responsibilities to staff and customers, introduced, and when we take over staff under a new contract we recognise our wider social obligations.
We try to interact weve earned a reputation for acting decently and responsibly, beneficially with everyone whos affected by our operations.
avoiding non-voluntary redundancies except as a last resort.
We believe that responsiveness to all our stakeholders interests creates greater business success through improved When we take over public sector contracts we often inherit customer satisfaction, greater commitment on the part of complexity in terms and conditions of employment.
Wherever employees, and an enhanced reputation in the community possible our preferred approach is to sit down and talk to at large.
employees themselves, or their representatives, and develop terms and conditions to make them relevant and appropriate Doing business with honesty, integrity, openness and to todays business circumstances.
professionalism means applying the same standards in our dealings with the wider community.
Our approach to Corporate We operate in many countries, jurisdictions and cultures.
Social Responsibility CSR takes account of our diversity and But wherever we work we apply the same principles of equal devolved structure and ensures that wherever in the world opportunity, honouring the rights of the individual and we work we apply the same standards and values.
Ray Friel Centre, Ontario, Canada Frankston, Victoria, Australia Our team at the Ray Friel recreational centre supports the non-profit We sponsored and co-designed Frankston Framed, an event that gave making Cumberland Resource Centre CRC by donating free activities young photographers an opportunity to capture life in their and programmes to families in its shelters.
On selected dates we also community on camera.
The project involved the whole community in donate all revenue from wave swim admissions to the CRC, host local recording life from the beach to the ballet school.
food drives, offer any members of the community free access to the facility and donate non-perishable food.
Serco Schrobenhausen, Germany In 2002 we participated in a regular information exchange event Joint Services Command and Staff College, Shrivenham, UK where companies in the community introduce local students and We provide scholarships for English language courses to the wives of graduates to the commercial world.
international officers attending courses at the college.
This helps them integrate with the local community at Shrivenham.
Corporate Assurance Group, Hampshire, UK In October 2002 our Corporate Assurance Group CAG held its annual RAF Donna Nook, Lincolnshire, UK conference in the UK.
In partnership with Future Forests, a UK-based Serco staff regularly help manage thousands of grey seals that colonise environmental organisation, CAG calculated the CO created by 2 the weapons range in the winter, often assisting in the capture and participants travelling to the conference and offset it by planting release of injured seals and abandoned pups.
RAF Donna Nook is the 55 fruit trees in one of the poorest regions of Mexico.
first MOD property to be designated as a National Nature Reserve.
3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 11 3 2003 22:09 Page 72 72 CAN A PRIVATE SECTOR COMPANY HAVE A PUBLIC SERVICE ETHOS?
Each business division has processes and procedures for over the long term.
Theyre also about being willing to pick up applying our CSR model, setting targets and reviewing a challenge.
When we went into education, we didnt look for performance in every operating company and contract.
We took on two of the UKs toughest areas, in network of CSR Champions manages the application of our CSR Walsall and Bradford.
By rising to the challenge weve built a process, regularly reviewing and reporting on its effectiveness.
marketable track record and earned valuable commendations from Ofsted, community stakeholders and our customers.
And every contract manager has responsibility for community involvement not just through taking part in local initiatives We believe in delivering more but through the way the contract itself is run.
Hence the We want our customers to see us as partners in achieving the judges comments in naming us Rail Operator of the Year for outcomes they want.
And as our 90% success rate in contract the Docklands Light Railway: Few railway businesses have extensions and renewals suggests, we dont just meet their such an impact on community life, proving that the journey expectations.
We aim to keep adding value can be much more than a means to an end.
throughout the life of a contract, through constant innovation.
The next improvement may come from one big change, or We believe in the long term from attention to a dozen little details.
But well continue Partnerships arent about making a quick profit and moving to ask ourselves how we can do things even better: thats on.
Theyre about building trust and mutual benefit that lasts part of our culture.
School of Army Aviation, Middle Wallop, UK Serco Best Practice Centre, Hampshire, UK Work experience in the Serco-operated air traffic control ATC tower The SBPC is helping Woking College to redevelop its internet site.
is popular with local schools.
Demand has been so great that weve The new site will provide information thats more pertinent to students developed a package which provides real training and gives an and will have special access features for disabled groups.
insight into a career in ATC.
Serco Metrolink, Manchester, UK Atomic Weapons Establishment AWE, Berkshire, UK Serco Metrolink has piloted a school mentoring programme where Our joint venture at AWE has a very active community programme.
members of staff are trained with Bolton and Bury Education One scheme helps 50 local schools to promote scientific and Partnership to mentor 12-16 year olds.
Each school is linked to a member of AWE staff who has a particular interest in that school: for example, as a parent or school governor.
3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 13 3 2003 18:28 Page 73 73 INSIDE STORY can a private SECTOR company have a public service ETHOS?
On the face of it, we have a conventional business relationship with Walsall Metropolitan Borough Council.
As supplier, we have a contract to deliver educational support and management services.
But through that contract our responsibilities extend to the wider Walsall community.
Were supporting headteachers at the boroughs 129 schools teachers boards of governors 51,000 pupils and adult learners parents.
The fact is, were serving an entire population and need to act accordingly.
3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 13 3 2003 18:28 Page INS17 can a private SECTOR company have a public service ETHOS?
Working with a community of customers Walsall Metropolitan Borough Council To support Walsalls schools effectively, we can bring our business skills to bear in many ways improving administration, finance and asset management.
We can introduce new ideas in time management, staff support and measurement of results that enhance a schools effectiveness.
We have a duty to be bold, challenge the status quo and add real value.
But well only truly succeed if we build meaningful partnerships with all our customers.
And ultimately that means everyone in the community with an interest in education.
3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 13 3 2003 18:28 Page INS18 ur education operation in Walsall school supporting staff.
So weve increased a local primary school.
Its not off-limits to teachers began in July 2001, with a School communication channels using the internet, emails, or pupils in fact, were helping the children to O Improvement and Strategic Management a telephone help desk, headteacher breakfast take care of our garden as part of a nature project.
This involved taking over some 100 briefings and weekly drop-in management surgeries.
people from the existing Local Education Authority This joined-up approach helped win praise from LEA.
In December 2002 we took on most of the Were strengthening schools links with business Ofsted for our work in Walsall.
In turn, Ofsteds rest of the LEAs functions, along with another and community organisations such as the Walsall recommendation has led to a substantial expansion 300 staff.
Lifelong Learning Alliance, the Black Country of our role there and greatly strengthens our School Improvement Partnership, the Learning hand as we bid for education contracts elsewhere.
With their help, our broad goal is to make and Skills Council, the Children and Young Clear evidence that, for a public service business, Walsall a first-class education and learning Peoples Strategic Partnership and Connexions.
community involvement is an integral element community.
We want to raise aspirations and in achieving commercial success.
achievement, and increase social cohesion and Weve joined individuals in the local community inclusion through our policies and service delivery.
and agencies such as the police and social services To do this effectively, were steadily extending in an initiative to reduce truancy and juvenile linked our links into the wider community.
Over 12 months it achieved both objectives and earned Jubilee medals for all participants.
To anchor these efforts firmly in the day to day reality of our schools, we need excellent And weve made sure we dont work in an ivory communication with and between teachers and tower.
Our main office in Walsall is attached to With thanks to: Blakenall Heath Junior School, Brownhills Community Technology College and New Invention Infants School.
3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 13 3 2003 18:28 Page INS19 3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 13 3 2003 18:28 Page INS20 for a public service business, community involvement is an integral element in achieving commercial success.
3 ANNUAL REVIEW Pr8 NEW 13 3 2003 18:28 Page 74 4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 11 3 2003 21:45 Page 75 75 Serco group plc ANNUAL accounts 2002 4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 15:03 Page 76 76 Directors, Secretary and Advisers Chairman Kevin Beeston Directors Ralph Hodge CBE Christopher Hyman Andrew Jenner Rhidian Jones DeAnne Julius CBE Iestyn Williams Secretary Julia Cavanagh Registered Office Dolphin House Windmill Road Sunbury-on-Thames Middlesex TW16 7HT Auditors Deloitte & Touche Chartered Accountants London Principal Bankers Barclays Bank plc 54 Lombard Street London EC3P 3AH The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 135 Bishopsgate London EC2M 3UR Investment Bankers Lazard Brothers & Co Ltd 21 Moorfields London EC2P 2HT Morgan Stanley & Co Ltd 25 Cabot Square Canary Wharf London E14 4QA Stockbrockers Cazenove & Co Ltd 12 Tokenhouse Yard London EC2R 7AN Merrill Lynch International Merrill Lynch Financial Centre 2 King Edward Street London EC1A 1HQ Solicitors Allen & Overy One New Change London EC4M 9QQ Registrar Lloyds TSB Registrars The Causeway Worthing West Sussex BN99 6DA Non-Executive Director Senior Non-Executive Director 4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 11 3 2003 21:38 Page 77 77 Corporate Governance Report Introduction The Board of Serco Group plc the Company is committed to achieving high standards of corporate governance, integrity and business ethics for all its activities around the world.
The Company supports the principles of good governance and code of best practice as appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority the Combined Code.
This report sets out how the Company applies the Combined Code.
Reference has also been made to the Higgs Review of the Role and Effectiveness of NonExecutive Directors the Higgs Review and the Smith Report on Audit Committees Combined Code Guidance the Smith Report where appropriate.
The Board and its Directors The Board currently comprises seven Directors: Kevin Beeston, Ralph Hodge, Christopher Hyman, Andrew Jenner, Rhidian Jones, DeAnne Julius and Iestyn Williams.
Excluding the Chairman, the Board comprises an equal number of Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The Company continues to believe in the need for a full time Executive Chairman who is responsible for the effective operation of the Board, oversight of corporate governance and assurance activities and the Companys relationship with the City and key stakeholders.
This role is distinct from that of the Chief Executive who focuses on the operational strategy and delivery of the business.
The Directors profiles are set out on pages 85 to 88.
The Board continues to believe that the Non-Executive Directors are independent of management and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
They bring a wide range of experience to the Board including international business operations, strategy and economics.
The senior Non-Executive Director is Rhidian Jones.
Rhidian has met with shareholders in the past, upon request, and continues to be available to do so as required.
Rhidian has expressed his desire to retire from the Board at the end of April 2004 when his current term of appointment expires.
The Company is currently seeking a fourth Non-Executive Director and is proposing to commence the search for an additional Non-Executive Director with relevant financial experience to replace Rhidian as Chairman of the Audit Committee on his retirement.
The Non-Executive Directors meet on an informal basis during the year without the presence of the Executive Directors.
During the year the Board met six times at varying locations, and took the opportunity to combine the formal business of the Company with site visits and divisional presentations and discussions.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board including the responsibility for leading and directing the affairs of the Group.
During the year a strategy conference was held, hosted by the Chairman, and attended by the Board and 20 key senior managers of the Group.
The Chairman has held individual meetings with the Directors to evaluate the performance of the Board and identify any areas for review.
His report will be presented to the Board in February 2003.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretary and independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
The Company Secretary has the responsibility for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is one of the matters reserved for the Board.
The Company Secretary is also Secretary to all the Board Committees.
The information provided to the Board is reviewed by the Chairman and the Company Secretary on a regular basis, to ensure that it remains appropriate and adequate and enables the Directors to discharge their duties.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, one third of the Board are required to retire by rotation each year so that over a three year period all Directors will have retired from the Board and faced re-election.
Board Committees The Board has delegated authority to a number of committees to deal with matters in accordance with written terms of reference.
The terms of reference are reviewed annually.
It is proposed that once a fourth Non-Executive Director has been appointed the Non-Executive Directors will not be required to sit on every Committee.
The Chairmen of the Board committees attend the Annual General Meeting to answer questions from shareholders.
4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 21:20 Page 78 78 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Board Committees continued Global Management Board The Board has delegated responsibility for the day to day management of the business to the Global Management Board GMB.
The GMB meets formally on a quarterly basis and more frequently if required.
Matters discussed by the GMB which require formal approval are submitted to the Approvals and Allotment Committee details of which are provided below.
Further details relating to the ongoing management of the business can be found in the section How do we run our business?
provided in the Annual Review section of the Annual Review and Accounts.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee, which comprises the three Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by Rhidian Jones, met twice during the year.
At the meetings, attended by the internal and external auditors and by invitation the Finance Director, matters relating to the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, the accounting policies adopted, significant financial reporting judgements made and the role of the internal auditors were discussed.
Discussions were also held regarding the business risk auditing activities undertaken by the Companys internal audit providers, Grant Thornton and Pannell Kerr Forster.
The members of the Committee have access to the Companys auditors without the presence of the Executive Directors.
During the year, the Committee has reviewed the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditors, their terms of engagement and remuneration, and has also approved a policy with regard to the engagement of external auditors in the provision of non-audit services.
The Company has identified alternative providers of non-audit services.
The members of the Committee receive updates on accounting standards and generally accepted accounting principles on a quarterly basis as part of the Finance Directors report to the Board, and also on a half yearly basis from the external auditors.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises the three Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by Ralph Hodge.
The Committee met five times during the year to deal with matters relating to remuneration and undertook a comprehensive review of the Executive Directors remuneration.
The details of the Companys remuneration policies and the results of the review are detailed in the Remuneration Report on pages 90 to 99.
Remuneration of senior executives in the Company is considered and approved by the Remuneration Committee of the GMB, which comprises the Executive Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief Operating Officer and is advised by the Human Resource & Change Director.
In the event that any member of the GMB Remuneration Committee is conflicted by the business to be discussed, his place may be taken in that instance by another member of the GMB.
Training Committee The Training Committee comprises Iestyn Williams, its Chairman, Christopher Hyman and the three Non-Executive Directors.
It meets once per year to consider the training needs of all Directors and the Company Secretary.
The induction programme for new Directors provides a comprehensive familiarisation programme including the role of the Board and its Committees, the Companys corporate governance framework and latest financial statements, together with site visits and meetings with senior management around the Group.
The induction programme and the individual development needs of the Executive Directors, in relation to their new roles, were reviewed by the Committee during the year.
All Directors and the Company Secretary are encouraged to attend relevant training courses at the Companys expense.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises Kevin Beeston and the three Non-Executive Directors.
The Company believes that the Executive Chairman should remain as the Chairman of the Committee in order to discharge his responsibility for the effective functioning of the Board.
The Committee meets to discuss proposed changes to and development of the Board, but has also carried out a review of succession planning for the Directors.
A similar review is also being undertaken for senior executives by members of the GMB.
The members of the Committee consult with other members of the Board prior to submitting final recommendations for approval by the whole Board.
Approvals and Allotment Committee This Committee meets as required and comprises the Executive Directors, the Chief Operating Officer and Strategic Development Director, with any two Executive Directors forming a quorum.
The business of the Committee is varied and ranges from bid approval to approval to release share options.
Matters requiring formal approval following consideration by the GMB can also be approved by this Committee.
4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 11 3 2003 21:38 Page 79 79 The Company and its Shareholders The Board remains committed to ongoing dialogue with its institutional and private shareholders.
This year has seen the continuation of the Companys programme of site visits and strategy presentations attended by institutional investors and analysts designed to facilitate a greater understanding of the Company.
As part of the review of Executive Directors remuneration undertaken by the Remuneration Committee, Ralph Hodge sought the opinion of the six largest shareholders representing 35% of the share register and the ABI prior to making a recommendation for approval by the Board and shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The senior Non-Executive Director is also available to shareholders on request.
Formal presentations are made to institutional investors and brokers analysts after the release of the interim and final results.
Individual requests for meetings have been satisfied by the Executive Chairman and the Finance Director, although the other Directors are available as required.
During the year the Company increased its on-line communication with a web cast of the interim results presentation and an online interview with the Executive Chairman on its website www.
It is proposed that a web cast will be repeated for the final results presentation.
During the year the Company has also introduced a programme of quarterly trading updates in line with best practice and the recommendations of the Financial Services and Markets Act.
The principal methods of communication with private investors remains the News Announcements, Interim Report, the Annual Review and Accounts, the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement, the Annual General Meeting and the Companys website www.
Internal Control and Risk Management The Company has a well-established and embedded system of internal control, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management designed to safeguard shareholders investments and the Companys assets and reputation.
Whilst the Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, it is the role of management to implement the policies on risk and control.
The Groups risk management process identifies the key risks facing each business and reports to the Board on how those risks are being managed.
The Board confirms that this process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
These processes are reviewed annually by the Board and conform to the guidance set out in Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Report.
Such a system however can only be designed to mitigate, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Company has a full time Risk Director who is a member of the Corporate Assurance Group CAG.
CAG was formed in 2001 with specific responsibility to oversee and review the internal control and risk management policies, procedures and management framework within the Group and to develop guidance, training material and management training to ensure the current and future needs of the business are met.
CAG sponsors three specialist groups: An Assurance Network, chaired by the Assurance Director, and comprising senior assurance representatives from across the Group.
During the year this network met four times to review Company policy and procedures and the development, integration and dissemination of the Serco Management System that defines how the Company operates.
A Risk Oversight Group, chaired by the Risk Director, comprising assurance representatives from across the Group, met twice during the year to discuss the Group risk register and key risk controls.
This group provides additional assurance in relation to the system of internal control and risk management and enhances the Boards ability to discharge its responsibilities in relation to internal control.
An Aviation Oversight Group, chaired by the Aviation Safety Director and comprising the aviation safety representatives from across the Group met twice during the year.
This group has been responsible for the implementation of the aviation safety management system across the Group, and for transferring best practice across the world.
Following a review of rail safety undertaken during 2001 and chaired by Ralph Hodge, a Rail Safety Oversight Group commenced operations during the year.
It is proposed that a formal group holding regular meetings is established during 2003.
4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 11 3 2003 21:38 Page 80 80 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Internal Control and Risk Management continued During the year CAG hosted a conference attended by almost 100 assurance representatives from around the world.
Presentations were received from internal and external speakers, including the Executive Chairman and Senior Non-Executive Director, on varying aspects of assurance and attendees took the opportunity to network and discuss best practice during informal sessions held as part of the meeting.
A further explanation of the role of CAG can be found in the Annual Review and Accounts section How do we manage our responsibilities to stakeholders?
During the year the Serco Management System, including the Companys risk management standard, was rolled out across the business.
The business divisions and their operating companies are following processes and procedures to implement the system, including the risk management standard, in ways that are appropriate to the type of business being undertaken.
Divisional Chief Executives and company Managing Directors have the responsibility and authority to implement the system and monitor its operation within their businesses.
As part of this process CAG has reviewed and revised all company policies.
These policies were authorised by the Board in December.
Supporting company standards and guidance have also been produced.
The risk management process requires that at each level in the organisation risk registers are maintained that identify the key risks, the probability of those risks occurring, their potential impact and the actions being taken to mitigate the risks.
Risks are ranked using a scoring system across the business.
Risk registers are maintained at a contract, company, divisional and Group level and are reviewed at least quarterly and more frequently as required.
The Group risk register identifies the key risks facing the business including risks that are managed directly at a Group level.
The Group risk register is updated regularly and discussed at quarterly Board meetings.
Each Group risk is assigned an owner at Board level.
While operational risk can never be eliminated, the Company endeavours to minimise the impact by ensuring that appropriate infrastructure, controls, systems, staff and processes are in place.
Some of the key management controls are set out below: The principles of clear delegation of authority and segregation of duties are fully reflected in the Companys operating processes: Comprehensive process development and business acquisition review programmes have been established to ensure that our services and products meet customer expectations, performance criteria, operational effectiveness, regulatory requirements, investment returns and profitability: Sound project management and change implementation disciplines are applied to all major development projects including new contract phase-ins, acquisitions, new technology applications, change programmes and other major initiatives: The commitment and capability of staff is critical for the effective management of operational risk.
Ongoing training and career development constantly improve the skills of our workforce.
Selective recruitment, succession planning and other human resource policies and practices are in place to ensure that staff skills are aligned with the needs of the organisation: Safety management systems in the Companys aviation, rail, defence, nuclear and marine businesses have been addressed by the appointment of safety specialists for each area who report directly to the Board and are charged with maintaining and further developing the very high standards of safety expected in these industries.
Occupational health, safety and environmental protection are addressed by qualified and experienced staff in each business unit: The operational risk framework tracks key risk indicators.
These include analysis of business planning and variance, customer satisfaction and retention data, staff turnover and satisfaction levels, occupational health and safety incidents and error and exception reporting: The Company maintains insurance policies to provide protection from losses arising from circumstances such as damage or destruction of physical assets, theft and legal liability for third party loss.
The adequacy of the insurance cover is reviewed at regular intervals.
During 2002, Grant Thornton and Pannell Kerr Forster, the Companys internal auditors, had their term extended for a further three years.
As part of the continually evolving approach to business risk auditing the Company has developed, in association with Grant Thornton, a risk matrix designed to profile relative risk across the contracts and support functions of the Group, thereby ensuring that the audit focus is retained in the key risk areas as well as a more general approach to the rest of the business.
Both Grant Thornton and Pannell Kerr Forster reported to the Audit Committee during the year.
4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 11 3 2003 21:38 Page 81 81 Internal Control and Risk Management continued In addition to contracts held in Sercos name, the Group has material investments in a number of joint ventures and associated companies.
Where these investments are not wholly managed by Serco, the Group can influence, but not control, management practices.
Serco representatives within these companies ensure that the processes and procedures for identifying and managing risk are appropriate for the business and that internal controls exist and are regularly monitored.
Employees from the Companys joint ventures are invited to participate in the risk oversight group and were invited to attend the CAG conference held in October 2002.
Going Concern The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Review and Accounts.
Compliance during 2002 With the exception of contractual notice periods for the Executive Directors, the Company has fully complied throughout the year with the provisions stated in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
Contractual Notice Periods As detailed in the Remuneration Report, a number of recommendations have been made for shareholder consideration in relation to Executive Directors remuneration.
Following approval of the relevant resolutions at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the Executive Directors service contracts will be amended to incorporate the changes.
At this time the notice period for all Executive Directors will be reduced from 24 to 12 months in line with the notice period operational for those directors appointed after 1 January 2002.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf: Julia Cavanagh Secretary Dolphin House Windmill Road Sunbury-on-Thames Middlesex TW16 7HT 19 February 2003 4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 11 3 2003 21:38 Page 82 82 Report of the Directors Annual Review and Accounts The Directors of the Company have pleasure in presenting the Annual Review and Accounts of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2002.
Activities The Company is a holding Company, which operates via its subsidiaries and its joint ventures to provide facilities management, systems engineering and equity investment management.
The review of the business for the year ended 31 December 2002 can be found in the Business Review on pages 21 to 30.
Share Capital The authorised and issued share capital of the Company, together with the details of shares issued during the year, are shown in Note 21 of the Accounts.
Dividends and Transfers to Reserves An interim dividend of 0.64p 2001 0.57p per Ordinary Share was paid on 11 October 2002.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 1.44p 2001 1.29p per Ordinary Share, which if approved by the Annual General Meeting, will be paid on 13 May 2003, to those shareholders on the register at the close of business on 28 February 2003.
After dividends, retained profits of 22,861,000 will be transferred to reserves.
Substantial Shareholdings At close of business on 18 February 2003 being the latest practical date prior to the signing of the Report of the Directors, the Company had received notifications of the following substantial interests representing over 3% of the issued capital: Legal & General Group plc 3.84% Morley Fund Management Limited 4.99% In the case of non-material interests representing 10% or more of the issued share capital, the Company had received the following notification: Merrill Lynch Investment Managers Limited 10.85% Changes to the Board The current Directors of the Company are listed on page 76 and their profiles are provided on pages 85 and 88.
As detailed in the 2001 Annual Review and Accounts, Richard White retired as Executive Chairman following the Annual General Meeting on 3 May 2002.
Kevin Beeston was appointed Executive Chairman, Christopher Hyman was appointed Chief Executive and Andrew Jenner was appointed Finance Director.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Andrew Jenner will be subject to election by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Directors Interests With the exception of the Executive Directors service contracts and Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment, there were no contracts in which any Director has an interest.
Details of the Directors interests in the Ordinary Shares and options over the Ordinary Shares of the Company are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 94 to 96.
4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 11 3 2003 21:38 Page 83 83 Annual General Meeting The sixteenth Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, London on 6 May 2003 at 11.00am.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting, together with relevant notes and proxy card are circulated with this document.
Employment Policies The Board is committed to maintaining a working environment where staff are individually valued and recognised.
The Group is committed to ensuring equal opportunity, honouring the rights of the individual and fostering partnership and trust in every working relationship.
We maintain a safe working environment that provides appropriate remuneration and benefits, training, personal development and compliance with employment laws and regulations of the countries within which we operate.
The Group recognises the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and implements appropriate policies and processes to meet the requirements of the declaration.
The Group remains proud of its record of managing employee relations and continues to believe that the structures of individual and collective consultation and negotiation are best developed at a local level.
Over the years the Group has demonstrated that working with trade unions and creating effective partnerships allows improvements to be delivered in business performance as well as terms and conditions of employment.
Where employees choose not to belong to a trade union, employee communication forums such as works councils exist to ensure involvement of staff within the business.
The Board understands its responsibility to encourage and assist in the employment, training, promotion and personal career development of all employees without prejudice.
Included within the Annual Review is a section entitled How do we develop our people?
which provides an insight into the work of the Best Practice Centre and its development of an Institute of Directors programme within the United Kingdom.
The Group gives proper consideration to applications for employment received from the disabled and offers employment when suitable opportunities arise.
If employees become disabled during their service with the Group, wherever practicable, arrangements are made to continue their employment and training.
Participation by staff in the success of the Group is encouraged by the availability of share save schemes, and a share option scheme for senior staff which effectively aligns their interests with those of shareholders by requiring that performance criteria are achieved prior to exercise.
Health, Safety and Environmental Policies The Group recognises and accepts its responsibility for health, safety and the environment H, S&E.
A full time Company H, S&E Adviser, a member of the Corporate Assurance Group CAG, is responsible for the development and monitoring of H, S&E policies, procedures and control systems and reports to the Board via the Executive Chairman.
The Executive Chairman is the director responsible for H, S&E matters on behalf of the Board.
H, S&E is also formally reported to the Global Management Board on a quarterly basis as part of the Corporate Assurance Report.
The Group is committed to maintaining a safe and healthy working environment in all places that the Company operates, for our staff, our customers, members of the public and any other third party.
The Group recognises that it is everyones responsibility for reducing injury and illness at work.
Equally the Group is committed to the protection of the environment, recognising everyones responsibility for minimising the impact that we have on it.
This commitment extends to all our activities, wherever they take place, which have the potential to adversely affect the environment.
The Group aims to reduce environmental harm, minimise the use of energy and other resources and ensure that the principles of sustainable development are operated throughout the range of activities in which we are engaged.
4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 11 3 2003 21:38 Page 84 84 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Health, Safety and Environmental Policies continued CAG is supported by dedicated H, S&E teams in each business unit, either in contracts or the support office, which provide advice and support on H, S&E issues.
All employees share responsibility for continuously improving the Companys performance in relation to H, S&E management.
Regular H, S&E meetings are held and representatives from the business units attended the CAG Conference held in October 2002.
In order to maintain a high level of H, S&E awareness, great emphasis is placed on training both in relation to specific H, S&E matters but also in the overall context of assurance within the Company.
To ensure compliance with all relevant legislation and Company standards as detailed in the Serco Management System, there is a comprehensive audit system.
Detailed audit reports are produced, best practice is shared, corrective action identified if relevant and remedial action promptly implemented.
In addition the business units are frequently audited by regulatory authorities.
Creditor Payment Policies The Company requires each of its business units to negotiate and agree terms and conditions for payment for the supply of capital and revenue items just as keenly as they negotiate prices and other commercial matters.
Suppliers are made aware of the terms and the way in which disputes are to be settled.
Payment is then made in accordance with those terms.
The Groups average creditor payment terms in 2002 were 29 days 2001 27 days : Company 29 days 2001 34 days.
Donations Charitable donations totalling 94,859 2001 116,000 were made during the year.
In addition there were a number of community initiatives and support provided in kind to charitable and voluntary organisations made by contract and support office staff.
During the year the Company made no political donations and intends to continue this policy.
The Political Parties and Referendums Act 2000 the Act became effective in December 2000 and requires companies to obtain shareholder approval before incurring European Union EU political expenditure.
The Group may need, as part of its business, to contact politicians and political parties within the EU on a non-partisan basis in order to make them aware of industry views, technology and trends.
As the Act defines EU political organisations and political expenditure widely, the Directors are proposing to seek shareholder authority to incur such expenditure at its Annual General Meeting in May 2003.
Auditors Deloitte & Touche have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and a resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 11 3 2003 21:38 Page 85 85 Directors Profiles Kevin Stanley Beeston FCMA 40 Executive Chairman Kevin joined Serco in 1985 and has since held a number of financial and commercial roles.
He was Finance Director of the Group from 1996 to 1999 and Chief Executive from 1999 to 2002.
He was appointed Executive Chairman in May 2002.
He is a member of the CBIs Presidents Committee and Deputy Chairman of the CBIs Public Services Strategy Board.
Ralph Noel Hodge CBE BEng Hons 68 Non-Executive Director Ralph is Chairman of the Water Research Council, and a Non-Executive of British Ceramic Tiles and ORC Inc.
He was previously Non-Executive Chairman of Enron Europe Limited, Chief Executive of ICI Chemicals and Polymers and a Non-Executive Director of the Halifax Building Society.
He was appointed to the Board of Serco on 5 April 1999, and is Chairman of the Boards Remuneration Committee.
Christopher Rajendran Hyman CA SA 39 Chief Executive Christopher joined Serco in 1994 as Finance Director for Serco Europe, the division specialising in providing services to European government agencies.
He was appointed Group Company Secretary with additional responsibility for corporate finance in 1996.
He was appointed Finance Director of the Group in April 1999.
In 2000 Christopher was given additional responsibility as Chief Executive of a new Serco division, Serco Global Projects and has been instrumental in developing new processes and capabilities at the leading edge of the Groups activities.
He was appointed Chief Executive in May 2002.
Andrew Mark Jenner ACA 34 Finance Director Andrew joined Serco in 1996 as Group Financial Controller, having previously worked for Unilever.
He was appointed Corporate Finance Director with additional responsibility for Treasury activities in 1999.
He was appointed Finance Director of the Group in May 2002.
Andrew has primary responsibility along with the Executive Chairman for the Companys relationship with shareholders and the City.
Rhidian Huw Brynmor Jones MA FCIS FCMI 59 Senior Non-Executive Director Rhidian is an experienced corporate finance lawyer and was Head of the Corporate Department of solicitors Nabarro Nathanson until retiring from that firm in May last year.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of Britannia, the UKs second largest building society, and a policy adviser on company law to ICSA.
Before training as a solicitor at Herbert Smith he worked in commerce and industry, including seven years in a senior finance and property role at Granada.
He was appointed a Serco Non-Executive Director in 1996, having previously served on the Board from 1987 to 1994.
He is Chairman of the Boards Audit Committee.
4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 11 3 2003 21:38 Page 86 86 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS 4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 11 3 2003 21:38 Page 87 87 From left to right: Kevin Beeston DeAnne Julius Christopher Hyman Andrew Jenner Ralph Hodge Rhidian Jones Julia Cavanagh Company Secretary Iestyn Williams With thanks to Rushall JMI School, Walsall.
4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 11 3 2003 21:38 Page 88 88 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Directors Profiles continued DeAnne Shirley Julius CBE PhD Econ 53 Non-Executive Director DeAnne sits on the Court of the Bank of England, having been a member of its Monetary Policy Committee from its formation in 1997 until June 2001.
Previously she held senior strategy positions with British Airways and Royal Dutch Shell.
Before moving to the UK from America, DeAnne spent seven years with the World Bank developing infrastructure projects in Asia and Africa.
She is a Non-Executive Director of Lloyds TSB, BP, Roche and was appointed to the Board of Serco on 29 October 2001.
Iestyn Milton Williams BA 51 Executive Director Iestyn joined RCA in 1978 and became Director of Personnel six years later.
After the management buyout in 1987 he became Personnel Director of Serco.
In 1995 he was involved in building the business in Asia Pacific and later spent two years as Chairman of Serco North America before returning to the UK in 1998.
Since then he has spent his time developing new business, first in the expansion of the Groups activities in Europe, and for the last two years leading the Groups entry into the education sector.
Iestyn is also a Non-Executive Director of Law at Work Ltd and Dolphin Schools Ltd. Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf: Julia Cavanagh Secretary Dolphin House Windmill Road Sunbury-on-Thames Middlesex TW16 7HT 19 February 2003 4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 11 3 2003 21:38 Page 89 89 Directors Responsibilities Company Law requires the Directors to prepare Accounts and Notes for each financial year, which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those Accounts and Notes the Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the Accounts and Notes comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for the Companys system of internal control, for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf: Julia Cavanagh Secretary Dolphin House Windmill Road Sunbury-on-Thames Middlesex TW16 7HT 19 February 2003 4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 11 3 2003 21:38 Page 90 90 Remuneration Report Introduction During the year the Remuneration Committee the Committee commissioned a review of Executive Directors remuneration, the first external benchmarking exercise undertaken since 1999, and the first review of base salary levels since September 2000.
The recommendations of the review which are included in detail in the Remuneration Report detailed below are based on a remuneration philosophy grounded in the following four principles: total rewards should be market competitive: incentive plans should be used to reinforce a high performance culture: the interests of Directors and shareholders should be aligned as far as reasonably possible, and the reward structure should be easily understood by all.
In revising the remuneration framework the Committee consulted with the Companys six largest institutional investors, representing approximately 35% of the shareholder base, and the ABI before making its recommendations.
The following report details the remuneration policy, the actual remuneration of the Directors of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2002 and the proposed changes to elements of the remuneration framework to be introduced during 2003, as determined by the Committee and adopted by the Board.
In preparing this report consideration has been given to the provisions set out in Schedule B of the Combined Code and the new requirements for the disclosure of Directors remuneration under the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
Reference has also been made to the Higgs Review where it is deemed appropriate.
Composition and Terms of Reference of the Remuneration Committee The Committee is comprised of all three Non-Executive Directors: Ralph Hodge Chairman, Rhidian Jones and DeAnne Julius.
It operates in accordance with written terms of reference which are determined by the Board and takes into account best practice and the requirements of the Combined Code.
The Executive Chairman and Human Resource & Change Director may attend the meetings of the Committee by invitation.
Advisers to the Remuneration Committee During the year, the Committee has been advised by Neil Hayward, Human Resource & Change Director and Mercer Human Resource Consulting Mercer who were appointed by the Committee following a competitive tendering process.
Advice has been sought from Mercer on matters surrounding remuneration policy and philosophy, benchmarking exercises for both individual Executive Directors and remuneration packages based on current market trends.
Support was also provided in relation to the consultation exercise with the major institutional investors.
Advice on legislation and best practice in this area has also been provided by the Companys legal advisers Allen & Overy.
Remuneration Policy and Practice The members of the Committee met five times during the year to consider matters relating to the remuneration of Executive Directors as well as the terms and conditions of their service with the Company.
Recommendations to the Board following the extensive review process were made within a framework based on the four key principles detailed above.
Executive Directors remuneration comprises a combination of short and long term rewards as explained below and then detailed on pages 94 to 99.
All aspects of Executive Directors remuneration are performance related with the exception of base salary, pensions and life assurance.
i Salaries and Benefits Base Salary Salary changes were introduced in September 2002 following the remuneration review to reflect market conditions, and take account of a pay freeze agreed by Executive Directors since September 2000.
Base salaries were increased by 10% for full time Executive Directors and will be reviewed annually in September on an ongoing basis.
During the year Iestyn Williams elected to work part time three days per week and the reduction in his base salary is a direct reflection of that decision.
4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 11 3 2003 21:38 Page 91 91 Remuneration Policy and Practice continued i Salaries and Benefits continued Bonus Schemes Following the remuneration review, the Committee has recommended to the Board that the Company introduce a deferred bonus scheme for full time Executive Directors with effect from 2003.
The maximum value of this bonus will be 40% of base salary and will be awarded on the basis that the Company achieves earnings per share growth before FRS 10 Goodwill Amortisation EPS of RPI 10% in that financial year.
The bonus will reduce to 20% on a straight-line basis for EPS growth in excess of RPI 5%.
No payment will be made if EPS growth falls below that level.
Participants can elect to defer, for three financial years, up to 100% of the bonus earned to purchase shares in the Company.
The shares purchased will be matched by the Company if stretching performance targets are met.
Achievement of the performance criteria will be measured by comparing Sercos total shareholder return TSR to that of the constituent companies in the FTSE 350 over the three year period.
No matching will occur for below median performance, matching will be made on a one for two basis for median performance increasing to a one for one matching for top quartile performance.
An explanation of TSR and the use of the FTSE 350 as a comparator group is provided below.
Approval to implement this plan will be sought from shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Following discussions with Mercer, the Remuneration Committee approved an interim cash only bonus plan for the financial year 2002 for full time Executive Directors which will provide a maximum benefit of 50% of salary dependent on EPS growth.
If EPS growth is below 10% none of the bonus will be available, at 10%, 25% bonus will be available increasing on a straight-line basis for EPS growth between 10% and 15%, with a maximum bonus available for growth of more than 15%.
This bonus will be determined following sign off of the 2002 Annual Review and Accounts by the external auditors.
The Executive Directors have agreed to use 50% of any net bonus received to purchase shares at market value in the Company.
It is proposed to replace this scheme with the deferred bonus scheme following shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting in May 2003.
TSR and the FTSE 350 The Committee has recommended the introduction of TSR as a performance measure in the light of current practice and following the consultation process with institutional investors.
TSR is defined as the return shareholders would receive if they held a notional number of shares, and received dividends on those shares over a three year time period.
It measures the percentage growth in the companys share price together with the value of any dividends paid, assuming that the dividends are re-invested into the companys shares.
TSR performance is being measured against the FTSE 350 as the Company has been unable to identify a large or appropriate enough peer group against which to compare its performance more directly, and at present the Company is positioned in the middle of the FTSE 350.
The relevance of measuring performance against this group of companies will be reviewed on a regular basis by the Committee.
ii Share Based Incentives Long term share based incentives are awarded to Executive Directors under the Serco Group plc 1996 Long Term Incentive Scheme as amended on 5 April 2000 the LTIS and the Serco Group plc 1998 Executive Option Plan the EOP.
The performance conditions relating to each of the schemes is set out below.
Long Term Incentive Scheme LTIS Awards made under the LTIS, which are structured as options with a zero exercise price, may be exercised after the third anniversary of grant.
Awards made to Executive Directors are calculated at 64% of salary at the time of grant.
For awards made in relation to performance periods commencing up to and including 1 January 2002, the extent to which an award vests and therefore becomes exercisable is measured by reference to growth in the Companys EPS over the performance period of three financial years.
Full vesting will only occur if the cumulative EPS growth is at least 64%.
Awards will partially vest where the cumulative EPS growth is at least 35% and will continue to vest on a straight-line basis for each percentage increase in EPS growth over the three year period until full vesting is achieved at a cumulative growth rate of 64%.
EPS was initially selected as the appropriate performance criteria for the scheme as it is visible, easily understood and audited on an annual basis.
4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 15:03 Page 92 92 REMUNERATION REPORT Remuneration Policy and Practice continued ii Share Based Incentives continued Following the remuneration review, the Committee has recommended for approval by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, a revision to the performance criteria under which the LTIS currently operates.
It is proposed that for future awards made under the LTIS, achievement of the performance criteria will be measured by comparing Sercos TSR to that of the constituent companies in the FTSE 350.
No awards will vest for below median performance, 40% will vest for median performance, increasing on a straight-line basis to full vesting for top quartile performance.
A justification of the selection of TSR and use of the FTSE 350 as a comparator group together with an explanation of the terms is provided above.
Except in exceptional circumstances, awards are made to employees prior to the commencement of the performance period to which they relate.
Executive Option Plan EOP Options granted under the EOP may be exercised after the third anniversary of grant, dependent upon the achievement of a financial performance target over three years.
Grants made to Executive Directors are based on 100% of salary as at 31 December prior to grant.
For grants made in relation to performance periods commencing up to and including 1 January 2002 the extent to which an option vests and therefore becomes exercisable is measured by reference to the growth in the Companys EPS.
If the compound annual growth in EPS is less than 10%, none of the options may be exercised.
If the compound annual growth in EPS is more than 15%, all of the options may be exercised.
Where compound annual growth is between 10% and 15%, a proportion of the options may be exercised.
The Committee has recommended for approval by shareholders a revision to the performance criteria under which the EOP currently operates.
It is proposed that for options granted for performance periods commencing 1 January 2003 or later, achievement of the performance criteria will be measured by reference to the Companys growth in EPS relative to RPI.
If the compound annual growth in EPS is less than RPI 5%, none of the options may be exercised.
If compound annual growth in EPS is more than RPI 10%, all the options may be exercised.
Where compound growth is between RPI 5% and RPI 10%, a proportion of the options may be exercised.
The decision to measure compound EPS growth against an RPI index rather than by reference to a peer group of companies was made, as no group of a suitable size or composition could be identified.
The decision to retain EPS as the relevant performance measure for this scheme was based on two factors: firstly this scheme applies broadly within the Company to over 800 senior staff and therefore simplicity and visibility is important: and secondly it is considered by the Committee to be an appropriate performance measure with a degree of balance against the TSR measures applied in other aspects of remuneration design.
iii Pensions and Life Assurance The Executive Directors receive pension and life assurance benefits consistent with those provided by other leading companies.
The details of the defined benefit schemes operated by the Group are set out in Note 31 to the Accounts.
In the event of death in service, each scheme provides for a lump sum payment as well as a dependants pension.
iv Service Contracts and Compensation Each Executive Director has a rolling service contract with the Company and these service contracts will be available for inspection prior to the start and after the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Following approval of the shareholder resolutions in relation to Executive Remuneration, the service contracts will be amended to reflect the revised conditions.
The service contracts will also be amended to reflect a reduction in notice period from 24 months to 12 months, thereby bringing all Executive Directors notice periods in line.
Executive Directors appointed since 1 January 2002 already operate with a one year notice period.
This change will rectify the one area of non-compliance by the Company in relation to the current Combined Code.
4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 11 3 2003 21:38 Page 93 93 Remuneration Policy and Practice continued iv Service Contracts and Compensation continued Compensation for early termination of a service contract is not currently addressed in the contracts.
The Committee considers and determines the level of compensation on a case by case basis, taking into account the circumstances surrounding termination and the individuals responsibility to mitigate loss.
Under the new service agreements being proposed for Executive Directors following the Annual General Meeting, the Company reserves the right to make a payment in lieu of notice.
In addition, where a Director leaves the Company following a change of control, either because he is dismissed or he elects to leave on notice, he will receive a payment equivalent to one years remuneration.
The service agreements do not provide for termination payments to be made in any other circumstances.
There have been no payments made during the year in relation to compensation for loss of office.
A summary of contract details relating to each director who served during the year is provided below: Date of contract Unexpired term and Name of Director letter of appointment notice period at 31 December 2002 Executive Directors: K S Beeston 29 March 1996 Refer to note a below C R Hyman 1 April 1999 Refer to note a below A M Jenner 3 May 2002 Rolling contract with 12 month notice period I M Williams 1 April 1999 Refer to note a below R D White 29 March 1996 None Non-Executive Directors: R N Hodge 5 April 2000 3 months unexpired at 31 December 2002, now extended to 4 April 2004 R H B Jones 1 September 2002 16 months D S Julius 29 October 2001 22 months Notes: a Executive Directors have a rolling contract with a 24 month notice period which will be reduced to 12 months following approval of the shareholder resolutions at the Annual General Meeting in May 2003. b Compensation to Executive Directors for early termination of a service contract is not currently addressed in the contracts.
The Committee considers and determines the level of compensation on a case by case basis.
c Non-Executive Directors have a three month notice period and no compensation or other benefits are payable on early termination.
Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors of the Company are appointed for a three year term, and that appointment may be terminated on three months written notice.
Renewal of appointments are not automatic, and Non-Executive Directors are required to retire and stand for re-election in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
As at 31 December 2002, the Non-Executive Directors of the Company have no personal financial interest in the matters determined by the Committee, no potential conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships and no involvement in the day to day running of the Group.
The fees and terms of engagement of Non-Executive Directors are reviewed on an annual basis and approved by the Board.
Following the publication of the Higgs Review, the Board will consider the recommendation to make additional payments to Chairmen of the Board Committees.
The Board does not believe that the partial payment of fees in shares is appropriate and will therefore continue to make cash only payments.
Non-Executive Directors fees are not performance related.
4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 11 3 2003 21:38 Page 94 94 REMUNERATION REPORT 1 Salaries and Benefits The total salaries, fees and benefits paid to or receivable by each person who served as a Director at any time during the year, are as follows: Total estimated Total remuneration Total remuneration Total basic value of any other excluding pensions excluding pensions salary Fees Bonuses non-cash benefits 2002 2001 Names K S Beeston 361,667 192,500 1,286 555,453 351,239 R N Hodge 37,125 37,125 38,500 C R Hyman 344,732 242,500 1,029 588,261 300,992 A M Jenner 136,694 115,500 686 252,880 R H B Jones 30,125 30,125 27,500 D S Julius 30,125 30,125 4,718 R D White 119,487 2,310 121,797 352,433 I M Williams 210,000 1,286 211,286 303,886 TOTAL 1,172,580 97,375 550,500 6,597 1,827,052 1,379,268 Notes: On 3 May 2002 A M Jenner was appointed as Finance Director and R D White retired as Executive Chairman.
With effect from April 2002, I M Williams has worked for the Company on a part time basis.
In addition to the 2002 bonus, C R Hyman received a discretionary bonus during the year.
R N Hodge received fees of 7,000 in relation to additional days worked as chairman of an internal rail safety committee.
Section 1 is subject to audit by Deloitte & Touche.
2 Directors Shareholdings The Directors interests in the shares of the Company were as follows: Ordinary Shares of 2p each fully paid Ordinary Shares of 2p each fully paid 1 January 2002 31 December 2002 K S Beeston 98,713 106,520 R N Hodge 2,010 2,010 C R Hyman 21,382 29,394 R H B Jones 46,500 55,000 A M Jenner 1,722 9,529 D S Julius 5,000 I M Williams 2,387,323 2,387,323 at date of appointment 4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 22:48 Page 95 95 3 Share Based Incentives The total share options granted to each person who has served as a Director of the Company at any time in the financial year are as follows: i Serco Group plc 1996 Long Term Incentive Scheme LTIS The total share options granted under the LTIS to such Directors are as follows: Number of Number of shares under shares under option at option at 31 December 1 January 2002 2002 or, or, if later, Lapsed if earlier, Market Value the date of Granted Exercised unexercised cessation Exercise price realised on Date of appointment during during during date as price at grant exercise Date expiry of as Director period period period Director exercisable option K S Beeston 3 Yr Award 38,73638,736 Nil 4.26 31.12.02 04.04.10 3 Yr Award 51,885 51,885 Nil 4.90 31.12.03 23.11.10 3 Yr Award 54,676 54,676 Nil 4.65 31.12.04 15.11.11 R N Hodge C R Hyman 3 Yr Award 32,86832,868 Nil 4.26 31.12.02 04.04.10 3 Yr Award 44,474 44,474 Nil 4.90 31.12.03 23.11.10 3 Yr Award 46,865 46,865 Nil 4.65 31.12.04 15.11.11 A M Jenner R H B Jones D S Julius R D White 3 Yr Award 48,51648,516 Nil 4.26 31.12.02 04.04.10 3 Yr Award 51,885 51,885 Nil 4.90 31.12.03 23.11.10 3 Yr Award48,17248,172 Nil 4.65 31.12.04 15.11.11 I M Williams 3 Yr Award 32,86832,868 Nil 4.26 31.12.02 04.04.10 3 Yr Award 44,474 44,474 Nil 4.90 31.12.03 23.11.10 3 Yr Award 46,865 46,865 Nil 4.65 31.12.04 15.11.11 Approximately 13.5% of the options granted under the LTIS represent supplementary options, granted for the sole purpose of compensating participants for agreeing to bear the Companys liability to employers National Insurance Contributions upon the exercise of the underlying LTIS options.
At date of retirement from the Board The Scheme is an unapproved scheme for Inland Revenue purposes.
No payment was made for the grant of the awards, no awards have had terms varied during the period, and no awards have been exercised by the Directors since the end of the financial year.
The performance criteria to which the exercise of awards under the LTIS is conditional are as set out on pages 91 and 92.
For each share under an LTIS option that is unexpired at the end of the financial year, the market price at the end of the financial year was 1.53 and the highest and lowest market prices during the financial year were 4.00 and 1.325 respectively.
At date of retirement from the Board At date of appointment 4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 13 3 03 10:23 Page 97 97 3 Share Based Incentives continued ii Serco Group plc 1998 Executive Option Plan continued The Scheme is an approved scheme for Inland Revenue purposes but has an unapproved schedule.
No payment was made for the grant of the options, no options have had terms varied during the period, and no options have been exercised by the Directors since the end of the financial year.
The performance criteria to which the exercise of options under the EOP is conditional are as set out on page 92.
For each share under an EOP option that is unexpired at the end of the financial year, the market price at the end of the financial year was 1.53 and the highest and lowest market prices during the financial year were 4.00 and 1.325 respectively.
Section 3 is subject to audit by Deloitte & Touche.
4 Performance Graph Serco five year TSR vs FTSE 350 index 350% 300% 250% 200% 150% 100% 50% 0% -50% Jan 98 Dec 98 Dec 99 Dec 00 Dec 01 Dec 02 CUMULATIVE TSR PERFORMANCE Serco FTSE 350 index Provided by Mercer Human Resource Consulting.
This graph demonstrates the performance of Sercos total shareholder return TSR in relation to the FTSE 350 index over the past five years.
As detailed earlier, TSR is defined as the return shareholders would receive if they held a notional number of shares, and received dividends on those shares over a period of time.
4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 11 3 2003 21:38 Page 98 98 REMUNERATION REPORT 5 Pensions The Directors receive pension and life assurance benefits consistent with those provided by other leading companies.
The details of the defined benefit schemes operated by the Group are set out in Note 31.
The accrued pension benefits of all Directors under defined benefit scheme are as follows: Increase in Transfer value Transfer value transfer value Increase of accrued of accrued between 2001 Gross increase in accrued Value of benefits as at benefits as at report and in accrued pension during net increase Total accrued 31 December 31 December 31 December pension during the year, net in accrual pension at 2002 2001 2002 the year of inflation over the year year end p. a. K S Beeston 539,342 449,414 72,622 18,429 16,956 86,139 105,073 C R Hyman 100,212 84,132 1,568 3,495 3,265 4,723 17,010 A M Jenner 11,025 2,446 2,430 2,430 2,446 2,430 R D White 2,532,643 1,581,562 942,425 14,680 11,873 137,195 179,772 I M Williams 1,141,718 1,009,305 122,107 13,270 11,246 107,721 132,322 Notes to pension benefits: a The total accrued pension shown is that which would be paid annually on retirement, based on service to the end of this year, or date of retirement in the case of R D White.
The increase in accrued pension during the year is shown both as a gross increase and excluding any increase in inflation.
b Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with version 1.5 of the Guidance Note GN11 issued by the actuarial profession.
The difference between the transfer values at the beginning and end of the year includes the effect of fluctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the Company and the Directors, such as stock market movements.
It is calculated after deducting Directors contributions.
c The value of the net increase in accrual represents the incremental value to the director of his service during the year, calculated on the assumption that his service terminated at the year-end.
It is based on the accrued pension increase net of inflation after deducting the Directors contribution.
d Members have the option to pay Additional Voluntary Contributions: neither the contributions nor the resulting benefits are included in the above table.
e Transfer values disclosed do not represent the sum paid or payable to the individual Director.
Instead, they represent a potential liability of the pension scheme.
f In the case of R D White, who retired on 5 July 2002, the increase in transfer value between 2001 and the year-end is a result of the different actuarial valuation approach for a retired member as opposed to an active member, and as the result of his benefits having to be restricted by Inland Revenue limits.
These effects have been accentuated as a result of R D White having retired before age 60.
4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 11 3 2003 21:38 Page 99 99 5 Pensions continued g C R Hyman also benefits from a defined contribution arrangement to which the Company contributes 15% of remuneration in excess of the Permitted Maximum under the Inland Revenue approved Scheme.
Company contributions paid under this arrangement during the year amounted to 33,247.
Section 5 is subject to audit by Deloitte & Touche.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf: Julia Cavanagh Secretary Dolphin House Windmill Road Sunbury-on-Thames Middlesex TW16 7HT 19 February 2003 4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 11 3 2003 21:38 Page 100 100 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Serco Group plc We have audited the financial statements of Serco Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2002 which comprise the profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the cash flow statement, the statement of total recognised gains and losses and the related notes 1 to 32.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the part of the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors As described in the statement of Directors Responsibilities, the Companys Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
They are also responsible for the preparation of the other information contained in the annual report including the Directors Remuneration Report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Report of the Directors is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the Report of the Directors and the other information contained in the Annual Report for the above year as described in the contents section including the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 3 17 03 4:44 PM Page 101 101 Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the Company and the Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31 December 2002 and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Deloitte & Touche Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 19 February 2003 Neither an audit nor a review provides assurance on the maintenance and integrity of the website, including controls used to achieve this, and in particular whether any changes may have occurred to the financial information since first published.
These matters are the responsibility of the directors but no control procedures can provide absolute assurance in this area.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial information differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 21:57 Page 102 102 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account For the year ended 31 December 2002 Restated 2002 Restated 2001 Restated 2002 Joint 2002 2001 Joint 2001 Group Ventures Total Group Ventures Total Note 000 000 000 000 000 000 TURNOVER: GROUP AND SHARE OF JOINT VENTURES - CONTINUING OPERATIONS 2 1,097,278 228,670 1,325,948 913,693 227,510 1,141,203 Less: Share of joint ventures 2 228,670 228,670 227,510 227,510 Group turnover 2 1,097,278 1,097,278 913,693 913,693 Cost of sales 947,313 947,313 789,686 789,686 GROSS PROFIT 149,965 149,965 124,007 124,007 Administrative expenses 120,862 120,862 102,753 102,753 Amortisation of intangible assets 8,098 8,098 5,123 5,123 Other administrative expenses 112,764 112,764 97,630 97,630 Exceptional item: Unsuccessful NATS acquisition 10,187 10,187 Operating profit-continuing operations 29,103 29,103 11,067 11,067 Exceptional item: GSR refinancing 15,356 15,356 Share of operating profit in joint ventures 21,883 21,883 17,374 17,374 Interest receivable 4 1,422 16,894 18,316 2,207 17,102 19,309 Group 1,422 1,422 2,207 2,207 Share of joint ventures 16,894 16,894 17,102 17,102 Interest payable and similar charges 5 5,486 14,875 20,361 7,299 15,768 23,067 Group 5,486 5,486 7,299 7,299 Share of joint ventures 14,875 14,875 15,768 15,768 PROFIT ON ORDINARY ACTIVITIES BEFORE TAXATION 6 25,039 23,902 48,941 21,331 18,708 40,039 Taxation on profit on ordinary activities 7 16,639 13,012 PROFIT ON ORDINARY ACTIVITIES AFTER TAXATION 32,302 27,027 Dividends 8 9,441 7,265 RETAINED PROFIT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 23 22,861 19,762 EARNINGS PER SHARE EPS PER ORDINARY SHARE OF 2P EACH 9 Basic EPS, after amortisation of goodwill 7.66p 6.94p Basic EPS, before amortisation of goodwill 9.58p 8.25p Diluted EPS, after amortisation of goodwill 7.63p 6.91p Diluted EPS, before amortisation of goodwill 9.54p 8.22p The basis of preparation of this statement and the effect of the prior year restatement is set out in Note 1.
4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 15:09 Page 103 103 Consolidated Balance Sheet At 31 December 2002 Restated 2002 2001 Note 000 000 FIXED ASSETS Intangible assets 10 147,473 141,170 Tangible assets 11 62,479 48,724 Investments in joint ventures 12 35,883 30,510 Share of gross assets 317,831 322,338 Share of gross liabilities 281,948 291,828 Investment in own shares 12 18,207 18,983 264,042 239,387 CURRENT ASSETS Stocks 13 38,744 35,838 Debtors: Amounts due within one year 14 220,042 199,705 Debtors: Amounts due after more than one year 14 108,932 76,105 Cash at bank and in hand 17 71,774 34,812 439,492 346,460 CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR Bank loans and overdrafts 16 2,386 70,647 Trade creditors 74,377 58,034 Other creditors including taxation and social security 15 93,843 100,621 Accruals and deferred income 136,766 128,629 Proposed dividend 8 6,184 5,026 313,556 362,957 NET CURRENT ASSETS LIABILITIES 125,936 16,497 TOTAL ASSETS LESS CURRENT LIABILITIES 389,978 222,890 Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year 16 87,588 68,570 Provisions for liabilities and charges 18 34,533 25,249 NET ASSETS 267,857 129,071 CAPITAL AND RESERVES Called up share capital 21 8,697 7,903 Share premium account 22 190,791 73,656 Capital redemption reserve 143 143 Profit and loss account 23 68,226 47,369 EQUITY SHAREHOLDERS FUNDS 20 267,857 129,071 These Accounts and Notes were approved by the Board of Directors on 19 February 2003 and signed on behalf of the Board: Kevin Beeston Executive Chairman Andrew Jenner Finance Director 4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 15:09 Page 104 104 Company Balance Sheet At 31 December 2002 2002 2001 Note 000 000 FIXED ASSETS Tangible assets 11 2,309 1,682 Investments in subsidiaries 12 141,418 35,598 143,727 37,280 CURRENT ASSETS Amounts owed by subsidiary companies due after more than one year 111,426 148,183 Debtors: Amounts due within one year 14 21,669 14,820 Debtors: Amounts due after more than one year 14 1,297 Cash at bank and in hand 17,753 152,145 163,003 CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR Bank loans and overdrafts 16 30,245 Trade creditors 1,066 757 Other creditors including taxation and social security 15 688 1,077 Accruals and deferred income 6,395 5,098 Proposed dividend 8 6,184 5,026 14,333 42,203 NET CURRENT ASSETS 137,812 120,800 TOTAL ASSETS LESS CURRENT LIABILITIES 281,539 158,080 Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year 16 43,784 41,420 Provisions for liabilities and charges 18 335 NET ASSETS 237,420 116,660 CAPITAL AND RESERVES Called up share capital 21 8,697 7,903 Share premium account 22 190,791 73,656 Capital redemption reserve 143 143 Profit and loss account 23 37,789 34,958 EQUITY SHAREHOLDERS FUNDS 237,420 116,660 These Accounts and Notes were approved by the Board of Directors on 19 February 2003 and signed on behalf of the Board: Kevin Beeston Executive Chairman Andrew Jenner Finance Director 4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 15:09 Page 105 105 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement For the year ended 31 December 2002 Restated 2002 2001 Note 000 000 Operating profit before cost of unsuccessful NATS acquisition 29,103 21,254 Exceptional item: Cost of unsuccessful NATS acquisition 10,187 Operating profit 29,103 11,067 Depreciation and amortisation of goodwill 23,632 18,283 Net increase in working capital 13,124 13,866 One-off pension fund contribution 15,500 NET CASH INFLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES BEFORE PFI ASSET EXPENDITURE 24,111 15,484 Expenditure on PFI asset under construction 14,950 13,733 Net cash inflow from operating activities after PFI asset expenditure 24 9,161 1,751 Dividends received from joint ventures 11,095 9,645 RETURNS ON INVESTMENT AND SERVICING OF FINANCE Interest received 1,223 578 Interest paid 7,362 6,182 Net cash outflow from returns on investments and servicing of finance 6,139 5,604 TAXATION Tax paid 5,738 6,417 CAPITAL EXPENDITURE AND FINANCIAL INVESTMENT Purchase of tangible and intangible fixed assets 23,596 17,626 Sale of tangible fixed assets 8,125 4,569 Exceptional item: GSR refinancing 16,343 Security deposit on PFI asset under construction 6,000 Net cashflows with joint ventures 1,235 1,945 Purchase of own shares 9,964 Net cash outflow from capital expenditure and financial investment 14,236 14,623 ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS Acquisitions 12 11,353 77,106 Net cash acquired with acquisitions 397 3,558 Subscription for shares in joint ventures 12 370 38 Proceeds on disposal of joint ventures 1,030 Net cash outflow from acquisitions and disposals 10,296 73,586 EQUITY DIVIDENDS PAID Dividends paid 8,283 6,664 Net cash outflow from equity dividends paid 8,283 6,664 Net cash outflow before financing 24,436 95,498 FINANCING Issue of Ordinary Share Capital 117,929 2,001 Debt due within one year: Decrease increase in other loans 300 100 Debt due beyond one year: Increase in: 15,624 14,850 Other loans 24 750 Non-recourse debt financing PFI asset 15,600 14,100 Capital element of finance lease repayments 3,594 2,785 Net cash inflow from financing 129,659 14,166 Increase decrease in cash 105,223 81,332 Balance at 1 January 35,835 45,497 BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 69,388 35,835 PFI asset under construction financed by non-recourse loan 4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 15:09 Page 106 106 Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses For the year ended 31 December 2002 Restated 2002 2001 000 000 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 32,302 27,027 Currency translation differences on foreign currency net investments 1,911 1,917 Total recognised gains and losses for the year 30,391 25,110 Prior year adjustment see Note 1 806 Total gains and losses recognised since last annual report and financial statements 29,585 4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 15:09 Page 107 107 Notes to the Accounts For the year ended 31 December 2002 1 Accounting policies These Accounts have been prepared in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards, and the particular accounting policies adopted are detailed below.
These have all been applied consistently with the exception of bid costs which is explained in the restatement below.
Accounting convention These Accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention.
Basis of consolidation The Group Accounts consolidate the Accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries, and equity accounts for its share of joint ventures made up to 31 December of each year, for the periods they are owned by Serco Group plc.
Restatement The 2001 Accounts have been restated to reflect the impact of the Urgent Issues Task Force Abstract 34 UITF 34 Pre-Contract Costs: eliminating 1,193,000 of bid costs, previously disclosed within debtors, and the associated tax effect of 387,000.
The impact of this adjustment in the 2002 Accounts is a reduction in amortisation of bid costs of 400,000.
The Profit and Loss Account has been restated to reclassify Other operating costs relating to joint ventures within Other administrative expenses.
Accounting for PFI Contracts Within Public Private Partnership PPP projects including Private Finance Initiative PFI projects, where the concession agreement transfers limited risks and rewards associated with ownership to the contractor, the costs incurred during the period of initial asset construction, as a direct consequence of financing, designing and constructing the asset, are shown as assets in the course of construction within current assets.
On completion of the asset construction phase the asset is transferred to debtors as amounts receivable under PPP contracts.
Revenues received from the customer are apportioned between capital repayments and operating revenue.
The finance income element of the capital repayment is shown within interest receivable.
Serco has one Special Purpose Company Traffic Information Services TIS Limited, where the results are fully consolidated.
All other SPCs are classified as joint ventures and accounted for using the gross equity method.
Pension costs: Defined benefit schemes Retirement benefits to employees of Group companies, except in Germany, are funded by contributions from Group companies and employees.
Payments are made to trust funds which are financially separate from the Group in accordance with periodic calculations by consulting actuaries.
The expected cost to the Group of providing defined benefit pensions is charged to the Profit and Loss Account so as to spread the cost of pensions over the average service lives of employees in the schemes, in such a way that the cost is a substantially level percentage of payroll cost, with experience surpluses and deficits being amortised on a straight-line basis.
In Germany retirement benefits to employees are accrued for by Serco GmbH & Co. KG.
The expected cost to the Company for providing defined benefit pensions is calculated in accordance with periodic valuations by consulting actuaries.
4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 15:09 Page 108 108 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2002 1 Accounting policies continued Pension costs: Defined contribution schemes Contributions for the year in respect of defined contribution schemes are charged to the Profit and Loss Account.
Differences between charges accruing during the year and cash payments are included as either accruals or prepayments in the Balance Sheet.
The Group has adopted the transitional disclosure requirements of Financial Reporting Standard 17 FRS 17 Retirement Benefits.
For further information see Note 31.
Turnover Turnover represents net sales of goods and services to third parties together with investment related income.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised in the Consolidated Balance Sheet in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 10 FRS 10 Goodwill and Intangible Assets.
Amortisation of goodwill is provided on a straight-line basis over a period of 20 years, which, in the opinion of the Directors is a period not exceeding the economic useful life of the asset.
Current Tax Current tax, including UK Corporation Tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted at the Balance Sheet date.
Fixed asset investments: Subsidiaries Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost less provision for any impairment in value.
Fixed asset investments: Joint ventures In the consolidated Accounts, investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the gross equity method of accounting in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 9 FRS 9 Associates and Joint Ventures.
The Group Consolidated Profit and Loss Account includes the Groups share of joint ventures operating profits and interest, and the attributable taxation.
In the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Groups share of the net assets of its joint ventures, which includes several PFIs, is included under the heading investments in joint ventures.
The share of net assets is split between gross assets and gross liabilities.
Fixed asset investment: Own shares Investment in own shares represents shares in Serco Group plc held by the Serco Group plc 1998 Employee Share Ownership Trust the Trust.
The dividends on these shares have been waived.
Investment in own shares is stated at cost less provision for impairment.
The Trust is a discretionary trust for the benefit of the employees, and shares are held to satisfy the Groups liabilities to employees for share options and long term incentive plans.
The net cost to the Group of these schemes is charged to the Profit and Loss Account over the performance period during which the benefits are earned by employees.
Leases Assets obtained under finance leases are capitalised at their fair value on acquisition and depreciated over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or lease term.
The finance charges are allocated over the period of the lease in proportion to the capital element outstanding.
Rentals on assets under operating leases are charged to the Profit and Loss Account in equal annual amounts.
4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 15:09 Page 109 109 1 Accounting policies continued Depreciation Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis at rates which, in the opinion of the Directors, reduce the assets to their residual value over their estimated useful lives.
The principal annual rates used are: Freehold buildings 2.5% Short leasehold building improvements The higher of 10% or rate produced by lease term Machinery 15% 20% Motor vehicles 18% 50% Furniture 10% Office equipment 20% 33% Leased equipment The higher of the rate produced by either lease term or useful life Stocks Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes an appropriate proportion of direct material and labour.
Long term contracts Long term contract balances represent costs incurred on specific contracts, net of amounts transferred to cost of sales in respect of work recorded as turnover by reference to the value of the work carried out to date.
No profit is recognised until the contract has advanced to a stage where the total profit can be assessed with reasonable certainty.
Advance payments are included in creditors to the extent that they exceed the related work in progress.
Pre-contract costs All bid costs are expensed through the Profit and Loss Account up to the point where contract award is virtually certain in accordance with UITF 34.
Bid costs incurred after this point are then capitalised within debtors.
On contract award these bid costs are amortised through the Profit and Loss Account on a straight-line basis over the contract period.
Deferred taxation The charge for taxation takes account of taxation deferred because of differences between the timing of recognition of certain items for taxation purposes and for accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the Balance Sheet date where the transactions or events that give rise to an obligation to pay more or less tax in the future have occurred by the Balance Sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only when it is considered more likely than not that it will be recovered.
Deferred tax is recognised on a non-discounted basis using tax rates in force at the Balance Sheet date.
Financial Reporting Standard 19 FRS 19 Deferred Tax has been adopted for the first time in these financial statements and there is no material effect on the comparative figures.
Basis of translation of foreign currencies Transactions of UK companies denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Amounts receivable and payable in foreign currencies at the Balance Sheet date are translated at the rates ruling at that date and any differences arising are taken to the Profit and Loss Account.
The Accounts of overseas subsidiary companies and associated undertakings are translated into Sterling at the closing rates of exchange at the Balance Sheet date and any difference arising from the translation of the opening net investment and matched long term foreign currency borrowings is taken directly to reserves.
The Profit and Loss Account is translated using average exchange rates.
4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 15:09 Page 110 110 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2002 2 Segmental Report Classes of Business Joint Group Ventures Total 2002 000 000 000 TURNOVER Civil Government 267,127 89,220 356,347 Defence 228,579 134,654 363,233 Transport 347,815 4,796 352,611 Science 115,603 115,603 Private sector 138,154 138,154 TOTAL 1,097,278 228,670 1,325,948 PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION AND OTHER COSTS Civil Government 17,796 5,287 23,083 Defence 13,259 15,956 29,215 Transport 15,126 640 15,766 Science 9,845 9,845 Private sector 6,909 6,909 TOTAL 62,935 21,883 84,818 OTHER COSTS Common costs 25,734 Amortisation of intangible assets 8,098 Net interest Group 4,064 Net interest Joint ventures 2,019 PROFIT ON ORDINARY ACTIVITIES BEFORE TAXATION 48,941 NET ASSETS Civil Government 43,269 Defence 53,400 Transport 45,716 Science 69,771 Private sector 31,679 TOTAL 243,835 Unallocated assets 24,022 TOTAL 267,857 4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 15:09 Page 111 111 2 Segmental Report continued Classes of Business Joint Restated Group Ventures Total 2001 000 000 000 TURNOVER Civil Government 202,605 107,917 310,522 Defence 218,001 115,349 333,350 Transport 275,888 4,244 280,132 Science 87,404 87,404 Private sector 129,795 129,795 TOTAL 913,693 227,510 1,141,203 PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION AND OTHER COSTS Civil Government 13,271 5,169 18,440 Defence 11,312 11,996 23,308 Transport 14,179 209 14,388 Science 4,907 4,907 Private sector 6,778 6,778 TOTAL 50,447 17,374 67,821 OTHER COSTS Common costs 24,070 Exceptional item: Cost of unsuccessful NATS acquisition 10,187 Exceptional item: GSR refinancing 15,356 Amortisation of intangible assets 5,123 Net interest: Group 5,092 Net interest: Joint ventures 1,334 PROFIT ON ORDINARY ACTIVITIES BEFORE TAXATION 40,039 NET ASSETS Civil Government 33,517 Defence 36,282 Transport 27,044 Science 903 Private sector 14,246 TOTAL 111,992 Unallocated assets 17,079 TOTAL 129,071 4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 15:09 Page 112 112 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2002 2 Segmental Report continued Geographical segments Joint Group Ventures Total 2002 000 000 000 TURNOVER United Kingdom 752,247 178,207 930,454 Rest of Europe and Middle East 163,218 7,341 170,559 Asia Pacific 116,671 38,406 155,077 North America 65,142 4,716 69,858 TOTAL 1,097,278 228,670 1,325,948 PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION AND OTHER COSTS United Kingdom 35,065 19,029 54,094 Rest of Europe and Middle East 12,895 625 13,520 Asia Pacific 9,503 1,750 11,253 North America 5,472 479 5,951 TOTAL 62,935 21,883 84,818 OTHER COSTS Common costs 25,734 Amortisation of intangible assets 8,098 Net interest: Group 4,064 Net interest: Joint ventures 2,019 PROFIT ON ORDINARY ACTIVITIES BEFORE TAXATION 48,941 NET ASSETS United Kingdom 142,821 Rest of Europe and Middle East 43,951 Asia Pacific 40,057 North America 17,006 TOTAL 243,835 Unallocated assets 24,022 TOTAL 267,857 Note: Turnover is shown by geographical origin.
Turnover analysed by geographical destination is not materially different.
4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 15:09 Page 113 113 2 Segmental Report continued Geographical segments Joint Restated Group Ventures Total 2001 000 000 000 TURNOVER United Kingdom 618,559 175,641 794,200 Rest of Europe and Middle East 130,608 8,876 139,484 Asia Pacific 103,414 38,588 142,002 North America 61,112 4,405 65,517 TOTAL 913,693 227,510 1,141,203 PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION AND OTHER COSTS United Kingdom 26,988 14,068 41,056 Rest of Europe and Middle East 10,041 720 10,761 Asia Pacific 8,597 1,871 10,468 North America 4,821 715 5,536 TOTAL 50,447 17,374 67,821 OTHER COSTS Common costs 24,070 Exceptional item: Cost of unsuccessful NATS acquisition 10,187 Exceptional item: GSR refinancing 15,356 Amortisation of intangible assets 5,123 Net interest: Group 5,092 Net interest: Joint ventures 1,334 PROFIT ON ORDINARY ACTIVITIES BEFORE TAXATION 40,039 NET ASSETS United Kingdom 64,563 Rest of Europe and Middle East 9,278 Asia Pacific 30,919 North America 7,232 TOTAL 111,992 Unallocated assets 17,079 TOTAL 129,071 Note: Turnover is shown by geographical origin.
4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 15:09 Page 114 114 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2002 3 Information regarding Directors and Employees 2002 2001 000 000 a Directors remuneration: Fees as Directors 97 83 Other emoluments 1,730 1,319 Total remuneration excluding pensions 1,827 1,402 The prior year comparative includes Directors who did not serve in 2002.
2002 2001 000 000 b Employee costs including Directors: Wages and salaries 444,693 399,447 Social security costs 36,713 36,376 Other pension costs Note 31 29,096 19,544 Long Term Incentive Scheme costs 776 661 511,278 456,028 2002 2001 c Number of persons employed by Serco Group plc and its subsidiaries Average number of persons employed in the provision of services: Civil Government 7,138 6,738 Defence 6,251 6,491 Transport 4,442 4,653 Science 1,665 1,460 Private sector 2,999 2,445 Non-specific 202 116 22,697 21,903 4 Interest receivable 2002 2001 000 000 Short term deposits 818 1,484 Loans to joint ventures 604 723 Total Group 1,422 2,207 Share of joint venture interest 16,894 17,102 18,316 19,309 4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 15:09 Page 115 115 5 Interest payable and similar charges 2002 2001 000 000 Bank loans and overdrafts 5,486 7,299 Share of joint venture interest 14,875 15,768 20,361 23,067 6 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 2002 2001 000 000 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation is after charging: Rentals under operating leases: Land and buildings 12,599 11,790 Plant and machinery 20,686 17,586 Depreciation on tangible assets: Owned 12,307 10,861 Held under finance leases 3,227 2,299 Finance lease interest on operational assets 721 454 Amortisation of goodwill and intangible assets 8,098 5,123 Auditors remuneration: Deloitte & Touche 514 444 Other auditors 175 125 Other fees paid to Deloitte & Touche: Bid support 1,170 659 Tax 490 544 Other 595 432 Other fees paid to other accountancy firms: Internal audit 152 183 Other 555 391 4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 15:09 Page 116 116 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2002 7 Taxation on profit on ordinary activities Restated 2002 2001 000 000 The taxation charge on the profit for the year is made up as follows: United Kingdom Corporation Tax 1,654 3,010 Double tax relief 349 Overseas taxation: Operating income 1,950 2,777 Exceptional item: GSR refinancing 1,219 Deferred taxation 4,120 504 Adjustment in respect of prior years: United Kingdom Corporation Tax 750 292 Overseas taxation 37 Deferred taxation 2,375 501 Share of joint ventures taxation charge 7,327 6,066 16,639 13,012 The current tax recognised for the year is higher than the United Kingdom corporation tax rate of 30%.
The main reasons for this are set out below: Restated 2002 2001 000 000 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation multiplied by the UK Corporation Tax rate of 30% 14,682 12,012 Effect on the reported tax charge of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes primarily goodwill amortisation 3,463 4,450 Tax allowances in excess of depreciation 1,828 2,610 Other short term timing differences 1,953 2,109 Unrelieved tax losses and higher tax rates on overseas earnings 255 2,458 Tax exempt income and the effect of the use of unrecognised tax losses 634 519 Tax incentives including Tonnage Tax and Research & Development Tax Credits 3,054 959 Current tax charge for the year 10,931 12,723 Deferred tax 6,495 3 Adjustment in respect of prior years 787 292 Taxation on profit on ordinary activities 16,639 13,012 4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 15:09 Page 117 117 8 Dividends 2002 2001 000 000 Interim dividend of 0.64p per share on 429,260,960 Ordinary Shares 2001 0.57p on 392,551,903 Ordinary Shares of 2p each fully paid paid 11 October 2002 2,747 2,238 Proposed final dividend of 1.44p per share on 429,448,207 Ordinary Shares 2001 1.29p on 389,613,782 Ordinary Shares of 2p each fully paid proposed payment on 13 May 2003 6,184 5,026 8,931 7,264 2001 final dividend of 1.29p on 39,547,465 shares issued between 31 December 2001 and 13 March 2002 record date 510 2000 final dividend of 1.13p on 50,212 shares relating to shares issued between 31 December 2000 and 6 April 2001 record date 1 9,441 7,265 A dividend waiver is effective for those shares held on behalf of the Company by its Employee Share Ownership Trust.
9 Earnings per Ordinary Share Basic and diluted earnings per Ordinary Share after goodwill have been calculated in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 14 FRS 14 Earnings Per Share.
Earnings per share is shown both before and after goodwill to assist in the understanding of the impact of FRS 10 on the Group Accounts.
The calculation of basic earnings per Ordinary Share after goodwill is based on profits of 32,302,000 for the year ended 31 December 2002 2001 restated 27,027,000 and the weighted average number of 421,813,107 2001 389,552,980 Ordinary Shares of 2p each in issue during the year.
The calculation of basic earnings per Ordinary Share before goodwill is based on profits of 40,400,000 adjusted for the effect of goodwill amortisation of 8,098,000 for the year ended 31 December 2002 2001 restated 32,150,000 adjusted for the effect of goodwill amortisation of 5,123,000 and the weighted average number of 421,813,107 2001 389,552,980 Ordinary Shares of 2p each in issue during the year.
The calculation of diluted earnings per Ordinary Share after goodwill is based on profits of 32,302,000 for the year ended 31 December 2002 2001 restated 27,027,000 and the weighted average number of 423,288,423 2001 391,115,673 Ordinary Shares of 2p each assuming that the options are all exercised.
The calculation of diluted earnings per Ordinary Share before goodwill is based on profits of 40,400,000 adjusted for the effect of goodwill amortisation of 8,098,000 for the year ended 31 December 2002 2001 restated 32,150,000 adjusted for the effect of goodwill amortisation of 5,123,000 and the weighted average number of 423,288,423 2001 391,115,673 Ordinary Shares of 2p each assuming that the options are all exercised.
4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 15:10 Page 118 118 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2002 10 Intangible assets Group Goodwill Other Total 000 000 000 Cost: At 1 January 2002 152,889 152,889 Additions during the year 13,029 1,775 14,804 Adjustments to goodwill capitalised on acquisitions prior to 1 January 2002 403 403 AT 31 DECEMBER 2002 165,515 1,775 167,290 Accumulated amortisation: At 1 January 2002 11,719 11,719 Charge for the year 7,777 321 8,098 AT 31 DECEMBER 2002 19,496 321 19,817 Net book value: AT 31 DECEMBER 2002 146,019 1,454 147,473 At 31 December 2001 141,170 141,170 Other intangible assets comprise a 1,775,000 premium for the acquisition of two, five-year, licences and are amortised over the licence life.
The accumulated depreciation provided for those assets at 31 December 2002 was 9,168,000 2001 6,903,000.
4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 15:10 Page 119 119 11 Tangible assets continued Machinery, Short motor leasehold vehicles, building furniture and improvements equipment Total Company 000 000 000 Cost: At 1 January 2002 1,117 2,624 3,741 Transfers from subsidiary undertakings 1,161 2,329 3,490 Transfers to subsidiary undertakings 1,049 1,897 2,946 Capital expenditure 36 1,054 1,090 Disposals 27 27 AT 31 DECEMBER 2002 1,265 4,083 5,348 Accumulated depreciation: At 1 January 2002 355 1,704 2,059 Transfers from subsidiary undertakings 365 1,398 1,763 Transfers to subsidiary undertakings 323 1,160 1,483 Provided during the year 151 566 717 Disposals 17 17 AT 31 DECEMBER 2002 548 2,491 3,039 Net book value: AT 31 DECEMBER 2002 717 1,592 2,309 At 31 December 2001 762 920 1,682 The cost of assets held by the Company under finance leases at 31 December 2002 was 872,000 2001 Nil.
The accumulated depreciation provided for those assets at 31 December 2002 was 71,307 2001 Nil.
12 Investments held as fixed assets Company 000 a Shares in subsidiary companies at cost: At 1 January 2002 35,598 Transfer of investments from Group companies 115,890 Transfer of investments to Group companies 29,437 Equity subscriptions for shares in Group companies 22,908 Redemption of Serco Australia Pty Ltd preference shares 3,541 AT 31 DECEMBER 2002 141,418 4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 15:10 Page 120 120 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2002 12 Investments held as fixed assets continued Group 000 b Group investments in joint ventures: At 1 January 2002 30,510 Dividends receivable 11,095 Acquisitions 370 Disposals 139 Foreign exchange translation difference 338 Share of profits after tax 16,575 AT 31 DECEMBER 2002 35,883 Group 000 c Investment in own shares: At 1 January 2002 18,983 Amortisation 776 AT 31 DECEMBER 2002 18,207 Investment in own shares represents 5,414,630 2001 5,557,033 shares in Serco Group plc held by the Employee Share Ownership Trust the Trust equal to 1.25% of current allotted share capital 2001 1.4%.
The market value of shares held by the Trust at 31 December 2002 was 8,284,384 2001 20,283,170.
142,403 shares were allotted during the year, all of which were at nil value 2001 52,308, of which 9,864 were allotted at 4.26 and 42,444 at nil value.
4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 15:10 Page 121 121 12 Investments held as fixed assets continued e A list of the principal undertakings of Serco Group plc is shown in Note 32.
All the subsidiaries of the Group have been consolidated.
f At 31 December 2002, Group companies had branches in Abu Dhabi, Bahrain, Chile, Dubai, Korea, Ras Al Khaimah, Saudi Arabia, Sharjah and Switzerland.
g The subsidiaries of Serco Group plc and its joint venture undertakings are primarily engaged in the provision of services with the exception of Serco Investments Limited and certain other holding companies, which manage equity investments.
h Acquisitions: All acquisitions made during the year have been accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting.
The goodwill arising on all acquisitions made in the year is being amortised over a period of 20 years.
i CCM Software Services Limited All the issued share capital of CCM Software Services Limited was acquired by Serco International Limited on 3 December 2002 for cash consideration of 8,647,000 and deferred cash consideration, contingent on achievement of certain financial targets post acquisition, valued at 2,068,000.
Acquisition costs of 515,000 were incurred.
The fair value of net assets acquired was 631,000 after taking account of adjustments of 448,000 required to recognise obligations for which no liability had been booked at the date of acquisition.
The goodwill arising on consolidation is 10,599,000. ii Other acquisitions The issued share capital of Euromedic Ltd and the assets and liabilities of SDC, a partnership, were acquired by Serco Holdings Ltd on 13 March 2002 and 31 May 2002 respectively for a total cash consideration of 2,088,000 and deferred cash consideration, contingent on achievement of certain financial targets post acquisition, valued at 223,000.
Acquisition costs of 103,000 were incurred.
The fair values of assets and liabilities acquired are considered to be the same as their book values.
The total goodwill arising on consolidation is 2,430,000.
13 Stocks Group Group 2002 2001 000 000 Service spares 10,065 10,093 Long term contract balances 28,679 25,745 38,744 35,838 4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 15:10 Page 122 122 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2002 14 Debtors Restated Group Group Company Company 2002 2001 2002 2001 000 000 000 000 a Amounts due within one year: Amounts recoverable on contracts 168,820 150,342 Other debtors 18,425 21,224 21,089 14,747 Prepayments and accrued income 30,131 19,148 580 73 Amounts owed by joint ventures 2,666 4,257 Building held for re-sale 4,734 220,042 199,705 21,669 14,820 Restated Group Group Company Company 2002 2001 2002 2001 000 000 000 000 b Amounts due after more than one year: Amounts recoverable on contracts 18,412 11,847 Other debtors 16,297 14,131 1,297 Pensions prepayment Note 31 28,350 26,460 Amounts owed by joint ventures 12,033 9,567 PFI asset in the course of construction 33,840 14,100 108,932 76,105 1,297 TOTAL DEBTORS 328,974 275,810 22,966 14,820 Included in amounts recoverable on contracts is 7,978,000 2001 14,710,000 in respect of items procured on behalf of customers.
The impact on the Group Accounts of the PFI asset in the course of construction in relation to the Traffic Control Centre contract is summarised as follows: Balance at Movement Balance at 1 January during 31 December 2002 the year 2002 000 000 000 Balances in relation to asset in course of construction: PFI asset in the course of construction excluding capitalised interest 13,733 18,355 32,088 Interest included in PFI asset in the course of construction 367 1,385 1,752 Total PFI asset in the course of construction 14,100 19,740 33,840 Cash 270 270 Other debtors 1,447 1,447 Accruals and deferred income 4,852 4,852 14,100 16,605 30,705 Funded by: Non-recourse loan 14,100 15,600 29,700 Profits retained within Special Purpose Company 1,005 1,005 14,100 16,605 30,705 4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 15:10 Page 123 123 15 Other creditors including taxation and social security Group Group Company Company 2002 2001 2002 2001 000 000 000 000 Obligations under finance leases 4,836 2,557 267 Corporation Tax 2,195 4,418 Other taxes and social security costs 31,432 30,464 304 631 Other creditors 38,034 47,689 117 446 Amounts owed to joint ventures 16,974 14,864 Other loans 372 629 93,843 100,621 688 1,077 16 Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year Group Group Company Company 2002 2001 2002 2001 000 000 000 000 a Bank loans and overdrafts 2,386 70,647 30,245 Obligations under finance leases 15,291 11,385 792 Other loans 77,505 60,371 43,259 41,420 Total loans 95,182 142,403 44,051 71,665 Less: amounts included in creditors falling due within one year 7,594 73,833 267 30,245 Amounts falling due after more than one year 87,588 68,570 43,784 41,420 Group Group Company Company 2002 2001 2002 2001 000 000 000 000 b Analysis of loan repayments due: Bank loans and overdrafts: Within one year or on demand 2,386 70,647 30,245 Obligations under finance leases: Within one year or on demand 4,836 2,557 267 Between one and two years 4,667 2,543 525 Between two and five years 4,291 3,826 After five years 1,497 2,459 Other loans: Within one year or on demand 372 629 Between one and two years 1,687 1,618 Between two and five years 70,735 14,681 43,259 Non-recourse debt to fund PFI asset 25,200 14,100 Other 45,535 581 43,259 After five years 4,711 43,443 41,420 Non-recourse debt to fund PFI asset 4,500 Other 211 43,443 41,420 95,182 142,403 44,051 71,665 c Finance lease obligations are secured by retention of title to the relevant assets.
4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 15:10 Page 124 124 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2002 17 Treasury policies and risk management The principal risks arising from the Groups financing activities are interest rate risk and foreign currency risk.
Treasury operations are conducted within a framework of policies set and reviewed by the Board.
There has been no material change during the year or since the year end to the major financial risks faced by the Group or the Groups approach to the management of these risks.
As permitted by Financial Reporting Standard 13 FRS 13 Derivatives and other Financial Instruments: Disclosures short term debtors and non interest bearing short term creditors and loans from joint ventures have been excluded from the following disclosures other than the disclosure of the currency profile of financial assets and liabilities.
The fundamental purpose of interest rate and foreign currency financial instruments entered into is to hedge monetary assets and liabilities, the details of which are set out below.
Interest rate risk The Group borrows at both fixed and floating rates of interest.
The Groups exposure to interest rate fluctuations on its long term borrowings is managed by using interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements.
At 31 December 2002, after taking account of interest rate swaps, the proportion of the Groups fixed rate borrowings was 66.6% 2001 33.3%.
Foreign currency risk The Groups policy is not to hedge the net assets of overseas subsidiaries as they represent a small proportion of the market value of the Group and because exchange rate fluctuations thereon are unlikely to have a material effect on the consolidated net asset value of the Group.
Business units are required to hedge their material trading transactions sales and purchases in currencies other than their functional currency by using forward contracts.
There were no material debtors or creditors as at 31 December 2002 with unhedged transactional exposure.
Financial assets and liabilities i Assets Australian US Other Sterling Euro Dollar Dollar currencies Total 31 December 2002 000 000 000 000 000 000 Cash and short term deposits 43,024 13,468 2,009 2,868 10,405 71,774 Long term interest-bearing loans to joint ventures 8,009 4,024 12,033 Other long term debtors 87,918 7,285 1,696 96,899 TOTAL LONG TERM ASSETS 95,927 7,285 5,720 108,932 Australian US Other Sterling Euro Dollar Dollar currencies Total 31 December 2001 000 000 000 000 000 000 Cash and short term deposits 12,782 11,282 2,450 5,670 2,628 34,812 Long term interest-bearing loans to joint ventures 8,817 750 9,567 Other long term debtors 64,564 1,363 611 66,538 Total long term assets 73,381 2,113 611 76,105 Included in the above is 4,095,000 2001 4,117,000 of loans to joint ventures which carry a fixed interest rate of 13.0% for a weighted average period of 13 years 2001 14 years.
All other interest-bearing assets are held at floating rates of interest.
Of total short term debtors 79% 2001 93% is denominated in Sterling.
4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 15:10 Page 125 125 17 Treasury policies and risk management continued ii Liabilities Fixed Rate Liabilities Weighted Weighted average Total Floating rate Fixed rate average time for which liabilities liabilities liabilities interest rate rate is fixed 31 December 2002 000 000 000 % Years Sterling 44,586 14,886 29,700 5.46 3 Australian Dollar 3,075 3,075 US Dollar 46,885 13,182 33,703 7.33 5 Euro 636 636 TOTAL 95,182 31,779 63,403 Fixed Rate Liabilities Weighted Weighted average Total Floating rate Fixed rate average time for which liabilities liabilities liabilities interest rate rate is fixed 31 December 2001 000 000 000 % Years Sterling 98,077 83,977 14,100 5.46 3 Australian Dollar 2,451 2,451 US Dollar 41,420 8,038 33,382 7.34 6 Euro 455 455 Total 142,403 94,921 47,482 Of total short term creditors 80% 2001 81% is denominated in Sterling.
The maturity of the Groups financial liabilities at 31 December 2002 and 31 December 2001: Maturing Maturing Maturing Maturing between one between two after more within one year and two years and five years than five years Total 31 December 2002 000 000 000 000 000 Sterling 4,105 3,884 30,677 5,920 44,586 Australian Dollar 768 1,255 829 223 3,075 US Dollar 2,085 1,215 43,520 65 46,885 Euro 636 636 TOTAL 7,594 6,354 75,026 6,208 95,182 Maturing Maturing Maturing Maturing between one between two after more within one year and two years and five years than five years Total 31 December 2001 000 000 000 000 000 Sterling 72,677 3,216 17,777 4,407 98,077 Australian Dollar 701 945 730 75 2,451 US Dollar 41,420 41,420 Euro 455 455 Total 73,833 4,161 18,507 45,902 142,403 4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 15:10 Page 126 126 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2002 17 Treasury policies and risk management continued iii Fair Values The book value and fair value of the Groups financial assets and liabilities at 31 December 2002 and 31 December 2001 were: 2002 2002 2001 2001 Book value Fair value Book value Fair value 000 000 000 000 ASSETS Cash and short term deposits 71,774 71,774 34,812 34,812 Long term loans to joint ventures 12,033 12,033 9,567 9,567 Other long term debtors 96,899 96,899 66,538 66,538 Derivatives held to manage currency and interest rate risk 1,716 4,492 TOTAL 108,932 110,648 76,105 80,597 LIABILITIES Long term borrowing: Sterling 40,481 40,481 25,400 25,400 Australian Dollar 2,307 2,307 1,750 1,750 US Dollar 44,800 49,091 41,420 48,991 TOTAL 87,588 91,879 68,570 76,141 Short term borrowing: Sterling 4,105 4,105 72,677 72,677 Australian Dollar 768 768 701 701 US Dollar 2,085 2,085 Euro 636 636 455 455 TOTAL 7,594 7,594 73,833 73,833 Foreign currency assets which are hedged using forward foreign exchange contracts are translated at the contracted rates.
The fair value of other foreign currency contracts, interest rate swaps, and the US$70,000,000 loan notes, have been determined by reference to prices available from the markets on which the instruments involved are traded.
Gains and losses on hedges Changes in the fair value of financial instruments used as hedges are not recognised until the hedged position matures.
There was an unrecognised gain of 1,716,000 2001 gain of 4,492,000 on hedges as at 31 December 2002.
The unrecognised gain is not expected to be recognised in the Profit and Loss Account in the next period.
Borrowing facilities The Group had committed bank credit facilities of 50,000,000 at 31 December 2002.
The Group also had annually renewable uncommitted bank facilities totalling 111,000,000, all of which were undrawn at 31 December 2002.
4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 15:10 Page 127 127 18 Provisions for liabilities and charges Restated Balance Charged to Foreign Balance 1 January the profit and exchange 31 December 2002 Utilised loss account differences 2002 Group 000 000 000 000 000 Pensions provision 23,003 463 1,663 1,605 25,808 Deferred taxation 2,246 6,495 16 8,725 25,249 463 8,158 1,589 34,533 Balance Charged to Foreign Balance 1 January the profit and exchange 31 December 2002 Utilised loss account differences 2002 Company 000 000 000 000 000 Deferred tax 335 335 19 Deferred taxation Restated Group Group Company Company 2002 2001 2002 2001 000 000 000 000 The amounts of deferred taxation provided in the accounts are: Tax allowances in excess of depreciation 2,650 332 77 Overseas timing differences 1,967 692 Other timing differences 4,108 1,222 412 8,725 2,246 335 Potential amounts of deferred taxation for which no credit has been taken: Overseas timing differences 2,767 3,224 2,767 3,224 20 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds Restated 2002 2001 000 000 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 32,302 27,027 Dividends 9,441 7,265 22,861 19,762 Currency translation differences on foreign currency net investments 1,911 1,917 New capital subscribed 117,929 3,561 Exercise of share scheme options 93 1,260 Net increase in shareholders funds 138,786 20,146 Opening shareholders funds as previously stated 129,877 108,925 Prior year adjustment 806 Opening shareholders funds as restated 129,071 108,925 Closing shareholders funds as restated 267,857 129,071 4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 15:10 Page 128 128 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2002 21 Called up share capital 2002 2001 000 000 a Authorised 550,000,000 2001 550,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 2p each 11,000 11,000 2002 2001 000 000 b Called up, allotted and fully paid: 434,862,837 2001 395,170,815 Ordinary Shares of 2p each 8,697 7,903 c Ordinary Shares of 2p each allotted in the year: During the year 289,581 Ordinary Shares of 2p each were allotted to the holders of options or their personal representatives.
The remaining 142,403 were allotted at nil value using shares purchased in the market and held in trust.
In addition to the above, 39,500,000 Ordinary Shares of 2p each were allotted under a share placement on 12 March 2002 at 3.05.
44,844 Ordinary Shares of 2p each were also allotted on 19 December 2002 as deferred consideration relating to the acquisition of Serco QAA formerly Quality Assurance Associates Limited made in December 2000.
Restated to reflect the capitalisation issue on 5 April 2000. d Options in respect of Ordinary Shares of 2p each: i In January 1996, 1,210,392 options in respect of Ordinary Shares of 2p each were granted in accordance with the rules of the Serco Group plc 1996 Long Term Incentive Scheme.
At 31 December 2002 no options remain.
ii In January 1997, 1,439,622 options in respect of Ordinary Shares of 2p each were granted in accordance with the rules of the Serco Group plc 1996 Long Term Incentive Scheme.
At 31 December 2002 there remained 54,000 options which are exercisable at nil value in accordance with the rules of the Scheme.
iii 3,341,346 options in respect of Ordinary Shares of 2p each were granted in May and September 1998 in accordance with the rules of the Serco Group plc 1998 Executive Option Plan.
At 31 December 2002 there remained 1,606,259 options which are exercisable at a price of 2.175 each and 10,830 at 2.0208 each in accordance with the rules of the Scheme.
iv On 1 April 1999, 3,461,664 options in respect of Ordinary Shares of 2p each were granted in accordance with the rules of the Serco Group plc 1998 Executive Option Plan.
At 31 December 2002 there remained 2,385,474 options which are exercisable at a price of 2.45 each in accordance with the rules of the Scheme.
v On 31 March 2000, 4,511,988 options in respect of Ordinary Shares of 2p each were granted as part of the 1996 Sharesave Scheme.
2,577,092 options were held by employees on 31 December 2002.
The options are exercisable at any time between 1 May 2003 and 31 October 2003 at a price of 3.81 each in accordance with the rules of the Scheme.
vi On 5 April 2000, 2,524,836 options in respect of Ordinary Shares of 2p each were granted in accordance with the rules of the Serco Group plc 1998 Executive Option Plan.
At 31 December 2002 there remained 2,368,224 options which are exercisable at a price of 4.2542 each in accordance with the rules of the Scheme.
4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 15:10 Page 129 129 21 Called up share capital continued d Options in respect of Ordinary Shares of 2p each: continued vii On 5 April 2000, 219,900 options in respect of Ordinary Shares of 2p each were granted in accordance with the rules of the 1996 Serco Group plc Long Term Incentive Scheme as amended by the Company on 5 April 2000.
At 31 December 2002 there remained 148,236 options which are exercisable at a nil value in accordance with the rules of the Scheme.
viii 37,677 options in respect of Ordinary Shares of 2p each were granted in August and November 2000, in accordance with the rules of the Serco Group plc 1998 Executive Option Plan.
As at 31 December 2002 there remained 26,268 options which are exercisable at a price of 5.825 and 8,878 options which are exercisable at a price of 4.90 each in accordance with the rules of the scheme.
ix On 24 November 2000, 259,351 options in respect of Ordinary Shares of 2p each were granted in accordance with the rules of the 1996 Serco Group plc Long Term Incentive Scheme as amended by the Company on 5 April 2000.
At 31 December 2002 there remained 188,169 options which are exercisable at nil value in accordance with the rules of the Scheme.
x On 20 March 2001, 2,851,962 options in respect of Ordinary Shares of 2p each were granted in accordance with the rules of the Serco Group plc 1998 Executive Option Plan.
As at 31 December 2002 there remained 2,700,200 options which are exercisable at a price of 4.07 each in accordance with the rules of the Scheme.
xi On 27 March 2001, 603,144 options in respect of Ordinary Shares of 2p each were granted in accordance with the rules of the Serco Group plc 1998 Executive Option Plan.
As at 31 December 2002 there remained 600,838 options which are exercisable at a price of 4.35 each in accordance with the rules of the Scheme.
xii On 16 November 2001, 248,374 options in respect of Ordinary Shares of 2p each were granted in accordance with the rules of the 1996 Serco Group plc Long Term Incentive Scheme as amended by the Company on 5 April 2000.
At 31 December 2002 there remained 200,202 options which are exercisable at nil value in accordance with the rules of the Scheme.
xiii On 3 May 2002, 5,986,743 options in respect of Ordinary Shares of 2p each were granted in accordance with the rules of the Serco Group plc 1998 Executive Option Plan.
As at 31 December 2002 there remained 5,914,886 options which are exercisable at a price of 2.64 each in accordance with the rules of the Scheme.
xiv On 3 May 2002, 55,600 options in respect of Ordinary Shares of 2p each were granted in accordance with the rules of the 1996 Serco Group plc Long Term Incentive Scheme as amended by the Company on 5 April 2000.
At 31 December 2002 no options had been exercised or lapsed.
These options have been granted in respect of a three year performance period starting 1 January 2002 and are exercisable at a nil value in accordance with the rules of the Scheme.
xv On 6 September 2002, 5,428,691 options in respect of Ordinary Shares of 2p each were granted in accordance with the rules of the Serco Group plc 1998 Executive Option Plan.
As at 31 December 2002 there remained 5,327,309 options which are exercisable at a price of 1.645 each in accordance with the rules of the Scheme.
Restated to reflect the capitalisation issue on 5 April 2000. e The market price of Serco Group plc Ordinary Shares of 2p each as at 31 December 2002 was 1.53.
The market prices of these shares ranged from 4.00 to 1.325 during the year.
4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 15:10 Page 130 130 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2002 22 Share premium account Group and Company 000 Balance at 1 January 2002 73,656 Deferred consideration relating to the acquisition of Serco QAA Limited 69 Share premium on issue of shares upon exercise of options 422 Share placement net of 3,041,000 expenses 116,644 BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2002 190,791 23 Profit and loss account 000 Group At 31 December as previously stated 48,175 Prior year adjustment 806 Balance at 1 January 2002 as restated 47,369 Retained profit transferred to reserves 22,861 Currency translation differences on foreign currency net investments 1,911 Exercise of share option schemes 93 BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2002 68,226 The Profit and Loss Account includes a goodwill charge of 41,578,000 under the accounting policy applicable prior to the implementation of FRS 10.
Company As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the Profit and Loss Account of the Parent Company is not presented as part of these accounts.
The consolidated profit for the financial year includes the Parent Company profit of 14,219,000, which includes dividends of 24,874,000 received from subsidiary companies.
A final ordinary dividend of 6,184,000 is proposed, which together with the interim dividend of 2,747,000 and the payment in relation to the 2001 final dividend caused by the movement in the number of shares in issue of 510,000, leaves a profit of 4,778,000 which has been added to reserves brought forward of 34,958,000.
This, along with a foreign exchange charge of 1,947,000, results in reserves carried forward of 37,789,000.
4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 15:10 Page 131 131 24 Reconciliation of operating profit to net cash inflow from operating activities Restated 2002 2001 000 000 Operating profit before cost of unsuccessful NATS acquisition 29,103 21,254 Exceptional item: Cost of unsuccessful NATS acquisition 10,187 Operating profit 29,103 11,067 Depreciation 15,534 13,160 Amortisation of goodwill and intangible fixed assets 8,098 5,123 Profit on sale of tangible fixed assets 1,948 1,236 Increase in stocks 2,906 8,932 Increase in debtors 41,870 56,223 Increase in creditors 30,795 53,578 Increase decrease in provisions 2,805 1,053 One off pension fund contribution 15,500 NET CASH INFLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES BEFORE PFI ASSET EXPENDITURE 24,111 15,484 Expenditure on PFI asset in the course of construction 14,950 13,733 Net cash inflow from operating activities after PFI asset expenditure 9,161 1,751 25 Analysis of net debt Balance Other Balance 31 1 January Cash non-cash December 2002 flow changes 2002 000 000 000 000 Cash at bank and in hand 34,812 36,962 71,774 Overdrafts 70,647 68,261 2,386 Cash net of overdrafts 35,835 105,223 69,388 Other loans due after more than one year 45,642 24 1,767 47,433 Other loans due within one year 629 300 43 372 Finance leases 11,385 3,594 7,500 15,291 Recourse net cash 93,491 109,093 9,310 6,292 Non-recourse debt to fund PFI asset 14,100 15,600 29,700 Net debt 107,591 93,493 9,310 23,408 4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 15:10 Page 132 132 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2002 26 Reconciliation of increase decrease in cash to movement in net debt 2002 2001 000 000 Increase decrease in cash 105,223 81,332 Cash inflow from non-recourse debt financing PFI asset 15,600 14,100 Cash outflow from debt and lease financing 3,870 1,935 Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 93,493 93,497 Non cash changes from other debt and lease financing 9,310 10,089 Movement in net debt in the year 84,183 103,586 Net debt at 1 January 107,591 4,005 Net debt at 31 December 23,408 107,591 27 Major non-cash transactions During the year the Group entered into finance lease arrangements in respect of assets with a total capital value at the inception of the leases of 7,610,000 2001 10,089,000.
During the year 93,000 2001 1,260,000 has been charged to the profit and loss reserve in respect of shares issued under employee share incentive schemes.
Other non-cash movements with respect to other loans relate to foreign exchange.
28 Contingent liabilities The Group has given indemnities in respect of overseas credit facilities and lease payments amounting to 7,426,000 2001 7,590,000.
In addition to this, the Group has given indemnities in respect of performance guarantees, letters of credit and import duty guarantees issued on its behalf in the ordinary course of business, which are not expected to result in any material financial loss.
29 Capital and other commitments Group Group Company Company 2002 2001 2002 2001 000 000 000 000 Capital expenditure contracted but not provided 8,595 1,244 There is a commitment of 30 million in relation to the Traffic Control Centre PFI asset under construction, which will be funded by non-recourse bank debt.
During the year ending 31 December 2003 the Group is to make the following payments in respect of operating leases: Land and buildings Other 000 000 Leases which expire: Within one year 1,965 4,199 Between one and five years 7,015 16,690 After five years 4,464 4,264 13,444 25,153 4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 15:10 Page 133 133 30 Related parties Directors The Directors of Serco Group plc had no material transactions with the Group during the year other than service contracts and Directors liability insurance.
Joint ventures The following material transactions took place between the Group and its joint ventures during 2002: 2002 2001 000 000 Net loans during the year 1,797 2,131 Net trading 1,800 2,671 Royalties and management fees receivable 2,302 2,448 Dividends receivable 11,095 9,645 16,994 16,895 The following receivable balances relating to joint ventures were included in the Group Balance Sheet: 2002 2001 000 000 Amounts due within one year: Loans 2,140 Trading balance 287 342 Royalties and management fees 239 3,915 2,666 4,257 Amounts due after more than one year: Loans 12,033 9,567 12,033 9,567 The following payable balances relating to joint ventures were included in the Group Balance Sheet: 2002 2001 000 000 Amounts payable within one year: Loans 16,974 14,165 Trading balance 699 16,974 14,864 Details of Group investments in joint ventures and other principal undertakings are given in Note 32.
4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 15:10 Page 134 134 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2002 31 Pension schemes The Group has continued to account for pensions in accordance with SSAP 24.
Full adoption of the requirements of FRS 17 - Retirement Benefits will not be mandatory for the Group until the year ended 31 December 2005.
The transitional disclosures required by FRS 17 are set out in Part B of this note which shows the Groups pension deficit in accordance with FRS 17 at 31 December 2002 was 73.6 million 2001 3.6 million on an asset base of 294.4 million 2001 298.4 million.
A SSAP 24 Disclosure The net pension charge in accordance with SSAP 24 for the year ended 31 December 2002 was 29,096,000 2001 19,544,000.
The Group operates or is a member of a number of pension schemes as follows: a Serco Pension and Life Assurance Scheme SPLAS This is a pre-funded defined benefit scheme.
The funding policy is to contribute such variable amounts, on the advice of the actuary, as will achieve 100% funding on a projected salary basis.
The latest formal valuation of the scheme was carried out as at 6 April 1999.
The figures included in the accounts are based on a formal valuation, which is currently being carried out as at 6 April 2002.
During 2002 there has been a fall in general stock market values and a bulk transfer was received from the AEA Technology Pension Scheme.
The figures in the Profit and Loss Account and the Balance Sheet prepayment have been determined in accordance with the requirements of SSAP 24.
The average contribution rate is currently 18% for the scheme.
The projected unit method was adopted for the actuarial valuation of the Scheme for accounting purposes.
The main actuarial assumptions used to value liabilities are: Investment yield 7.0% p. a.
5.5% post retirement Salary growth 3.75% p. a.
The Scheme is assessed to be fully funded on a current funding level basis based on a market value of assets of 145,881,000 at 6 April 1999.
Liabilities for this purpose are calculated using the basis for determining individual cash equivalents for active members and deferred pensioners and by estimating the cost of purchasing annuity policies for pensioners.
The actuarial value of the assets represented 81% of the ongoing liabilities of the Scheme.
Variations from the normal costs are amortised for accounting purposes over a fifteen year period as a constant monetary amount.
Employer pension contributions paid into the Scheme during the year were 12,300,000 2001 9,760,000, of which 500,000 related to special contributions in respect of a discretionary increase to pensions in payment awarded during the year 2001 652,000 and 600,000 of contributions in respect of augmentations 2001 810,000.
A 15,000,000 contribution which was included in accruals and prepayments at 31 December 2001 was paid in February 2002.
At 31 December 2002 a prepayment of 17,450,000 2001 17,360,000 in respect of the Scheme was included in the Balance Sheet.
12,210,000 was charged to the Profit and Loss Account in respect of the Scheme 2001 8,950,000.
4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 15:10 Page 135 135 31 Pension schemes continued A SSAP 24 Disclosure continued b The Serco-IAL Pension Scheme This is a pre-funded defined benefit scheme.
Actuarial assessments covering expenses and contributions are carried out by independent qualified actuaries, with the last such review being carried out as at 31 March 2001.
On the assumptions adopted for accounting purposes and based on a market value of assets of 104,037,000 at 31 March 2001, the actuarial value of the assets represented 110% of the ongoing past service liabilities of the Scheme as at that date.
The current contribution rate is 17.8% for the Scheme.
For accounting purposes, the projected unit method has been adopted and the main actuarial assumptions used to value liabilities are: Investment return 6.0% p. a.
Salary growth excluding salary scale 4.5% p. a.
The past service surplus in excess of the prepayment as at 31 March 2001 is being amortised for accounting purposes over a nine year period at a constant monetary amount.
Employer pension contributions paid into the Scheme during the year were 2,125,000 2001 1,738,000.
An amount of 325,000 2001 300,000 has been charged to the 2002 Profit and Loss Account in respect of the Scheme and a prepayment of 10,900,000 2001 9,100,000 has been included in the Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2002. c Serco GmbH & Co. KG Pension arrangement The German pension arrangement comprises two elements: an unfunded defined benefit arrangement and an unfunded hybrid scheme.
Actuarial assessments covering liabilities are carried out by independent qualified actuaries, with the last such review being carried out as at 23 December 1999 and updated as at 31 December 2002 by a qualified independent actuary.
The projected unit method was adopted for the actuarial valuation of the arrangement.
The main actuarial assumptions used in the valuation for accounting purposes were: Discount rate 6.0% p. a.
The Profit and Loss charge for the year was 1,663,000 2001 130,000 and a provision of 25,808,000 2001 23,003,000 has been included in the Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2002 of which 20,271,000 2001 17,466,000 relates to the hybrid element of the Scheme and 5,537,000 to the defined benefit element of the Scheme.
4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 15:10 Page 136 136 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2002 31 Pension schemes continued A SSAP 24 Disclosure continued d Serco Superannuation Fund The defined benefit element of the Scheme was established in Australia on 1 April 1993 to provide equivalent benefits for members transferring from the AWA Defence Industries Superannuation Fund, a defined benefit scheme.
Actuarial assessments covering expenses and contributions relating to the defined benefit element of the Scheme are carried out by independent qualified actuaries, with the last such valuation being carried out as at 31 December 2000.
The attained age method was used for the actuarial valuation of the Scheme as at 31 December 2000.
This method was chosen to produce a level employer contribution rate as a proportion of members salaries over the expected future working lives of the existing members, as the defined benefit element of the Scheme was closed to new members with effect from 1 April 1993.
The main actuarial assumptions used in the actuarial valuation for accounting purposes were: Average long term interest rate net of investments and administration expenses and investment tax 8.0% p. a.
Average long term allowance for salary increases 5.5% p. a.
The defined benefit element of the Scheme was assessed to be fully funded on a current funding level based on a market value of assets of 1,385,000 A$3,938,000 at 31 December 2000 with a ratio of market value of assets to current funding level liabilities of 107%.
The actuarial value of assets of the defined benefit element of the Scheme represented 115% of its ongoing liabilities at 31 December 2000.
The pension cost calculated under the attained age method will amortise the above surplus over the expected future working lives of the existing members which have an average value of 11 years.
Employer pension contributions paid into the Scheme and charged to the 2002 Profit and Loss Account relating to the defined benefit element of the Scheme were 257,000 2001 104,000. e The NPL Management Limited Pension Scheme This is a pre-funded defined benefit scheme.
The Company accounts for this scheme as a defined contribution scheme since at re-bid any surplus or deficit would transfer to the next contractor.
Cash contributions are recognised as pension costs and no asset or liability is shown on the Balance Sheet.
Actuarial assessments covering expenses and contributions are carried out by independent qualified actuaries, with the last such review being carried out as at 5 April 2001.
The funding policy is to contribute such variable amounts as will achieve 100% funding on a projected unit basis.
The average contribution rate is currently 20.8% for the scheme.
The main actuarial assumptions proposed in the valuation were: Investment return 6.50% p. a.
5.0% for current pensioners Salary growth 4.25% p. a. plus promotional scale Price inflation 2.25% p. a.
The market value of assets represented 93% of the ongoing liabilities of the Scheme.
Employer pension contributions charged to the 2002 Profit and Loss Account were 1,903,000 2001 1,634,000.
4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 15:10 Page 137 137 31 Pension schemes continued A SSAP 24 Disclosure continued f The Serco Shared Cost Section of the Railways Pension Scheme This is a pre-funded defined benefit scheme.
Actuarial assessments covering expenses and contributions are carried out by independent qualified actuaries, the last such review being carried out as at 31 December 2001.
The main actuarial assumptions used in the valuation were: Investment return 6.3% p. a.
Salary growth 4.0% p. a. plus promotional scale Price inflation 2.5% p. a.
The actuarial value of assets represented 117% of the ongoing liabilities of the Scheme.
The current contribution rate is 7.5%.
Employer pension contributions charged to the 2002 Profit and Loss Account during the year were 715,000 2001 634,000. g Serco Metrolink Pension Scheme This is a pre-funded defined benefit scheme.
The Company accounts for this scheme as a defined contribution scheme as at re-bid any surplus or deficit would transfer to the next contractor.
Actuarial assessments covering expenses and contributions are carried out by independent qualified actuaries, the last such review being carried out as at 31 August 2001.
The main actuarial assumptions used in the valuation were: Investment return 6.5% p. a.
The actuarial value of assets represented 82% of the ongoing liabilities of the Scheme.
The current contribution rate is 8.2%.
Employer pension contributions charged to the 2002 Profit and Loss Account were 244,000 2001 225,000.
4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 15:10 Page 138 138 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2002 31 Pension schemes continued A SSAP 24 Disclosure continued h Docklands Light Railway Pension Scheme This is a pre-funded defined benefit scheme with Docklands Light Railway Limited being the principal employer.
Serco accounts for this scheme as a defined contribution scheme, since at re-bid any surplus or deficit would transfer to the next contractor.
Actuarial assessments covering expenses and contributions are carried out by independent qualified actuaries, with the last such review being carried out at 1 April 2001.
The main actuarial assumptions used in the valuation this year were: Investment return 7.0% p. a.
Salary growth 5.0% p. a. including promotional scale Pension increases 3.0% p. a.
The actuarial value of assets represented 96% of the ongoing liabilities of the Scheme.
The current contribution rate is 15.2%.
Employer pension contributions charged to the 2002 Profit and Loss Account were 1,378,000 2001 1,181,000. i Other defined contribution schemes The Group paid employer contributions of 10,401,000 2001 6,386,000 into UK and Australian defined contribution schemes and foreign state pension schemes.
B FRS 17 Disclosure The disclosures required under the transitional arrangements within FRS 17 have been based on the most recent full actuarial valuations of the Serco Pension and Life Assurance Scheme as at 6 April 1999 and the Serco-IAL Scheme as at 31 March 2001, updated to 31 December 2002 by independent qualified actuaries.
If the amounts had been recognised in the financial statements the net assets and the Profit and Loss Account would be as follows: Restated 2002 2001 000 000 Net assets excluding net, SSAP 24, pension assets 248,012 110,549 Net pension liability under FRS 17 73,601 3,614 Net assets including pension liabilities under FRS 17 174,411 106,935 Restated 2002 2001 000 000 Profit and loss reserve 68,226 47,369 Reversal of SSAP 24 prepayments, net of deferred taxation 19,845 18,522 48,381 28,847 Deficit in relation to SPLAS scheme, net of deferred taxation 62,427 5,740 Deficit surplus in relation to Serco-IAL scheme, net of deferred taxation 11,174 2,126 Total pension deficit 73,601 3,614 Profit and loss reserve adjusted 25,220 25,233 4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 15:10 Page 139 139 31 Pension schemes continued B FRS 17 Disclosure continued a Serco Pension and Life Assurance Scheme SPLAS The financial assumptions used were: 2002 2001 % p. a.
Rate of increase in salaries 3.85 4.00 Rate of increase in deferred pensions 2.25 2.25 Rate of increase in pensions in payment 2.25 2.25 Discount rate 5.47 5.83 Inflation assumption 2.35 2.50 The Schemes assets and the expected rates of return as at 31 December 2002 were: 2002 2002 2001 2001 % p. a.
000 Equities 7.00 134,319 7.25 119,600 AA corporate bonds 5.47 17,252 5.83 15,500 Gilts 4.50 28,264 5.00 21,000 Cash and other 4.00 4.00 15,800 Total market value of assets 179,835 171,900 Present value of scheme liabilities 269,017 180,100 Deficit in the Scheme 89,182 8,200 Related deferred tax asset 26,755 2,460 Net pension liability 62,427 5,740 The amount chargeable under FRS 17 to operating profit for the year ended 31 December 2002 would have been: 000 Service cost 11,391 Past service cost 1,100 Total operating charge 12,491 Analysis of the net return on the pension scheme for the year ended 31 December 2002: 000 Expected return on pension scheme assets 12,872 Interest on pension liabilities 12,664 Net return 208 4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 15:10 Page 140 140 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2002 31 Pension schemes continued B FRS 17 Disclosure continued a Serco Pension and Life Assurance Scheme SPLAS continued Analysis of amount recognisable in Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses STRGL for the year ended 31 December 2002: 000 Actual return less expected return on assets 56,996 Experience gains and losses on liabilities 20,013 Changes in assumptions 3,990 Actuarial loss recognised in STRGL 80,999 Movement in deficit during the year: 000 Deficit in scheme at 31 December 2001 8,200 Movement in year: Current service cost 11,391 Contributions 12,300 Past service costs 1,100 Net return on assets 208 Actuarial loss 80,999 Deficit in scheme at 31 December 2002 89,182 History of experience gains and losses: 2002 000 Difference between expected and actual return on scheme assets 56,996 Percentage of scheme assets 31.7% Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities 20,013 Percentage of scheme liabilities 7.4% Total amount recognised in STRGL 80,999 Percentage of scheme liabilities 30.1% 4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 15:10 Page 141 141 31 Pension schemes continued B FRS 17 Disclosure continued b The Serco-IAL Pension Scheme The financial assumptions used were: 2002 2001 % p. a.
Rate of increase in salaries 3.85 4.00 Rate of increase in pensions RPI 2.35 2.50 LPI 2.25 2.25 discretionary 2.25 2.25 Discount rate 5.47 5.83 Inflation assumption 2.35 2.50 The Schemes assets and the expected rates of return as at 31 December 2002 were: 2002 2002 2001 2001 % p. a.
000 Equities 7.00 49,483 7.25 59,694 UK bonds 4.82 28,758 5.18 31,336 Property 6.24 7,690 6.54 7,329 Cash and other assets 4.50 908 4.00 78 Annuity policies 5.47 27,798 5.83 28,100 Total market value of assets 114,637 126,537 Present value of scheme liabilities 130,600 123,500 Deficit surplus in the Scheme 15,963 3,037 Related deferred tax asset liability 4,789 911 Net pension liability asset 11,174 2,126 The amount chargeable under FRS 17 to operating profit for the year ended 31 December 2002 would have been: 000 Service cost 2,300 Past service cost Total operating charge 2,300 Analysis of the net return on the pension scheme for the year ended 31 December 2002: 000 Expected return on pension scheme assets 7,900 Interest on pension liabilities 7,000 Net return 900 4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 20:12 Page 142 142 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2002 31 Pension schemes continued B FRS 17 Disclosure continued b The Serco-IAL Pension Scheme continued Analysis of amount recognisable in STRGL for the year ended 31 December 2002: 000 Actual return less expected return on assets 16,100 Experience gains and losses on liabilities 700 Changes in assumptions 4,300 Actuarial loss recognised in STRGL 19,700 Movement in surplus during the year: 000 Surplus in scheme at 31 December 2001 3,037 Movement in year: Current service cost 2,300 Contributions 2,100 Past service costs Net return on assets 900 Actuarial loss 19,700 Deficit in scheme at 31 December 2002 15,963 History of experience gains and losses: 2002 000 Difference between expected and actual return on scheme assets 16,100 Percentage of scheme assets 14.0% Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities 700 Percentage of scheme liabilities 0.5% Total amount recognised in STRGL 19,700 Percentage of scheme liabilities 15.1% c The Balance Sheet position for all of the other Group Pension Schemes is materially the same in accordance with FRS 17 as for SSAP 24.
4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 15:10 Page 143 143 32 List of principal undertakings The companies listed below are, in the opinion of the Directors, the principal undertakings of Serco Group plc.
The percentage of equity capital directly or indirectly held by Serco Group plc is shown.
The voting rights are the same as the percentage holding.
The companies are incorporated and principally operate in the countries stated below.
Principal subsidiaries United Kingdom Serco Limited 100% Serco-Denholm Limited 90% Serco Europe Limited 100% Serco-IAL Limited 100% Serco Railtest Limited 100% Serco Systems Limited 100% NPL Management Limited 100% Serco Docklands Limited 100% Rakmulti Technology Limited 100% Serco QAA Limited 100% Traffic Information Services TIS Limited 100% Rest of Europe Belgium Serco Belgium S. A.
100% Denmark Metro Service A S 67% France Serco France Sarl 100% Germany Serco International GmbH100% Serco Services GmbH100% Ireland Serco Services Ireland Limited 100% CCM Software Services Ltd 100% Italy Serco s. r. l 100% Guernsey Serco Insurance Company Limited 100% Luxembourg Serco Facilities Management S. A.
100% The Netherlands Serco Facilities Management BV 100% Spain Serco Gestion fide Negocias SL 100% Sweden Serco Sverige AB 100% Switzerland Serco Facilities Management S. A.
100% Asia Pacific Australia Serco Group Pty Limited 100% Serco Australia Pty Limited 100% Great Southern Railway Limited 100% New Zealand Serco Group NZ Limited 100% Hong Kong Serco Group Hong Kong Limited 100% Other Canada Serco Facilities Management, Inc. 100% USA Serco Group, Inc. 100% Serco, Inc. 100% Serco Management Services, Inc. Delaware 100% Barton ATC, Inc. 100% Serco Management Services, Inc. Tennessee 100% JL Associates, Inc. 100% 4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 12 3 2003 15:10 Page 144 144 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 31 December 2002 32 List of principal undertakings continued Joint venture undertakings United Kingdom Premier Custodial Group Limited 50% Kilmarnock Prison Services Limited 50% Lowdham Grange Prison Services Limited 50% Medomsley Holdings Limited 50% Pucklechurch Custodial Services Limited 50% Moreton Prison Services Limited 50% Serco Gulf Engineering Limited 50% Defence Management Watchfield Limited 50% Laser Teddington II Limited 50% Altram Manchester Limited 26% Serco-Denholm Shipping Company Limited 50% AWE Management Limited 33% Asia Pacific Australia Defence Maritime Services Pty Limited 50% Serco Sodexho Defence Services Pty Limited 50% New Zealand Serco Sodexho Defence Services Limited 50% Other USA Serco SKE 50% Bahrain Aeradio Technical Services WLL 49% Bermuda BAS-Serco Limited 40% Cyprus Serco Kalisperas 50% Dubai International Aeradio Emirates LLC 49% Saudi Arabia Key Communications Development Co Limited 49% Singapore Serco Guthrie Pte Ltd 50% Turkey Elektronik Sistemier Destek Sanavi five Ticaret AS 51% Full details of related undertakings will be attached to the Companys Annual Return to be filed with the Registrar of Companies.
4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 11 3 2003 21:40 Page 145 145 Investor and Shareholder Information Registrar The Companys registrar is Lloyds TSB Registrars.
They maintain our register of members and make the payment of dividends to our shareholders.
Their address is: Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA, UK T 44 0 870 600 3970 F 44 0 870 600 3980 The Lloyds TSB Registrars shareholder website is at www.
co. uk the shareview website.
Shares in issue At 31 December 2002 there were 434,862,837 Serco Group plc Ordinary 2p Shares in issue.
Dividend mandate Dividends can be paid directly into shareholders bank or building society accounts.
If you want to take advantage of this facility, please complete the dividend mandate form attached to your dividend cheque, or contact our registrar by post or by fax.
The form is also available by visiting the shareview website.
Dividend re-investment plan The Serco dividend re-investment plan DRIP gives shareholders the chance to re-invest their dividends in Serco Group plc shares instead of receiving cash.
If you participate in the scheme, your cash dividend will be paid directly to the registrar.
The administrator will calculate the number of shares to which you are entitled and buy them on the stock market.
Participants share purchases are aggregated, so the dealing costs are relatively low: shares are then distributed to the participants.
To register, you simply have to complete a form and send it to our registrar.
For further information about the DRIP please contact the registrar directly or look under the home page section on the shareview website.
4 Annual Accounts Pr8 RR 11 3 2003 21:40 Page 146 146 Investor and Shareholder Information continued Electronic mailing Where the law allows, you can now choose not to receive a paper copy of the documentation we send out.
Instead we can send you an email notification every time a new shareholder document is posted on our site.
This will include annual and interim reports and other shareholder communications.
You can then view the document s on our website at www.
To receive documents electronically you will need to register online with our registrar on its shareview website.
This is a secure, straight forward online service operated free of charge by Lloyds TSB.
Postal share dealing services Serco has arranged with Cazenove & Co Ltd a simple, low-cost method of buying and selling its shares by post, where shares are bought and sold on the day Cazenove receives instructions by post.
For a dealing form, please contact the postal dealing department at Cazenove.
Cazenove & Co Ltd, 12 Tokenhouse Yard, London, EC2R 7AN, UK T 44 0 20 7606 1768 The terms and conditions for this service are found on the last page of the form.
Unsolicited mail We are legally obliged, whenever requested, to provide copies of our shareholder register to any third parties, so from time to time you may receive unsolicited mail.
You can limit the amount of unsolicited mail you receive by contacting: The Mailing Preference Service, Freepost 22, London, W1E 7EZ, UK Change of registered office On 7 May 2003 the registered office will move to: Serco House, 16 Bartley Wood Business Park, Bartley Way, Hook, Hampshire, RG27 9UY, UK 1 AnnualAccountsCvr Pr8 RR 13 03 2003 11:25 Page 2 26 February Ex dividend date 28 February Record Date 17 March Accounts published 17 April Last day for DRIP election 2003 Calendar of events 6 May Annual General Meeting 13 May Proposed final dividend payment September Proposed announcement of interim results October Proposed payment of interim dividend Serco Group plc our mission: to stay at the forefront of the outsourcing revolution in our chosen markets through the commitment, innovation and calibre of our people, the quality of our management processes and the strength of our corporate culture and values Artwork and Production: Serco Media & Design Design: Pocknell Print: Butler and Tanner SERCO GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW & ACCOUNTS 2002 1 AnnualAccountsCvr Pr8 RR 13 03 2003 11:25 Page 1 Q Serco Group plc SERCO GROUP PLC Dolphin House ANNUAL REVIEW & ACCOUNTS Windmill Road Sunbury-on-Thames 2002 Middlesex TW16 7HT United Kingdom T 44 0 1932 755900 F 44 0 1932 755854 & Serco Group Pty Limited Level 10 90 Arthur Street North Sydney NSW 2060 Australia T 61 0 2 9964 9733 A F 61 0 2 9964 9924 Serco Group, Inc. 20 E Clementon Road Suite 102 South Gibbsboro New Jersey 08026 United States T 1 856 346 8800 F 1 856 346 8463 Serco Group plc is a company registered in England and Wales No.
