To propose the following resolution as a special resolution: Resolution 8 That the directors be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity securities as defined in Section 94 2 of that Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 7 above as if Section 89 1 of that Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that this power shall be limited to: i the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue, open offer or other offer of securities in favour of the holders of ordinary shares on the register of members at such record date s as the directors may determine where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of the ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them on any such record date s, but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems arising under the laws of any overseas territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange or by virtue of shares being represented by depositary receipts or any other matter whatever: and ii the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph i above to any person or persons of equity securities up to an 15 aggregate of 39 million ordinary shares of 5 22p each: and shall expire upon the date of the next annual general meeting of the company after the passing of this resolution or 31 December 2003, whichever is sooner, save that the company shall be entitled to make offers or agreements before the expiry of such power which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors shall be entitled to allot equity securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
By order of the board Paul Lister Secretary Weston Centre, Bowater House, 68 Knightsbridge, London SW1X 7LQ Registered in England and Wales Company No.
293262 5 November 2002 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 77 Notes 1.
Resolutions number 2 to 5 In accordance with the Articles of Association, all directors who held ofce at the time of the two preceding annual general meetings, and who did not put themselves forward for re-election should do so.
The Combined Code of best practice recommends that all directors should be required to submit themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
Mr Bailey will retire with effect from the end of the meeting and will not be putting himself forward for re-election.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, MR Alexander having been appointed a director since the last annual general meeting, is required to retire at this meeting and, being eligible, offers himself for election.
Resolutions number 7 and 8 The Companies Act 1985 prevents directors allotting unissued shares without the authority of shareholders in general meeting.
At the annual general meeting held in December 2001 shareholders gave the directors a general authority to allot shares up to a limit not exceeding one third of the ordinary shares in issue.
The authority is valid for the maximum period of five years as permitted by that Act and expires in December 2006.
The directors, however, propose to renew this authority every year asking, on each occasion, for the authority to be granted for a further period of five years.
Resolution number 7 will authorise the directors to allot substantially all of the present unissued ordinary share capital, which represents approximately 25% of the companys authorised share capital, and approximately 33% of the companys issued ordinary share capital at 5 November 2002, at any time within the next five years.
The proposed renewal of the authority should not be taken as an indication that the directors have any current plans to make an issue of shares.
Where shares are allotted pursuant to a general authority as provided in resolution number 7 and shareholders are required to pay for them in cash, that allotment is subject to Section 89 of the Companies Act, which requires new shares to be offered first to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
There may, however, be circumstances where directors wish to allot shares for cash other than by way of rights issue, open offer or other offer of securities and this cannot be done unless shareholders have first waived their pre-emption rights.
Resolution number 8 asks shareholders to do this by allowing the directors to allot for cash i by way of a rights issue, open offer or other offer of securities to all shareholders subject to certain exclusions and ii up to 5% of the companys present issued ordinary share capital as at 5 November 2002 to persons other than existing shareholders.
By setting the 5% limit, interests of existing shareholders are protected, as their interest in the company cannot, without their consent, be reduced by more than 5% by the issue of new shares for cash to new shareholders.
The company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001, species that only those shareholders registered in the register of members of the company at 6.00 pm on Tuesday 3 December 2002 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the annual general meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the register after 6.00 pm on Tuesday 3 December 2002 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote and the number of votes they may cast at the meeting.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint a proxy who need not be a member of the company to attend and, on a poll, to vote in his her place.
The instrument appointing a proxy should be deposited at the companys registered ofce not later than 11.00 am on Tuesday 3 December 2002.
No director has a contract of service with the company which is not determinable within one year without payment of compensation or which contains provisions for predetermined compensation on termination of an amount, which equals or exceeds one years salary and benets in kind.
The register of directors interests in the ordinary shares of the company will be available for inspection during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays excepted from the date of this notice until the date of the annual general meeting at the registered ofce of the company and at The Royal Garden Hotel 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
78 Associated British Foods plc Directions to the annual general meeting Shareholders are asked to use the Palace Suite entrance from the forecourt.
Those requiring the lift should descend to the Palace Suite from the main hotel reception.
Annual Report and Accounts 2002 79 Company directory Associated British Foods plc Registered ofce Weston Centre Bowater House 68 Knightsbridge London SW1X 7LQ Company registered in England, number 293262 Secretary Paul Lister Registrars and transfer ofce Lloyds TSB Registrars The Causeway Worthing West Sussex BN99 6DA Auditors KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Bankers Bank of Scotland Barclays Bank plc Lloyds TSB Bank plc The Royal Bank of Scotland plc Timetable First interim dividend paid 30 August 2002 Second interim dividend to be paid 18 February 2003 Annual general meeting 5 December 2002 Interim results to be announced April 2003 Internet site http: www.
co. uk 80 Associated British Foods plc
