Independent auditors report to the members of Associated British Foods plc We have audited the financial statements on pages 48 to 74. the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and accounts.
As described on page 46 this includes responsibility We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the for preparing the financial statements in accordance with information and explanations which we considered necessary applicable UK law and accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable as independent auditors, are established in the UK by statute, assurance that the financial statements are free from material the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial mis-statement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or Services Authority, and by our professions ethical guidance.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance Opinion with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial view of the state of affairs of the company and the group as at statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, 14 September 2002 and of the profit of the group for the year if we have not received all the information and explanations then ended and have been properly prepared in accordance we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the with the Companies Act 1985.
Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the group is not disclosed.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants We review whether the statement on pages 40 and 41 reects Registered Auditor the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the 8 Salisbury Square Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, London and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider EC4Y 8BB whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness 5 November 2002 of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the annual report, including the corporate governance statement, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent mis-statements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by Annual Report and Accounts 2002 47
