Principal Trading Subsidiaries At 31 December 2002 the Companys principal trading subsidiaries, all of which are wholly owned except where stated, were as follows: Name of Company Principal Activity Country of Registration SIG Trading Limited Distribution of insulating materials and associated products, England & Wales formerly CPD Distribution PLC roofing materials, ceiling tiles, personal protective equipment, and the design, manufacture and distribution of partitioning.
Socit fide l'Ouest des Produits Distribution of insulating materials and associated products, France Isolants SA Ouest Isol ceiling tiles, partitions and associated products, and roofing products.
WKT Dmmstoffe GmbH & Co. Distribution of insulating materials Germany Holding OHG and associated products.
H Golinski GmbH & Co. KG Distribution of insulating materials Germany and associated products.
Distribution of insulating materials Poland and associated products.
SIG Southwest Inc. Distribution of insulating materials USA and associated products.
BWI Distribution Inc. Distribution of insulating materials USA and associated products.
Miller Pattison Limited Installation of loft and cavity wall insulation.
England & Wales SIG Nederland B. V. Distribution of ceiling tiles, partitions and The Netherlands formerly Nouwens Groep B. V. associated products.
Capco Holdings Limited Distribution of ceiling tiles, partitions and associated products, Republic of Ireland roofing products, insulating materials and office furniture.
CP Supplies Ireland Limited Distribution of ceiling tiles, partitions and associated products.
Republic of Ireland Insulation Distributors Limited Distribution of insulating materials Republic of Ireland and associated products.
On 31 December 2002 the trade and net assets of Sheffield Insulations Limited, SIG Roofing Supplies Limited, Support Site Limited, Komfort Office Environments plc, Capco Interior Supplies Limited and Safety Distribution Limited were transferred into SIG Trading Limited formerly CPD Distribution PLC.
All the above companies operate principally in the UK except for Ouest Isol France, WKT Dmmstoffe GmbH & Co. Holding OHG and H. Golinski GmbH & Co. KG Germany, SIG Southwest Inc and BWI Distribution Inc USA, CP Supplies Ireland Limited Republic of Ireland, Insulation Distributors Limited Republic of Ireland and UK, WKT Polska sp.
Poland, SIG Nederland B. V. The Netherlands and Capco Holdings Limited UK and Republic of Ireland.
WKT Dmmstoffe GmbH & Co. Holding OHG and H. Golinski GmbH & Co. KG are wholly owned by WKT Dmmstoffe Holding GmbH & Co KG an intermediate German holding company.
SIG Roofing Supplies Limited is wholly owned by Warm A Home Limited an intermediate holding company.
SIG Southwest Inc and BWI Distribution Inc are wholly owned by SIG USA Inc an intermediate holding company.
Support Site Limited and SIG Nederland B. V. are wholly owned by Fibreglass Insulations Limited an intermediate holding company.
The Group owns 80% of the ordinary share capital of Insulation Distributors Limited.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 57 For further information visit: Principal Addresses www.
co. uk subsids : SIG plc Komfort Office Environments plc SIG Trading Limited Whittle Way Sheffield Insulations Limited Crawley CPD Distribution PLC West Sussex Miller Pattison Limited RH10 2RW Warren Insulation plc Kitsons Insulation Products Limited Capco Holdings Limited Hillsborough Works Mount Tallant Ave Langsett Road Terenure Sheffield Dublin 6W S6 2LW Safety Distribution Limited WKT Dmmstoffe GmbH & Co. Holding OHG Unit 1 Maybachstrasse 14 Britannia Park D-63456 Hanau-Steinheim Trident Drive Germany Wednesbury West Midlands H. Golinski GmbH & Co. KG WS10 7XB AM Hohentorshafen 1-3 D-28197 Bremen Support Site Limited Germany BBM Materials Limited 1 Quay Point WKT Polska sp.
Wadowicka 8W Cardiff 30-415 Krakow CF24 5HF Poland CP Supplies Ireland Limited Unit 3A Ouest Isol Kylemore Industrial Estate Zone Industrielle B. P. 15 Kileen Road 27460 Alizay France Dublin 10 Insulation Distributors Limited SIG Southwest Inc Unit 15 PO Box 23847 Parkwest Industrial Estate Houston Nangor Road TX 77 28 - 3847 Dublin 12 USA SIG Nederland B. V. formerly Nouwens Groep B. V. Bedrijfsweg 15 5061 JX Oisterwijk The Netherlands BWI Distribution Inc 10942 Beaver Dam Road Hunt Valley M02130 USA SIG Roofing Supplies Limited Harding Way St. Ives Cambridge PE17 4YJ 58 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
