Notice of meeting Notice is hereby given that the 21st Annual General conclusion of the next general meeting at which Special resolutions Meeting AGM of Associated British Ports Holdings accounts are laid before the company.
PLC will be held at the Queen Elizabeth II Resolution 11 Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, Resolution 8 THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 10 London SW1P 3EE on Tuesday, 15 April 2003 at 12 THAT the directors be authorised to set the remuneration above, the directors be empowered pursuant to noon for the following purposes: of  LLP as auditors.
Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 Ordinary resolutions Resolution 9 of the said Act for cash pursuant to the authority THAT the company be authorised to establish conferred by the said previous resolution as if subResolution 1 The Associated British Ports Long-Term Incentive section 1 of Section 89 of the said Act did not THAT the directors report and the audited accounts Plan, a summary of the rules of which is set out in apply to any such allotment provided that this for the year ended 31 December 2002 be received the appendix to the letter from the Chairman of the power shall be limited: and adopted.
company to shareholders dated 11 March 2003, and the directors be authorised to: i to the allotment of equity securities in connection Resolution 2 with an offer of securities, open for acceptance for THAT the remuneration report, as set out on pages i do all acts and things necessary to establish and a period determined by the directors, by way of rights 66 to 69 of the Annual Report & Accounts, be carry it into effect: to holders of ordinary shares on the register on a approved.
fixed record date in proportion to their respective ii vote and be counted in the quorum on any matter holdings of such ordinary shares or in accordance Resolution 3 connected with the plan except that no director with the rights attached thereto but subject to such THAT a final dividend of 8.25 pence per ordinary may vote or be counted in the quorum in respect exclusions or other arrangements as the directors share of the company be declared.
of his own participation and any prohibition in the may deem necessary or expedient to deal with articles of association be relaxed.
fractional entitlements that would otherwise arise Resolution 4 or with legal or practical problems under the law THAT Mr R J Adam be re-elected as a director.
Resolution 10 of, or the requirements of, any regulatory body or THAT the directors be and they are hereby generally any stock exchange in, any territory : Resolution 5 and unconditionally authorised to exercise all powers THAT Mr A J Adams be re-elected as a director.
of the company to allot relevant securities within the ii to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to submeaning of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 paragraph i above of equity securities up to an Resolution 6 in substitution for any existing power to allot relevant aggregate nominal value of 4,111,364 being THAT Mr S J Chambers be re-elected as a director.
securities within the meaning of the said Section 80 not more than five per cent of the issued ordinary up to an aggregate nominal amount of 27,409,096 share capital of the company : Resolution 7 being the lesser of the unissued ordinary share THAT  LLP be re-appointed capital and one-third of the issued share capital of and shall expire on the date of the next AGM of the auditors of the company having previously been the company during the period expiring on the date company after the passing of this resolution save appointed by the board to fill the casual vacancy arising of the AGM of the company to be held in 2004, and that, after such expiry, the directors may allot by reason of the resignation of at any time thereafter, in pursuance of any offer or securities in pursuance of an offer or agreement made , to hold office until the agreement made by the company before such expiry.
by the company before such expiry.
74 Associated British Ports Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Resolution 12 The Register of Directors Shareholdings will be THAT the company be generally and unconditionally available for reference at the commencement of and authorised to make one or more market purchases during the continuance of the AGM.
within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 on the London Stock Exchange of up to a Members entitled to attend and vote at the above maximum aggregate amount equal to the lower of: meeting are entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and on a poll to vote instead of them: a i 32.8 million ordinary shares of 25p each in the proxy need not be a member.
To be effective, capital of the company being 10 per cent of the proxies must be lodged at Computershare Investor companys issued ordinary share capital as at 19 Services PLC, Registrars, The Pavilions, Bridgwater February 2003 : Road, Bristol, BS13 8FB, not later than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
ii 10 per cent of the companys issued ordinary share capital as at the date of passing of this resolution: Legislation has now been passed which permits shareholders to appoint a proxy electronically.
To at a price per share of not less than 25p and not more submit a proxy form via the internet, shareholders than 105 per cent of the average of the middlemarket will need an internet-enabled PC with Internet quotations for such an ordinary share, as derived from Explorer 4 or Netscape 4 or above.
A shareholder the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List, for the reference number SRN and a Personal five business days immediately preceding the day of Identification Number PIN, which are given on the purchase: unless previously revoked or varied, such proxy form, will also be needed to access the authority will expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the service.
company to be held in 2004, save that the company may purchase ordinary shares at any later date where Use of the electronic proxy appointment service is such purchase is pursuant to any contract or contracts entirely voluntary.
Shareholders may continue to made by the company before the expiry of this authority.
submit their proxy card by post, if desired.
By order of the board Pursuant to regulation 20 and schedule 4 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, only those shareholders registered in the Register of Members as at 12 noon on 13 April 2003 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the AGM in respect of the Hywel Rees number of ordinary shares registered in their name at Company Secretary that time.
Changes to entries on the Register of 150 Holborn Members after 12 noon on 13 April 2003 shall be London EC1N 2LR disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
