The financial statements of the Group are prepared in accordance with UK GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Principles which differs in certain respects from US GAAP.
The tables below summarise the material adjustments to the loss for the year and shareholders funds which would be required if US GAAP had been applied instead of UK GAAP.
Year to Year to 31 December 2002 31 December 2001 Notes 000 000 Profit loss under UK GAAP 1,109 9,452 US GAAP adjustments: Purchase accounting and goodwill Amortisation of goodwill and other intangibles I 3,399 5,708 Depreciation of tangible fixed assets II 518 488 Write-off of acquired in-process research and development costs III 4,646 18,893 Results in equity investments RTP III 559 Deferred taxes III 401 Share-based compensation IX 181 215 Revenue recognition VII 26,987 1,934 Sale of royalty interests Revenue recognition VIII 14,219 6,342 Interest expense VIII 5,850 1,222 Royalty payments VIII 664 Financial instruments XI 531 31 Net loss under US GAAP 45,261 43,868 Net loss per Ordinary Share under US GAAP pence 7.8p 8.3p Shareholders funds Year to Year to 31 December 2002 31 December 2001 Notes 000 000 Shareholders funds under UK GAAP 124,270 95,145 US GAAP adjustments: Purchase accounting and goodwill Goodwill I, III 83,719 73,259 Other intangible fixed assets I 4,344 5,174 Tangible fixed assets II 7,930 7,192 Investments III 1,893 796 Deferred taxes III 1,439 2,738 Contingent consideration charged to goodwill reserve V 22,620 27,457 Shares issued relating to contingent consideration VI 11,310 Shares and warrants to be issued, deferred shares and shares issued to Dr Gonella IV 11,310 34,070 Share-based compensation IX 305 193 Employee Benefit Trust X 1,859 552 Deferred revenue VII 23,179 771 Funding liabilities VIII 37,698 15,256 Financial instruments XI 500 31 Shareholders funds under US GAAP 138,530 142,570 reconciliation to US 82 accounting principles SkyePharma annual report 2002 SkyePharma annual report 2002 Summary of Material Differences between UK and US GAAP Under US GAAP, contingent consideration is recognised only when determinable beyond reasonable doubt, therefore deferred shares I Goodwill and other intangible fixed assets Prior to the introduction of and shares and warrants to be issued have been reversed out of FRS10, as permissible under UK GAAP, no intangible assets had been shareholders funds under US GAAP.
recognised as a result of purchase accounting as the intangible assets In addition, under UK GAAP in connection with the acquisition of RTP, were considered to be an integral part of the business acquired and 5.8 million of the total consideration was payable in shares which were were, therefore, included within goodwill and eliminated against issued subsequent to 31 December 2001.
As of 31 December 2001, these shareholders funds.
Where the aggregate of the fair values of the net shares had been included within shareholders funds and warrants to be assets acquired exceeded the cost of the acquired net assets resulting issued.
Under US GAAP, such amounts would be recorded as a liability in negative goodwill, such excess was credited directly to reserves.
The until the shares are issued.
Group adopted transitional provisions under FRS10 and accordingly did V Contingent consideration charged to goodwill The Group effected the not reinstate goodwill previously eliminated against reserves as an acquisition of Krypton and Jago through the exchange of warrants and intangible asset.
The issuance of certain of these warrants and shares is US GAAP requires an allocation of the purchase consideration to contingent upon the occurrence of certain future events.
Under UK identifiable intangible assets, including any resulting from research GAAP, the Group estimated the fair value of the contingent consideration and development.
Goodwill and identifiable intangible fixed assets are to determine the acquisition cost.
The resulting goodwill was eliminated reflected as assets.
Prior to 2002, goodwill was amortised over its useful against shareholders funds.
life, with the exception of goodwill arising on acquisitions made after Under US GAAP the acquisition cost has been adjusted to remove 30 June 2001.
Effective 1 January 2002 goodwill is no longer amortised the contingent consideration, which is only recognised when it under US GAAP, but instead subject to annual impairment tests.
This is determinable beyond reasonable doubt, therefore contingent results in a reversal of goodwill amortisation charged under UK GAAP.
consideration charged to goodwill reserves has been reversed Intangible fixed assets recognised under US GAAP purchase accounting out of shareholders funds under US GAAP.
requirements are amortised over their estimated revenue earning life.
Negative goodwill, if any, is eliminated by reducing the value of all VI Shares issued related to contingent consideration In April 2002, all non-current assets acquired.
contingencies related to the Deferred A Shares were removed based on the first commercial launch of Paxil CR.
In connection with the removal II Tangible fixed assets Prior to the introduction of FRS10 under UK GAAP of these contingencies, in 2002 the Group issued 12 million Ordinary for business acquisitions, where the aggregate of the fair values of Shares to Dr. Gonella, the vendor of Jago.
Under US GAAP, these shares the net assets acquired exceeded the cost of the acquired net assets were recorded within shareholders funds at the market value at the date resulting in negative goodwill, such excess was credited directly to the contingencies were removed.
Under US GAAP such excess is eliminated by proportionately reducing the value of the non-current assets acquired.
Under UK GAAP the shares were recorded at the market price at the date of issuance of deferred shares 20 July 2000.
The adjustment III Acquired in-process research and development costs The Group reverses the value of equity share capital and premium in the amount of acquired the drug delivery business of Bioglan AB for 3.6 million and 11.3 million.
A corresponding adjustment in the amount of 9.4 million the assumption of 0.4 million of net liabilities in May 2002, as described has been recorded within Goodwill and other intangible fixed assets that in note 27: Acquisitions.
In determining the allocation of the purchase represents the fair value of shares issued under US GAAP.
price to assets and liabilities acquired, the Group valued acquired inprocess research and development that had no other alternative use at VII Revenue recognition Under US GAAP, more prescriptive criteria than 5.1 million which created negative goodwill of 1.1 million which was UK GAAP have been applied to assess whether the culmination of the allocated among non-current assets acquired.
Accordingly, the fair value earnings process has been completed and whether the Group has of non-current asset acquired in the amount of 0.7 million was reduced continuing obligations throughout the contract term.
As a result, under to nil and 4.6 million of in-process research and development was US GAAP certain non-refundable up-front payments have been deferred expensed in the period of acquisition.
over the development period of the contract term on certain agreements.
In 2001, the Group purchased the majority interest of RTP through a twoDeferred revenue reflects the amount of revenue not currently eligible for step acquisition effected in July and December 2001.
The acquisition was recognition under US GAAP as well as the reversal of 7.8 million 4.8 recorded using the purchase method of accounting under both UK and million as of 31 December 2001 deferred revenue under UK GAAP related US GAAP.
to the sale of royalty interests, which is treated as debt under US GAAP.
The adjustments between UK and US GAAP in respect of the RTP VIII Sale of royalty interests Under UK GAAP payments received from a acquisition relate mainly to differences in the valuation of purchase third party to fund the internal research and development of a product in price consideration, the methods of purchase price allocation and the return for the sale of a proportion of potential future royalty streams from amortisation of goodwill.
In 2001, this resulted in a 5.3 million increase a selection of products are reflected within other operating income when in purchase consideration and differences in the amounts assigned to the risk of reimbursement has effectively been transferred to the third certain tangible and intangible fixed assets, investments and related party.
Royalties repaid to third parties are treated as cost of goods sold.
Under US GAAP amounts allocated to acquired in-process US GAAP requires such funding payments to be recorded as debt where research and development that do not have an alternative use have been there is continuing involvement in the generation of the cash flows due to expensed through earnings in the period of acquisition: under UK GAAP, the third party.
The US GAAP adjustment for the statement of operations certain of these amounts are not separately identified but considered includes the reversal of funding revenue recorded from the third party as part of goodwill.
In addition, under UK GAAP goodwill is being amortised well as recording the interest charge for the period on the outstanding over 20 years on a straight-line basis while under US GAAP, goodwill funding liability balance.
Repayments made to third parties in the form of resulting from this acquisition was not amortised.
royalty payments that are expensed under UK GAAP are reversed under IV Deferred shares and shares and warrants to be issued Under UK GAAP, US GAAP since they are treated as repayment of debt.
contingent consideration payable in connection with the acquisition IX Share-based compensation Under US GAAP, the Group applies of Jago is included within shareholders funds as deferred shares.
Accounting Principles Board Opinion APB No.
25, Accounting for Stock As of 31 December 2001, the Group had also recorded contingent Issued to Employees, and related interpretations in accounting for its consideration payable within shareholders funds in the amount of plans.
Accordingly, a compensation expense has been recognised for 4.8 million in connection with the acquisition of Krypton.
The amount performance-based compensation plans where it is probable that the at 31 December 2002 related to Krypton was nil.
83 Summary of Material Differences between UK and US GAAP continued XIII Recent U. S. GAAP Pronouncements In August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No.
143, Accounting for Obligations Associated with the performance criteria will be met and the options exercised prior to the Retirement of Long-Lived Assets.
This standard will be effective for the expiration of the options issued under these plans.
No compensation Groups fiscal year beginning 1 January 2003.
The standard requires that expense has been recognised for those plans that are considered fixed such obligations be capitalised as part of the assets cost at the time of option plans under APB 25 and where the options granted under the plans initial recognition, with the related liability discounted to its fair value at are granted at a price that equals the market price at the date of grant.
The income statement impact of adopting this X Employee Benefit Trust Under UK GAAP the Ordinary Shares of the standard will be presented as a cumulative effect of a change in Company held by the SkyePharma PLC General Employee Benefit Trust accounting principle.
The Group does not believe the adoption of this are recorded at cost and accounted for as investments.
The value of standard will have a material impact on its financial position or results shares and options granted are deducted from the cost value of shares of operations.
held in the Employee Benefit Trust and charged to current period In April 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No.
This standard will require expense or over the vesting period if options vest over a period of time.
gains and losses from extinguishment of debt to be classified as Under US GAAP the Ordinary Shares of the Company purchased extraordinary items only if they meet certain criteria.
Any gain or loss by the Employee Benefit Trust are accounted for at cost as treasury on extinguishment will be recorded in the most appropriate line item to shares which reduce shareholders funds.
Gains or losses arising which it relates within net income before extraordinary items.
SFAS 145 on subsequent issuance of the shares to employees are recorded as is effective for fiscal years beginning after 15 May 2002.
However, certain adjustments to shareholders funds.
The reduction in cost, which is sections are effective for transactions occurring after 15 May 2002.
The expensed under UK GAAP, is reversed under US GAAP to maintain the Group does not expect the adoption of this standard will have a material treasury shares at cost.
All employee compensation expense is recorded impact on its financial position or results of operations.
SFAS 146 Accounting Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities, XI Financial Instruments Under UK GAAP, periodic gains and losses on which was issued at the end of June 2002, addresses issues regarding interest and foreign currency derivatives are not recognised until the the recognition, measurement, and reporting of costs associated with operational transactions to which they are linked occur.
Under US GAAP, exit and disposal activities, including restructuring activities.
This the Group records all derivative instruments on the balance sheet at fair standard will be implemented with effect from 1 January 2003.
The value with changes in fair values are recorded in earnings.
The Group Group does not expect the adoption of this standard will have a material has also reviewed its contractual arrangements for the existence of impact on its financial position or results of operations.
embedded derivatives that should be separately accounted for under In November 2002, the FASB issued Interpretation No.
If embedded derivatives are identified, they are recorded Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, separately from their host contracts at fair value, with changes in fair Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others.
FIN 45 expands value recognised in current earnings.
on the accounting guidance of other SFASs FIN 45 elaborates on the XII Adoption of US GAAP Pronouncements On 1 January 2002 the Group existing disclosure requirements for most guarantees, including loan adopted SFAS No.
142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.
SFAS 142 guarantees such as standby letters of credit.
It also clarifies that at the requires that goodwill will no longer be amortised over its estimated time a company issues a guarantee, it must recognize an initial liability useful life.
The Group must instead identify and value its reporting units for the fair value, or market value, of the obligations it assumes under for the purpose of assessing, at least annually, potential impairment of that guarantee and must disclose that information in its interim and goodwill allocated to each reporting unit.
Separate intangible assets with annual financial statements.
FIN 45 will be implemented on a finite lives continue to be amortised over their useful lives.
During the prospective basis to guarantees issued or modified after 31 December second quarter of 2002, the Group completed the transitional goodwill 2002.
The disclosure requirements in this Interpretation are effective impairment test prescribed in SFAS 142 with respect to existing goodwill.
forfinancial statements of periods ending after 15 December 2002.
The transitional goodwill impairment test involved a comparison of the The Group is currently evaluating the impact of this interpretation fair value of the Groups reporting unit, as defined under SFAS 142, with on its financial position and results of operations.
its carrying amount as of the adoption date.
As a result of the transitional In January 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No.
46, Consolidation impairment tests performed as of 1 January 2002, there was no indicator of Variable Interest Entities FIN 46.
Under this interpretation, certain of goodwill impairment.
entities known as Variable Interest Entities VIE must be consolidated If the Group had accounted for goodwill under SFAS 142 for the year by the primary beneficiary of the entity.
The primary beneficiary is ended 31 December 2001, the impact on reported US GAAP results generally defined as having the majority of the risks and rewards arising would have been as follows: from the VIE.
For VIEs in which a significant but not majority variable interest is held, certain disclosures are required.
The measurement 000 principles of this interpretation will be effective for the Groups Net loss under US GAAP 43,868 31 December 2003 financial statements.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of this interpretation on its financial position Add: Goodwill amortisation 8,552 and results of operations.
Adjust net loss under US GAAP 35,316 Adjusted basic and diluted loss per Ordinary Share under US GAAP pence 6.7p On 1 January 2002 the Group adopted SFAS No.
144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.
SFAS 144 develops one accounting model for long-lived assets, including discontinued operations to be disposed of by sale.
It requires that all long-lived assets be measured at the lower of carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell whether reported in continuing or discontinued operations.
The adoption of SFAS 144 has not had a material impact on the Groups financial position or results of operations.
reconciliation to US 84 accounting principles continued SkyePharma annual report 2002 Company information and advisors Registered and Head Office Joint Corporate Brokers 105 Piccadilly, Merrill Lynch International London W1J 7NJ Ropemaker Place Telephone: 020 7491 1777 25 Ropemaker Street Fax: 020 7491 3338 London EC2Y 9LY Registered No: 107582 Secretary: Douglas Parkhill Socit Gnrale Exchange House Auditors Primrose Street  LLP London EC4A 2DD Chartered Accountants 1 Embankment Place Bankers London WC2N 6RH National Westminster Bank plc Bishopsgate Business Centre Solicitors PO Box 34 UK 15 Bishopsgate Stringer Saul London EC2P 2AP 17 Hanover Square London W1S 1HU Registrars Capita Registrars US Bourne House Sullivan & Cromwell 34 Beckenham Road St. Olaves House Beckenham 9a Ironmonger Lane Kent BR3 4TU London EC2V 8EY Depository Investment Bankers The Bank of New York Merrill Lynch International 101 Barclay Street Ropemaker Place New York 25 Ropemaker Street NY 10286 London EC2Y 9LY USA Designed and produced by Addison www.
