Accounting policies The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost Intangible fixed assets convention and in accordance with other applicable Goodwill, representing the excess of purchase accounting standards and include the disclosures required consideration over fair value of net assets acquired, prior by Financial Reporting Standard 17 FRS 17. to 31 December 1997 was set off against reserves in the year of acquisition.
Goodwill acquired since 1 January 1998 Consolidation is capitalised and amortised on a straight line basis over its The consolidated accounts include the accounts of the estimated useful economic life, up to a presumed maximum company and of all of its subsidiaries and associated of 20 years, except for goodwill arising on the formation of undertakings during the year ended 31 December 2002 for the BSN Medical joint venture and acquisition of the groups the periods during which they were members of the group.
share of the AbilityOne associated undertaking, which is not amortised but is subject to an annual impairment review.
Entities in which the group holds an interest on a long-term This treatment, which is a departure from the requirement basis and are controlled by the group and one other under of the Companies Act to amortise goodwill, is adopted in a contractual agreement are joint ventures.
Joint ventures order to show a true and fair view see Note 14 and Note 15. are included in the consolidated accounts under the gross Goodwill previously written off to reserves is included in the equity method.
calculation of profits and losses on disposals.
Entities in which the group has a beneficial interest of 50% The carrying value of goodwill and acquired intangibles is or less in the equity capital and where the group exercises reviewed for impairment at the end of the first full financial significant influence over commercial and financial policy year following acquisition and in other periods if significant decisions are associated undertakings.
Associates are events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying included in the consolidated accounts under the net equity value may be impaired.
Purchased patents, know-how, trade marks, licences Joint arrangements are those where the group participates and distribution rights are capitalised as intangibles and with a third party in an arrangement to carry on the groups amortised over a period not exceeding 20 years.
Joint arrangements are included in the consolidated accounts in proportion to the groups interest The carrying values of intangibles are reviewed for in their assets, liabilities and cash flows.
impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may be impaired.
Turnover Turnover comprises sales of products and services to third Research and development parties at amounts invoiced net of trade discounts and Revenue expenditure on research and development rebates, excluding turnover taxes.
is written off as incurred.
Foreign currencies Tangible fixed assets Balance sheet items of overseas companies and foreign Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost and, except for currency borrowings are translated into sterling at the year freehold land, are depreciated as wasting assets.
Freehold end rates of exchange.
Profit and loss items and the cash and long leasehold buildings are depreciated on a straightflows of overseas subsidiaries and associated undertakings line basis at between 1% and 5% per annum.
Short are translated at the average rates for the year.
leasehold land and buildings leases of under 50 years are depreciated by equal annual instalments over the term Forward currency contracts in respect of contracted and of the lease.
Plant and equipment are depreciated over anticipated amounts payable on purchase transactions lives ranging between 3 and 20 years by equal annual are accounted for as hedges with the hedge transaction instalments to write down the assets to their estimated recorded at the rate implicit in the contract.
Changes in disposal value at the end of their working lives.
the fair value of these forward contracts are recognised in the profit and loss account on the ultimate sale of the Leasing commitments item purchased.
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised as tangible fixed assets and depreciated accordingly.
The capital The following are recorded as movements in reserves: element of future lease payments is included in borrowings exchange differences on the translation at closing rates and interest is charged to profit before taxation on a of exchange of overseas opening net assets, including reducing balance basis over the term of the lease.
acquisition goodwill: the difference on translation of foreign currency borrowings or swaps that are used to finance or Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to hedge group equity investments: and the differences arising the profit and loss account as incurred.
between the translation of profits at average and closing rates of exchange.
All other exchange differences are dealt with in arriving at profit before taxation.
Smith & Nephew 2002 27 Accounting policies Investments Trade investments are stated at cost less provision for any permanent diminution in value.
Stocks Finished goods and work in progress are valued at factory cost, including appropriate overheads, on a first-in first-out basis.
Raw materials are valued at purchase price and all stocks are reduced to net realisable value where lower.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less or to receive more tax.
No provision is made for deferred tax that would arise on the remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures except to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the directors consider that it is likely that taxable profits will be available against which future reversals of the underlying timing differences can be made.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences are expected to reverse.
These are based on tax rates and laws substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Financial instruments Currency swaps to match foreign currency net assets with foreign currency liabilities are translated into sterling at year end exchange rates.
Changes in the principle values of currency swaps are matched in reserves against changes in the values of the related assets.
Interest rate swaps to protect interest costs and income are accounted for as hedges.
Changes in the values of interest rate swaps are recognised against interest in the period relating to the hedge.
Post-retirement benefits The groups major pension plans are of the defined benefit type.
For these plans, costs are charged to operating profit so as to spread the expense of providing future pensions to employees over their working lives with the group.
For defined contribution plans contributions are charged to operating profit as they become payable.
Where the group provides healthcare benefits after retirement the expected cost of these is charged to operating profit over the employees working lives with the group.
