Subsidiary and associated undertakings Principal subsidiary undertakings The information provided below is given for principal subsidiary undertakings in accordance with Section 231 5 a of the Companies Act 1985.
A full list will be appended to the companys next annual return.
Country of operation Activity and incorporation % owned United Kingdom Smith & Nephew Healthcare Limited Medical devices United Kingdom 100% Smith & Nephew Medical Limited Medical devices United Kingdom 100% TJ Smith & Nephew Limited Medical devices United Kingdom 100% Continental Europe Smith & Nephew GmbH Medical devices Austria 100% Smith & Nephew SA-NV Medical devices Belgium 100% Smith & Nephew A S Medical devices Denmark 100% Smith & Nephew OY Medical devices Finland 100% Smith & Nephew SA Medical devices France 100% Smith & Nephew GmbH Medical devices Germany 100% Smith & Nephew Limited Medical devices Ireland 100% Smith & Nephew Srl Medical devices Italy 100% Smith & Nephew BV Medical devices Netherlands 100% Smith & Nephew A S Medical devices Norway 100% Smith & Nephew Lda Medical devices Portugal 100% Smith & Nephew SA Medical devices Spain 100% Smith & Nephew AB Medical devices Sweden 100% Smith & Nephew AG Medical devices Switzerland 100% America Smith & Nephew Inc Medical devices Canada 100% Smith & Nephew SA fide CV Medical devices Mexico 100% Smith & Nephew Inc Medical devices Puerto Rico 100% Smith & Nephew Inc Medical devices United States 100% Africa, Asia and Australasia Smith & Nephew Pty Limited Medical devices Australia 100% Smith & Nephew Limited Medical devices Hong Kong 100% Smith & Nephew Healthcare Limited Medical devices India 100% Smith & Nephew KK Medical devices Japan 100% Smith & Nephew Limited Medical devices Korea 100% Smith & Nephew Healthcare Sdn Berhad Medical devices Malaysia 100% Smith & Nephew Limited Medical devices New Zealand 100% Smith & Nephew Pte Limited Medical devices Singapore 100% Smith & Nephew Limited Medical devices South Africa 100% Smith & Nephew Limited Medical devices Thailand 100% Smith & Nephew FZE Medical devices United Arab Emirates 100% Owned indirectly by the parent company Principal associated undertakings, joint ventures and other arrangements The group owns 50% of BSN Medical GmbH & Co KG, a medical devices company, incorporated in Germany which has been included in the consolidated accounts as a joint venture.
The group owns 21.5% of AbilityOne Corporation, a supplier of rehabilitation products to hospitals, nursing homes and clinics, incorporated in the United States which has been included in the consolidated accounts as an associated undertaking.
In 2001 the group had interests in two joint arrangements with Advanced Tissue Sciences, Inc. one relating to products for the treatment of diabetic foot ulcers and other wound indications, and the other for cartilage replacement.
During the year the group acquired the interests it did not already own in the joint arrangements from Advanced Tissue Sciences, Inc. 52 Smith & Nephew 2002 Information for shareholders Financial calendar Shareview To view information about your shareholdings on the internet, register at www.
com, the Lloyds Annual General Meeting 29 April 2003 TSB enquiry and portfolio management service for Payment of 2002 final dividend 16 May 2003 shareholders.
When you have registered for shareview you Interim results announced 31 July 2003 will also be able to register your proxy instructions online Payment of 2003 interim dividend 14 November 2003 and elect to receive future shareholder communications Full year results announced early February 2004 via our website www.
Annual report posted early March 2004 Annual General Meeting 5 May 2004 Shareholder Enquiries For information about the AGM, shareholdings, dividends and changes to personal details Final dividend all shareholders should contact: Lloyds TSB Registrars, The ordinary shares will trade ex-dividend on both the The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6DS.
London and New York Stock Exchanges from 16 April 2003 Telephone 0870 600 3996. and the record date will be 22 April 2003 in respect of this years proposed final dividend to be paid on 16 May 2003.
American depositary receipts ADRs In the US, the companys ordinary shares are traded in the Ordinary shares form of American Depositary Shares, evidenced by ADRs, Payment of cash dividends Shareholders who wish their and trade under the symbol SNN.
Each American Depositary dividends to be paid directly to a bank or building society Share represents ten ordinary shares.
Bank of New York and who have not already completed a BACS mandate is the authorised depositary bank for the companys ADR should contact the companys registrars.
A Global BuyDIRECT plan is available for US residents, enabling investment directly in ADRs with Dividend re-investment plan The company has a dividend reduced brokerage commissions and service costs.
For re-investment plan that offers shareholders the opportunity further information on Global BuyDIRECT contact: Bank to invest their cash dividends in Smith & Nephew shares, of New York on 1-888-BNY-ADS toll-free or visit which are purchased in the market at competitive dealing www.
Application forms for re-investing the 2002 final dividend are available from Lloyds TSB Registrars who Smith & Nephew ADR price The companys ADR price is administer the plan on behalf of the company.
Applications quoted daily in the Wall Street Journal and can be obtained for re-investment should be returned to the companys from the official New York Stock Exchange website registrars by 29 April 2003. www.
UK capital gains tax For the purposes of capital gains tax ADR Enquiries All enquiries regarding ADR holder accounts the price of ordinary shares on 31 March 1982 was 35.04p.
and payment of dividends should be addressed to Bank of New York, 620 Avenue of the Americas, New York, Smith & Nephew share price The companys share price is New York 10011. quoted daily in national newspapers, as well as on Ceefax and Teletext and at www.
com where Annual General Meeting it is updated at intervals throughout the day.
The Financial The companys 66th Annual General Meeting is to be held Times Cityline Service, telephone 0906 0034043, provides on 29 April 2003 at 10.30 am at the Institute of Mechanical an up to the minute share price.
A fee is charged for this Engineers, One Birdcage Walk, London, SW1H 9JJ.
of the meeting is enclosed with an accompanying letter from the Chairman.
Low-cost dealing service A postal and telephone facility that provides a simple low-cost method of buying and Registered office selling Smith & Nephew shares is available through Hoare Smith & Nephew plc, 15 Adam Street, Govett Limited.
For information contact Hoare Govett London WC2N 6LA Ltd. 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA.
Telephone Registered in England No.
Advisers Smith & Nephew Corporate ISA The company has a Solicitors: Ashurst Morris Crisp corporate Individual Savings Account ISA administered by Pinsent Curtis Biddle Lloyds TSB Registrars.
For information about this service Auditors: Ernst & Young LLP please contact their helpline on telephone 0870 2424 244.
Stockbrokers: Cazenove & Co Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein Trademarks The product names referred to in this document are trademarks owned by or licensed to members of the Smith & Nephew group.
Designed and produced by Fitch:London.
Board photography by Sven Seiffert.
pp You have access to more information from the following sources: Board Group Executive Committee biographies For further biographies, visit: www.
html Presentations For presentations to analysts and shareholders, visit: www.
html You are here: Annual Report and Accounts Contents Financial highlights Chairmans statement Chief Executives statement Board & Group Executive Committee Financial review Corporate social responsibility Corporate governance Remuneration report Directors responsibilities Auditors report Group profit and loss account Group balance sheet Group cash ow statement Statement of total recognised gains and losses Movement in shareholders funds Parent company balance sheet Accounting policies Notes to the accounts Group five year summary Subsidiary and associated undertakings Information for shareholders Available as a printed document or online at: www.
com investors annualreport2002 Sustainability report For further information on sustainability and to access our report, visit: www.
com sustainability2002 Shareholder information For further up-to-date shareholder information, visit: www.
html For up-to-minute share price information, visit: www.
com Smith & Nephew plc investors financial data.
html 15 Adam Street For press releases and latest business information, visit: London WC2N 6LA www.
com Delivering Sustainable Growth 2002 Report to Shareholders and Summary Financial Statement Financial highlights 2002 2001 million million Turnover 1,109.9 1,081.7 Profit before taxation: before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 209.9 180.9 after goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 177.9 193.6 Earnings per share before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 16.02p 13.96p Earnings per share after goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 12.11p 14.07p Dividends per share 4.80p 4.65p We are committed to setting new standards in patient treatment and recovery, Contents Directors report 01 Financial highlights 02 Chairmans statement PERFORMANCE 04 Chief Executives statement OUR PERFORMANCE CULTURE IS 10 Board & Group Executive Committee DRIVING GLOBAL SALES GROWTH 12 Corporate social responsibility AND MARGIN IMPROVEMENT.
14 Corporate governance 15 Summary remuneration report Accounts 16 Auditors statement 17 Summary financial statement 19 Information for shareholders 20 Group five year summary 1,135 17.8 16.02 1,120 1,110 17.1 1,082 1,053 16.4 13.96 1,084 15.1 14.7 978 12.19 912 10.88 800 9.61 714 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 Group Turnover Group Margins % Earnings Per Share Continuing Sales Before goodwill before goodwill Million amortisation and amortisation and exceptional Items exceptional items Pence as well as delivering on our promise of healthy returns to our shareholders.
INNOVATION OUR COMMERCIALLY ORIENTATED RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT IS CONTRIBUTING TO A STRONG NEW PRODUCT PIPELINE.
TRUST OUR SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS HAS BEEN RECOGNISED BY OUR ENTRY INTO THE DOW JONES SUSTAINABILITY INDEX FOR 2003.
Where this icon appears, more information can be found at an alternative source.
For more detailed financial information visit www.
html TriGen A summer time car crash landed this universitybound student on a surgeons operating table with a femoral fracture.
The less-invasive TriGen femoral nailing system helped to mend her broken bone and restored her to walking so she could start the autumn term in time.
We have had another excellent year of growth within each of our three businesses.
Financial performance and dividend Chairmans Group sales grew strongly, led by the Orthopaedics business.
Underlying growth of statement 14% was augmented by acquisitions, which added a further 4%.
Our drive to deliver innovative products across all our businesses is paying off In 2002 we achieved our targets within the and we are also benefiting from the past two Orthopaedics, Endoscopy and Advanced years sales force expansions.
Each of Smith & Nephews businesses strengthened its We achieved an ongoing operating margin positions in the markets in which it operates before exceptional items of 16.5%, despite the through a combination of sales growth, new dissynergies of the restructuring divestments products and technology acquisition.
The underlying margin increased by 0.7%.
Before goodwill amortisation, In March 2002 we acquired and have since the margin was 18.1%.
successfully integrated ORATEC Interventions, Inc. establishing our Endoscopy business as Investors continue to recognise the companys a leader in radiofrequency technology and strength and share price growth potential.
Smith minimally invasive spinal surgery.
We also & Nephew was one of the UKs best-performing acquired the remaining half of the Dermagraft stocks in 2002, outperforming the FTSE 100 by and TransCyte joint arrangements from more than 20%.
The recommended final dividend Advanced Tissue Sciences, Inc. gaining full is increased to 3.00p, making a total dividend strategic control of those products.
We disposed of our Rehabilitation business People to AbilityOne Corporation also in March 2002, Our people take pride in our products which retaining a 21.5% interest in the expanded enable patients to regain their lives.
This focused the group on our three extremely talented group of individuals and we chosen areas of expertise.
thank them for their commitment, creativity and energy in serving the company and the medical community.
02 Smith & Nephew 2002 TriVex procedure Dermagraft She faces the same A keen golfer, he has problems every mother suffered from diabetes does: dressing the kids, all his life.
He ignored making lunches, finding a wound on his foot, time for herself.
Faced thinking it would clear with an uphill battle of up, but when he lost another type one sensation in his lower against unsightly, painful leg he finally went to see varicose veins, she his doctor.
The foot ulcer received treatment with was so serious he was the TriVex procedure.
in real danger of having She can now handle the limb amputated.
the challenges of After 12 weeks of being motherhood without the treated with Dermagraft, added difficulty of leg a bio-engineered human pain, which allows her dermal replacement, more time to concentrate he was out of the danger on what matters most zone and looking forward her family.
We remain confident in our ability to deliver sustainable growth for the future.
We pay particular tribute to Larry Papasan markets.
In 2003, we will see the impact of for his valued contribution as President of the our strong ongoing sales and profit growth Orthopaedics business.
He retired at the end on our reported results without the impact of 2002 and we welcome David Illingworth, of divestments.
who has joined us to lead the division to further success.
We have a leading range of technology and products that repair and heal the human body.
Board We will maintain our progress by investing in Tim Lankester has chosen not to stand again new and differentiated technologies which bring for re-election to the Board and will be standing benefits to patients, and in the specialist sales down at the AGM in April.
We thank him for forces to bring these products to the medical his contribution over the last seven years.
We will continue to invest in our businesses by increasing sales force strength, Corporate governance has been a priority adding manufacturing capacity and enhancing over the past year particularly as we are listed new product development to generate vigorous on both the London and New York Stock growth.
We will also acquire businesses or Exchanges.
Smith & Nephew is committed to technologies that strengthen our long term an open and constructive relationship with our prospects.
shareholders and the overall investment community.
We are working to comply with the We remain confident of delivering sustainable new US Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the ongoing growth and believe we are well placed to detailed guidelines being supplied by the achieve our mid-teens underlying pre-goodwill Securities and Exchange Commission.
amortisation EPS growth target going forward.
Outlook The markets on which we focus continue to demonstrate robust growth.
Smith & Nephew is achieving sales growth that outpaces the industry, and is demonstrating its ability to grow share and position within the Orthopaedics, Dudley Eustace Endoscopy and Advanced Wound Management Chairman Smith & Nephew 2002 03 Product markets % Geographic markets % sales from ongoing operations sales from ongoing operations UK 8% Advanced wound Africa, Asia & management 30% Australasia 14% Orthopaedics 43% Continental Europe 22% Endoscopy 27% America 56% Our new products are driving our growth and setting new standards of care.
Market growth remains buoyant and Chief Executives demographics and lifestyle trends remain positive.
Healthcare expenditure continues to grow in all statement our major markets.
Technology is expanding the marketplace through the growth of less invasive and longer lasting surgical techniques and Delivering sustainable growth implants.
With the introduction of new orthopaedic In 2002 our markets grew strongly and once bearing materials, led by Oxinium from Smith & again Smith & Nephew outpaced the industry.
Nephew, surgeons are increasingly treating I am pleased to report excellent growth in our younger patient groups.
New techniques Orthopaedics, Endoscopy and Advanced Wound continue to simplify and make procedures faster, Management businesses.
and less invasive techniques in orthopaedics and endoscopy are taking hold as patients increasingly We now have formidable teams in place and drive demand.
Technology advancements in we are focused on three high-growth markets.
treating hard-to-heal wounds are driving strong We bring truly innovative and differentiating growth in the active healing sector of the technologies that meet the needs of physicians, advanced wound management market.
We are marketing our products ever more effectively We aim to raise operating margins before through expanded and specialised global goodwill amortisation from 18% in 2002 to 21% sales forces.
in 2005, moving half a percentage point closer to that goal in 2003 through improvements in Our underlying group sales increase was 14% in operational performance and product mix.
Sales in North America grew 15% and the same time we will continue to invest in product region now represents some 56% of the groups innovation, and in growing our sales teams by business.
Sales growth in Europe was 12%, at least 10% a year for the foreseeable future.
reflecting increased healthcare spending and ageing populations.
Sales in the rest of the world Orthopaedics grew 16%.
Orthopaedics sales rose by an underlying 20% and its performance continued to outpace the market.
Reconstructive implant sales grew by an impressive 20%, boosted by continued 04 Smith & Nephew 2002 Oxinium knee implants ElectroBlade Resector His dream of early From twenty years retirement and new life experience as an of golf and sailing went aerobics instructor, on hold as osteoarthritis she understands the crippled his plans.
importance of fitness in Frustrated by increasing a well-balanced lifestyle.
pain and lack of mobility, Thats why, when she he consulted his surgeon suffered a torn ligament for a solution.
Thanks in her right knee a year to bilateral Oxinium ago, she wasted no time knee implants, this agreeing to her doctors retired banker is back recommendation for on course.
Due to reduced pain and recovery time, she was back at the gym soon after the procedure and enjoying the benefits of a healthy lifestyle.
Our operational performance and product mix is constantly being refined to improve margins.
surgeon response to the additional Oxinium will have responsibility for developing global knee products launched in 2002.
We once again strategy and its own product development, recorded industry-leading growth in this sector, marketing and sales functions.
They will share led by knee growth of 33%, 10% of which was common manufacturing and support contributed by the introduction of our joint fluid organisations.
The sales forces in major therapy product, Supartz.
Hip sales grew by US cities will be specialised into separate 17% led by continued growth in revision reconstructive and trauma units on a phased procedures, increased penetration of our highly basis beginning in the first quarter of 2003. cross linked polyethylene liners and continued strength in our platform hip systems including Endoscopy Synergy and Echelon.
Endoscopy sales grew at an underlying 10% Sales pricing in Orthopaedics remained positive with strong growth coming from outside the US.
The company acquired the ORATEC minimally invasive joint and spine business in the year, The Oxinium knee has been an outstanding which added 9% to sales growth and has given success since its launch in 2001.
We have us a leading position in radio frequency continued to invest in the Oxinium programme technology in arthroscopy.
and Computer Assisted Surgery throughout the year where we have received US regulatory Knee and shoulder ligament repair products approval for hip, knee and trauma applications.
grew particularly strongly at 21% making the We have developed an Oxinium femoral head group the market leader in arthroscopic repair.
for hips and have already launched the product New repair products were launched during the in 2003. year to strengthen our position in the arthroscopy market, including TwinFix, a specialised shoulder We are creating two divisions within our repair device.
New bioresorbable screws for orthopaedic business, Reconstruction and ligament fixation performed well.
This initiative is aimed at sustaining has brought us a unique product that combines our industry leading performance by improving simultaneous resection with coagulation of soft the focus on these separate market sectors.
We also introduced a bipolar cutting This structure will enable us to bring technology and ablation system for the Vulcan generator to market faster and increase our customer responsiveness and satisfaction.
Each division Smith & Nephew 2002 05 Business overview Served markets and Business growth in 2002 overview World market value Orthopaedics Growth: 13% A comprehensive highly advanced range of orthopaedic implant and trauma products.
5.2bn Implants for hips, knees and shoulders Trauma products for severely broken bones utilising internal and external fixation methods Clinical therapies including ultrasound bone healing Market position devices and joint fluid therapy 6th We have a unique range of technology and products which repair the human body.
We are World market value Endoscopy Growth: 6% Industry leader in the development and commercialisation of endoscopic minimally invasive surgery products and techniques.
3.0bn Access Fluid management and insufflation instruments IDET procedure for better surgical access.
After years of struggling Visualisation Digital cameras, digital image capture, Market position arthroscopy with lower back pain central control, multimedia broadcasting, scopes, resulting from a herniated light sources and monitors to assist with visualisation.
disc, he was able to use Resection State-of-the-art radiofrequency wands, 1st his landscaping skills ElectroMechanical and mechanical blades, and hand once again after being instruments for resecting tissue.
treated with Intradiscal Repair Specialised devices, fixation systems and ElectroThermal Therapy bioabsorbable materials to repair damaged tissue.
also known as the IDET procedure.
World market value Advanced Wound Management Growth: 12% Advanced treatment for hard-to-heal wounds offering a complete range of products from initial wound bed preparation through to successful wound closure.
1.5bn These products are targeted particularly at wounds connected with the elderly.
Pressure ulcers Market position Venous leg ulcers Diabetic foot ulcers Serious burns 1st For more detailed business and product information visit: www.
com businesses 06 Smith & Nephew 2002 What is driving Our achievements Our key new products market growth in 2002 and developments in 2002 Ilizarov technique Both legs had been deformed since birth, but on September 11, 2001, she walked down nearly Expanding patient pool Grew sales 20% Continued rollout 50 flights of World Trade Increasing numbers of Expanded global sales of Oxinium knee Center stairs to safety.
elderly people living longer team by 12% applications A surgeon had corrected Expectation of better Over 10,000 Oxinium Accuris minimally invasive her limbs using the Ilizarov quality of life knee implants uni-compartmental knee technique.
New, longer-lasting Over 250 Computer instrumentation materials technology Assisted total knee Exogen 3000 Demand for less invasive procedures newly OrthoGuard AB procedures branded as Achieve antimicrobial sleeve, Patient knowledge due Supartz joint fluid the orthopaedic to the internet and media treatment exceeding industrys first  coated medical device Completed new to be cleared by the US manufacturing facility regulatory agency focusing on three research areas non-invasive stimulation, tissue engineering, bioabsorbables.
Increase in sports injuries Grew sales 10% TwinFix bioabsorbable More active lifestyles Entry into the minimally suture anchor for Increased surgeon use invasive spinal market shoulder repair of endoscopic techniques through ORATEC ElectroBlade Resector Innovative technological acquisition Vulcan System RF developments Launch of the Digital generator Need for cost-effective Operating Room concept Vision 337 Autoclavable procedures in hospitals Major growth in implants Camera System Growing demand for for soft tissue repair Decompression Catheter digitally-integrated Launched industrys first for herniated discs OR equipment ElectroMechanical Saphyre bipolar ablation Growth in ambulatory resection device probe ProGuide surgery centres Reached 30,000 Having developed Payer support driven procedures for TriVex a venous leg ulcer, by supporting clinical Launched worldwide nurses at his local evidence network of surgeon hospital agreed to take training sites part in the clinical trial of ProGuide, a two-layer elastic compression More elderly people Grew sales 11% Improved and extended system designed for living longer World leadership in Allevyn range launched venous leg ulcers.
This More clinically advanced advanced wound care Continued global roll-out allowed the correct methods of healing wounds strengthened of Acticoat silver burns pressure to be applied Therapies that reduce Allevyn, our largest dressing and reduced the number nursing time and speed product, grew 21% Global launch of Cutinova of dressing changes.
recovery for cost efficiency Acticoat burns dressing Hydro and range Two-thirds of global market increased sales by 65% extension still to be converted to Successful launch of Dermagraft full US launch advanced wound healing Wound Bed Preparation New, advanced concept technologies expanding 100% ownership of breadth of market Dermagraft and TransCyte 88% coverage of US outpatient population for Dermagraft on an underlying basis Smith & Nephew 2002 07 Acticoat Oxinium hip implant She tried to help her Although he could have mother with the cooking delayed his total hip but she pulled a pan of replacement surgery boiling water off the until after his daughters stove, causing mixed wedding, Smith & partial thickness burns Nephews mini-incision to her arms and upper technique, in concert torso.
In the burns unit with an Oxinium implant, at the hospital, Acticoat, restored his pain-free a unique antimicrobial mobility in time to give barrier dressing, was away the bride and take applied to the affected a full part in this important areas, helping to minimise day in his daughters life.
the risk of infection and scarring.
The burns healed quickly, allowing her to rejoin her playmates at nursery school.
Our commercially orientated innovation is contributing a strong new product pipeline, Sustaining our growth rate Chief Executives Over the past few years we have maintained consistently strong investment in expanding the statement continued sales force and expanding our product pipeline.
In 2002 we expanded the Orthopaedics sales and a thermal decompression catheter for team by 12%, the Endoscopy team by 30% herniated spinal discs.
The Digital Operating including the sales force acquired with ORATEC, Room concept gained ground with installations and the Advanced Wound Management team in leading hospitals.
1 Advanced Wound Management We invested 5 2% of sales revenue in research In its first full year as an advanced wound and development across our businesses.
In management business, we strengthened our 2002, products introduced in the last three years world-leading position in advanced treatments rose to 18% of sales.
Our group focus on unique for hard-to-heal wounds.
Underlying sales methods to repair and heal the human body growth was 11%, with the Allevyn product range has led to group wide research in three fields: achieving 21%.
We have successfully integrated bioresorbable materials to facilitate healing and into the business the advanced wound products surgical reconstruction: tissue engineering to of Beiersdorf and the Acticoat silver product for help replace, repair and regenerate damaged burns acquired in 2001 and these products are tissue: and non-invasive devices to stimulate growing strongly.
Towards the end of the year, we secured 100% Enhancing manufacturing capacity and quality ownership of the Dermagraft and TransCyte To meet future sales growth we expanded our arrangement by acquiring ATSs 50% share.
Orthopaedics and Endoscopy manufacturing Reimbursement for Dermagraft continues to capacity.
Orthopaedics enlarged its production progress well, with 88% of the outpatient space in Memphis, Tennessee, by about a third.
population now covered in the US.
Sales of Endoscopy expanded two factories and moved Dermagraft in its US launch year achieved 3m.
its headquarters to new premises near its production facility in Andover, Massachusetts.
Advanced Wound Management has begun 08 Smith & Nephew 2002 Allevyn TwinFix bioabsorbable Following a long illness, suture anchor she suffered from a He was a talented tennis severe pressure ulcer player in college, and he around the sacral area, never lost his love for the causing much pain and sport.
After suffering a discomfort, and limiting serious rotator cuff injury, her mobility.
Despite the his days of swinging a efforts of a district nurse, racket seemed to have it wasnt until Allevyn vanished forever.
But Sacral was used, a thanks to the use of shaped, highly absorbent a TwinFix bioabsorbable hydrocellular dressing, suture anchor by his that the ulcer showed surgeon, he is back on any signs of improvement.
the court twice a week After a few weeks the and easing the stress of pain was alleviated, the work with some friendly pressure ulcer healed and competition from the mobility was restored.
and surgeon medical education programmes are continuing to speed product adoption.
building a new manufacturing plant in Largo, Our complete Sustainability Report is published Florida, near its existing facilities.
We continue to maintain rigorous quality Outlook assurance and control systems that are subject We are in the next phase of our companys to regular internal and external review.
We have focused our businesses product quality very seriously and are committed on three high-growth medical device sectors.
to the highest standards of manufacturing quality.
We are delivering sustained growth in sales and underlying operating margins.
Business Development In March we completed our restructuring with We have excellent management teams in place, the disposal of our Rehabilitation business to intent on building sales and market share as well AbilityOne in the US.
We received 71m in cash as improving the financial performance of their and retained a 21.5% interest in the enlarged businesses.
Our new products are advancing company to benefit from the substantial value clinical performance by benefiting both patients that we believe will be created by combining and healthcare systems.
Our sales people the two businesses.
continue to be excited by our product ranges and we have every reason to expect that our Our joint venture with Beiersdorf, BSN Medical, markets will themselves continue to grow.
We had a successful trading year.
BSN and remain confident that we can deliver sustainable AbilityOne made a combined operating profit growth over the next three years.
Corporate social responsibility We are committed to sustainable development, reducing our impact on the environment while contributing to the quality of life enjoyed by society at large.
We support local communities Christopher ODonnell around our manufacturing operations and play Chief Executive a substantial role in professional education in our clinical fields.
Smith & Nephew 2002 09 The Board Non-executive directors Dudley Eustace 66 Christopher Peter Hooley 56 Dr Pamela Kirby 49 Members of the Chairman ODonnell 56 Finance Director Appointed a director Remuneration Appointed Deputy Chief Executive He joined the group in March 2002.
Committee Chairman in 1999 and He joined the group and was appointed She is Chief Executive Members of the Chairman in January in 1988 and was a director in 1991.
Officer of Quintiles Audit Committee 2000.
He is Chairman appointed a director He is a non-executive Transnational Members of the of the Nominations in 1992.
He was director of Cobham plc.
Nominations Committee, nonappointed Chief Committee executive Chairman Executive in 1997. of Sendo Holdings plc He is a non-executive Kenneth Kemp is and a non-executive director of BOC Group.
director of KLM Royal Dutch Airlines NV, Aegon NV, Hagemeyer NV, Royal KPN NV and Sonae.
We feel that our innovative and responsive company is in a good position for future growth, Dr Alan Suggett 59 Group Director of Group Technology He joined the group in 1982 and was Executive appointed to the Group Executive Committee in Committee 1986.
David Illingworth 49 President Orthopaedics Christopher ODonnell, He joined the group and Chief Executive was appointed to the Group See above.
Peter Hooley, Finance Director See above.
Peter Huntley 42 Jim Taylor 46 Group Director Strategy Group Director Indirect and Business Development Markets He joined the He joined the group and group and was appointed was appointed to the Group to the Group Executive Executive Committee Committee in 2000. in 1998.
10 Smith & Nephew 2002 Warren Knowlton 56 Brian Larcombe 49 Richard fide Schutter Dr Rolf Stomberg 62 Sir Timothy Lankester Appointed a director Appointed a director 62 Appointed a A director since 1998.
60 A director since in November 2000. in March 2002.
He director in January Senior independent June 1996.
He is He is Chairman of the is Chief Executive of 2001.
He is a nondirector and Chairman president of Corpus Audit Committee and 3i Group Plc.
executive director of the Remuneration Christi College, Oxford.
Group Chief Executive of Varian Inc. ING Committee.
He is Also an independent of Morgan Crucible plc.
Americas, Incyte Chairman of director of the London Genomics, MedPointe Management Metal Exchange and Pharmaceuticals and Consulting Group PLC Deputy Chairman of General Binding and a non-executive the British Council.
director of Scania AB, Stinnes AG, Reed Elsevier plc, Cordiant Communications plc, Deutsche BP AG, TPG Group and Hoyer GmbH.
with 7,500 employees who commit their energy and expertise to its continual improvement.
Paul Williams 56 Jim Ralston 56 Group Director Human Chief Legal Officer Resources He joined the He joined the group in 1999 group and was appointed and was appointed to the to the Group Executive Group Executive Committee Committee in 1998. in 2002.
Jim Dick 50 Ron Sparks 47 President Wound President Endoscopy Management He joined He joined the group in the group in 1977 and was 1983 and was appointed appointed to the Group to the Group Executive Executive Committee Committee in 1999. in 1999.
Smith & Nephew 2002 11 Corporate social responsibility We aim to make our values of Performance, Innovation More detail on our policies and the work which we and Trust integral to the way we operate, and are do in these areas is provided in the following text.
committed to the principles of sustainable development.
This was recognised by our admission in 2002 on our Environmental management first application to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
We are committed to continuing reduction in our This is the most widely recognised arbiter of good practice environmental impact: we use renewable resources and we achieved the highest rating in our business sector.
wherever possible and reduce any adverse effect from products and processes to a practical minimum.
Our We published our second Sustainability Report in April business units must take effective action to control risks 2002, outlining our progress in corporate social responsibility and minimise environmental impacts through systems CSR.
It was more detailed and wider in scope than the and procedures based on a thorough understanding first, with increased measurement data and information of the risks and provision of appropriate training and on our activities.
Progress is reviewed annually by the Board.
The third Sustainability Report will be published on our Over the past 10 years our environmental management website in April and will include new measurement systems have delivered cost savings as well as initiatives, especially in the social area.
At the same time environmental benefits.
Our manufacturing processes we will be publishing a new Code of Business Principles are relatively low in environmental impact with locations in which brings together policies that currently appear in the US, UK and Germany.
Our main environmental impact different sections of our website, updated and broadened comes from waste generated at manufacturing sites.
We have included purchasing policies with We operate waste prevention and minimisation programmes particular emphasis on human rights and suppliers throughout the group and are examining ways of assessing practices on health, safety and environmental standards.
sustainable development aspects of our products.
In the Through this code we ensure that our planning and past year we have focused on reducing waste, the business decisions take account of ethical, social, legal improvement in recycling made in 2001 has been sustained and financial considerations, thereby minimising risks and emissions are down 12%.
This is a significant and balancing the interests of all our stakeholders.
achievement considering the manufacturing expansion which took place during the year.
Our sustainability efforts focus on: Social responsibility Environmental management Employees Our business units are required to provide safe Minimising the impact of our activities on the environment working conditions, plant and equipment at all their facilities.
particularly regarding energy and water use, waste, We maintain high standards and are determined to raise emissions and discharges.
them even higher through sharing best practice.
Business unit plans include measures to improve performance Social responsibility monitoring, enhance hazard analysis and risk assessment, Employees Maintaining high standards of health and safety: refine emergency plans and business continuity plans and providing training and development: giving people the deliver better targeted training.
opportunity to let us know how they feel about working for Smith & Nephew and acting on what they tell us.
Our employment policies emphasise equality of opportunity, continuous training and development, open communications, Community Investing in and working with the communities and rewards appropriate to local markets.
Vacancies are in which we operate.
filled within the company wherever possible.
We treat employees with dignity and fairness and have policies and Customers Educating healthcare professionals in the procedures to encourage this culture.
We welcome disabled techniques related to our product ranges and providing people and make every effort to retain any employee who opportunities for their continuing professional development.
Our new Code of Business Principles underpins the high standards we expect from our people.
Suppliers Working in partnership with suppliers and fostering open, ethical relationships with them.
We recognise the importance of good employee communications.
This year we have greatly improved Economic impact groupwide measurement and data collection systems to Making a positive contribution to society through creating monitor such areas as employee satisfaction, performance shareholder value, paying taxes, investing capital and appraisal, development and career progression.
We have creating employment: maximising the economic benefits also set up a reporting system to collect data on training of our products for healthcare providers, patients and throughout the group.
These measures will monitor progress those who pay the costs.
in the coming years and help ensure that we target our efforts in the most effective manner.
More information is available on our website at: 12 Smith & Nephew 2002 www.
com sustainability2002 In 2002 we conducted our second global opinion survey Suppliers We treat suppliers with dignity and fairness, and communicated the results to staff worldwide.
Once and expect them to do the same with their own employees again we had over 80% of employees participating in the and suppliers.
Our Code of Business Principles makes clear survey with positive scores in all areas covered.
In addition that we support the UNs Universal Declaration of Human 91% of respondents indicated that they were proud to work Rights and states that we will only work with suppliers for the Smith & Nephew group.
Significant improvements who adhere to business principles and health, safety, social over 10% increase in scores in many areas were seen and environmental standards consistent with our own.
compared with the Year 2000 results particularly in Specifically, these prohibit the use of forced, compulsory management style, communication with employees, or child labour.
anticipating change and the way people feel about their job, confirming that we have made good progress in all areas Economic impact over the past two years.
But we still have work to do: Our business policies aim to achieve long-term growth and scores for questions about promotion and reward were profits which in turn bring continued economic benefits to still lower than we would like and this will stimulate action shareholders, employees, suppliers and local communities.
Our sustainable development depends ultimately on our ability to provide a satisfactory return: in 2002 we generated The communications functions at our group head office, an operating return on capital employed of 29%.
group research centre and global business units work closely with the Human Resources departments at each We continue to invest in comprehensive R&D programmes site on all forms of internal communication.
Our linked focused on delivering better outcomes for patients and business unit and corporate intranets are increasingly well improvements in application and use for practitioners.
used, allowing easy two-way communication worldwide and Importantly, we also aim to deliver overall cost savings increasing peoples awareness of financial, economic and to healthcare systems through such benefits as reduced market factors affecting company performance.
Electronic dressing changes and shorter operating theatre times.
communication in general continues to reduce internal Our products seek to reduce patients time in hospital paperwork throughout the company.
and return them to health faster, potentially improving their productivity and bringing broader social and Community We recognise a strong obligation to contribute economic benefits.
to the communities in which we operate.
We encourage and support employees at all levels who undertake community work, providing resources and paid time off to participate in projects.
We support a range of charitable causes, mainly at local level, by donations of money, gifts in kind and employee time.
The company is a member of UK Business in the Community and we are committed to corporate community involvement across the whole group wherever practical.
Of course, we are also committed to meeting our community obligations under the law.
Examples of the programmes we support around our manufacturing sites can be found in the Performance section of the Sustainability Report on our website.
In 2002 our direct donations to charitable and community activities totalled 804,000, of which 400,000 went to the Smith & Nephew Foundation to fund individual research for doctors and nurses.
During the year, we restructured the Foundation to focus solely on nursing research where it makes a major contribution in the UK.
We again made no political contributions in 2002.
Customers Educational support to the medical community which we serve is an integral part of the way we do business.
All three of our business units run extensive educational programmes ranging from seminars and dedicated training facilities to web-based information sites.
During 2002 our Endoscopy business alone hosted 144 courses, training over 1,700 surgeons.
Smith & Nephew 2002 13 Corporate governance The Board is committed to the highest standards of Shareholders corporate governance and considers that the company The group issues summary financial statements in place of has complied throughout the year with the Combined full annual accounts unless shareholders request the latter.
Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance.
The summary financial statement is received by over 90% The Board of shareholders.
At the half year, an interim report is sent The Board meets regularly during the year and is to all shareholders.
A copy of the full annual accounts is responsible for the strategic direction, policies and overall available on the Smith & Nephew website along with press management of the group.
There is a clear division of releases, institutional presentations and audio webcasts.
responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive.
There are regular dialogues with individual institutional The Board consists of an independent non-executive shareholders, together with results presentations twice a Chairman, two executive directors and six independent year.
There is an opportunity for individual shareholders to non-executive directors.
All directors have full and timely question directors at the AGM and the company regularly access to all relevant information and independent responds to letters from shareholders on a range of issues.
Non-executive directors meet regularly without management in attendance and appropriate Risk management & internal control induction programmes are offered to new directors.
The Board is responsible for the maintenance of the groups systems of risk management and internal control and for The Board is assisted by the following committees: reviewing their effectiveness.
An ongoing process has been in place for the full year identifying, evaluating and managing The Audit Committee The Audit Committee monitors key risks through a Risk Committee which reports to the the operation and effectiveness of internal financial controls Board annually, and by a system of functional reports to and ensures that the accounts meet statutory and other the Board and the review of internal financial controls by requirements.
It selects, determines the fees and reviews the Audit Committee.
the performance, independence and objectivity of the auditors.
All non-audit work is pre-approved by These procedures are designed to identify and manage the committee.
those risks that could adversely impact the achievement of the groups objectives.
Whilst they do not provide The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration absolute assurance against material misstatements or loss, Committee sets the pay and benefits of the executive the directors, following a review of the systems described directors and members of the Group Executive Committee, are of the opinion that proper systems of risk management approves their main terms of employment and determines and internal control are in place within the group.
share options and long-term incentive arrangements.
It also reviews management succession planning.
Share capital The company has been informed of the following interests The Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee in its ordinary share capital as at 7 February 2003: oversees plans for Board succession and recommends appointments to the Board.
AXA Investment Management 9.0% Fidelity 7.1% The Group Executive Committee The Group Executive Legal & General Investment Management 3.4% Committee assists the Chief Executive in the management of the group.
At the AGM, the company will be seeking a renewal of its current permission from shareholders to purchase its own The terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and shares.
No shares have been purchased or contracted for Nominations Committees may be found at www.
smithor are the subject of an option under the expiring authority.
Auditors Membership of Board committees and of the Group Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness Executive Committee is shown with the biographical to continue as auditors and a resolution proposing their details of directors on pages 10 and 11. reappointment will be put to the AGM.
Directors All directors are subject to re-election every three years, and in accordance with the Articles of Association, Dudley Eustace and Peter Hooley retire by rotation and, being eligible offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Sir Timothy Lankester will be retiring at the AGM but will not be offering himself for re-election.
No director had a material beneficial interest in any contract involving the company or its subsidiaries in 2002.
14 Smith & Nephew 2002 Summary remuneration report Remuneration policy The Remuneration Committee policy for this and future years is to ensure that remuneration is sufficiently competitive to attract, retain and motivate executive directors and Group Executive Committee members of a calibre that meets the groups needs to achieve its performance against financial objectives and relevant competitors practice.
Remuneration throughout the group is designed to be competitive in the country of employment.
The committee gives full consideration to the requirements in Schedule A of the Combined Code.
Directors incentive plans Executive directors participate in an annual bonus scheme based on annual growth in adjusted earnings per share after deducting goodwill amortisation and return on capital employed, and in a long-term incentive plan LTIP based on the companys total shareholder return TSR in relation to 41 UK listed manufacturing companies with substantial international activities, and growth in earnings per share over a three year period.
The performance conditions were identified as those which represented a fair measure of the companys performance and would reflect increase in shareholder value.
The companys TSR performance and its performance relative to the comparator group is monitored by independent consultants.
Total outstanding conditional awards of shares under the LTIP are: Christopher ODonnell 386,488 2001 448,649 and Peter Hooley 236,824 2001 282,965.
For the three year plan period commencing 2000 the companys TSR of 147.36% was ranked first in the comparator group and the earnings per share performance criterion was met, enabling the plan participants to be eligible for 100% of the shares conditionally awarded in 2000.
As a result, on 7 February 2003, Christopher ODonnell became entitled to 155,065 shares and Peter Hooley entitled to 96,916 shares which are included in the outstanding conditional awards of shares above.
Executive directors were last granted options under executive share option schemes in 1996 which were not subject to performance conditions, but under the LTIP, shares that have vested may be taken in the form of nil-cost options and exercised at a later date.
UK directors are eligible to participate in the savings related share option scheme.
As a component company of the FTSE 100 index, a graph of the companys TSR performance compared to that of the TSR of the index can be found on page 2.
Service contracts Executive directors, in line with group policy, have notice periods of 12 months.
All new appointments are intended to have 12 months notice periods, but it is recognised that for some appointments a longer period may initially be necessary for competitive reasons, reducing to 12 months thereafter.
Christopher ODonnell and Peter Hooley have contracts terminable by the company on not more than 12 months notice and by the director on 6 months notice.
Termination of the contract by the company would entitle the executive directors to 12 months basic salary, bonus at target of 30%, a contribution of 30% of salary to reflect the loss of pension benefits, an amount to cover other benefits and a time apportionment of the LTIP entitlement.
Non-executive directors do not have service contracts and are normally appointed for terms of three years terminable at will, without notice by either the company or the director and without compensation.
Their remuneration is determined by the Nominations Committee.
Directors emoluments and share interests Total emoluments Share interests 2002 2001 31 December 2002 1 January 2002 000 000 Shares Options Shares Options Chairman: D. G. Eustace 170 170 49,679 40,909 Executive: C. J. ODonnell 890 790 122,136 517,495 120,703 331,263 P. Hooley 583 545 111,571 450,682 58,789 423,723 NonSir Timothy Lankester 30 30 6,096 6,035 executive: Dr R. W. H. Stomberg 30 30 6,945 6,864 W. D. Knowlton 30 30 12,501 7,501 R. fide Schutter 30 30 200,000 100,000 Dr P. Kirby from 1 March 2002 25 B. Larcombe from 1 March 2002 25 Sir Anthony Cleaver to 28 Feb 2002 5 30 Sir Brian Pearse to 28 Feb 2002 5 30 1,823 1,685 Inclusive of salaries and fees, benefits, annual bonus and pension entitlements.
Profits on exercise of share options were 211,950: Peter Hooley 211,950 2001 197,542: Christopher ODonnell 22,171, Peter Hooley 175,371.
Smith & Nephew 2002 15 Auditors statement Independent auditors statement to the members of Smith & Nephew plc We have examined the groups summary financial statement for the year ended 31 December 2002 which comprises summary group profit and loss account, summary group balance sheet and summary group cash flow statement.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the report to shareholders and summary financial statement in accordance with applicable law.
This report has been prepared for the members of the company pursuant to Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act and for no other purpose.
No person is entitled to rely on this report unless such person: i is a person who is entitled to rely on this report by virtue of and for the purpose of the Act: or ii has been expressly authorised to do so by our prior written consent.
Save as above, we do not accept responsibility for this report to any other person or for any other purpose and we hereby expressly disclaim any and all such liability.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statement within the report to shareholders and summary financial statement with the full annual accounts, directors report and remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the report to the shareholders and summary financial statement and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
Basis of opinion We conducted our examination in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 The auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Opinion In our opinion the summary financial statement is consistent with the full annual accounts, directors report and remuneration report of Smith & Nephew plc for the year ended 31 December 2002 and complies with the applicable requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985, and regulations made thereunder.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered auditor London, 7 February 2003 This summary financial statement is a summary of information in the groups full annual accounts and was approved by the Board on 7 February 2003 and signed on its behalf by Dudley Eustace, Christopher ODonnell and Peter Hooley.
It does not contain sufficient information to allow a full understanding of the results of the group and state of affairs of the company or of the group.
A review of the business is included in the directors report.
The report of the auditors on the full accounts for the year ended 31 December 2002 was unqualified and did not contain a statement made under either section 237 2 of the Companies Act 1985 accounting records or returns inadequate or accounts not agreeing with records or returns or section 237 3 failure to obtain necessary information and explanations.
For further information the full annual accounts and the auditors report on those accounts should be consulted.
Shareholders have the right to demand, free of charge, a copy of the groups full annual report and accounts, which may be obtained from the companys registrars.
16 Smith & Nephew 2002 Summary financial statement Group profit and loss account 2002 2001 for the year ended 31 December 2002 million million Turnover Ongoing operations 1,083.7 943.0 Operations contributed to the joint venture 35.3 Continuing operations 1,083.7 978.3 Discontinued operations 26.2 103.4 Group turnover 1,109.9 1,081.7 Share of joint venture 155.0 123.6 1,264.9 1,205.3 Operating profit Ongoing operations: Before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 196.0 170.8 Goodwill amortisation 17.5 10.4 Exceptional items 29.9 19.3 148.6 141.1 Operations contributed to the joint venture: Before exceptional items 3.6 Exceptional items 1.8 Continuing operations 148.6 142.9 Discontinued operations 2.1 11.1 150.7 154.0 Share of operating profit of the joint venture: Before exceptional items 19.6 12.8 Exceptional items 2.6 5.0 167.7 161.8 Share of operating profit of the associated undertaking 4.9 172.6 161.8 Discontinued operations net profit on disposals 18.0 49.2 Profit on ordinary activities before interest 190.6 211.0 Interest payable 12.7 17.4 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 177.9 193.6 Taxation 65.8 64.0 Attributable profit for the year 112.1 129.6 Ordinary dividends 44.6 42.9 Retained profit for the year 67.5 86.7 Basic earnings per ordinary share 12.11p 14.07p Diluted earnings per ordinary share 12.02p 13.95p Results before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items Profit before taxation 209.9 180.9 Adjusted basic earnings per ordinary share 16.02p 13.96p Adjusted diluted earnings per ordinary share 15.89p 13.84p Smith & Nephew 2002 17 Summary financial statement Group balance sheet 2002 2001 at 31 December 2002 million million Intangible fixed assets 317.2 187.8 Tangible fixed assets 255.8 245.0 Investment in joint venture 115.0 114.0 Investment in associated undertaking 8.5 Investments 8.2 25.7 704.7 572.5 Stocks 229.5 232.2 Debtors 280.7 266.8 Cash 22.5 26.4 Creditors 315.9 342.8 216.8 182.6 Borrowings 316.1 255.2 Provisions 88.1 95.3 517.3 404.6 Called up share capital 113.8 113.4 Reserves 403.5 291.2 517.3 404.6 Group cash flow 2002 2001 for the year ended 31 December 2002 million million Operating profit 150.7 154.0 Depreciation, amortisation and exceptional write-off# 94.4 60.3 Working capital and provisions 35.8 22.4 Net cash inflow from operating activities 209.3 191.9 Capital expenditure and financial investment 86.1 72.6 Operating cash flow 123.2 119.3 Joint venture dividend 3.9 Interest 10.2 16.5 Tax paid 52.3 76.2 Dividends paid 43.5 42.0 Acquisitions 206.3 69.3 Disposals 71.8 61.7 Joint venture formation 5.7 12.6 Issues of ordinary share capital 6.1 9.0 Net cash flow 101.6 1.4 Exchange adjustments 68.2 5.8 Opening net debt 243.5 236.3 Closing net debt 276.9 243.5 #Includes goodwill amortisaton of 17.5m 2001 10.4m and 17.5m write-off of the groups equity investment in Advanced Tissue Sciences, Inc. After 19.3m 2001 23.5m of outgoings on rationalisation, acquisition integration and divestment costs.
Net debt includes 16.7m of net currency swap assets 2001 net currency swap liabilities of 14.7m.
18 Smith & Nephew 2002 Information for shareholders Financial calendar Shareview To view information about your shareholdings on the internet, register at www.
Smith & Nephew 2002 19 Group five year summary 2002 2001 2000 1999# 1998# Profit and loss account million million million million million Turnover Continuing operations 1,083.7 978.3 911.5 799.9 713.6 Discontinued operations 26.2 103.4 223.2 320.0 339.8 Group turnover 1,109.9 1,081.7 1,134.7 1,119.9 1,053.4 Share of joint venture 155.0 123.6 1,264.9 1,205.3 1,134.7 1,119.9 1,053.4 Operating profit Continuing operations: Before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 196.0 174.4 156.9 122.7 106.5 Goodwill amortisation 17.5 10.4 6.9 1.8 0.3 Exceptional items 29.9 21.1 12.4 40.1 15.9 Discontinued operations: Before exceptional items 2.1 11.1 29.0 46.6 47.9 Exceptional items 3.9 11.6 2.0 150.7 154.0 162.7 115.8 136.2 Share of operating profit of the joint venture: Before exceptional items 19.6 12.8 Exceptional items 2.6 5.0 167.7 161.8 162.7 115.8 136.2 Share of operating profit of the associated undertaking 4.9 172.6 161.8 162.7 115.8 136.2 Profit on disposals 18.0 49.2 109.5 62.9 Profit before interest 190.6 211.0 272.2 178.7 136.2 Interest payable receivable 12.7 17.4 7.0 3.4 1.7 Profit before taxation 177.9 193.6 265.2 182.1 134.5 Taxation 65.8 64.0 57.7 77.3 40.8 Profit after taxation 112.1 129.6 207.5 104.8 93.7 Ordinary dividends 44.6 42.9 41.3 72.5 69.2 Special dividend 415.6 Retained profit deficit 67.5 86.7 249.4 32.3 24.5 Basic earnings per ordinary share 12.11p 14.07p 20.07p 9.39p 8.42p Diluted earnings per ordinary share 12.02p 13.95p 19.95p 9.37p 8.40p Dividends per ordinary share 4.80p 4.65p 4.50p 6.50p 6.20p Results before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items: Profit before taxation 209.9 180.9 178.9 172.7 152.7 Adjusted earnings per ordinary share 16.02p 13.96p 12.19p 10.88p 9.61p Adjusted diluted earnings per ordinary share 15.89p 13.84p 12.12p 10.85p 9.60p Operating profit before goodwill amortisation and 17.8% 17.1% 16.4% 15.1% 14.7% exceptional items to group sales Research and development costs to group sales 5.5% 4.7% 4.0% 4.0% 4.1% Capital investment including intangibles to group sales 7.7% 6.9% 5.6% 5.8% 6.6% #1999 and 1998 have not been restated for FRS 19.
You have access to more information from the following sources: Board Group Executive Committee biographies For further biographies, visit: www.
html You are here: Report to Shareholders and Summary Financial Statement Contents Financial highlights Chairmans statement Chief Executives statement Board & Group Executive Committee Corporate social responsibility Corporate governance Summary remuneration report Auditors statement Summary financial statement Annual Report and Accounts Information for shareholders For detailed financial information Group five year summary you can request a full printed Annual Report and Accounts or visit: www.
com investors annualreport2002 Available as a printed document or online at: www.
