ACCOUNTING POLICIES Accounting convention 2%, Short leasehold property over the Receipts and payments on interest rate period of the lease, Plant, machinery etc.
instruments are recognised on an accruals The accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, 10% to 20%, Motor vehicles 25%, Tools basis over the life of the instrument.
as amended and with all applicable financial and other equipment 10% to 33%.
reporting and accounting standards under Foreign currency assets and liabilities the historical cost convention modified to Fixed assets held under finance leases are covered by forward contracts are translated capitalised and depreciated in accordance at the contract rates of exchange.
Other include the revaluation of certain properties.
FRS19 Deferred Taxation has been with the companys depreciation policy.
The assets and liabilities in foreign currencies adopted during the year to 31 July 2002. capital element of future lease payments are translated at closing rates.
Basis of consolidation Foreign currencies Payments made under operating leases The profit and loss accounts of overseas The consolidated financial statements include those of the parent company are charged to the profit and loss account subsidiaries are translated into sterling and its subsidiary undertakings.
as incurred over the term of the lease.
at average rates of exchange for the year.
The results of subsidiaries acquired Freehold properties Exchange adjustments arising from the These financial statements include retranslation of opening net assets in during the year are consolidated from the date of acquisition.
certain properties at 1974 valuation, overseas subsidiaries and their results for less depreciation on the enhanced values the year at closing rates, and the translation Up to 1 August 1998, goodwill arising on calculated in accordance with the policy of foreign currency borrowings to match consolidation, representing the difference set out above.
The directors have decided overseas investments, are taken to the to invoke the transitional provisions of FRS15 statement of total recognised gains and between the cost of acquisition of a subsidiary undertaking and the fair value Tangible Fixed Assets, and do not intend losses.
All other exchange gains and losses of its net assets at the date of acquisition, to revalue these properties every year.
are taken to the profit and loss account.
was charged to reserves in the year of acquisition.
Goodwill impairment on Leased properties Taxation Where a leasehold property is vacant, or Deferred tax is recognised in respect of prospective disposals is recognised through the profit and loss account.
sub-let under terms such that the rental timing differences that have originated but income is insufficient to meet all outgoings, not reversed as at the balance sheet date.
Following the implementation of FRS10 provision is made for the anticipated future Timing differences are differences between Goodwill and Intangible Assets, goodwill shortfall up to termination of the lease.
the groups taxable profits and its results as disclosed in the financial statements, arising from acquisitions after 1 August 1998 is capitalised at cost, and amortised Stocks arising from the inclusion of gains and on a straight-line basis over an estimated Stocks and work in progress are valued losses in tax assessments in periods useful economic life of up to 20 years.
at cost, including related production different from those in which they are overheads, reduced to estimated net recognised in the financial statements.
Turnover Turnover represents the invoiced amount Profit is taken on long-term contracts Deferred tax is recognised in respect of goods sold and services provided during by reference to the work completed.
of the retained earnings of overseas the year, after the deduction of trade Provision for losses is made as soon subsidiaries and associates only to the discounts and sales related taxes, and the as they are recognised.
extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been declared or an value of work undertaken during the year on long-term contracts.
Financial instruments obligation is present to distribute past Financial assets are recognised in the earnings.
Deferred tax is not recognised Research and development balance sheet at the lower of cost and on any fixed assets that have been revalued Expenditure, other than that recoverable net realisable value.
Discounts, premia unless there is a binding agreement to sell and related costs of issue are charged the asset.
from third parties, is written off in the year in which it is incurred.
or credited to the profit and loss account over the life of the asset or liability to Post retirement benefits Fixed assets which they relate.
The cost of providing pensions and postDepreciation is provided at rates estimated retirement healthcare for employees is The company uses derivative financial charged in the profit and loss account over to write off the relevant assets by equal annual amounts over their expected instruments to hedge its exposure to the working life of the employees taking useful lives.
In general, the rates used fluctuations in interest rates and foreign into account the recommendation of are: Freehold and long leasehold buildings exchange rates.
Any funding surpluses or deficits that arise are amortised over the average working life of employees.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 55
