Statement of accounting policies A summary of the principal accounting policies, which, with the exception of the change in accounting policy resulting from the adoption of Financial Reporting Standard FRS 19, have all been applied consistently throughout the year and the prior year, is set out below.
Basis of accounting The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable accounting standards and the Statement of Recommended Practice Accounting for Oil and Gas Exploration, Development, Production and Decommissioning Activities.
During the year the Group adopted FRS19 Deferred Tax which had no effect on the Groups net assets and results for the year or previous years.
Basis of consolidation The Group accounts consolidate the accounts of SOCO International plc and its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to the balance sheet date.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold are consolidated for the periods from or to the date on which control passed.
Acquisitions are accounted for under the acquisition method whereby the assets and liabilities acquired and the consideration given are recognised in the Group accounts at their fair values as at the date of the acquisition.
Interests in associated undertakings and joint ventures Associated undertakings are entities in which a consolidated member of the Group has a participating interest and over whose operating and financial policies the Group exercises a significant influence.
These investments are dealt with by the equity method of accounting, whereby the consolidated profit and loss account includes the appropriate share of these companies profits less losses, and the Groups share of post acquisition retained profits and reserves is added to the cost of investment in the consolidated balance sheet.
The Groups oil and gas activities are sometimes conducted in joint ventures with other companies which fall within the FRS9 definition of joint arrangements that are not entities.
Accordingly, the Group accounts for its relevant proportion of production revenues, capital and operating expenditures, assets and liabilities, and cash flows.
Turnover Turnover represents the sales value of the Groups share of oil and gas sold during the year.
To the extent turnover arises from test production during an appraisal programme, an amount is charged from appraisal costs to cost of sales so as to reflect a zero net margin.
Tangible and intangible fixed assets Oil and gas exploration and development expenditure The Group uses the full cost method of accounting for exploration and development expenditure, whereby all expenditure incurred in connection with the acquisition, exploration, appraisal and development of oil and gas assets, including directly attributable overheads, and interest payable and exchange differences directly related to financing development projects, are capitalised in separate geographical cost pools.
Cost pools are established on the basis of geographical area having regard to the operational and financial organisation of the Group.
Acquisition, exploration and appraisal costs incurred in a geographical area where the Group has no established cost pool are initially capitalised as intangible fixed assets exploration expenditure.
Upon conclusion of the appraisal programme and determination of whether commercial reserves exist, such costs are either transferred to establish a new cost pool within tangible fixed assets, or written off, as appropriate.
Proceeds from the disposal of oil and gas assets are credited against the relevant cost pool.
Any overall surplus arising in a cost pool is credited to the profit and loss account.
Depreciation and depletion Depletion is provided for each cost pool using the unit of production method, based on proven and probable reserves, applied to the sum of the total capitalised exploration and development costs in that pool, together with estimated future development costs at current prices.
The costs and reserves of properties awaiting appraisal are excluded from the depletion calculation.
45 SOCO International plc Annual Report 2002 Statement of accounting policies continued Impairment of value Where there has been a change in economic conditions or in the expected use of an asset that indicates a possible impairment in a geographical cost pool, management assesses the recoverability of the net book value of the Groups oil and gas interests in that pool by comparison with the estimated discounted future net cash flows based on managements expectations of future oil prices and future costs.
Any identified impairment is charged to the profit and loss account.
Intangible assets exploration expenditure, which relate to costs incurred in areas where the Group has no established cost pool, are considered separately for impairment, at least annually.
Where such costs are determined to be impaired, they are written off.
Other fixed assets Other fixed assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is provided on a straight line basis at rates calculated to write off the cost of those assets, less residual value, over their expected useful lives.
Decommissioning The decommissioning provision is calculated as the net present value of the Groups share of the expenditure which may be incurred at the end of the producing life of each field in the removal and decommissioning of the production, storage and transportation facilities currently in place.
An associated decommissioning asset is recognised, which is amortised for each cost pool on a unit of production basis in accordance with the Groups policy for depletion and depreciation of tangible fixed assets.
Period charges for changes in the net present value of the decommissioning provision arising from discounting are included in interest payable.
Changes in estimates The effects of changes in estimates on the unit of production calculations are accounted for prospectively over the estimated remaining proved and probable reserves of each pool.
Taxation Current taxation, including UK Corporation tax and overseas tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred taxation is provided on a non-discounted basis and is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have orginated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
Deferred taxes have not been provided on undistributed reserves of overseas subsidiary undertakings to the extent that the earnings are intended to remain indefinitely in those entities.
Deferred taxation assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits against which the deferred taxation asset can be recovered in future periods.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction or, if hedged, at the forward contract rate.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date, or if appropriate, at the forward contract rate.
The results of overseas operations are translated at the average rate of exchange during the period and their balance sheets at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on retranslation at the closing rate of the opening net assets and results of overseas operations are dealt with in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
Other foreign exchange differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
Pension costs The contributions payable in the year in respect of pension costs for defined contribution schemes and other post-retirement benefits are charged to the profit and loss account.
Differences between contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are shown either as accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
46 SOCO International plc Annual Report 2002
