Notes to the accounts 1 1 Accounting policies Freehold and long leasehold buildings 2 25% The following principal accounting policies have been applied Short leasehold property over the remaining accounts 2002 consistently in dealing with items which are considered material period of the lease previous next in relation to the groups accounts, except as noted below.
Plant, machinery and other equipment 520% Motor vehicles 25% 1 FRS 19, Deferred Tax, has been adopted for the first time in full Tooling, computer hardware and software 2033 3% Auditors report in preparing these accounts and required a restatement of Consolidated profit and prior year results as described in Note 24.
Fixed asset investments loss account Investments in subsidiaries and other investments are stated Consolidated statement of total Basis of accounting at cost, less provision for any permanent diminution in value.
recognised gains and losses The accounts are prepared in accordance with the historical Balance sheets cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain fixed Stocks and work in progress Consolidated cash flow assets and in accordance with applicable accounting standards Stocks and work in progress are valued at the lower of cost statement in the United Kingdom.
Cost represents direct cost incurred Notes to the accounts and, where applicable, a proportion of attributable overheads.
1 Accounting policies Basis of consolidation Provision is made for slow moving and obsolete items based 2 Segmental analyses The group accounts include the accounts of the company and on an assessment of technological and market developments 3 Operating exceptional items all of its subsidiary undertakings made up to 31 December 2002. and on an analysis of historic and projected usage.
Stock is 4 Operating costs accounted for on a first in first out basis.
5 Profit before taxation Subsidiaries acquired during the year are accounted for under 6 Employee costs the acquisition method of accounting and are consolidated Foreign currencies 7 Pension costs from the date of acquisition.
Assets and liabilities recorded in foreign currencies are 8 Other finance income and translated into sterling at the rates ruling at 31 December.
net interest payable Subsidiaries disposed of during the year are consolidated up Profit and loss accounts in foreign currencies are translated 9 Taxation to the date of disposal.
into sterling at the average rates applicable during the year or, 10 Dividends where applicable, at the estimated sterling equivalent, taking 11 Earnings per share Goodwill account of future foreign exchange contracts.
12 Intangible assets Purchased goodwill representing the excess of the fair value of 13 Tangible fixed assets the consideration given and associated costs over the fair value Exchange adjustments arising from the re-translation of 14 Fixed asset investments of the separable net assets acquired arising on the acquisition opening net investments and from the translation of profits 15 Stocks of subsidiary undertakings before 1 January 1998, when FRS 10, and losses are taken to reserves.
16 Debtors Goodwill and Intangible Assets, was adopted, has been written 17 Creditors: due within one year off to reserves in the year of acquisition.
When a subsequent Exchange movements relating to borrowings which have 18 Creditors: disposal occurs any related goodwill previously written off to been used to finance or provide a hedge against foreign equity due after more than one year reserves is written back through the profit and loss account as investments are taken to reserves to the extent that they 19 Borrowing summary part of the profit or loss on disposal.
are matched by exchange movements on those investments, 20 Provisions for liabilities and together with the taxation thereon.
charges Purchased goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary 21 Acquisition of businesses undertakings since 1 January 1998 is capitalised and amortised Realised exchange differences arising on trading transactions 22 Disposal of businesses by equal annual instalments over its estimated useful life up are taken to the profit and loss account.
23 Share capital to a maximum of 20 years.
24 Reserves Taxation 25 Reconciliation of movements Turnover Full provision is made for deferred tax assets and liabilities in shareholders funds Turnover comprises sales invoiced excluding value added tax.
arising from timing differences that have originated but not 26 Reconciliation of operating For contracts involving the installation and testing by the reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise profit to net cash inflow from customer, revenue is recognised at the point of customer required by FRS 19.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the continuing operating activities acceptance.
extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will 27 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt be recoverable.
28 Analysis of changes in debt Tangible fixed assets and depreciation 29 Financial risk management Tangible fixed assets are stated at historic cost.
Leasing 30 Related party disclosures Annual payments under operating leases are charged to the 31 Commitments Depreciation is calculated to write off the difference between profit and loss account on an accruals basis.
32 Contingent liabilities the cost or valuation of fixed assets and their residual value 33 Subsidiary undertakings over their estimated useful lives on a straight line basis at the Research and development Financial calendar following rates per annum: Research and development expenditure is written off as it is Advisers incurred, except to the extent that it is funded by customers.
