1 Accounting policies continued The pension scheme surplus to the extent it is considered recoverable or deficit is recognised in full and presented on accounts 2002 Post-retirement benefits the face of the balance sheet.
The movement in the scheme previous next surplus deficit is split between operating charges, financing Defined contribution schemes items and, in the statement of total recognised gains and The group operates defined contribution pension schemes.
losses, actuarial gains and losses.
Auditors report The assets of the schemes are held separately from those of Consolidated profit and the group in an independently administered fund.
The amounts Employee share option schemes loss account charged against profits represent the contributions payable to The cost of awards to employees that take the form of Consolidated statement of total the scheme in respect of the accounting period.
shares or rights to shares are recognised over the period recognised gains and losses of the employees related performance.
No cost is recognised Balance sheets Defined benefit schemes in respect of SAYE schemes that are offered on similar terms Consolidated cash flow The group operates pension schemes providing benefits based to all or substantially all employees.
statement on final pensionable pay.
The assets of the schemes are held Notes to the accounts separately from those of the group.
Pension scheme assets 1 Accounting policies are measured using market values.
Pension scheme liabilities 2 Segmental analyses are measured using a projected unit method and discounted 3 Operating exceptional items at the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond 4 Operating costs of equivalent term and currency to the liability.
5 Profit before taxation 6 Employee costs 7 Pension costs 8 Other finance income and net interest payable 9 Taxation 10 Dividends 11 Earnings per share 12 Intangible assets 13 Tangible fixed assets 14 Fixed asset investments 15 Stocks 16 Debtors 17 Creditors: due within one year 18 Creditors: due after more than one year 19 Borrowing summary 20 Provisions for liabilities and charges 21 Acquisition of businesses 22 Disposal of businesses 23 Share capital 24 Reserves 25 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds 26 Reconciliation of operating profit to net cash inflow from continuing operating activities 27 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 28 Analysis of changes in debt 29 Financial risk management 30 Related party disclosures 31 Commitments 32 Contingent liabilities 33 Subsidiary undertakings Financial calendar Advisers
