Yule Catto & Co plc Notice of Meeting 64 65 Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at Saddlers Hall, 40 Gutter Lane, London EC2V 6BR on Thursday 22 May 2003 at 12 noon for the following purposes: Ordinary business 1.
To receive and adopt the report of the directors and audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2002.
To consider the recommendation of the directors as to a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2002 and if thought fit to declare a final dividend accordingly.
To approve the report of the Board on directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2002.
To re-elect as a director Mr. A. Walker who retires as a director by rotation.
To re-elect as a director Mr S. V. Cummins who retires as a director by rotation.
To re-elect as a director Mr R. H. Hunting who retires as a director by rotation.
To re-elect as a director Dato Lee Oi Hian who retires as a director by rotation.
To re-appoint as a director Dato Lee Hau Hian.
To consider the following resolution, special notice having been received of the intention to propose the resolution as an ordinary resolution: That Deloitte & Touche be re-appointed auditors of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
To authorise the directors to determine the remuneration of the auditors.
Special business To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following Resolutions, Resolution 11 being proposed as an Ordinary Resolution and Resolutions 12 and 13 being proposed as Special Resolutions: 11.
That the directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 up to an aggregate nominal value of 4,826,797 such authority to expire unless sooner revoked or altered by the Company in general meeting, on 21 May 2008 and being in substitution for any existing authority to allot relevant securities of the Company, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
That subject to the passing of the previous Resolution the directors be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 94 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred on the directors in accordance with section 80 of the Act by the previous Resolution as if sub-section 1 of section 89 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to: a the allotment of equity securities in connection with issues in favour of ordinary shareholders where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems arising under the laws of any territory or the requirements of any recognised regulatory body: and b the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 724,019. provided that this authority shall expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or, if earlier, 15 months after the passing of this Resolution save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2002 13.
That the Company be and is hereby unconditionally and generally authorised for the purpose of section 166 of the Contents Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market purchases as defined in section 163 of the Act of ordinary shares of 01 Financial Highlights 34 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 10p each in the capital of the Company provided that: 02 Group Overview 35 Balance Sheets 04 Chairmans Statement 36 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 06 Review of Operations 37 Consolidated Statement of Total a the maximum number of shares which may be purchased is 21,575,783: 06 Polymer Chemicals Recognised Gains and Losses 10 Pharma and Fine Chemicals 37 Reconciliation of Movements in b the minimum price which may be paid for each share is 10p exclusive of expenses : 14 Performance Chemicals Group Shareholders Funds 18 Safety, Health and the Environment 38 Principal Accounting Policies c the maximum price which may be paid for a share is an amount equal to 105 percent of the average of the closing 20 Directors and Advisers 40 Notes to the Financial Statements middle market quotations of the Companys ordinary shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official 21 Report of the Directors 61 Principal Subsidiaries and List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which such share is contracted to be purchased 23 Corporate Governance Statement Joint Ventures exclusive of expenses : and 26 Remuneration Report 63 Five Year Financial Summary 32 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 64 Notice of Meeting d this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or, if earlier, 33 Independent Auditors Report 15 months after the passing of this Resolution except in relation to the purchase of shares the contract for which was concluded before the expiry of such authority and which might be executed wholly or partly after such expiry unless such authority is renewed prior to such time.
By order of the Board R Atkinson Secretary 12 March 2003 Temple Fields Harlow Essex CM20 2BH Notes: i A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the above meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote in his stead.
A proxy need not also be a member of the Company.
ii A copy of the register of the Directors interests in the equity share capital of the Company will be available for inspection during normal business hours at the registered office of the Company from the date of this notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting and at the place of the meeting itself from 15 minutes before it is held until its conclusion.
iii A form of proxy is enclosed which, to be valid, must be completed and deposited with Computershare Investor Services PLC, P O Box 1075, Bristol, BS99 3ZZ not less than fortyeight hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or any adjourned meeting.
The completion and return of a form of proxy will not prevent a member who wishes to do so from attending and voting in person.
iv Copies of all contracts of service under which directors of the Company are employed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries and which have a notice or contract period of one year or more or which have provisions for predetermining compensation on termination of an amount which equals or exceeds one years salary and benefits in kind are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during business hours on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excluded and will also be available for inspection at the place of the meeting from 15 minutes before it is held until its conclusion.
v The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, specifies that only those holders of ordinary shares registered in the Register of Members of the Company at 11pm on Tuesday 20 May 2003 shall be entitled to attend and vote at the aforesaid Annual General Meeting in respect of such number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the register of members after 11pm on Tuesday 20 May 2003 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
Designed and produced by College Design, London 44 0 20 7457 2020 Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report 2002 Yule Catto & Co plc Yule Catto & Co plc Temple Fields Annual Report Harlow Essex CM20 2BH for the year ended 31 December 2002 Tel: 44 0 1279 442791 Fax: 44 0 1279 641360 www.
com Leadership in speciality chemicals
