Taylor & Francis Group plc Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the fteenth Annual General Meeting of Taylor & Francis Group plc will be held at 11 New Fetter Lane, London, EC4P 4EE on 18 June 2003 at 10.00 am to transact the following business: 1.
To receive the accounts and reports of the directors and auditors for the year ended 31 December 2002.
To declare a final dividend of 2.94 pence per share on the ordinary share capital.
To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors to the Company.
To authorise the directors to x the remuneration of the auditors.
5 To re-elect Mr D Wallace as a director.
To re-elect Mr D Banister as a director 7.
To re-elect Mr N Berwin as a director.
A brief biography of each director seeking re-election is given on page 9 of the 2002 financial statements.
As special business, to consider, and, if thought t, pass the following Resolutions, of which numbers 8, 9 10 and 11 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and number 12 will be proposed as a special resolution: 8.
That the Directors Remuneration Report for the financial year ended 31 December 2002 be approved.
That the authorised share capital of the Company be increased from 5,750,000 to 6,250,000 by the creation of an additional 10,000,000 ordinary shares of 5p each: 10.
That the directors be generally and unconditionally authorised, in accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as dened in Section 80 2 of the Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,427,958 provided that this authority shall expire on 17 June 2008 save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and that the directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority had not expired, such authority to be in substitution for any and all authorities previously conferred upon the directors for the purposes of Section 80 of the Act.
That the directors be hereby authorised to: a make amendments to the Taylor & Francis Group plc Unapproved Discretionary Share Option Scheme in the form of the revised draft rules produced to the meeting and initialled for the purpose of identication by the Chairman to replace the individual limit of four times basic salary for subsisting options with an annual limit on option grants of up to one times annual basic salary, except in the case of new executive appointments only, wherein the Remuneration Committee will continue to have the discretion to award higher grants on appointment of up to four times salary: b subject to the approval of the Board of Inland Revenue, make amendments to the Taylor & Francis Group plc Approved Discretionary Share Option Scheme in the form of the revised draft rules produced to the meeting and initialled for the purpose of identication by the Chairman to replace the individual limit of four times basic salary for subsisting options with an annual limit on option grants of up to one times annual basic salary, except in the case of new executive appointments only, wherein the Remuneration Committee will continue to have the discretion to award higher grants on appointment of up to four times salary: 58 - Taylor & Francis Group plc Notice of Meeting continued c do all such things as they consider necessary or desirable to carry such amendments into effect, including, if required, obtaining the approval of the Board of Inland Revenue.
That, subject to the passing of Resolution number 10 set out in the notice of the 2003 Annual General Meeting of the Company, the directors be empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to allot equity securities as dened in Section 94 2 of the Act of the Company for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution number 10 as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to such allotment provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities for cash: a in connection with or pursuant to a rights issue or any other offer in favour of the holders of equity securities and other persons entitled to participate therein in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to the respective amounts of equity securities held by them or, as appropriate, the number of such securities which such other persons are for those purposes deemed to hold, on the record date for such allotment but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may consider necessary or expedient to deal with any fractional entitlements, record dates or legal or practical difficulties which may arise under the laws of, or the requirements of, any regulatory body or any stock exchange in, any territory or otherwise howsoever: and b otherwise than pursuant to paragraph a above up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to 214,193, and this power shall expire on 17 June 2008 save that the Company may before such expiry make any offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
By Order of the Board J Thomasson Secretary Taylor & Francis Group plc 11 New Fetter Lane London EC4P 4EE 19 March 2003 Notes: 1.
A member of the Company who is entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him or her.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
Completion and return of the proxy will not preclude a shareholder attending and voting.
To be effective, forms of proxy must be received by the Companys registrars, Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
The following documents, which are available for inspection during normal business hours at the registered office of the Company on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excluded, will also be available for inspection at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the Annual General Meeting: i copies of service contracts of the directors with the Company or any subsidiary: ii the register of interests of directors and their families in the share capital of the Company: and iii the rules of the Discretionary Share Option Schemes incorporating draft amendments to the individual limits.
The Company, pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, specifies that only those registered in the Register of Members as at 6.00pm on 16 June 2003 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the Annual General Meeting in respect of the number of Ordinary Shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries in the Register of Members after 6.00pm on such date shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
