107, Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments.
The carrying amounts and fair values of the material financial instruments are shown below in thousands : December 31, 2002 December 31, 2001 December 31, 2000 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair Carrying Fair value value value value value value Cash and cash equivalents............... $ 147,472 $ 147,472 $ 143,604 $ 143,604 $ 137,490 $ 137,490 Other investments............................. $ 1,398 $ 1,398 $ 2,312 $ 2,312 $ 2,061 $ 2,061 The fair values of financial instruments, which principally comprise cash and cash equivalents, are considered to be equivalent to their carrying values.
18 Employee Benefit Plans The Company sponsors a 401 k plan that allows all U. S. employees that have completed 30 days of service to contribute up to 15% of their compensation, limited to $11,000 in 2002.
Employee contributions and earnings thereon vest immediately.
Although the Company may make discretionary matching contributions to the 401 k plan, none have been made to date.
19 Non-monetary transactions The Company's customers include a number of its suppliers and on occasion, the Company has purchased goods or services for the Company's operations from these vendors at or about the same time the Company has licensed its software to these organizations.
These transactions are separately negotiated, settled in cash, and recorded at terms the Company considers as a normal commercial basis.
During the year ended December 31, 2002, the Company recognized approximately $240,000 of software license revenues from transactions with vendors where the Company purchased goods or services from those vendors at or about the same time as the software license transactions.
The Company has also entered into joint marketing arrangements with some of its OEM partners in order to facilitate promotion of the joint products in the marketplace and enhance ongoing royalty generating capacity.
The Company recorded these transactions by recording revenue and marketing expense based on actual expenditure of its OEM partners.
During the year ended December 31, 2002, the Company funded approximately $400,000 into joint marketing arrangements with OEM partners.
The Company accepted shares in two of its customers in settlement of outstanding debtor obligations in the amount of approximately $975,000.
The investments are accounted for under the cost method and are included in equity and other investments on the balance sheet.
70 general information general information Taxation The following is a general guide to certain aspects of current United Kingdom law and Inland Revenue practice to which holders of the companys ordinary shares are subject as of the date of this document.
The information provided is of a general nature and only relates to the position of persons who are absolute beneficial owners of ordinary shares and may not apply to certain classes of persons including in particular dealers in securities and references to holders or shareholders should, where relevant, be construed accordingly.
Dividends Under current United Kingdom taxation legislation, no tax will be withheld from dividend payments by the company.
An individual shareholder who is resident in the United Kingdom for tax purposes will be entitled to a tax credit in respect of any dividend received from the company and will in general be taxable on the aggregate of the dividend and the tax credit the gross dividend.
The value of the tax credit will be equal to one ninth of the dividend received.
The gross dividend will be treated as the top slice of an individuals income.
A United Kingdom resident individual who is not liable to income tax in respect of the gross dividend will generally not be able to reclaim the tax credit or part thereof from the Inland Revenue.
In the case of a United Kingdom resident individual shareholder who is liable to income tax at only the lower rate or the basic rate the tax credit will in each case satisfy his tax liability in full and there will be no further tax to pay.
A United Kingdom resident individual shareholder who is liable to income tax at the higher rate will be subject to income tax on the gross dividend at 32.5%, but the tax credit will be set against part of his tax liability.
A corporate shareholder which is resident in the United Kingdom for tax purposes will generally not be subject to corporation tax on any dividend received.
United Kingdom resident pension funds are not entitled to reclaim the tax credit on dividends paid by the company.
Transitional provisions apply to dividends received by charities and in respect of shares held in personal equity plans and individual savings accounts.
A shareholder resident outside the United Kingdom may also be subject to foreign taxation on dividend income under local law.
A shareholder resident outside the United Kingdom will not, in almost all cases, be able to obtain payment of any tax credit.
UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax Transfers of ordinary shares out of the Euroclear and Clearstream Banking Systems.
Transactions in the companys ordinary shares executed on Nasdaq Europe will be settled by delivery through Euroclear or Clearstream Banking.
Where no sale is involved, and the companys ordinary shares are transferred by Euroclear or Clearstream Banking or its nominee to the beneficial owners of the companys ordinary shares, no UK ad valorem stamp duty or Stamp Duty Reserve Tax, or SDRT, should be payable.
By contrast, such a transfer directly to a purchaser for consideration may give rise to a liability to ad valorem stamp duty or SDRT calculated by reference to the amount or value of the consideration.
Transfers of our ordinary shares within the Euroclear and Clearstream Banking Systems.
No ad valorem stamp duty or SDRT should be payable on transfers within the Euroclear and Clearstream Banking systems.
Transfers of our ordinary shares into, within and out of CREST.
Transactions in the companys ordinary shares executed on the London Stock Exchange will be settled by delivery through CREST.
No ad valorem stamp duty or SDRT is generally payable on the deposit of shares into CREST unless the transfer into CREST is made for consideration.
SDRT at a rate of 0.5% of the amount or value of the general information 71 consideration is payable for the account of the purchaser, on paperless transfers of our ordinary shares within CREST and no ad valorem stamp duty should be payable.
There is no additional ad valorem stamp duty or SDRT liability where ordinary shares are taken out of CREST except pursuant to a transfer on sale.
Transfers of our ordinary shares into the Euroclear and Clearstream Banking Systems.
Ad valorem stamp duty or SDRT is generally payable at the rate of 1.5 percent rounded up to the nearest 5 of the amount or the value of the consideration or in some circumstances the value of the shares on an issue or transfer of the companys ordinary shares: a to, or to a nominee or agent for, a person whose business is or includes the provision of clearance services: or b to, or to a nominee or agent for, a person whose business is or includes issuing depositary receipts.
The depositary or person providing clearance services or, in either case, its nominee or agent, will generally be liable for the ad valorem stamp duty or SDRT, but Euroclear and Clearstream Banking currently charge such ad valorem stamp duty or SDRT to the investor or its Euroclear or Clearstream Banking participant in connection with a deposit of shares into the Euroclear and Clearstream Banking Systems.
The liability for SDRT will be cancelled or the SDRT repaid if the instrument of transfer is duly stamped within six years of the date of the transfer.
Transfer of our ordinary shares in Registered Form.
Ad valorem stamp duty is generally payable on instruments conveying or transferring shares or securities on sale and SDRT is imposed on agreements for the transfer of certain shares and securities.
In the case of stamp duty the charge is normally at the rate of 0.5 percent rounded up to the nearest 5 of the amount or value of the consideration given for the transfer and in the case of SDRT is 0.5 percent of such amount or value.
Stamp duty and SDRT are generally payable by the purchaser.
Where a charge to SDRT arises on an unconditional agreement to transfer shares or securities and before the expiry of a period of six years beginning with the date of that agreement, an instrument of transfer is duly stamped, any liability for SDRT will be cancelled or SDRT repaid.
A transfer of ordinary shares for no consideration whatsoever should not give rise to payment of ad valorem stamp duty or SDRT, and it should not be necessary to pay the fixed duty of 5 thereon.
Capital gains tax UK resident or ordinarily resident individual holders of the companys ordinary shares or persons who hold their ordinary shares through a permanent establishment of branch in the UK may be liable to capital gains tax on any chargeable gain realized on the disposal of ordinary shares, subject to any allowances, reliefs or exemptions that may be available to them.
Special rules apply to individuals who dispose of shares at a time when they are temporarily not resident or ordinarily resident in the UK.
UK resident corporate holders of ordinary shares are liable to corporation tax on chargeable gains realized on disposal of their holding of ordinary shares, subject to certain reliefs and exemptions.
Exchange rates As at January 31, 2003, the exchange rate between the pound sterling and Euro reported by Datastream was 1 Euro 1.5298.
The financial statements in respect of the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000 were issued with unqualified audit opinions thereon.
"advisors: Auditors Legal Advisors Registered Office Ernst & Young Hale and Dorr Cambridge Business Park Compass House Alder Castle Cowley Road 80 Newmarket Road 10 Noble Street Cambridge CB4 0WZ Cambridge CB5 8DZ London EC2V 7QS Registered in England 3175909 Investor Relations Bankers Financial Dynamics Ltd. UBS Warburg Holborn Gate 1 2 Finsbury Avenue 26 Southampton Buildings London EC2N 2PP London WC2A 1PB ""US Government Deploys Autonomy for Security"" - Computer Business Review, November, 2002 ""Homeland Security Contract Biggest Ever for Autonomy"" - Info Economy, 21 October, 2002 ""British Concern to Help US Track Terrorists"" - New York Times, 21 October, 2002 ""Anti-Terror Fight Goes to the Source"" - BBC News, 22 October, 2002 ""Data Miners: New Software Instantly Connects Key Bits of Data That Once Eluded Researchers"" - Time Magazine, December 23, 2002 ""Finding a Needle in the Haystack"" - ZD Net, 23 October, 2002 ""Building Expertise"" - Information World Review, November, 2002 ""Autonomy Scoops Italian E-Learning Win"" - Silicon."
"com, 2 December, 2002 ""Autonomy Wins Italian Deal"" - FT, 2 December, 2002 ""Top 1000 Rock Solid Earnings Growth"" - Shares, 12 September, 2002 ""Dremedia Voice an Agreement with CNN"" - FT, 12 August, 2002 ""Autonomy Rescues Firms from Tower of Babel"" - Computer Reseller News, August 6, 2002 Headquarters: Autonomy Inc. 301 Howard Street San Francisco, CA 94105, US Phone: 1 415 243 9955 Fax: 1 415 243 9984 Email: info@us."
com Autonomy Systems Ltd Cambridge Business Park, Cowley Rd, Cambridge CB4 0WZ, UK Tel: 44 0 1223 448 000 Fax: 44 0 1223 448 001 Email: autonomy@autonomy.
com Other Offices: Autonomy has additional offices in Boston, New York and Washington DC, as well as in Amsterdam, Brussels, Hamburg, London, Madrid, Milan, Munich, Oslo, Paris, Rome, Singapore, Stockholm and Sydney.
com Copyright 2003 Autonomy Corp. All rights reserved.
Other trademarks are registered trademarks and the properties of their respective owners.
