32 operating and financial review Provision for doubtful accounts.
Provision for doubtful accounts was $1.0 million in 2001, a decrease of $0.6 million or 37.5% from $1.6 million in 2000.
Provision for doubtful accounts represented 1.9% of revenues in 2001, as compared to 2.4% in 2000.
This decrease as a percentage of revenues was primarily due to better monitoring and improved collection practices.
Amortization of share-based compensation was a credit of $0.2 million in 2001, compared to an expense of $0.1 million in 2000.
Amortization of share-based compensation is included in the operating expense to which it relates.
Research and development expenses were $8.3 million in 2001, an increase of $1.8 million or 27.7% from $6.5 million in 2000.
The increase in research and development expenses was due to an increase in technical personnel and the development and implementation of new products, including the completion of the IDOL platform, the Autonomy XML Engine and the new development of PODs.
Gain on foreign exchange was $5.1 million in 2001, an increase of $1.8 million or 54.6% from $3.3 million in 2000.
This increase was primarily due to increased U. S. dollar-denominated deposits as a result of our May 2000 public offering, and the subsequent appreciation of the U. S. dollar against the pound sterling, which affected the value of our U. S. dollar-denominated cash balances.
We converted substantially all of our dollar denominated cash deposits into sterling in May 2001.
Other income expense in 2001 consisted of interest income net and write-downs against certain investments.
Other income expense was $6.1 million in 2001, an increase of $0.7 million or 13.0% from $5.4 million in 2000.
Interest income net was $6.4 million in 2001, an increase of $0.8 million or 14.3% from $5.6 million in 2000.
The increase was primarily due to the inclusion in 2001 of twelve months of bank interest on the proceeds of the May 2000 public offering of our ordinary shares, offset by decreases in interest rates.
Following a deterioration of the financial status of certain fixed asset investments, we have written down the value of these investments in 2001 by $0.3 million, compared to $0.2 million in 2000.
Profit before benefit provision for income taxes and share of loss of associated company and minority interest As a result of the above factors, we reported a profit before benefit provision for income taxes and share of loss of associated company and minority interest of $13.3 million and net profit of $9.4 million in 2001, as compared to a profit before benefit provision for income taxes and share of loss of associated company and minority interest of $20.8 million and net profit of $14.5 million in 2000.
Income Taxes We provided for income taxes of $3.9 million in 2001 and $6.1 million in 2000.
Our effective group tax rate fell slightly from 30% in 2000 to 29% in 2001.
A valuation allowance was recorded against net deferred tax assets to reduce the amount of such assets to that which is more likely than not to be realized.
Share of loss of associated company and minority interest Share of loss of associated company and minority interest in 2001 primarily consisted of the retained losses of Dremedia Limited and SoftSound Limited, and in 2000 primarily consisted of the minority interest in SoftSound.
Share of loss of associated company and minority interest was $0.1 million in 2001 and 2000. operating and financial review 33 Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash and cash equivalents totaled $147.5 million at December 31, 2002, compared to a balance of $143.6 million at December 31, 2001.
We funded our operations since inception primarily through equity capital from outside investors.
In May 2000, we completed a public offering of our ordinary shares, raising approximately $99.7 million in net proceeds after commissions and expenses.
In connection with the May 2000 offering, trading in our ADSs representing our ordinary shares commenced on the Nasdaq National Market.
Our capital requirements depend on a variety of factors, including market acceptance of our products, the resources we devote to developing, marketing, selling and supporting our products and the timing and extent of establishing international operations.
Net cash provided by operating activities was $3.3 million, $6.4 million and $13.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.
The decrease from 2001 to 2002 and from 2000 to 2001 was due to fluctuating revenues combined with comparatively stable operating expenses.
Net cash used in investing activities was $1.4 million in 2002, a decrease of $0.8 million or 65.0% from $2.2 million in 2001.
Net cash used in investing activities was $1.4 million in the year ended December 31, 2000.
Cash was used during these periods to acquire office equipment and software licenses and to purchase investments.
We currently do not have significant capital spending or short-term purchase commitments, but expect to continue to engage in capital spending in the ordinary course of business.
Net cash used in financing activities was $12.1 million in 2002, compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $0.7 million in 2001.
Net cash provided by financing activities in the year ended December 31, 2000 was $103.7 million.
Net cash used in financing activities in 2002 was primarily due to the commencement of a share repurchase program during 2002.
Net cash provided by financing activities in 2001 was primarily due to the exercise of options to purchase ordinary shares.
Net cash provided by financing activities in 2000 primarily represented the proceeds of our initial public offerings on the Nasdaq National Market.
We expect to experience growth in our working capital needs for the foreseeable future in order to execute our business plan.
We anticipate that operating activities, as well as planned capital expenditures, will constitute a material use of our cash resources.
In addition, we may utilize cash resources to fund acquisitions or investments in complementary businesses, technologies or products.
We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months.
34 accounts accounts - Directors Report - Corporate Governance Report - Remuneration Committee Report - Report of Independent Auditors - Consolidated Statements of Operations - Consolidated Balance Sheets - Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders Equity - Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows - Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements directors report 35 directors report The directors present their report and group financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2002.
Principal activity The principal activity of the group is software development and distribution.
Results and dividends Revenue for the year ended December 31, 2002 was $51.0 million, a decrease of $1.6 million from $52.6 million for 2001.
Profit after taxation and minority interests was $6.1 million for the year ended 2002, as compared to a profit of $9.4 million in 2001.
The directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend 2001 - Nil.
Capital Restructuring On December 18, 2002 the High Court gave approval for the company to reduce the share premium account by 32,250,000.
A copy of the Court Order has been filed with Companies House.
The reserve produced by the reduction of the share premium account is treated as distributable in the books of the company and is, therefore, available to fund any purchase of shares by the company authorised by Resolution 2 at the Extraordinary General Meeting on December 2, 2002, as well as for other corporate purposes of the company.
During 2002 the company purchased for cancellation 4,980,286 shares at an average price of 1.52 per share.
As of December 31, 2002, the company had remaining authorization to purchase 13,819,714 shares.
Future developments Following the completion of another successful year, the company is well positioned to exploit the opportunities presented by the markets.
Research and development The group continues to develop new software products and expects further product launches during 2003.
The total amount incurred for research and development expenditure during the year was $9.2 million as compared with $8.3 million in 2001.
There has been no change in the directors interests since December 31, 2002.
36 directors report Richard G. Gaunt has an option over 4,114,240 existing shares, of which 3,585,825 are currently held by Dr. Michael R. Lynch and the remainder held by another shareholder.
The options have an exercise price of 1 3p per share and are exercisable within the period ending on the seventh anniversary following December 3, 1996.
Details of the directors interests in share options in the company are disclosed in the remuneration committee report.
Re-election of directors Each of Messrs. Gaunt and Perle will be subject to re-election at this years Annual General Meeting.
Employment contracts Dr. Michael R. Lynch, as Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the company and Richard G. Gaunt, Technical Director and Chief Technical Officer, are bound by service agreements.
Each employment agreement sets out obligations of confidentiality and contains non-competitive provisions expressed to extend for a period of one year following the cessation of employment with the company.
Any copyright, work, design, trademark, discovery, invention, secret, process, improvement or procedure created, discovered, invented, developed or devised during the performance of their duties, using the facilities of the company or confidential information of the company, or financed by the company will be owned by the company and each of Dr. Lynch and Mr. Gaunt are under an obligation to the company to disclose all such relevant inventions.
Both parties have also entered into part-time employment agreements with Neurodynamics Limited, a related party.
The Autonomy service agreement limits the total monthly working time spent providing services to Neurodynamics to a maximum of one quarter of each of their total monthly working time.
Service agreements for each of Dr. Lynch and Mr. Gaunt are subject to six months notice.
Messrs. Ariko, McMonigall and Perle serve as our directors under appointment letters with us dated January 7, 2002, July 2, 1998 and February 23, 2000, respectively.
Under these letters, Mr. Ariko was paid an annual fee of $25,000, and Apax Partners & Co. Ventures Ltd. on behalf of Mr. McMonigall, is paid an annual fee of 10,000, for their services as members of our board of directors.
Either party to each of these letters may terminate the appointment upon three months notice.
Indemnification of directors and other officers Under the Articles of Association of the company, subject to U. K. companies legislation, every director, secretary or other officer of the company is entitled to be indemnified by the company against all costs, charges, losses, expenses and liabilities incurred by him in the execution and discharge of his duties or in relation thereto, including any liability incurred by him in defending any civil or criminal proceedings which relate to anything done or omitted or alleged to have been done or omitted by him as an officer, director or employee of the company and in which judgement is given in his favour or in which the proceedings are otherwise disposed of without any finding or admission of any material breach of duty on his part or in which he is acquitted, or in connection with any application under any statute for relief from liability in respect of any such act or omission in which relief is granted to him by the court.
Under the Articles of Association of the company, subject to U. K. companies legislation and to the extent legally permitted, the directors may purchase, fund and or maintain insurance for or for the benefit of any persons who are or were at any time directors, officers or employees of the company, or of any subsidiary of the company or in any way allied to or associated with the company or any such subsidiary or of any predecessors of the business of the company or any such subsidiary or who are or were at any time trustees of any pension fund in which any employees of the company or any such other company are interested, including without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing insurance against any liability incurred by such persons in respect of any act or omission in the actual or purported execution and or discharge of their duties or powers and otherwise in relation to their duties, powers or offices in relation to the company or any such other company or pension fund.
Supplier payment policy The companys policy is generally to pay suppliers at the end of the month following that in which the suppliers invoice is received.
The number of creditor days outstanding as at December 31, 2002, for the company was 61 days 2001 - 91 days and for the principal U. K. subsidiary was 101 days 2001 - 29 days.
Charitable donations The group made 350 in charitable donations during 2002 2001 - 20,000 to The Princes Trust, 250 and Cambridge City Council, 100.
On behalf of the Board, Dr. Michael R. Lynch Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer Cambridge Business Park Cowley Road Cambridge CB4 0WZ February 17, 2003 38 corporate governance report corporate governance report Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the financial statements The directors are required to prepare financial statements that comply with the requirements of the United Kingdom Financial Services Authority.
"Such financial statements may be prepared in accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ""U. S. GAAP""."
Accordingly, the directors have decided to present U. S. GAAP financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2002, consistent with the information included in the company's Annual Report on Form 20-F filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
Under the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority the directors are also responsible for making a statement that the business is a going concern with supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the company and the group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the forseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
In connection with the company's United Kingdom statutory accounts, the directors acknowledge a number of responsibilities, including keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and the group and safeguarding the assets of the company and group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Statement by the directors on compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code The company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The board is accountable to the companys shareholders for good corporate governance.
This statement describes how the principles of corporate governance are applied to the company and the companys compliance with the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code prepared by the Committee on Corporate Governance chaired by Sir Ronald Hanpel.
Throughout 2002, the company complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code save in relation to Code Provision 2.1 independent chairman, Code Provision A.
1.2 schedule of matters for the board and a Nominations Committee has yet to be established in relation to Code Provision A.
The company has applied the Principles of Good Governance set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code by complying with the Code of Best Practice as reported above.
The company has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the company that has with modifications from time to time been in place for 2002 and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
Principal controls are managed by the executive directors and key employees, including regular review by management and the board of the operations and the accounts of the company.
Composition and Operation of the Board The board is led by Dr. Michael R. Lynch, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, one additional executive director and three independent non-executive directors.
All directors are subject to re-election by the shareholders every three years.
At each annual general meeting, one third must retire by rotation.
Directors who are appointed by the board must retire at the next annual general meeting so that they may be re-elected by the shareholders.
Mr. McMonigall is the boards senior non-executive director.
The board has been established in order to give a balance of knowledge, experience and objective overview.
The two executive directors provide the necessary skills in commercial, operational and financial management.
The three independent non-executive directors provide corporate governance report 39 a blend of experience to enable them to bring strong independent judgement and considerable knowledge and experience to the boards deliberations.
In common with peers in the high technology sector in the United States, to date the board has not separated the functions of Chairman and Chief Executive, although the board is structured to ensure that there is no undue dominance by the Chief Executive.
The board meets at least once a quarter and is responsible for the companys strategic, financial, operational and compliance matters, including development of commercial strategy, approval of major business matters and policies, analysis of risk and maintaining adequate systems of internal control, and the approval of financial statements and extraordinary commercial arrangements.
The board has put in place an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority between executive and nonexecutive directors.
Prior to each meeting, the board is furnished with timely information in a form and quality appropriate for it to discharge its duties concerning the state of the business and performance.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the annual report and financial statements and the quarterly reports, and for ensuring that they present a balanced assessment of the companys position, lies with the board.
The board has established an audit committee and a remuneration committee, and delegates the day-to-day management of the company to the executive members of the board.
Details of the boards committees are set forth below: Audit Committee The audit committee is primarily responsible for monitoring and approving the services performed by the auditors and reviewing compliance with the legal and accounting policies and practices and systems of internal accounting controls.
The committee currently consists of Messrs. McMonigall Chairman, Ariko and Perle.
The committee meets at least four times a year, to review all interim and full year results.
The external auditors and Chief Financial Officer attend all meetings in order to ensure that all the information required by the audit committee is available for it to operate effectively.
Remuneration Committee The remuneration committee is primarily responsible for reviewing and approving general compensation policies and setting compensation levels for executive officers.
The committee also administers incentive compensation plans.
The committee currently consists of Messrs. Ariko and McMonigall.
The report of the remuneration committee is set out on pages 41 and 42.
The board intends to establish a nominations committee to fill vacancies when they become available.
When established, the nominations committee will have responsibility for proposing new appointments of both executive and non-executive directors to the board.
Relations with Shareholders Communications with shareholders are given high priority.
The company holds investor conference calls and webcasts and regular dialogue with institutional shareholders following announcements of quarterly and annual results.
The board also uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
Internal Control The board is responsible for the companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness with regard to achieving the companys business objectives and enhancing shareholder value.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The board continuously reviews the effectiveness of the companys internal control systems.
The board considers all controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management, principally based on reports from management to consider whether significant risks are 40 corporate governance report identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied or indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
The board has also performed a specific assessment for purposes of this Annual Report.
The directors consider that the companys internal controls, particularly given the companys size and the nature of its business operations, provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The main elements of internal control currently include: Operating Company Controls The identification and mitigation of major business risks is the responsibility of the executive directors and senior management.
Each business function within the company maintains controls and procedures, as directed by senior management, appropriate to its own business environment while conforming to company standards and guidelines.
These include procedures and guidelines to identify, evaluate the likelihood and mitigate all types of risks on an ongoing basis.
Information and Communication The companys operating procedures include a comprehensive system for reporting financial and non-financial information to the directors.
Financial Reporting - Financial projections, including balance sheets and profit and loss and cash flow statements, are reported on a regular basis to senior management against corresponding figures for previous periods.
Non-Financial Reporting - The central process for evaluating and managing risks is weekly meetings of business functions, each involving at least one director, together with periodic meetings of executive directors and senior management.
Finance Management The finance department operates within policies approved by the directors and the Chief Financeial Officer.
Expenditures are authorised at the requisite level with appropriate segregation of duties.
Insurance Insurance cover is provided externally and depends on the scale of the risk in question and the availability of cover in the external market.
The processes to identify and manage the key risks to the success of the company are an integral part of the internal control environment.
Such processes include, in addition to the above, strategic planning, appointing highly skilled managers with accountability, regular monitoring of performance and setting and communicating high standards and targets for ethics, safety and health.
Internal Audit Given the companys relatively small size, with approximately 200 employees world-wide as of 31 December 2002, the extensive internal reporting functions and significant executive director involvement in all aspects of companys business affairs, the board for the present does not consider it necessary to have its own internal audit function.
The board periodically will review the need for an internal audit function.
remuneration committee report 41 remuneration committee report The Remuneration Committee is primarily responsible for reviewing and approving general compensation policies and setting compensation levels for executive officers.
The committee currently consists of Messrs. Ariko and McMonigall, independent non-executive directors.
Executive remuneration packages are intended to attract, motivate and retain directors of the calibre needed to achieve the companys growth program.
The main elements of these packages are: Base Salary Each senior executives basic salary is determined by the Committee, taking into account the performance of the individual and the strategies of the company.
Employment related benefits principally the provision of a company car are also provided where appropriate.
In accordance with the companys strategies and the significant equity interests of the executive directors in the company, directors salaries have not been adjusted during the previous three years.
In accordance with common practice amongst the companys peers, and the nature of the companys open business and operations, there are no performance targets associated with directors employment.
Share Options The company believes that share ownership by directors and staff aligns their personal interests with those of shareholders.
Options are granted from time to time and are determined by an individuals general performance and future importance of the individual concerned.
Share options are always issued at market value, in line with practice among the companys peers in the technology sector.
There are currently no performance conditions attached to the issue or exercise of these options.
Service Contracts All executive directors have service contracts that provide for less than 12 months notice.
Under the service contracts, no director is able to accept appointments and retain payment from sources outside the company without formal board approval.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by other members of the board.
Such directors have a contract of service or appointment letter.
All directors are subject to re-election by shareholders on the third anniversary of the previous election.
42 remuneration committee report Directors Remuneration The following table sets forth for the year ended December 31, 2002, the elements of each directors remuneration package.
Directors do not have pension entitlements.
Non-executive directors are reimbursed for their reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in attending the meetings of our board of directors and committees thereof.
As of December 31, 2002, there were outstanding options to purchase a total of 207,500 shares that had been granted to the non-executive directors.
2 Exercise period September 25, 2002 to September 25, 2006.
3 Exercise period February 23, 2001 to February 23, 2010.
Options are granted to directors on the same terms as those offered to all employees in the company and at an exercise price equal to the fair market value on the date of grant.
The fair market value of the companys ordinary shares as quoted on the London Stock Exchange on December 31, 2002 was 1.75 per ordinary share, and the range during the year ended December 31, 2002 was from 0.90 to 4.40.
Pension entitlements The Directors do not have pension entitlements.
report of independent auditors 43 report of independent auditors Independent auditors' report to the members of Autonomy Corporation plc We have audited the group's financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2002 which comprise Consolidated Statement of Operations, Consolidated Balance Sheet, Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders' Equity, Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes 1 to 19.
As explained in Note 2, the financial statements have been prepared for the purpose of complying with the Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Financial Services Authority and in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and not for the purposes of section 227 of the Companies Act 1985 This report is made solely to the company's members, as a body.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company's members those matters we are required under the terms of the instructions of the directors to state to them in an auditors' report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by United Kingdom law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company's members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors' responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and regulatory requirements and for preparing the financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States are set out in the Corporate Governance Report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the company's compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the board's statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the group's corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
This other information comprises the letter from the CEO, the sections entitled 'Lighting the Path Ahead', 'Security', 'Partners and OEMs', 'Return On Investment', 'Technology and Products', 'IDOL', 'The Board', and 'Operating and Financial Review', the 'Directors' Report', 'Corporate Governance Report' and the 'Remuneration Committee Report'.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
44 report of independent auditors Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the group's circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group as at December 31, 2002 and of the profit of the group for the year then ended and have been properly prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
Ernst & Young LLP Cambridge, England February 17, 2003 report of independent auditors 45 Independent auditors' report to the shareholders of Autonomy Corporation plc: The following report was issued by Arthur Andersen on February 15, 2002 to the Directors and shareholders of Autonomy Corporation plc and included in the Companys Annual Report in respect of the year ended December 31, 2001.
Arthur Andersen ceased trading on August 31, 2002, and hence it is not possible to obtain a resigned opinion.
We have audited the financial statements of Autonomy Corporation plc for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999 which comprise the statement of operations, balance sheet, statements of changes in shareholders' equity, statement of cash flows, and the related notes numbered 1 to 17.
We have also examined the amounts disclosed relating to emoluments and share options of the directors which form part of the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 32 and 33.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
As explained in note 2, the financial statements have been prepared for the purpose of complying with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
These financial statements have not been prepared for the purposes of section 227 of the Companies Act 1985 and are therefore not the statutory accounts.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements included therein, as described in the Directors' Report.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements present fairly the state of affairs of the group and are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors' report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors' remuneration and transactions with the company is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance report reflects the company's compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the board's statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the company's corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
This other information comprises the letter from the Chief Executive Officer, and the sections entitled The Marketplace and Beyond, The ROI, Technology and Products, Award Winning Technology, The Board Biographies, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Corporate Governance Report, and Remuneration Committee Report.
46 report of independent auditors Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the United Kingdom Auditing Practices Board.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the company and of the group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Opinion In our opinion the financial statements present fairly the state of affairs of the group at December, 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999 and of the group's profits and losses for the years then ended and have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements.
notes to the consolidated financial statements 51 notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 The Company Business of the Company The Company develops and markets software products that are used in automating the management, processing and delivery of unstructured information sources across the Internet and the extended enterprise.
Unstructured information is data, such as web pages, e-mails and word processing documents, that has not been organized and stored in specific forms, such as relational databases.
The Companys proprietary Dynamic Reasoning Engine, or DRE, applies sophisticated algorithms to analyze information, enabling operations to be performed automatically on this information.
This provides a platform for the Companys own products aimed at applications in new media, enterprise and e-commerce markets and increasingly a variety of applications developed by third party OEMs.
The Company is a holding company which principally operates through four trading subsidiaries, Autonomy Systems Limited and SoftSound Limited, based in Cambridge, England, Autonomy Nordic AS, based in Oslo, Norway, and Autonomy, Inc. a New Jersey Corporation having its offices in San Francisco, California.
The Company has also established a wholly-owned subsidiary, Agentworld Inc. a New Jersey Corporation which to date has not traded.
The Company owns 49% of Dremedia Limited, a company which extends Autonomys infrastructure technology to automating unstructured content such as video for interactive television and broadcast purposes.
Autonomy Systems Limited and Autonomy Inc. were established in May 1995 and March 1996 respectively.
The Company acquired 33.34% of the ordinary shares of Autonomy Nordic AS on March 8, 1999 and the remaining 66.66% of the ordinary shares in October 2000.
On May 17, 2000 the Company acquired 60% of SoftSound Limited for cash consideration see note 7 - Goodwill.
On July 2, 2001, the Company acquired 49% of Dremedia Limited for a cash consideration of approximately $450,000.
Incorporation and History The Company was incorporated in England and Wales as a public limited company on March 21, 1996.
Technological Changes The market for the Companys products and services is characterized by rapid technological developments, frequent new product introductions and evolving industry standards.
These changes require the Company to continually improve the performance, features and reliability of its products, particularly in response to competition.
There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in responding sufficiently to these developments, or that competitors will not introduce superior or more cost-effective technological improvements.
In addition, new products and enhancements could entail substantial development costs and could contain design flaws or other defects that could require costly modifications or lead to loss of customer confidence.
Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on the Companys business, financial condition or operating results.
Dependence on Proprietary Technology The Companys success is heavily dependent upon its proprietary technologies.
The Company depends upon a combination of trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws, license agreements, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions and various security measures to protect its technology rights.
The Company currently has no patents filed.
There can be no assurance that any necessary patents relating to any of the Companys products will be issued.
There can be no assurance that the Company will be able legally to prevent others from copying its technology or producing compatible competing products.
If others were to sell Autonomy-compatible products, the Companys sales and gross margins would be materially adversely affected.
52 notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 The Company continued Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the Companys protective efforts will prevent others from misappropriating its technology or from independently developing similar or superior technology.
Any infringement of the Companys proprietary technology could have a material adverse effect on the Company.
Dependence on Key Individuals The success of the Company depends to a significant extent upon a limited number of key employees including Dr. Michael R. Lynch, the developer of the Companys proprietary Dynamic Reasoning Engine and managing director and chief executive officer, and Richard G. Gaunt, technical director and chief technical officer.
The loss of either Dr. Lynch or Mr. Gaunt or any other executive officer may have a material adverse effect on the business, operating results or financial condition of the Company.
Need for New Products Substantially all of the Companys revenue is derived from sales of the current suite of products, which are expected to account for the majority of revenue for the foreseeable future.
As a result of this dependence on a single suite of products, a decline in pricing of, or market acceptance of, the products, due to competition, technological change or otherwise, would have a material adverse effect on the Companys business, financial condition and results of operations.
Because the market for information management products is characterized by changing technology and periodic new product introductions, future financial performance will depend in part on the successful development and customer acceptance of new and enhanced versions of the suite of products and other products on a timely basis.
There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to be successful in marketing its current suite of products or any other new or enhanced products.
2 Basis of Financial Statements Basis of Presentation The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles US GAAP.
Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with US GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes.
Actual results could differ from these estimates.
Reclassifications Certain reclassifications have been made to amounts reported in the prior years to conform to the current year presentation.
These reclassifications have no impact on net profit or shareholders equity.
notes to the consolidated financial statements 53 2 Basis of Financial Statements continued Companies Act 1985 These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and do not comprise the statutory accounts of the Company within the meaning of Section 240 of the Companies Act 1985, as amended, of Great Britain the Companies Act.
They have also not been prepared in accordance with Section 227 of the Companies Act 1985.
The Companys statutory accounts are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom UK GAAP, in compliance with the Companies Act and are presented in pounds sterling.
Statutory accounts for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, have been delivered to the Registrar of Companies for England and Wales.
The auditors of those statutory accounts have given unqualified audit opinions thereon which did not contain statements under Section 237 2 or 3 of the Companies Act.
Statutory accounts for the year ended December 31, 2002, have been prepared and the auditors of those statutory accounts have given an unqualified audit opinion thereon which did not contain statements under Section 237 2 or 3 of the Companies Act.
Those accounts will be delivered to the Registrar of Companies for England and Wales following shareholder approval.
3 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries together the Group.
The Companys principal trading subsidiaries, all of which have been consolidated in these financial statements, are Autonomy Systems Limited, Autonomy Inc.
Autonomy Nordic AS, Autonomy Sweden AS and SoftSound Limited.
Until October 3, 2000, Autonomy Nordic AS, was accounted for in accordance with the equity method from the date of acquisition, being March 8, 1999, and after October 3, 2000 Autonomy Nordic has been fully consolidated.
On January 3, 2000, Autonomy Sweden AS was incorporated as a wholly owned subsidiary of Autonomy Nordic AS.
All intercompany transactions and balances between the companies have been eliminated on consolidation.
The Company acquired a 49% stake in Dremedia on July 2, 2001, which has been accounted for in accordance with the equity method.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include highly liquid instruments with original maturities of less than or equal to three months from the date of purchase.
Intangible Assets Software licenses are capitalized at cost and are amortized on a straight-line basis over a period of three years, which is their estimated useful economic life.
The Company follows the provisions of SFAS No.
144, Accounting for the Impairment of Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, also implemented in 2002, for assessing whether an impairment has occurred.
Goodwill The Company capitalized goodwill, representing the excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, on the acquisitions of SoftSound Limited and Autonomy Nordic AS see Note 7.
On January 1, 2002, the Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No.
142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.
142, goodwill ceased to be amortized as of January 1, 2002, and is tested for impairment annually or whenever indicators of impairment arise.
Prior to the adoption of SFAS No.
142, goodwill arising from these acquisitions was amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful economic life, which was considered to be three years and ten years respectively.
54 notes to the consolidated financial statements 3 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies continued Plant and Equipment Plant and equipment is stated at historical cost.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method based on estimated useful lives of the assets, as follows: Fixtures, fittings and equipment........................................................ 5 years Computer equipment....................................................................... 3 years Leasehold improvements................................................................. 3 years Other Investments Other investments represent minority shareholdings in non-publicly traded companies and are stated at historical cost, less any provision for impairment.
The investments in non-publicly traded companies are considered impaired when a review of the investees financial status, operations and other indicators of impairment indicate that the carrying value of the investment is not likely to be recoverable.
Equity Method of Accounting The Companys initial 33.34% investment in the ordinary shares of Autonomy Nordic AS, one of its value added resellers, was accounted for by the equity method of accounting whereby the investment was carried at cost of acquisition, adjusted for the Companys share of undistributed earnings or losses since acquisition.
The goodwill arising represents the difference between the cost of the investment and the Companys proportionate share of the fair value of the net assets at the date of acquisition.
In October 2000, the Company acquired the remaining 66.66% of Autonomy Nordic AS for aggregate consideration of $4.3 million in the form of 82,873 of the Companys ordinary shares.
As a result of the acquisition, Autonomy Nordic AS has become a wholly owned subsidiary of Autonomy Corporation plc.
The net goodwill arising from this and the original purchase is approximately $4.5 million.
With the implementation of SFAS No.
142, amortization of goodwill recorded on the acquisition of Autonomy Nordic AS ceased on January 1, 2002.
The Company acquired a 49% stake in Dremedia on July 2, 2001, for cash consideration of approximately $450,000, and which has been accounted for in accordance with the equity method.
Share-based Compensation The Company has adopted the disclosure provisions of SFAS No.
123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation and SFAS No.
148, Accounting for Stock-Based  and Disclosure.
As permitted by the provisions of SFAS No.
123, the Company applies Accounting Principles Board Opinion 25 and related interpretations in accounting for its employee share option plans using the intrinsic value method.
As a result compensation expense related to options granted is measured based on the intrinsic value of the underlying ordinary shares.
See Note 11 for a summary of the pro-forma effects on reported net profit and earnings per share for fiscal periods 2002, 2001 and 2000 based on the fair value of options and shares granted as prescribed by SFAS No.
Income Taxes The Company follows SFAS No.
Under the asset and liability method of SFAS No.
109, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases.
Deferred tax assets are recognized in full subject to a valuation allowance to reduce the carrying amount of the asset to that which is more likely than not to be realized.
notes to the consolidated financial statements 55 3 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies continued Revenue Recognition The Company generates revenues from licensing the rights to use its software products directly to end-users and indirectly through resellers.
The Company also generates revenues from sales of consulting, customer support and training services performed for customers that license its products.
To date, revenues from consultancy, customer support and training have been less than 10% of total revenues and have not been separately analyzed.
Revenues from software license agreements are recognized where there is persuasive evidence of an agreement with a customer, delivery of the software has taken place, collectability is probable and the fee is fixed and determinable.
If an acceptance period is required, revenues are recognized upon the earlier of customer acceptance or the expiration of the acceptance period.
Revenue is recognized on contracts with extended credit terms of up to one year providing the customer passes defined credit worthiness checks.
If significant post-delivery obligations exist or if a sale is subject to customer acceptance, revenues are deferred until no significant obligations remain or acceptance has occurred.
Sales through resellers are recognized only where an end user is identified.
The Company also enters into reseller arrangements that typically provide for royalties payable to the Company based on agreed rates.
Royalties are generally recognized as reported by the reseller in re-licensing the Companys products to end-users.
In certain circumstances, advance royalties are recognized upon the initial sale if all products subject to sub-licensing are delivered in the current period, no right of return policy exists, collection is probable and the fee is fixed and determinable.
If these conditions are not met, the Company does not recognize advance royalties until reported by the reseller in re-licensing the Companys products to end-users.
Revenues from customer support services are recognized ratably over the term of the support period.
If customer support services are included free or at a discount in a license agreement, these amounts are allocated out of the license fee at their fair market value based on the value established by independent sale of the customer support services to customers.
Consulting revenues are primarily related to implementation services performed on a time and materials basis under separable service arrangements related to the installation of the Companys software products.
Revenues from consulting and training services are recognized as services are performed.
If a transaction includes both license and service elements, license fee revenue is recognized upon shipment of the software, provided services do not include significant customisation or modification of the base product and the payment terms for licenses are not subject to acceptance criteria.
In cases where license fee payments are contingent upon the acceptance of services, revenues from both the license and the service elements are deferred until the acceptance criteria are met.
Cost of license revenues includes the cost of royalties due on third-party licenses, cost of product media, product duplication and manuals.
Deferred revenues primarily relate to customer support fees, which have been paid by the customers prior to the performance of these services.
Deferred revenue is generally recognized over a period of one to three years.
Major Customers In 2002, 2001 and 2000, no customer accounted for 10% or more of total revenues.
Geographical Analysis of Sales A geographical analysis of sale is set out in note 15.
56 notes to the consolidated financial statements 3 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies continued Software Development Costs The Company capitalizes internally generated software development costs under the provision of SFAS No.
86, Accounting for Costs of Computer Software to be Sold, Leased or Otherwise Marketed.
Capitalization of computer software development costs begins upon the establishment of technological feasibility, which the Company has defined as completion of a working model.
Thereafter all software production costs are capitalized and subsequently reported at the lower of cost or net realizable value.
Capitalized costs are amortized based on current and future revenue for each product with an annual minimum amortization charge equal to the straight-line amortization over the remaining estimated economic life of the product.
Amounts that could have been capitalized under this statement after consideration of the above factors were immaterial and, therefore, no software development costs have been capitalized by the Company to date.
Research and Development Expenditure on research and development is expensed to operations in the year in which it is incurred.
Advertising Advertising costs are expensed as incurred.
During the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, advertising expenses were approximately $3,992,000, $6,294,000 and $9,044,000, respectively.
Operating Leases Costs in respect of operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term even if the payments are not made on such a basis.
Foreign Currency The functional currency of the Company and its UK subsidiaries is the pound sterling.
The functional currencies of the other subsidiaries are their local currencies.
In accordance with SFAS No.
"52 ""Foreign Currency Translation, "" transactions in currencies other than the local currency are recorded at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction."
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local currency are translated at the exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet dates.
On consolidation, in accordance with SFAS No.
52, non-UK subsidiaries' assets and liabilities are translated to pounds sterling at the exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet dates and the statements of operations and cash flows are translated at the average exchange rates for the relevant periods.
Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of the opening net assets of non-UK subsidiaries, together with the differences arising between the statements of operations translated at the average exchange rates and the rates prevailing at the balance sheet dates for the relevant periods, are recorded in a separate component of shareholders' equity.
All other exchange gains and losses are recorded in the statements of operations.
These financial statements are presented in U. S. dollars in accordance with SFAS No.
52, using the principles set out above to translate the pounds sterling consolidated financial statements.
Comprehensive Income The Company accounts for comprehensive income in accordance with SFAS No.
"130 ""Reporting Comprehensive Income"" which requires companies to report all changes in equity during a period, except those resulting from investment by owners and distribution to owners, in a financial statement for the period in which they are recognized."
The Company has chosen to disclose Comprehensive Income, which encompasses net income and foreign currency translation adjustments, in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders' Equity.
notes to the consolidated financial statements 57 3 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies continued Concentration of Credit Risk Financial instruments, which potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk, consist primarily of cash investments and trade receivables.
The Company has cash investment policies that limit investments to investment grade securities with credit worthy financial institutions.
Accounts receivable are typically unsecured.
The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers financial positions and maintains provisions for potential bad debt losses.
Accounting Pronouncements Issued But Not Yet Adopted SFAS No.
In June 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No.
"146, ""Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities. """
This standard requires companies to recognize costs associated with exit or disposal activities when they are incurred rather than at the date of a commitment to an exit or disposal plan.
Examples of costs covered by the standard include lease termination costs and certain employee severance costs that are associated with a restructuring, discontinued operation, plant closing, or other exit or disposal activity.
The provisions of this Statement are effective prospectively for exit or disposal activities initiated after December 31, 2002, with earlier adoption encouraged.
146 is not expected to have a material impact on the financial position or the results of operations of the Company.
Software technology rights include the cost of software licenses to use third parties software.
On May 17, 2000, the Company acquired 60% of SoftSound Limited for cash consideration of $908,000 with goodwill arising of $898,000.
The acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method.
Accordingly, the purchase price was allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, based on their fair values at the date of acquisition.
In October 2000, the Company acquired the remaining 66.66% of Autonomy Nordic AS, one of its value added resellers, for aggregate consideration of $4.3 million in the form of 82,873 of the Companys ordinary shares.
Autonomy Nordic AS results have been consolidated since October 2000.
As a result of the acquisition, Autonomy Nordic AS become a wholly owned subsidiary of Autonomy Corporation plc.
The net goodwill arising from this and the original purchase was approximately $4,500,000.
notes to the consolidated financial statements 59 7 Goodwill continued Due to the adoption of SFAS No.
142 on January 1, 2002, goodwill arising on the acquisitions of SoftSound Limited and Autonomy Nordic AS, which was previously being amortized over periods of three and ten years, respectively, has ceased to be amortized.
Had the provisions of SFAS No.
The Company acquired 33.34% of the ordinary shares of Autonomy Nordic AS on March 8, 1999.
This investment was accounted for under the equity method.
On acquisition, consideration of $565,000 was paid, with goodwill of approximately $524,000 arising.
Such goodwill was amortized over a seven-year useful life up to October 2000 resulting in an amortization expense of $52,000 for the year ended December 31, 2000.
The Company acquired 49% of the ordinary shares of Dremedia Limited on July 2, 2001, for cash consideration of approximately $450,000.
This investment has been accounted for under the equity method.
The Company acquired 19.9% of the ordinary shares of Okana Systems Limited on November 1, 2001, for a cash consideration of approximately $300,000.
During the year ended December 31, 2002, the Company acquired minority shareholdings in two non-publicly traded companies for non-cash consideration of approximately $975,000.
60 notes to the consolidated financial statements 10 Commitments and operating lease obligations The Company leases its facilities, cars and certain office equipment under non-cancelable operating leases, which have expiration dates ranging from 2003 through 2015.
11 Shareholders equity Share split On August 1, 2000, the Company undertook a share split whereby each ordinary share of nominal value 0.01 was divided into three ordinary shares of nominal value 1 3p.
All share data contained within these financial statements have been adjusted to reflect the share split.
Ordinary Shares In May 2000 the Company issued 2,640,000 ordinary shares of 1 3 p at $41.33 per share in connection with an initial public offering of ordinary shares in the United States.
The Company raised net proceeds of $99.7 million after deducting expenses of $9.4 million.
Share Repurchases and Treasury Stock During 2002, the Company purchased for cancellation 4,980,286 shares at an average price of 1.52 per share, and its Employee Benefit Trust purchased 697,073 shares at an average price of 1.10 per share to be held within the trust for the meeting of option exercises held by the Employee Benefit Trust.
Currency of Dividends In the event that the Company was to declare a dividend, such dividend will be declared in pounds sterling.
The payment of dividends is restricted to available distributable reserves as defined by the Companies Act 1985.
Share Option Plans The Company has two unapproved option plans to provide employees and executives with the opportunity to acquire a proprietary interest in the Company as an incentive to attract and retain the services of employees.
The two plans are the UK Discretionary Option Scheme 1996 the UK Scheme and the 1998 US Share Option Plan the US Plan.
Under the terms of these plans, options are generally granted with exercise prices not less than the fair market value of the Companys shares, become exercisable as established by the Board of Directors generally ratably over 4 years, and generally expire seven years from the date of grant.
notes to the consolidated financial statements 61 11 Shareholders equity continued The number of ordinary shares allocated under the UK Scheme may not on any date, when aggregated with the number of ordinary shares already allocated under the UK Scheme, the US Plan or any other share plan of the Company over the previous five years, exceed 10% of the issued and outstanding share capital of the Company on that date.
UK Discretionary Option Scheme 1996 Under the UK Scheme, the Board of Directors may grant to any eligible employee which may include directors options over ordinary shares.
Such options are personal and may not be transferred.
1998 US Share Option Plan The Companys 1998 US Share Option Plan the US Plan was adopted by the Board on June 23, 1998, and a resolution adopting the US Plan was passed by shareholders at an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company held on July 2, 1998.
Options over a maximum of 18,000,000 ordinary shares of the Company may be allocated under the US Plan.
However, the number of ordinary shares allocated under the US Plan may not on any date, when aggregated with the number of ordinary shares allocated under the US Plan, the UK Scheme or any other share scheme of the Company over the previous five years, exceed 10% of the issued share capital of the Company on that date.
The range of exercise prices for all options outstanding at December 31, 2002 was $0.53 to $70.00, with a weighted average exercise price of $14.84 and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 4.92 years.
The following table summarizes information about options outstanding at December 31, 2002.
In addition to the above, in 1996, 5,391,100 options were granted to Richard G. Gaunt by two principal shareholders, Dr. Michael R. Lynch and Apax Fund Nominees Limited, over issued ordinary shares held by them.
These options had an exercise price of 1 3p and all became exercisable on July 10, 1998, following the admission of the Companys shares to EASDAQ now Nasdaq Europe.
Nil, Nil and 816,860 of these options were exercised during the twelve months ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000 respectively, and 4,114,240 remain outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2002, with a remaining contractual life of 0.9 years.
Accounting for Share-Based Compensation As permitted under SFAS No.
123, the Company has elected to follow Accounting Principles Board Opinion No.
25 Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees APB No.
25 in accounting for share-based awards to employees, for options granted under the Share Option Plans.
The compensation charge arising is calculated by fixed plan accounting.
Accordingly, for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, compensation income expense of $Nil, $ 197,000 and $105,000, respectively, were recognized for options granted under these plans.
Following the Companys admission to EASDAQ now Nasdaq Europe on July 10, 1998 options have been granted with an exercise price equal to current market value at the date of grant.
No compensation expense is recognized with respect to such awards.
notes to the consolidated financial statements 63 11 Shareholders equity continued Pro-forma information regarding net profit loss and net profit loss per share is required by SFAS No.
123 and has been determined as if the Company had accounted for its employee share options and the options granted by shareholders under the fair value method consistent with the method prescribed by SFAS No.
The fair value of these options was estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions for December 31, 2002: risk free interest rate of 3.89% December 31, 2001: 4.54%, and 2000: 6.30% : dividend yield of 0% December 31, 2001 and 2000: 0% : volatility factor of 100% December 31, 2001, and 2000: 100% : and an expected life of the option of four years.
The following table summarizes information about the weighted average fair value of options granted, calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000.
Year ended December 31, 2002 Year ended December 31, 2001 Weighted Weighted Weighted average average exercise Weighted average average exercise fair value $ price $ fair value $ price $ Exercise price to market: Equals.............................................. 2.51 3.55 6.28 8.83 All options......................................... 2.51 3.55 6.28 8.83 All share and per share data reflect a 3-for-1 share split effective from August 1, 2000.
64 notes to the consolidated financial statements 11 Shareholders equity continued For purposes of pro-forma disclosures, the estimated fair value of the options is amortized over the options vesting period, which is generally four years.
At December 31, 2002, the Company has stock-based compensation plans, which are described more fully in this note.
The Company accounts for those plans under the recognition and measurement principles of APB Opinion No.
25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and related interpretations.
The following table illustrates the effect on net profits and earnings per share if the Company had applied the fair value recognition provisions of FASB Statement No.
123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, to stock-based employee compensation.
With respect to Autonomy, Inc. as of December 31, 2002, the Company has approximately $77.3 million of federal net operating loss carry-forwards, and $234,000 in research and development tax credits available to reduce future federal income taxes.
The net operating loss carry-forwards and tax credits expire at various dates through fiscal year 2002.
The Company also has approximately $53.4 million of state net operating loss carry-forwards, which expire at various dates through fiscal year 2012, and $Nil in research and development tax credits available to reduce future California state income taxes.
With respect to Autonomy Nordic AS, as of December 31, 2002, the Company has approximately $1.2 million operating loss carry-forwards.
Deferred tax assets of approximately $28 million pertain to certain net operating loss and credit carry-forwards resulting from the exercise of stock options.
When recognized, the tax benefit of these losses will be accounted for as a credit to additional paid-in capital rather than a reduction of the income tax provision.
66 notes to the consolidated financial statements 13 Related Party Transactions During the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000 the Company incurred expenses of $602,000, $239,008 and $336,000 respectively for management and software development services from Cambridge Neurodynamics Limited and made sales, rent charges and recharges of other expenses to Cambridge Neurodynamics Limited of $88,000, $149,000 and $23,000 in the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000 respectively.
The Company owed Cambridge Neurodynamics Limited $90,000, $379,000 and $Nil at December 2002, 2001 and 2000 respectively.
During the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000 the Company incurred expenses of $993,000, $1,102,000 and $Nil respectively from NCorp Limited and made sales to NCorp Limited of $266,000, $160,000 and $412,000.
Cambridge Neurodynamics Limited and NCorp Limited are companies controlled by Dr. Lynch.
Management believes that all related party transactions are conducted on a normal commercial basis.
The Company acquired 49% of the ordinary shares of Dremedia Limited on July 2, 2001.
During the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, the Company made sales to Dremedia of $427,000 and $340,000, and the Company made loans to Dremedia of $968,000 and $564,000, respectively.
As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, Dremedia owed the Company $1,617,000 and $912,000, and the Company owed Dremedia $Nil and $436,000, respectively.
On November 21, 2001, the Company loaned 200,000 approximately $321,000 to an executive officer.
The loan is repayable on November 20, 2004, only if the executive receives or is entitled to receive, bonuses, commissions or otherwise above base salary equal to three times the amount due.
The loan bears interest at market rates of Barclays Bank plc Base Rate plus 0.60%, which throughout 2002 totalled 4.60%.
As of December 31, 2002, 210,208 was outstanding under the loan.
The Company is amortizing the loan over its life of three years.
14 Earnings loss per share SFAS No.
128, Earnings per Share, requires companies to compute net earnings per share under two different methods, basic and diluted, for all periods for which a statement of operations is presented.
Basic earnings or loss per share is computed by dividing the net earnings or loss by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding for all periods.
Diluted earnings per share reflects the potential dilution that could occur if the earnings were divided by the weighted average number of ordinary and ordinary share equivalents outstanding during the period.
Diluted earnings per share is computed by dividing the net income by the weighted average number of ordinary shares and ordinary share equivalents from outstanding share options unless they would have an anti-dilutive effect.
Ordinary share equivalents are calculated using the treasury stock method and represent incremental shares issuable upon exercise of the Companys outstanding options.
notes to the consolidated financial statements 67 14 Earnings loss per share continued The following table provides a reconciliation of the numerators and denominators used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000.
Approximately 3,552,000, 5,572,000 and 239,000 weighted average share options at December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively, have been excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share due to the options being anti-dilutive.
15 Segment information The Company reports segment information in accordance with SFAS No.
131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information.
Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise about which separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision makers, or decision making group, in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance.
The Companys chief operating decision-making group is the executive committee, which is comprised of the chief executive officer, the chief operating officer and various senior officers of the Company.
The Company is organized geographically but in the opinion of the directors, there is only one distinct reportable segment, on the basis that the geographical operations have characteristics so similar that they can be expected to have essentially the same future prospects.
