TRA V IS PERKINS PLC Notice of annual general meeting Notice is hereby given that the thirty ninth Annual General Meeting of Travis Perkins plc will be held at Lords Conference and Banqueting Centre, St. Johns Wood Road, London NW8 8QN on Friday 2 May 2003 at 11.45 a. m. for the following purposes: Ordinary business 1.
To receive and adopt the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2002 together with the directors report, the directors remuneration report, the auditors report on those accounts and on the auditable part of the directors remuneration report.
To re-elect, pursuant to Article 75 of the Companys Articles of Association, Mr. E. C. Adams who is retiring by rotation.
Biographical details of Mr. Adams appear on page 25.
To re-elect, pursuant to Article 75 of the Companys Articles of Association, Mr. M. B. Dearden who is retiring by rotation.
Biographical details of Mr. Dearden appear on page 25.
To re-elect, pursuant to Article 75 of the Companys Articles of Association, Mr. P. J. Maydon who is retiring by rotation.
Biographical details of Mr. Maydon appear on page 25.
To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche, Chartered Accountants, as auditors of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration.
Special business To consider and, if thought fit, to pass resolutions 7 and 8 as Ordinary Resolutions and the remainder as Special Resolutions.
That the directors remuneration report for the financial year ended 31 December 2002 set out on pages 31 to 37 be approved.
That the authority conferred on the directors by Article 4 B of the Companys Articles of Association be renewed for the period expiring fifteen months after the date of the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting and for that period the section 80 amount is 2,232,216.
That, subject to the passing of Resolution 8, the power conferred on the directors by Article 4 C of the Companys Articles of Association be renewed for the period expiring fifteen months after the date of the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting and for that period the section 89 amount is 563,389.
That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company ordinary shares, provided that: a the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares authorised to be purchased is 11,267,784 representing 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 7 March 2003 : b the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is 10 pence, exclusive of expenses: 68 TRA V IS PERKINS PLC c the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for each of the five business days immediately preceding the day on which that ordinary share is purchased, exclusive of expenses: d this authority expires at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or the date fifteen months from the date of passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier: and e the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under this authority before the expiry of such authority, which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may make a purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to any such contract.
By order of the board, A. S. Pike Secretary Lodge Way House, Harlestone Road, Northampton, NN5 7UG Registered in England No.
