TULLOW OIL PLC annual report and accounts 2002 45 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Year ended 31st December 2002 A summary of the principal Group accounting policies, all of which have been applied consistently throughout the year, is set out below.
a Basis of Accounting The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and the statement of recommended practice Accounting for Oil & Gas Exploration, Development, Production and Decommissioning Activities and in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
During the year the Group adopted FRS 19 Deferred Tax.
There was no effect on the Groups net assets or results for the year ended 31st December 2001 and 2002 arising from the adoption of this financial reporting standard.
b Basis of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements consist of the financial statements of the Company and all its subsidiary undertakings as set out in Note 10.
Turnover and results of subsidiary undertakings are consolidated in the Group Profit and Loss Account from the dates on which control over the operating and financial decisions is obtained.
The Group is engaged in oil and gas exploration, development and production through unincorporated joint ventures.
The Group accounts for its share of the results and net assets of these joint ventures.
In addition, where Tullow acts as operator to the joint venture, the gross liabilities and receivables including amounts due to or from non-operating partners of the joint venture are included in the Group Consolidated Balance Sheet.
c Turnover Turnover represents the sales value, net of VAT and overriding royalties, of the Groups share of production in the year on an entitlements basis together with tariff income.
Revenues received under take-or-pay sales contracts in respect of undelivered volumes are accounted for as deferred income.
d Foreign Currencies The Pound Sterling is the reporting currency of the Group.
Financial statements of foreign currency denominated subsidiaries are translated into Sterling using the average rate method whereby the results of the overseas operations are translated at the average rate of exchange for the year and their balance sheets at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Currency translation adjustments arising on the restatement of opening net assets of foreign subsidiaries, together with differences between the subsidiaries results translated at average rates versus closing rates, are taken directly to reserves.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange ruling at the transaction dates.
Monetary assets and liabilities are translated into Sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date, with a corresponding charge or credit to the Profit and Loss Account.
However, exchange gains and losses arising on long-term foreign currency borrowings, which are a hedge against the Groups overseas investments are dealt with in reserves.
At year end the Sterling:Euro rate was 1.5361 2001 1.6375 and the Sterling:US Dollar rate was US$1.6083 2001 US$1.4515.
The average Sterling:Euro rate was 1.5917 2001 1.6375 and the Sterling:US Dollar rate was US$1.5058 2001 US$1.4515.
46 TULLOW OIL PLC annual report and accounts 2002 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Year ended 31st December 2002 e Cost of Exploration and Appraisal The Group adopts the successful efforts method of accounting for exploration and appraisal costs.
All pre-licence, licence acquisition, exploration and appraisal costs are initially capitalised as intangible fixed assets in cost centres by well, field or exploration area as appropriate pending determination of commercial reserves.
Directly attributable administration costs and interest payable are capitalised insofar as they relate to specific exploration and development activities.
Pre-licence costs are written off immediately.
Other costs are also written off unless commercial reserves have been established or the determination process has not been completed.
Following the discovery of a commercially viable field, the attributable costs are transferred to tangible fixed assets in single field cost centres.
f Commercial Reserves Commercial reserves are proven and probable oil and gas reserves, as defined in the UK Statement of Recommended Practice Accounting for Oil & Gas Exploration, Development, Production and Decommissioning Activities.
g Depletion and Amortisation Discovery Fields All expenditure carried within each field is amortised from the commencement of production, on a unit of production basis, which is the ratio of oil and gas production in the period to the estimated quantities of commercial reserves at the end of the period plus the production in the period, on a field-by-field basis.
Costs used in the unit of production calculation comprise the net book value of capitalised costs plus the estimated future field development costs.
Changes in the estimates of commercial reserves or future field development costs are dealt with prospectively.
Where there has been a change in economic conditions that indicates a possible impairment in a discovery field, the recoverability of the net book value relating to that field is assessed by comparison with the estimated discounted future cash flows based on managements expectations of future oil and gas prices and future costs.
Any impairment identified is charged to the Profit and Loss Account as additional depreciation, depletion and amortisation.
Where conditions giving rise to impairment subsequently reverse, the effect of the impairment charge is also reversed as a credit to the Profit and Loss Account, net of any amortisation that would have been charged since the impairment.
h Decommissioning Provision for decommissioning is recognised in full at the commencement of oil and natural gas production.
A corresponding tangible fixed asset of an amount equivalent to the provision is also created.
The amount recognised is the estimated cost of decommissioning, discounted to its net present value and is reassessed each year in accordance with local conditions and requirements.
This asset is subsequently depreciated as part of the capital costs of the production and related pipeline facilities, on a unit of production basis.
Changes in the estimates of commercial reserves or decommissioning cost estimates are dealt with prospectively by recording an adjustment to the provision, and a corresponding adjustment to the decommissioning asset.
The unwinding of the discount on the decommissioning provision is included within the interest expense.
i Other Tangible Fixed Assets Other tangible fixed assets comprise leasehold improvements, leased motor vehicles and owned and leased office equipment which are stated at cost less depreciation to date.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset on a straight line basis over its expected useful economic life of between three and five years.
TULLOW OIL PLC annual report and accounts 2002 47 j Finance Costs and Debt Finance costs which are directly attributable to the construction of tangible fixed assets are capitalised as part of the cost of those assets.
The commencement of capitalisation begins when both finance costs and expenditures in respect of the asset are incurred and activities that are necessary to develop the asset are in progress.
Capitalisation ceases when the development is substantially complete.
Finance costs of debt are allocated to periods over the term of the related debt at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
Arrangement fees and issue costs are deducted from the debt proceeds and are amortised and charged to the Profit and Loss Account as finance costs over the term of the debt.
k Issue Expenses and Share Premium Account Costs of share issues are written off against the premium arising on the issue of share capital.
l Taxation Current and deferred tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Current UK PRT is charged as a tax expense on chargeable field profits included in the Profit and Loss Account and is deductible for UK corporation tax.
Deferred taxation is recognised on all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more, or right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable tax profits from which the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
Deferred PRT is charged as a tax expense so as to allocate the expected PRT cost over the remaining life of the related field on a unit of production basis using commercial reserves.
The resulting asset or liability is included in the Balance Sheet under debtors or provisions as appropriate.
m Pensions Contributions to the Groups defined contribution pension schemes are charged to operating profit as they fall due.
n Derivative Financial Instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and movements in oil and gas prices.
Premiums paid to enter into such derivative financial instruments are charged to the Profit and Loss Account over the period of the hedge.
Payments and receipts arising under the financial instruments are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account in the same periods as the hedged transactions.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes and it is the Groups policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken.
o Leases Rentals under operating leases are charged against income on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
