GROUP ACCOUNTING POLICIES BASIS OF ACCOUNTING The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, in accordance with applicable Accounting Standards in the United Kingdom.
With the exception of the matters referred to below, the financial statements have been prepared on a basis consistent with prior years.
In preparing the financial statements for the current year, the group has adopted FRS 19 Deferred Tax which has resulted in a change of accounting policy for deferred tax.
The implementation of the standard has had no material impact on the results or balance sheet of the group and accordingly, no prior year adjustment is required.
The group has adopted FRS 17 Retirement Benefits in these financial statements.
The adoption of this standard represents a change in accounting policy and the comparative figures have been restated accordingly.
Details of the effect of adopting FRS 17 are given in note 25.
CONSOLIDATION The financial statements include the financial statements of the company and all its subsidiaries, made up to 31 December, or within one week of that date, together with the groups share of the results for the year and of the book values of the net assets and attributable goodwill of joint ventures and associates.
The results of subsidiaries and joint ventures and associates acquired or sold during the year are included from or to the effective date of acquisition or disposal.
TURNOVER Turnover, which is stated net of trade discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes, is recognised as follows: Publishing: advertising revenue is recognised on issue of the publication.
Exhibitions: revenue is recognised when the show has been completed.
Deposits received in advance are recorded as deferred income in the balance sheet.
Market research: revenue is recognised on a completed contract basis.
Work in progress amounts are recorded in the balance sheet at cost.
Syndicated revenues are recognised on completion and any subsequent sales are recognised as they arise.
News distribution: revenue is recognised on message delivery.
GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Purchased goodwill is capitalised as an intangible asset and amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life, which the directors view as being a period generally between six and twenty years based on the nature, age and stability of the industry in which the business operates.
Where a business is sold, or where goodwill is considered to have been impaired, the net book value of goodwill or the amount of impaired goodwill, as applicable, is charged through the profit and loss account as part of the profit or loss on disposal or through operating profit in the year of impairment.
Impairment reviews are carried out at the end of the first full financial year after acquisition and on the occurrence of any event or change in circumstances indicating that there may have been a decline in the carrying value or change in useful life.
Following the impairment review in 2001, a reappraisal of estimated useful lives adopted for goodwill and intangible assets has been undertaken.
As a result, the estimated useful lives of the goodwill relating to certain businesses have been reduced.
The impact of this revision has been to increase the amortisation charge for the year by 34m.
Other intangible assets comprise certain product rights including licences and related costs, which are amortised over the shorter of their useful lives or the licence period: and publishing rights and titles and purchased Internet domain names and websites, which are amortised on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives, not exceeding two years.
TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS AND DEPRECIATION Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost.
Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed assets except freehold land.
Depreciation rates are calculated so that assets are written down to residual value in equal annual instalments over their expected useful lives, which are as follows: Freehold buildings and long leasehold property 10-70 years Short leasehold property Term of lease General plant, machinery and equipment 5-20 years Computer equipment 3 years Motor vehicles 3-5 years Software costs are written off as incurred, except for purchases from third parties in respect of major systems.
In such cases, the costs are written off over the expected useful life of the asset, not exceeding five years from the date of implementation of the software.
STOCKS Stocks and work in progress are valued on the first in first out basis at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises materials, direct labour and a proportion of attributable production and other overheads.
OPERATING LEASES Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss account as they arise.
INVESTMENTS Listed and unlisted investments are stated at the lower of cost and market value or directors valuation.
Investments in subsidiaries included in the companys balance sheet are stated at cost or nominal value of shares issued where merger relief is taken, less any provision for impairment.
Investments in companies where the group both has a participating interest and exercises significant influence over the entitys financial and operating policies through board representation and participation in financial and operating policy decisions are included as associates under the equity method of accounting.
37 UNITED BUSINESS MEDIA ANNUAL REPORT 2002 GROUP ACCOUNTING POLICIES INVESTMENTS continued Similarly, investments in companies where the group holds a long-term interest that arises as a result of a contractual arrangement and is jointly controlled by the group and other venturers are included as joint ventures under the gross equity method of accounting.
The figures included in the financial statements are based on audited accounts, adjusted where necessary by reference to management accounts for the period up to 31 December.
Where the accounting policies of associates and or joint ventures do not conform in all material respects to those of the group, adjustments are made on consolidation.
DEFERRED TAX Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less or to receive more, tax, with the following exceptions: Provision is made for taxable gains arising from the revaluation and similar fair value adjustments of fixed assets that have been rolled over into replacement assets, only to the extent that there is a binding agreement to dispose of the assets concerned.
However, no provision is made where, on the basis of all available evidence at the balance sheet date, it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over into replacement assets and charged to tax only where the replacement assets are sold: Provision is made for deferred tax that would arise on remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable: and Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period on which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
FOREIGN CURRENCIES Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the date of the balance sheet.
The trading results of foreign subsidiary undertakings are translated into sterling at an average of the exchange rates ruling for the year.
Differences arising on the retranslation of investments, including goodwill, in foreign subsidiary undertakings and related net foreign currency borrowings, and from the translation of the results of those undertakings at average rate, are taken to reserves, and are reported in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
All other exchange differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
PENSION COSTS The group sponsors a number of defined benefit schemes and defined contribution schemes.
The group has adopted FRS17 Retirement Benefits in the financial statements, and this has been treated as a change in accounting policy and resulted in an adjustment of the prior year financial statements as described in note 25.
For the defined contribution schemes, the profit and loss charge represents the contributions payable to the scheme during the accounting period.
The assets of the defined benefit pension schemes are measured at their market value at the balance sheet date and the liabilities of those schemes are measured using the projected unit method.
The discount rate used is the current rate of return on a AA corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liabilities.
The extent to which the schemes assets exceed fall short of their liabilities is shown as a surplus deficit in the balance sheet to the extent that a surplus is recoverable by the group or that a deficit represents an obligation of the group.
The following is charged to operating profit: the increase in the present value of pension scheme liabilities arising from employee service in the current period the increase in the present value of pension scheme liabilities as a result of benefit improvements over the period during which such improvements vest.
gains and losses arising on settlements curtailments A credit in respect of the expected return on the schemes assets and a charge in respect of the increase during the period in the present value of the schemes liabilities because the benefits are one period closer to settlement are included in other finance income.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The group currently uses several types of financial instruments as part of an overall risk management strategy.
It does not enter into financial instruments for speculative purposes.
The accounting treatment adopted depends upon the risk that is being hedged.
Interest rate risk associated with net debt is managed centrally by using fixed rate borrowings and financial instruments such as interest rate swaps.
Interest differentials under interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements, caps and collars are recognised by adjustment of the underlying interest receivable or payable over the term of the agreement and as such are accrued to the profit and loss account on a time apportioned basis.
To mitigate the effect of currency translation risks relating to foreign currency denominated net assets, the group uses foreign currency borrowings where appropriate to provide an economic hedge.
Gains and losses arising on overseas net assets and the financial instruments used to hedge the associated currency risks are taken to reserves and are reported in the statement of total recognised gains and losses see Foreign currencies above.
Currency net transaction risks on monetary assets and liabilities and forecast trading flows of the group are hedged in all material respects as they arise, generally using forward foreign exchange contracts.
Any gains or losses arising on such arrangements are deferred and recognised in operating profit or as adjustments to carrying amount when the hedged transaction has itself been reflected in the groups financial statements upon maturity of the contract.
The forward premium or discount for these contracts is not accounted for as interest but as part of the hedge achieved.
If underlying forecast flows do not materialise as envisaged, the hedges are either reversed or swapped forward to a future financing period.
The adjusting hedges are then accounted for through the profit and loss account to match the revised underlying exposure being hedged.
Currency options may be purchased to hedge forecast trading flows.
These are accounted for in the same manner as the forward foreign exchange contracts above except that the premium paid is deferred to the point of exercise or lapse of the option.
Further information on the accounting policy for financial instruments can be found in note 22.
38 UNITED BUSINESS MEDIA ANNUAL REPORT 2002
