Notice of Meeting WASTE RECYCLING GROUP PLC Registered in England No.
2902416 NOTICE OF MEETING Notice is hereby given that the ninth Annual General Meeting of the members of the Company will be held at Mayer, Brown, Rowe & Maw LLP, 11 Pilgrim Street, London EC4V 6RW on Thursday1 May 2003 at 10.30 a. m. for the transaction of the following business: ORDINARY RESOLUTIONS 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors Report and audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2002.
To receive and adopt the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2002.
To declare a final dividend of 3.1p per ordinary share.
To re-elect Mr P J Hudson, who has been appointed by the Board since the last Annual General Meeting, as a Director.
To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche as auditors of the Company.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the auditors.
By order of the Board Alan Waterhouse Company Secretary 3 Sidings Court White Rose Way Doncaster DN4 5NU 28 March 2003 NOTES: 1 Shareholders in the Company are entitled to attend and vote at the meeting.
A member entitled to attend and vote may appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote in his her place.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A form of proxy is enclosed for the use of members.
Completion and return of a form of proxy will not preclude a member from attending and voting in person at the above meeting should he she so decide.
2 The form of proxy and the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority must be deposited at the offices of the Companys registrars, Northern Registrars, Northern House, Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge, Huddersfield, HD8 0LA not later than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
3 Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company gives notice that only those shareholders registered in the register of members of the Company as at 6.00 p. m. on 29 April 2003 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the above annual general meeting in respect of the number of ordinary shares registered in their names at that time.
If the annual general meeting is adjourned, the time by which a person must be entered on the register of members in order to have the right to attend or vote at the adjourned meeting is 6.00 p. m. on the day preceding the date fixed for the adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries on the relevant register of members after 6.00 p. m. on 29 April 2003 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and or vote at the annual general meeting.
4 The following are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours on Monday to Friday inclusive and will also be available at the place of the meeting from fifteen minutes before the start of the meeting until the conclusion of the meeting: i the register of Directors beneficial interests in the Companys shares: ii copies of the Directors service contracts with the Company.
5 With reference to resolution 5, the Company has been informed that Deloitte & Touche intends to transfer its entire business to Deloitte & Touche LLP, a Limited Liability Partnership formed pursuant to the Limited Liability Partnership Act 2000, some time in early Summer 2003.
At that time, the Company will be asked to extend the audit appointment of Deloitte & Touche to Deloitte & Touche LLP and will be considering the appropriate formalities in due course.
Waste Recycling Group plc - Annual Report 2002 51 Shareholders Notes 52 Waste Recycling Group plc - Annual Report 2002 Waste Recycling Group plc 3 Sidings Court White Rose Way, Doncaster DN4 5NU.
