ACCOUNTING POLICIES A ACCOUNTING CONVENTION D TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS The carrying values of tangible fixed The accounts are prepared under the Prior to the adoption of FRS 15 in the assets are reviewed for impairment historical cost convention, as modified 1999 2000 financial year, properties if events or changes in circumstances by the revaluation of property, were regularly revalued on a cyclical indicate that the carrying value may and in accordance with applicable basis.
Since the adoption of FRS 15, the not be recoverable.
group policy has been not to revalue its in the value of fixed assets below properties.
Consequently the transitional depreciated historical cost is charged B BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION provisions of FRS 15 have been applied to the profit and loss account.
Profits The consolidated accounts incorporate and, while previous valuations have and losses on disposal of fixed assets the accounts of the company and all been retained, they have not been reflect the difference between net group undertakings, together with updated.
Details of the last revaluations selling price and net book value at the the groups share of the net assets and are given in note 15.
Other fixed assets date of disposal.
results of joint ventures and associates.
Gross interest costs These are adjusted, where appropriate, incurred on the financing of major ESTOCKS to conform to group accounting projects are capitalised until the time Stocks are stated at the lower of cost policies.
The acquisition of Whitbread that they are available for use.
The cost of Group PLC by Whitbread PLC has finished goods includes appropriate been accounted for using merger Depreciable fixed assets are written overheads.
Cost is calculated on accounting see note 1.
All other off on a straight line basis over their the basis of first in, first out and net acquisitions are accounted for under estimated useful lives, as follows: realisable value is the estimated the acquisition method and any Freehold land is not depreciated.
selling price less any costs of disposal.
goodwill arising is capitalised as an Freehold buildings are depreciated to intangible fixed asset.
On disposal their estimated residual values over F FOREIGN EXCHANGE of a business, the profit or loss on periods up to 50 years.
Assets and liabilities denominated disposal is calculated after including Leasehold properties are depreciated in foreign currencies are translated any goodwill previously written off to their estimated residual values into sterling at the rates of exchange direct to reserves in respect of that over the shortest of 50 years, their quoted at the balance sheet date.
The results of companies estimated useful lives and their Trading results are translated into acquired or disposed of are included remaining lease periods.
sterling at average rates of exchange in the profit and loss account from Manufacturing, logistics and for the year.
Day to day transactions or up to the date that control passes administration furniture, fixtures are recorded in sterling at the rates respectively.
As a consolidated profit and equipment are depreciated ruling on the date of those and loss account is published, a over 3 to 30 years.
Currency gains and separate profit and loss account Retail furniture, fixtures and losses arising from the retranslation of the parent company is omitted equipment are depreciated over of the opening net assets of overseas from the group accounts by virtue 4 to 25 years.
operations, less those arising from of the exemption granted by section Vehicles are depreciated over 4 to related currency borrowings to the 230 of the Companies Act 1985.
extent that they are matched, are Manufacturing plant and vessels recorded as a movement on reserves, C INTANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS are depreciated over 5 to 30 years.
The differences which Goodwill arising on acquisitions arise from translating the results of is capitalised.
It is amortised, on a overseas businesses at average rates straight line basis, over its estimated of exchange, and their assets and useful economic life up to a maximum liabilities at closing rates, are also dealt of 20 years.
Goodwill written off with in reserves.
All other currency against reserves in previous years gains and losses are dealt with in the has not been reinstated.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES G FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS K PENSION FUNDING Derivative financial instruments Pension costs are charged to the profit are used by the group for the and loss account over the average management of foreign currency expected service life of current and interest rate exposures.
Actuarial surpluses are payable or receivable in respect amortised over the expected of interest rate swap and interest rate remaining service lives of current cap agreements are recognised as employees, using the percentage adjustments to the interest expense of pensionable salaries method.
over the period of the contracts.
Gains Differences between the amount or losses on foreign currency forward charged in the profit and loss and option contracts are recognised account and payments made to the in the profit and loss account when schemes are treated as assets or the hedged transaction occurs.
In the liabilities in the balance sheet.
balance sheet, payments made to secure a hedge are included with the L TAXATION hedged item to which they relate.
Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all timing differences that Option premiums paid are recognised have originated but not been reversed in the profit and loss account over the by the balance sheet date.
Deferred life of the contract.
Premiums and taxation is not recognised when an discounts arising on financial liabilities asset is sold if it is more likely than not are amortised over the remaining life that the taxable gain will be rolled of the instrument concerned.
Deferred taxation assets are recognised to the extent that they are H TURNOVER regarded as recoverable.
Provisions for Turnover is the value of goods and deferred taxation are not discounted.
services sold to third parties as part Deferred tax assets and liabilities are of the groups trading activities, calculated using the tax rates that after deducting discounts and saleshave been enacted or substantively based taxes.
enacted by the balance sheet date.
I RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT M COMPARATIVE AMOUNTS Research and development Comparative amounts are restated expenditure is charged against where necessary to conform to current operating profit in the year in which presentation.
J LEASES Rental payments in respect of operating leases are charged against operating profit on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Lease incentives are charged to operating profit on a straight line basis over the period to the review date on which the rent is first expected to be adjusted to the prevailing market rate.
