Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of shareholders of William Hill PLC will be held at the New Connaught Rooms, Covent Garden Exhibition Centre, 61-65 Great Queen Street, London WC2B 5DA on Thursday, 29 May 2003 at 10.00 a. m. Each of the resolutions to be considered at the meeting will be ordinary business, being: 1.
To receive the directors report and accounts for the fifty-two weeks ended 31 December 2002.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report.
To declare a final dividend of 5.8p for each ordinary share.
To elect the following directors who offer themselves for re-election under the Companys Articles of Association: 4.
To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche as auditors of the Company and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration.
By Order of the Board Nigel Blythe-Tinker Group Company Secretary 4 April 2003.
Notes: a In line with best practice in corporate governance, as now reflected in the new Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, the Board has presented its Directors Remuneration Report to shareholders in the annual report and accounts.
The Directors Remuneration Report gives details of the directors remuneration for the 52 weeks ended 31 December 2002 and sets out the Groups overall policy on directors remuneration.
As required by the Remuneration Report Regulations, the Companys auditors have audited those parts of the Directors Remuneration Report capable of being audited and their report may be found in the annual report and accounts.
The Board considers that appropriate executive remuneration plays a vital part in helping to achieve the Groups overall objectives and, accordingly, and in compliance with the Remuneration Report Regulations, shareholders will be invited to approve the Directors Remuneration Report.
b The dividend will be payable to shareholders on the Companys register of members at 6.00 p. m. on 9 May 2003 for payment on 5 June 2003. c The Companys Articles of Association state that a third of the directors should retire at each annual general meeting.
Information on the directors, including those offering themselves for re-election, is provided in the section of the annual report and accounts on the Board of Directors.
d The Companys register of members on 29 May 2003 is conclusive evidence of the right of a member to vote.
e A member entitled to attend and vote may appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote on his her behalf.
The form of proxy must be left at the office of the registrars of the Company at least 48 hours before the meeting.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not preclude a member from attending and voting in person.
f The two documents referred to below are available for inspection during normal business hours on any weekday at the Companys registered office at Greenside House, 50 Station Road, Wood Green, London N22 7TP.
They will also be available for inspection at the New Connaught Rooms on 29 May 2003 until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting: i the register of directors interests: and ii copies of the service contracts between the Company and the directors.
