Operating review 2002 was a year not only of buoyant prices but of continuing strong demand for new housing.
David Wilson Homes return on capital stand comparison increase was enough both to David Wilson Homes is the Groups with the best in the industry.
compensate for the reduced main housebuilding operator.
Its forward order book with which we activities cover a wide range of Second half performance entered the year, and to put us in products, with the exception of Our sales performance was once the position of exiting the year with inner city mixed use development, again weighted towards the a record carry forward position.
and geographic coverage extends second half due to the timing of from Central Scotland to the South starts on new sites, with Pricing during 2002 was clearly a coast of England with the notable completions up 8.0% at 2,266 major issue for the industry and exclusion of Central London.
2001: 2,099 compared to a 0.9% the economy as a whole.
Despite rise in the first half.
The average the figures produced by external Results for the year selling price in the second half analysts, our own experience was 2002 was a year not only of was 204,400 2001: 173,700 that our average selling price buoyant prices but of continuing an increase of 17.7% on 2001, increase of 20.8% for the year strong demand for new housing.
compared with the 24.6% rise comprised a 4.7% increase in the As a result we were able to achieved in the first half, thus average square footage per unit increase sales completions by providing clear evidence of the much of which came from building 4.7% for the year to 4,091 2001: slowdown in the rate of selling larger apartments: 4.7% from site 3,908.
Our average selling price price increases during the latter and product mix, and 10.2% from rose by 20.8% to 199,900 2001: part of the year.
Operating profit underlying sales inflation.
It was 165,500, with the increase in the second half was 95.4m also very apparent from monitoring derived from a combination of 2001: 73.1m, a rise of 30.5% the prices we achieved on a higher average square footage on 2001 which is not dissimilar to monthly basis that the annual rate per unit, site and product mix, the 29.5% rise achieved in the first of increase peaked in August and and an underlying sales price half, as the higher overall volume has declined slowly since then.
of completions compensated for As a result turnover increased by the slower rate of price increase.
Operating margin in the second significant boost to margins in the half was 20.6% compared to year, our costs also rose significantly.
Operating profit, aided by the 19.7% in the first half year.
Build and site development costs benefits of both pricing and rose by around 9% per square foot, volume, rose by 30.1% to 165.2m The housing market in 2002 driven by increased labour and 2001: 127.0m, with margins During 2002 demand for new subcontract costs, bye-law changes, 0.6% better than last year at homes consistently outstripped and site remediation costs.
Return on average capital that of 2001, and our reservations employed also improved to 29.0% taken during the year were 12.4% Land has also increased in cost 2001: 26.8%.
Both margin and ahead of the previous year.
This significantly during 2002 although Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Operating review 23 Operating review continued David Wilson Homes continues to respond to the changing markets and planning environment with product which maintains its reputation for the construction of high quality aspirational housing.
exact comparisons are difficult, As we came to the end of 2002 we would have hoped for prior to as always.
In assessing the impact were dealing with a market where the present planning regime it and sustainability of land values selling price movements looked remains a useful cost effective the underlying drivers of land more restrained, sales demand supply of land going forward.
prices must also be examined.
remained strong, and cost increases While land prices have undoubtedly looked potentially slightly less We would expect to spend over been inflated as a result of the demanding than in 2002 as a whole.
400m per annum on an ongoing buoyancy of the housing market, basis to maintain the land bank at planning pressures have also Land bank a level consistent with our growth played a part, in more ways than Continuity of build is essential to expectations and our longer land one, and have created a structural us because the maintenance of a bank policy.
Planning constraints have longer land bank is at the core of firstly forced up prices through how we run the business in a way House design and build the simple mechanic of making which ensures continuity of supply As a business which has traditionally a scarce resource even scarcer.
and flexibility in land market dealings.
drawn much of its reputation and This has then been compounded During 2002 we committed 469m success from the construction of by the encouragement of higher to land purchases in David Wilson high quality, aspirational housing development densities per acre Homes partly funded by land it is vital that David Wilson Homes through planning requirements.
As a result continues to respond to the In an appraisal system where land our land bank at 31st December changing markets and planning value is the residual element in the totalled 15,406 plots 2001: 12,700. environment with product which costing, moving from the average In addition we have 802 plots maintains those qualities.
While of 13,500 square feet of housing where we paid a deposit and are we have enjoyed an excellent per acre that we used to achieve, awaiting planning 2001: 319.
Past reputation as an up-market to the 17,000 square feet that we experience has shown that almost builder of aspirational housing, it are now building, automatically all such plots eventually find their is interesting to note that 60% of generates additional value for the way into the consented land bank.
our completions now come from land.
Applying that proposition Taking all these plots into account the smaller end of our range of across the industry, it should be provides us with a land bank of houses.
This repositioning has no surprise that land values have around 4.0 years 2001: 3.3 years.
been carefully carried out to reach moved upwards significantly since a mix of product which we are the introduction of PPG3.
The We still maintain a strategic land comfortable meets the needs of appraisal system may protect the bank of some 11,600 acres from the market going forward.
required margin on sales but it which we would expect to deliver also passes the benefits of higher some 1,900 plots to our immediate We place strong emphasis on density to the vendor of land.
land bank over the next three evolving our range of house years.
While this is less than we designs.
During 2002 we further 24 Operating review Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Like all the homes at the Millers Green development in Ravenstone, the Bracken has been designed to retain local style and character.
Downstairs, this cottage-style three bedroom detached home has a spacious lounge, with feature bay window, separate dining room and a kitchen breakfast room.
Upstairs, the home boasts three bedrooms, including a master bedroom with en suite bathroom, a separate family bathroom and useful study.
refined and developed the design of the Future award from the the aspirational element through of our apartments which again Britannia National Housebuilders site design, elevational treatment, represented around 19% of our Awards: Best Regional Office Gold and efficiency of internal layout: sales completions in the year.
Award for our South Western office and establishing a core range of The average square footage of in Bristol from the Daily Express: apartments which fit with our image apartments sold rose by 11.7% What House Bronze Award for and provide construction efficiency.
to 724 square feet representing Best Housebuilder: Silver Award an upmarket move for this part winner in the over 1,500 unit We currently operate through of our range.
category of the Daily Express twelve decentralised regional Awards: and the Reader Voted organisations which are responsible On our core housing we are further Award from Nottingham Property.
for their own land buying, site evolving our PPG3 compliant range layout, elements of local house and have recently reorganised and Strategy and outlook design, construction, and sales strengthened our technical function Our aim for the future of David and marketing of their product.
within David Wilson Homes to bring Wilson Homes remains the Our first objective is to see them even more resource and emphasis achievement of growth through provided with the finance, and to bear on creating house designs maintaining and extending a range resources necessary to develop which lead the market in space of house types which is seen by that capacity to its maximum efficiency and customer appeal.
the customer as representing a benefit for the business as a While we pride ourselves on being premium product: bringing our whole.
That would go a long way to cost effective, we also place high existing twelve regions to a point providing us with at least five years value on research as part of our where we are optimising their substantial growth.
efforts to keep ahead of the field.
potential output: obtaining more In that connection it is good to note concentrated site coverage in In addition we continue to seek that one of our Directors has advantageous locations: and opportunities to increase and extend recently been awarded a research extending our geographical coverage our coverage.
Large site purchases fellowship as part of our close when and where appropriate.
such as the 90m former MoD site relationship with Nottingham at Burtonwood in Warrington with University.
We have outlined above the its 2,000 plot potential in an area additional resource we are bringing of huge demand, create the ability On build we have been even more to the development of our range not only to extend our coverage in successful this year in winning of house types.
This work involves that area but to obtain site swaps awards for the quality of our continually updating and modifying for other parts of the business.
We our core house types which still While we remain committed to were again very successful in represent more than 50% of our long-term sustainable growth in winning 10 Green Leaf Awards for sales completions: evolving PPG3 the business and are cautious of our site presentation: Best House compliant homes which maximise large scale consolidation activity Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Operating review 25 Operating review continued Wilson Bowden City Homes has the core of a land bank capable of growing the business to around 500 units per annum by 2005 06. we do continue to seek out small Wilson Bowden City Homes volumes to deliver the profit increase strategic infill acquisitions which at the bottom line.
It is only by Wilson Bowden City Homes increase or extend our coverage, achievement of both these operates on inner city sites, mostly such as Trencherwood did, as long objectives that we can successfully on mixed use developments of over as we are buying into a healthy deliver improvements in 4 storeys in height, thus combining land bank at a price which at least shareholder value.
the build and development skills meets our normal land buying of Wilson Bowden Developments, hurdle rates.
Looking forward into 2003 we with the housing expertise of David started the year with a very healthy Wilson Homes.
As far as geographic expansion is order book but encountered a concerned it represents for us an rather more hesitant homebuyer Prior to 2002 the Company, which opportunity for the future.
The cost over the earlier weeks of the year.
operates under the management of developing a healthy land bank Whilst the rate of sales price of Wilson Bowden Developments, in every operating area is significant increase is slowing, actual house was building out existing David and once obtained it has to be prices remain strong and are fully Wilson Homes sites on a project serviced.
Currently that requires meeting our targets.
Costs have management basis, the turnover an annual land spend in David been discussed in detail above from which was reflected in David Wilson Homes in excess of 400m.
but we can see nothing at present Wilson Homes.
We shall therefore concentrate which shows operating margins to in the short-term on developing be unsustainable over the coming Results for the year our existing regional operations year.
We believe the market remains During 2002 the business undertook while not shutting our minds to strong enough to deliver another the initial stages of development the possibility of opportunistic year of growth in 2003 subject as of the first two sites which it had extensions to our coverage.
itself acquired in the Lace Market at Nottingham, and Ocean Village Overall we are very conscious that at Southampton.
As a result 73 the development and growth of the completions were achieved in the David Wilson Homes business has second half year at an average to be about a mix of maintaining selling price of 128,800.
This selling our standards while seeking price is lower than the anticipated opportunities to expand the business.
ongoing average as a result of We have to leave no stone unturned commencing Southampton with the in our attention to detail in order two blocks which contain smaller to maintain the level of operating apartments.
In 2003 the development margin of the business as one of will move on to sea-view units and the highest in the industry, while at penthouses with values between the same time growing our sales 200,000 and 300,000.
26 Operating review Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 A rolling programme of quality industrial, warehouse and office development is taking place on the 18 acre Forest Business Park at Bardon Hill, Leicester.
Phase 1, consisting of 24,000 sq ft of warehouse units is now complete and has been sold to Business Beverages, PD Supplies, European Fleet Management and City Shoes.
Phase 2 of this strategically positioned site at junction 22 of the M1 motorway will be available for occupation in spring 2003.
Turnover was 9.4m in the year Wilson Bowden 2003 should see completions at and operating profit totalled 1.4m.
least double from their current Developments Our major commercial The operating margin of 14.9% is level, with average selling prices lower than the anticipated ongoing approaching 200,000.
At this level development activity is contained average partly because the business we are not operating at the high within Wilson Bowden is still operating below capacity, value end of the market which Developments.
As well as and partly because of sales mix has suffered somewhat of late.
sourcing, developing and selling as outlined above.
Longer-term we Margins should also improve from its own projects it carries out well would expect the operating margin their current level, although it over 50% of its own construction to stand comparison with that of should be borne in mind that the through its in-house subsidiary, our main housing business.
smaller commercial element of Wilson Bowden Construction.
City Homes turnover will generate Through that subsidiary it also Land bank the lower margins on sales typical undertakes all the construction Wilson Bowden City Homes now of commercial development.
activity of Wilson Bowden City has seven sites at various stages Homes, and several apartment of the development process projects each year for David and several others targeted Wilson Homes.
Results for the year The current sites at Nottingham, During the year 1,201,000 square Southampton, Sheffield, Manchester, feet of development achieved Leamington Spa and Atlantic Quay, completion or partial completion.
Glasgow total 860 plots with planning The resultant turnover was 156.9m which, together with 425 units at 2001: 142.8m which is an increase Norwich, and further sites under of 9.9% over the previous year.
consideration will provide adequately Although the business benefited for our future growth targets.
from the sale of the West One retail park in Manchester during the first Strategy and outlook half of the year, the overall mix of Wilson Bowden City Homes profitability was altered significantly already has the core of a land bank by the downturn in the office sector.
capable of growing the business to We said in February 2002 that, around 500 units per annum by given ongoing market conditions, 2005 06.
At this level we will have a maintenance of current levels of sustainable business unit delivering profitability in Wilson Bowden significant profit and contributing Developments in 2002 would strongly to the growth of the Group.
Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Operating review 27 Operating review continued We are making impressive progress on our flagship 365,000 square feet Harlow town centre extension.
Construction, lettings and the investment sale are all making good progress.
With operating profit for the year at with the retail, leisure and only when the world economy 23.7m compared with 24.4m in industrial sectors continuing shows more positive signs than 2001 the division has delivered a to attract occupiers on prime of late.
sites, with the office sector remaining very slow.
We have Main developments in the year In addition, for the past two years not been without our successes The 150,500 square feet West One Wilson Bowden Developments in the office market, with retail park in Manchester was has been carrying, in its balance two occupations at our new the largest retail development sheet, the burden of Wilson Nottingham Business Park, completed in the year.
In the office Bowden City Homes stock and and keen interest in ongoing sector the largest completions work in progress, until such time city centre developments in were 54,600 square feet at as the residential development Nottingham and Glasgow, but Chalfont Park, near Gerrards activity began delivering completions.
overall office letting remains a Cross, and 26,800 square feet Now that we have reached that very difficult market.
As a result for Irwin Mitchell at Sheffield.
stage, and been able to transfer to we have slowed down our activity The industrial sector showed Wilson Bowden City Homes its in this sector, which in turn much more activity with partial own operating assets, the return restricts our growth prospects completion on 120,000 square feet on capital on Wilson Bowden for this and succeeding years.
for Corporate Express and 101,000 Developments has returned to its square feet for Centresoft, both former levels at 20.0% for the year The investment market has at Nexus Point in Birmingham.
remained fairly constant throughout Other large industrial transactions the year, both in terms of demand included the final completions on Looking at the second half and yields, benefiting from the 133,000 square feet for Tradeteam performance in isolation is less relatively poor equities market at Cambuslang near Glasgow: relevant in this business because bringing an increased number 135,000 square feet for RCS at of project completion timings, of private investors into the sector.
Wakefield: and 169,000 square but turnover was 61.0m Half 1: The occupier market has generally feet for Laura Ashley at Interlink 95.9m : and operating profit weakened, especially in the office Park near Leicester.
9.9m Half 1: 13.8m, the first sector, which in turn has led to half having had the benefit of the increased incentives and softer Strategy largest single transaction in the rents.
This trend is expected to In the current market our strategy year at West One in Manchester.
continue into 2003. is to try to maintain profits at or as near current levels as possible, The market In market terms 2003 looks like without increasing our risk profile There has been little change in being another year of the same, by chasing profits.
This in turn market prospects during 2002, with a return to growth possible means identifying projects which 28 Operating review Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Building 2 at Riverside Exchange has been let to the Home Office.
The 9 acre mixed use development comprises 320 apartments, 350,000 sq ft of office accommodation and a 400 space multi-storey car park.
Further residential and large scale office development is planned to further regenerate the remaining 4 acres of this important Sheffield site overlooking the River Don.
can be carried out on prime sites: programme, while maintaining our and obtaining pre-lets wherever historic, cautious approach to risk.
At the same time we are working hard to maintain the Outlook supply of sites which meet these Given the comments above, we conditions in order to ensure see 2003 as a further year of continuity of work into the future.
maximisation of profitability and Currently our commercial land cash inflows in our commercial bank contains sites capable of activities, but when taken together delivering 7.7m square feet of with our city centre apartment future development.
subsidiary, Wilson Bowden City Homes, the overall potential in In 2003 for example we expect the Wilson Bowden Developments for final completions on industrial growth is plain to see.
warehouses for Centresoft and Corporate Express at Nexus Point in Birmingham: as well as other completions on our sites in Birmingham, Loughborough, Leicestershire, Sheffield, Cleckheaton, Castle Donington, Nottingham, Cambuslang, Glasgow, Rugby, Castleford and Wakefield.
Finally we are making impressive progress on our flagship 365,000 square feet Harlow town centre extension.
Looking further out we shall continue on the same basis of investing in land and sites to ensure an ongoing development Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Operating review 29
