Principal accounting policies The accounts have been prepared in accordance with applicable Accounting Standards in the United Kingdom.
The more important Group accounting policies, which have been applied consistently excepting the change in relation to deferred tax due to the adoption of FRS 19, are set out below.
Basis of accounting The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention.
Where relevant, the requirements of all new Accounting Standards and pronouncements, whose implementation dates were during the year, have been adopted.
The effects of the adoption of FRS 19 Deferred Tax are set out in Note 1 of the financial statements.
Basis of consolidation The year ends of all the Companys subsidiary undertakings are 31st December and all subsidiary undertakings are included in the Groups consolidated accounts.
The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or sold are included in the consolidated profit and loss account from, or up to, the date control passes.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisition is capitalised and amortised over its estimated useful economic life to a maximum of twenty years.
Goodwill written off to the profit and loss account under the Groups policy prior to the implementation of FRS 10 Goodwill and Intangible Assets has not been reinstated.
Turnover Turnover comprises the amount receivable for goods and services supplied to customers during the year and the sales value of property development contracts.
Intra-Group transactions, value added tax and proceeds from the sales of part-exchange houses and undeveloped land are excluded from turnover.
Proceeds from the sale of newly constructed houses are included in turnover on legal completion.
Turnover arising from joint ventures, where the Group undertakes housing development within a partnership agreement, and on long-term contracts is recognised in proportion to the stage of completion reached.
Stocks and work in progress Stocks, including land held for development and completed and part-exchanged houses, and residential work in progress are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Where the Group undertakes housing development within a partnership agreement, work in progress includes the attributable costs after deducting amounts taken to cost of sales, less progress payments received and receivable.
Development work in progress is valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value less progress payments received and receivable.
Long-term contracts Profits on short-term property development contracts are recognised on completion.
On long-term contracts, profits are not recognised until the outcome of the contract can be ascertained with reasonable certainty.
Amounts recoverable on contracts are included in debtors and stated at cost plus attributable profit less any foreseeable losses.
Payments received on account of contracts are deducted from amounts recoverable on contracts.
Payments received in excess of amounts recoverable are included in creditors.
Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Principal accounting policies 57 Principal accounting policies continued Joint arrangements The Group enters into joint arrangements as part of its housebuilding and property development operations.
Such arrangements fall to be classified as joint arrangements not constituting an entity under FRS 9 Associates and Joint Ventures.
As such, the Group accounts for its share of income, expenditure, assets, liabilities and cashflows.
These amounts are incorporated into the relevant figures within the financial statements.
The Directors consider that this departure from the requirement of the Companies Act 1985 to account for investments in undertakings which are joint arrangements as either associates or trade investments is necessary for the financial statements to show a true and fair view because joint arrangements are in substance an extension of the Groups own business.
Depreciation Depreciation is provided on the original cost of assets in equal annual instalments at the following rates: Freehold buildings 2% Plant, equipment and vehicles 10% to 25% Computers, scaffolding and other assets with short economic lives 20% to 50% Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised on all timing differences where the transaction or events that gave rise to an obligation to pay more tax in the future, or a right to pay less tax in the future, have occurred by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised when it is more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
Leases The annual rentals of operating leases are charged to trading profits on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Financial instruments The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits and borrowings.
The Groups financial instruments, other than derivatives, comprise cash, borrowings and other items arising directly from its trading operations which include long and short-term debtors and long and short-term land, trade and other creditors.
Short-term debtors and creditors have been excluded from the analyses of financial instruments.
The Group also enters into derivative transactions in the form of interest rate swaps to manage the interest rate risks arising from the Groups operations and its sources of finance.
Gains and losses on the interest rate swaps are recognised in the profit and loss account in the period in which they occur.
The Group does not trade in financial instruments.
Pensions The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension schemes for certain employees.
The Groups contributions to the schemes are charged against profits in the year in which the contributions are made.
Bonus Share Matching Plan The cost to the Company of providing matching shares under the Bonus Share Matching Plan, the award of which is subject to achievement of the total shareholder return performance target, is expensed over the three year performance period.
58 Principal accounting policies Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
