48 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002 Accounting policies year ended 31 July 2002 Basis of accounting Foreign currency transactions during the year are translated These consolidated financial statements are prepared under the into sterling at the rate of exchange ruling on the date of the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable UK transaction except when forward exchange contracts are in place, accounting standards.
when the forward contract rate is used.
Any exchange differences are dealt with through the profit and loss account.
Basis of consolidation The group accounts include the results of the parent company Goodwill and its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to 31 July 2002.
Goodwill arises when the cost of acquiring subsidiary undertakings and businesses exceeds the fair value attributed to the net assets The trading results of businesses acquired, sold or discontinued acquired.
Prior to 1 August 1998, goodwill arising on consolidation during the year are included in profit on ordinary activities from and purchased goodwill was written off to reserves.
Following the date of effective acquisition or up to the date of sale or publication of FRS 10, a revised policy for accounting for goodwill discontinuance, unless provision therefor has been made in was adopted with effect from 1 August 1998.
from acquisitions completed on or after that date is capitalised and amortised on a straight line basis over a period of not more than Foreign currencies 20 years.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 August 1998 The trading results of overseas subsidiary undertakings are has not been reinstated on the balance sheet.
translated into sterling using average rates of exchange ruling during the relevant financial period.
The net assets of businesses acquired are incorporated in the consolidated accounts at their fair value to the group.
Fair value The balance sheets of overseas subsidiary undertakings are adjustments principally relate to adjustments necessary to bring translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at 31 July.
the accounting policies of acquired businesses into line with those Exchange differences arising between the translation into sterling of the Wolseley group but may also include other adjustments of the net assets of these subsidiary undertakings at rates ruling at necessary to restate assets and liabilities at their fair values at the the beginning and end of the year are dealt with through reserves date of acquisition.
All businesses acquired are consolidated using as are exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings raised the acquisition method of accounting.
Turnover Exchange differences on financial instruments entered into for Turnover is the amount receivable for the provision of goods foreign currency net assets hedging purposes are dealt with and services falling within the groups ordinary activities, excluding through reserves.
intra-group sales, trade discounts, value added tax and similar sales taxes.
The cost of the companys investments in overseas subsidiary undertakings is translated into sterling at the rate ruling at the date of investment.
All other foreign currency assets and liabilities of the company and its United Kingdom subsidiary undertakings are translated into sterling at the rate ruling at 31 July except in those instances where forward cover has been arranged, in which case this forward rate is used.
49 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002 Accounting policies year ended 31 July 2002 Leased assets Taxation Where fixed assets are financed by leasing agreements which give Provision is made for deferred taxation in so far as a liability or rights approximating to ownership, the assets are treated as if asset has arisen as a result of transactions that had occurred by they had been purchased and the capital element of the leasing the balance sheet date and have given rise to an obligation to pay commitments is included in borrowings.
The rentals payable are more tax in the future, or the right to pay less tax in the future.
apportioned between interest, which is charged to the profit An asset is not recognised to the extent that the transfer of and loss account, and capital, which reduces the outstanding economic benefits in the future is uncertain.
The cost of operating leases is charged on a straight and liabilities recognised are not discounted.
line basis over the period of the lease.
Provision is made for UK or foreign taxation arising on the Depreciation distribution to the UK of retained profits of overseas subsidiary Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed assets except freehold undertakings where dividends have been recognised as receivable.
land mainly on a straight line basis to write off the cost of those assets over their estimated useful lives.
The principal rates of Pensions and post retirement benefits depreciation are: freehold buildings and long leaseholds, 2%: short The expected costs of providing retirement pensions under defined leaseholds, over the period of the lease: plant and machinery, 10- benefit plans and other post retirement benefits are charged to 15%: fixtures and fittings, 15%: computers, 20-100% and motor the profit and loss account over the periods benefiting from the vehicles, 25%.
employees services in accordance with the recommendations of independent qualified actuaries.
Variations from expected costs Real property awaiting disposal are normally spread over the average remaining service lives of Real property awaiting disposal is transferred to current assets at current employees.
the lower of book written down value and estimated net realisable value.
Depreciation is not applied to real property awaiting disposal, Contributions to defined contribution pension plans are charged but the carrying value is reviewed annually and written down to the profit and loss account as incurred.
through the profit and loss account to current estimated net realisable value if lower.
Stocks Stocks are valued at the lower of group cost and net realisable value, due allowance being made for obsolete or slow moving items.
Raw materials, bought out components and goods purchased for resale are stated at cost on a first in, first out basis.
