Our 2002 financial statements The financial statements depart from the specic Accounting policies requirement of companies legislation to amortise goodwill The financial statements have been prepared in over a nite period in order to give a true and fair view.
accordance with applicable accounting standards The directors consider this to be necessary for the reasons in the UK UK GAAP.
A summary of the Groups given above.
Because of the indefinite life of these principal accounting policies, which have been applied intangible assets, it is not possible to quantify its impact.
consistently throughout the year and the preceding However, for illustrative purposes only, if the Group were year is set out below.
to change its accounting policy and regard all intangible assets as having a limited useful economic life, and the Basis of accounting and presentation useful economic life it chose was 20 years, then the of financial statements resulting impact on the profit and loss account in 2002 The financial statements are prepared under the would have been a charge of 231.0 million 2001: historical cost convention.
Future anticipated payments to vendors in respect of Basis of consolidation earnouts are based on the directors best estimates of The consolidated financial statements include the results future obligations, which are dependent on the future of the Company and all its subsidiary undertakings performance of the interests acquired and assume the made up to the same accounting date.
The results operating companies improve profits in line with directors of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed estimates.
When earnouts are to be settled by cash of during the year are included or excluded from consideration, the fair value of the consideration is the profit and loss account from the effective date obtained by discounting to present value the amounts of acquisition or disposal.
expected to be payable in the future.
Goodwill and intangible xed assets Tangible xed assets Intangible xed assets comprise goodwill and certain Tangible xed assets are shown at cost less accumulated acquired separable corporate brand names.
depreciation and any provision for impairment with the Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value exception of freehold land which is not depreciated.
attributed to investments in businesses or subsidiary Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off undertakings over the fair value of the underlying net the cost less estimated residual value of each asset on a assets at the date of their acquisition.
In accordance straight-line basis over its estimated useful life, as follows: with FRS 10, for acquisitions made on or after Freehold buildings 2% per annum 1 January 1998, goodwill has been capitalised as an Leasehold land and buildings over the term intangible asset.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior of the lease or life of the asset, if shorter to that date was written off to reserves in accordance Fixtures, ttings and equipment 10-33% per annum with the accounting standard then in force.
On disposal Computer equipment 33% per annum or closure of a business, the attributable amount of goodwill previously written off to reserves is included Investments in determining the profit or loss on disposal.
Except as stated below, xed asset investments are Corporate brand names acquired as part of acquisitions shown at cost less impairment.
of business are capitalised separately from goodwill as The Groups share of the profits less losses of intangible xed assets if their value can be measured associated undertakings is included in the consolidated reliably on initial recognition.
profit and loss account and the investments are shown For certain acquisitions, where the directors consider in the consolidated balance sheet as the Groups share it appropriate, goodwill is amortised over its useful life of the net assets.
The Groups share of the profits less up to a 20-year period, from the date of acquisition.
losses and net assets is based on current information The remaining goodwill and intangible assets of the produced by the undertakings, adjusted to conform Group are considered to have an indefinite economic with the accounting policies of the Group.
life because of the institutional nature of the corporate Current asset investments are stated at the lower brand names, their proven ability to maintain market of cost and net realisable value.
leadership and profitable operations over long periods of time and WPPs commitment to develop and enhance Stocks and work in progress their value.
The carrying value of these intangible assets Work in progress is valued at cost or on a percentage will continue to be reviewed annually for impairment of completion basis.
Cost includes outlays incurred and adjusted to the recoverable amount if required.
on behalf of clients and an appropriate proportion of 104 WPP 2002 Our 2002 financial statements Accounting policies direct costs and overheads on incomplete assignments.
Advertising and Media investment management Provision is made for irrecoverable costs where Revenue is typically derived from commissions on appropriate.
Stocks are stated at the lower of cost media placements and fees for advertising services.
Traditionally, the Groups advertising clients were charged a standard commission on their total media Debtors and production expenditure.
In recent years, however, Debtors are stated net of provisions for bad and this frequently has tended to become a matter of doubtful debts.
Revenue may therefore consist of various arrangements involving commissions, fees, Derivative financial instruments incentive-based revenue or a combination of the three, The Group uses derivative financial instruments to as agreed upon with each client.
reduce exposure to foreign exchange risk and interest Revenue is recognised when the service is performed, rate movements.
The Group does not hold or issue in accordance with the terms of the contractual derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Incentive-based revenue typically For a forward foreign exchange contract to be treated comprises both quantitative and qualitative elements: as a hedge the instrument must be related to actual on the element related to quantitative targets, revenue foreign currency assets or liabilities or to a probable is recognised when the quantitative targets have commitment.
It must involve the same currency or been achieved: on the element related to qualitative similar currencies as the hedged item and must also targets, revenue is recognised when the incentive reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange movements is received receivable.
Gains and losses arising on these contracts are deferred and recognised in the profit Information, insight & consultancy and loss account or as adjustments to the carrying Revenue is recognised on each market research amount of xed assets, only when the hedged contract in proportion to the level of service performed.
transaction has itself been reected in the Groups Costs, including an appropriate proportion of overheads financial statements.
relating to contracts in progress at the balance sheet For an interest rate swap to be treated as a hedge the date, are carried forward in work in progress.
instrument must be related to actual assets or liabilities Losses are recognised as soon as they are foreseen.
or a probable commitment and must change the nature of the interest rate by converting a xed rate to a Public relations & public affairs and Branding & identity, variable rate or vice versa.
Interest differentials under Healthcare and Specialist communications these swaps are recognised by adjusting net interest Revenue is typically derived from retainer fees and payable over the periods of the contracts.
services to be performed subject to specic agreement.
Revenue is recognised when the service is performed, Debt in accordance with the terms of the contractual Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds arrangement.
Revenue is recognised on long-term after deduction of issue costs.
The carrying amount contracts, if the final outcome can be assessed with is increased by the finance cost in respect of the reasonable certainty, by including in the profit and accounting period and reduced by payments made in loss account revenue and related costs as contract the period.
Convertible debt is reported as a liability activity progresses.
No gain or loss is recognised on conversion.
Current taxation Corporate taxes are payable on taxable profits Turnover, cost of sales and revenue recognition at current rates.
Turnover comprises the gross amounts billed to clients in respect of commission-based income together with Deferred taxation the total of other fees earned.
Cost of sales comprises Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all timing media payments and production costs.
Revenue differences that have originated but not reversed at the comprises commission and fees earned in respect balance sheet date where transactions or events that of turnover.
Direct costs include fees paid to external result in an obligation to pay more taxation in the suppliers where they are retained to perform part or future or a right to pay less taxation in the future have all of a specic project for a client and the resulting occurred at the balance sheet date.
Timing differences expenditure is directly attributable to the revenue are differences between the Groups taxable profits and earned.
Turnover and revenue are stated exclusive its results as stated in the financial statements that arise of VAT, sales taxes and trade discounts.
from the inclusion of gains and losses in taxation WPP 2002 105 Our 2002 financial statements Accounting policies continued assessments in periods different from those in which scheme assets are measured at fair value and liabilities they are recognised in the financial statements.
A net are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected deferred taxation asset is regarded as recoverable and unit method and discounted at a rate equivalent to the therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely of equivalent currency and term to the scheme liabilities.
than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from The actuarial valuations are obtained at least triennially which the future reversal of the underlying timing and are updated at each balance sheet date.
The resulting differences can be deducted.
dened benefit asset or liability, net of the related Deferred taxation is measured at the average tax rates deferred taxation, is presented separately after other that are expected to apply in the periods in which the net assets on the face of the balance sheet.
timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively Finance leases enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred taxation is Where assets are nanced by leasing agreements that measured on a non-discounted basis.
give rights approximating to ownership finance leases the assets are treated as if they have been purchased Incentive plans outright and the corresponding liability to the leasing The Groups share based incentive plans are accounted company is included as an obligation under finance for in accordance with Urgent Issues Task Force UITF leases.
Depreciation on leased assets is charged to the Abstract 17 Employee Share Schemes.
The cost of profit and loss account on the same basis as owned shares acquired by the Groups ESOP trusts or the fair assets.
Leasing payments are treated as consisting of market value of the shares at the date of the grant, less capital and interest elements and the interest is charged any consideration to be received from the employee, to the profit and loss account as it is incurred.
is charged to the Groups profit and loss account over the period to which the employees performance relates.
Operating leases Where awards are contingent upon future events other Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and than continued employment an assessment of the loss account on a systematic basis.
Any premium or likelihood of these conditions being achieved is made discount on the acquisition of a lease is spread over the at the end of each reporting period and an appropriate life of the lease or until the date of the first rent review.
Translation of foreign currencies Pension costs Foreign currency transactions arising from normal The Group accounts for pension schemes in accordance trading activities are recorded in local currency at with FRS 17 Retirement Benets.
Monetary assets and liabilities For dened contribution schemes, contributions are denominated in foreign currencies at the year-end charged to the profit and loss account as payable are translated at the year-end exchange rate.
Foreign in respect of the accounting period.
currency gains and losses are credited or charged For dened benefit schemes the amounts charged to to the profit and loss account as they arise.
The profit operating profit are the current service costs and gains and loss accounts of overseas subsidiary undertakings and losses on settlements and curtailments.
They are are translated into pounds sterling at average exchange included as part of staff costs.
Past service costs are rates and the year-end net assets of these companies recognised immediately in the profit and loss account are translated at year-end exchange rates.
Exchange if the benets have vested.
If the benets have not differences arising from retranslation of the opening vested immediately, the costs are recognised over the net assets, and on foreign currency borrowings to the period until vesting occurs.
The interest cost and the extent that they hedge the Groups investment in such expected return on assets are shown as a net amount operations, and results for the year are reported in the nof other finance costs or credits adjacent to interest.
Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
Where dened benefit schemes are funded, the assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Group, in separate trustee administered funds.
