How were rewarded Compensation committee report on behalf of the Board continued in the light of exceptional financial circumstances Policy on directors service contracts, during the performance period, whether the recorded notice periods and termination payments TSR is consistent with the achievement of commensurate The Compensation committee annually considers the underlying performance.
Companys policy on the length of notice periods Particulars of Beth Axelrods participation in LEAP in executive directors service contracts and payments are set out on page 82. on termination of such contracts.
The committee is Sir Martin Sorrell, the Group chief executive, agreed on the objective to reduce notice periods for together with JMS, committed to LEAP investment executive directors to 12 months.
This can only be shares worth $10 million calculated at a price of achieved when existing legal obligations permit and 5.685 per share of which investment shares worth when the committee considers it appropriate to do at least $3 million were purchased in the market.
so, taking into account circumstances which it believes It is expected that the matching shares to which to be important to the interests of the Company participants other than JMS become entitled for the and its share owners for an exception to be made.
awards made by reference to 1999 and 2000 will be There were no payments in respect of termination provided from one of the Companys employee share of employment of executive directors, and there are ownership plans ESOPs.
The ESOPs have acquired no entitlements to receive such payments, other than the maximum potential number of matching shares as referred to below.
in respect of the original awards at an average cost not For the reasons explained below, the committee exceeding 3.70 per share.
Authority has been obtained unanimously believe that an exception should be from share owners to satisfy the entitlement of JMS made to the 12-month notice period provision, in the to matching shares by an allotment of new shares.
case of the Group chief executive Sir Martin Sorrell.
It is not intended that any further awards will be The notice periods for executive directors are made under LEAP.
The Board expects to submit as follows: a new incentive plan for the approval of share owners Director Contract date Unexpired term Notice period in or before October 2003.
Any new plan will provide Sir Martin Sorrell 14 July 2001 31 August 2005 36 24 months a successor plan to LEAP and will relate to executive Beth Axelrod 28 March 2002 12 months directors of the Company and key executives in the Howard Paster 1 Jan 2002 31 December 2005 then 6 months Groups operating companies.
Paul Richardson 25 June 2002 12 months Retirement benefits The form and level of Company-sponsored retirement Eric Salama who retired from the Board in 2002 programs varies depending on historical practices and to take up his appointment in the Group as chairman local market considerations.
The level of retirement and chief executive officer of Kantar and Brian Brooks benefits is regularly considered when reviewing total who resigned from the Board in 2002 had service executive remuneration levels.
agreements respectively dated 25 June 2002 and 1 June In the two markets where the Group employs the 1993 both of which contained 12-month notice largest number of people, the US and the UK, pension periods.
Neither Eric Salama nor Brian Brooks received provision generally takes the form of defined contribution any compensation payment upon their retirement from benefits, although the Group still maintains various the Board.
defined benefit plans and arrangements primarily in All new appointments are intended to have 12-month the US and UK.
In each case, these pension plans are notice periods, but it is recognised that, for some provided for the benefit of employees in specific operating appointments, a longer period may initially be companies and, in the case of the UK plans, are closed necessary for competitive and other reasons, reducing to new entrants.
All pension coverage for the Companys to 12 months thereafter.
executive directors is on a defined contribution basis The notice provisions in Sir Martin Sorrells contract and only base salary is pensionable under any Company provide for a fixed term of three years renewable on or retirement plan.
Details of pension contributions for the before 1 September each year.
The contract was renewed period under review in respect of executive directors are on 1 September 2002 and is due to expire on 31 August set out on page 79.
Sir Martins contract has been on this basis since September 1994 when he made a substantial investment in the CIP.
By September 1999 Sir Martin and JMS were entitled to a prospective benefit under a number of plans in respect of which the performance conditions had been satisfied prior to September 1999, namely the CIP: the WPP 2002 87 How were rewarded Compensation committee report on behalf of the Board continued NSAP and phantom options granted in 1993 and 1994.
In addition to the substantial investments in the In September 1999 in addition to making a further Company made by Sir Martin, he has also entered into substantial commitment to LEAP, Sir Martin also covenants, which apply for the period of 12 months deferred the right to take the benefit of all of his following termination of the UK Agreement and the outstanding awards other than the phantom options US Agreement, under which he has agreed not to compete so that they lapsed if he left the Group other than with any business carried on by the Company or any in special circumstances, such as good leaver, until member of the WPP Group, nor to solicit business or the expiration of the LEAP Investment Period in custom or services from major clients or clients with September 2004. whom he was involved.
The covenants also include an Given the substantial commitment made by obligation not to induce employees to cease employment Sir Martin, the committee believes that it is appropriate with the Company or any member of the WPP Group.
to have extended the term of Sir Martins contract for a period currently expiring 12 months after the end Other contract provisions relating to Sir Martin Sorrell of the LEAP Investment Period.
Sir Martin Sorrells services to the Group outside the In addition these terms are consistent with practice in US are provided by JMS and he is directly employed by the US for other comparable executive roles, as is seen WPP Group USA, Inc for his activities in the US.
Taken from Howard Pasters contract which is US-based and together, the agreement with JMS the UK Agreement entered into prior to his appointment to the Board.
and the agreement with Sir Martin directly the US Both Sir Martins UK Agreement and US Agreement Agreement provide for the following remuneration all may be terminated by JMS or Sir Martin respectively of which is disclosed on pages 79 to 82: nwithin a period of 90 days following a change of annual salary and fees of 839,000: ncontrol.
On receipt of notice to terminate on a change annual pension contributions of 336,000: nof control, Sir Martin is entitled to receive an amount short-term incentive annual bonus of 100% equal to twice the annual salary, fee and pension of annual salary and fees at target and contribution due under the agreements.
In these up to 200% at maximum: nagreements control is as defined respectively in section the Leadership Equity Acquisition Plan: and n416 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 the Performance Share Plan.
and Rule 13d-3 of the Securities Exchange Act 1934.
The Board intends to propose a resolution at the On a wrongful termination by the Company of the Annual General Meeting under which the periods UK Agreement and the US Agreement, WPP is obliged during which the 1993 and 1994 phantom options can to pay an amount equal to twice the annual salary and be exercised would be extended for a period of three fee, target bonus and pension contribution due under years see note 3 on page 80, but would otherwise the UK and US Agreements and also to continue certain continue to be held on identical terms as at present.
benefits such as health insurance under the US Agreement.
In the interim, the Compensation committee has Five-year performance graph As required by UK company law and for share owners information, the Companys TSR for the five years to 31 December 2002 is shown on the graph below.
The indices shown are those the Board considers most relevant for the purposes of comparison, on the basis that these are the indices containing the companies with whose performance that of the Company is most commonly compared.
WPP total return to share owners relative to WPP 1 Peer group peer group S&P 500 rebased to 31 December 1997 FTSE 100 500 400 300 200 100 0 31 Dec 98 31 Dec 99 31 Dec 00 31 Dec 01 31 Dec 02 Notes 1 Peer group comprises Cordiant, IPG, Omnicom, Grey Global, Euro RSCG, Asatsu, Aegis, Saatchi & Saatchi and Taylor Nelson Sofres.
