How we behave Directors report continued The principal elements of internal control are with key financial controls and procedures.
questionnaires are reviewed by the director of internal audit and the results are reported to the Audit committee.
Control environment WPPs system of internal control starts with the Financial reporting environment created by the Board.
Quality and Each operating company updates a three-year strategic competence of employees, their integrity, ethics and plan annually which incorporates financial objectives.
behaviour are all vital to the maintenance of the Groups These are reviewed by the Groups management and are system of internal control.
The Groups Code of Business agreed with the chief executive of each operating company.
Conduct sets out the principal obligations of employees.
The Group operates a rigorous procedure for the Directors and senior executives are required to certify development of operating company budgets which build their compliance with this Code each year.
The WPP up to the Groups budget.
During the final quarter Policy Book includes the Code and human resource of each financial year, operating companies prepare practices, as well as guidance on required practice detailed budgets for the following year for review by the in many operational areas.
It is updated regularly parent company.
The Groups budget is reviewed by the and supported by the Board.
Board before being adopted formally.
Operating company results are reported monthly and are reviewed Risk assessment locally, regionally and globally by the business groups, At each Board meeting, the Group chief executive by the Group on a consolidated basis and ultimately presents a Brand Check review of each of the business by the Board.
The results are compared to budget operations, incorporating a risk monitor, providing and prior year, with full-year forecasts prepared and feedback on the business risks, as well as details of any updated quarterly throughout the year.
The Company change in the risk profile since the last Board meeting.
reports to share owners four times a year.
Each operating group has in place monthly and Each year-end, all operating companies supply quarterly procedures and day-to-day management additional detail with their full-year financial results.
activities to review their operations and business risks.
This information is consolidated to allow the Group to These are formally communicated to the Group chief present the necessary disclosures for UK and US GAAP executive in quarterly review meetings and, in turn, reporting.
Furthermore, a Disclosure committee has to the Board.
now been formed to add formality to the process of This is supported by risk management processes ensuring that publicly-released information, including based on workshops held regionally for the significant this Annual Report, is free from material omission or businesses.
During 2002, a number of workshops were misstatement.
The committee comprises representatives conducted at individual operating company level to from group reporting, legal, internal audit and investor further improve the identification and communication relations departments.
of risk throughout the Groups organisational structure.
Risk monitoring is, therefore, embedded in the Going concern operation of the Company and the Board, in a manner Under UK company law, the directors are required to which the Board considers is the appropriate way consider whether it is appropriate to adopt the financial to respond to the Turnbull recommendations and the statements on the basis that the Company and the Group requirements of Rules 13a-14 and 15 of the Securities are going concerns.
As part of its normal business Exchange Act 1934.
A formal update of the process practice the Group prepares annual and longer-term is undertaken annually in conjunction with the plans and in reviewing this information and in director of internal audit and the completion of the particular the 2003 three-year plan and budget the self-certification questionnaire, described below.
directors believe that the Company and the Group have adequate resources for the foreseeable future.
Therefore Control activities and monitoring the Company and the Group continue to adopt the going Policies and procedures for all operating companies concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
are set out and communicated in the WPP Policy Book, internal control bulletins and accounting guidelines.
Responsibilities in respect of the preparation Their application is monitored within the businesses and of financial statements by the Companys director of internal audit and his staff.
UK company law requires the directors to prepare In addition, each operating unit completes an annual financial statements for each financial year which give a self-certification questionnaire confirming compliance true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company 72 WPP 2002
