Operating & financial review Review of operations continued 101 million, depreciation 117 million, tax paid in like-for-like revenues.
As the Group forecasted the 85 million, interest and similar charges paid general decline in economic conditions relatively early, 78 million and other net cash inflows of 46 million.
the consequent focus on matching staff costs to revenues Free cash flow available for debt repayment, acquisitions, has resulted in a fall in average headcount by over 8% share buy-backs and dividends was therefore and point-to-point headcount by over 6%.
This free cash flow was absorbed by achieved, in part, by a slow-down in recruitment and the acquisition payments and investments of 281 million, impact of the normal attrition rate.
share repurchases and cancellations of 76 million and As usual, and given conditions in 2002, our budgets dividends of 56 million.
The Company almost fulfilled for 2003 have been prepared on a conservative basis, its recently set objective of covering acquisition largely excluding new business particularly in payments and share repurchases and cancellations Advertising and Media investment management.
predict broadly flat like-for-like revenues in comparison Your Board continues to examine ways of deploying with 2002 and a stronger second half of the year its substantial cash flow of over 400 million per annum relative to the first.
to enhance share owner value.
As necessary capital They also indicate Advertising and Media investment expenditure is expected to remain equal to or less than management revenues up by 1%, counterbalanced the depreciation charge, the Company has concentrated by flat marketing services revenues.
This compares with on examining acquisitions or returning excess capital to budgeted growth of 10% and achieving 15% in 2000, share owners in the form of dividends or share buy-backs.
budgeted growth of 7% and a decline of 3% in 2001 As noted above, your Board has decided to increase and flat budgeted revenues and a decline of 6% in 2002. the final dividend by 20% to 3.67p per share, taking In the first quarter of 2003, constant currency the full-year dividend to 5.40p per share which is four revenues were up over 1% and on a like-for-like basis, and a half times covered, at the headline earnings level.
excluding acquisitions and currency fluctuations, In addition, as current opportunities for cash acquisitions were flat.
may be limited particularly in the US, the Company will Estimated net new business billings of 410 million continue to commit to repurchasing up to 2% of its $660 million were won during the first quarter of 2003. share base in the open market, when market conditions Net debt at 31 March 2003 was 1,335 million, are appropriate.
Such annual rolling share repurchases compared with 1,505 million at 31 March 2002. are perceived to have a more significant impact in Average net debt in the first quarter of 2003 was improving share owner value than sporadic buy-backs.
1,252 million compared to 1,227 million in 2002, at 2003 exchange rates.
In the 12 months to 31 March Pensions funding 2003, the Groups free cash flow was 442 million.
In light of recent stock market declines and consequent Over the same period, the Groups expenditure poor equity investment returns, the Company has on capital, acquisitions, share re-purchases and reduced its forecasted weighted average return on US cancellations was 489 million.
pension assets from 9.1% to 7.2% and on UK pension Worldwide economic conditions are likely to remain assets from 5.8% to 5.4%.
Our advisors indicate that difficult in 2003 particularly given the uncertainty further average cash contributions of approximately created by the war in Iraq and the Sars epidemic.
12-13 million per annum would be necessary to fully Should conditions improve, the Group is well positioned fund all funded pension schemes over their remaining to respond to any recovery, given its geographical and lives, unless stock markets recover.
functional spread and strengths, its flexible cost structure and strong cash flow.
Incentive plans for 2003 will again Net balance sheet assets focus more on operating profit growth than historically No hedging is undertaken in relation to the accounting to stimulate top-line growth, although objectives will translation of overseas balance sheets.
In 2002 this continue to include operating margin improvement, resulted in an increase of 82 million 2001: decrease of improvement in staff costs to revenue ratios and 81 million in the sterling value of share owners funds qualitative Group objectives, including co-ordination, due to movements in exchange rates.
In 2002, net assets talent management and succession planning.
of 3,714 million compared with 3,641 million in 2001.
In the short term, growth in advertising and marketing services expenditure will likely remain fairly 2003 prospects flat or low, particularly given procurement pressures Given the current state of the world economy, your and the dampening effect of the increasing proportion Group has performed reasonably well.
In essence, of fee remuneration on the impact of cyclical upturns operating costs, including severance and restructuring and downturns.
However, there are now significant costs, have been reduced following the significant fall opportunities in the area of outsourcing clients 100 WPP 2002 Operating & financial review Review of operations continued marketing activities, consolidating client budgets and capitalising on competitors weaknesses.
In addition, spending amongst the package goods, pharmaceutical, oil and energy, government the government is the largest advertiser in the UK market and price-value retail sectors has remained relatively resilient.
These sectors represent approximately 27% of the Groups revenue.
In the long term, however, the outlook is very favourable.
Over-capacity of production in most sectors and the shortage of human capital, the developments in new technologies and media, the growth in importance of internal communications, the continued dominance of the US economy and the need to influence distribution, underpin the need for our clients to continue to differentiate their products and services both tangibly and intangibly.
Advertising and marketing services expenditure as a proportion of gross national product should resume its growth and once more bust through the cyclical high established in 2000.
Given these shortand long-term trends, your Company has three strategic priorities.
In the short term, to weather the recession: in the medium term to continue to integrate successfully the mergers with Y&R and Tempus: and finally, in the long term, to continue to develop its businesses in the fastergrowing geographical areas of Asia Pacific, Latin America, Central and Eastern Europe, Africa and the Middle East and in the faster-growing functional areas of marketing services, particularly direct, interactive and market research.
2003 will also be difficult but hopefully a little easier.
Early indications are that worldwide advertising and marketing services expenditure will be up slightly.
Paul Richardson Group finance director Our people have responded magnificently in 2002 to the difficult economic and political challenges that they have faced.
They have delivered results which, even including all exceptional items, have out-performed most of their competition and grown market share.
We believe that despite the challenges that we face, n2003, WPPs eighteenth year, should be a good one.
Paul Richardson Group finance director In connection with the provisions of the Private of compensation, government compliance costs Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 the or litigation, unanticipated natural disasters, the Reform Act, the Company may include forwardCompanys exposure to changes in the values looking statements as defined in the Reform Act of other major currencies because a substantial in oral or written public statements issued by or portion of its revenues are derived and costs on behalf of the Company.
These forward-looking incurred outside of the UK and the overall level statements may include, among other things, of economic activity in the Companys major plans, objectives, projections, anticipated future markets which varies depending on, among economic performance as assumptions and the other things, regional, national and international like that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
political and economic conditions and As such, actual results or outcomes may differ government regulations in the worlds advertising materially from those discussed in the forwardmarkets.
In light of these and other uncertainties, looking statements.
Important factors which may the forward-looking statements included in this cause actual results to differ include but are not document should not be regarded as a limited to: the unanticipated loss of a material representation by the Company that the client or key personnel, delays or reductions in Companys plans and objectives will be achieved.
client advertising budgets, shifts in industry rates WPP 2002 101 Our 2002 financial statements 102 WPP 2002 Our 2002 financial statements WPP 2002 103
