Balfour Beatty plc Shareholder information Annual report and accounts 2002 64 Financial calendar Unsolicited mail Balfour Beatty is obliged by law to make its share register available on request 2003 to other organisations who may then use it as a mailing list.
This may result in 30 April Ex-dividend date for final 2002 ordinary dividend you receiving unsolicited mail.
If you wish to limit the receipt of unsolicited mail, 2 May Final 2002 ordinary dividend record date you may do so by writing to the Mailing Preference Service, an independent 15 May Annual General Meeting organisation whose services are free to you.
Once your name and address have been added to its records, it will advise the companies and other bodies that 28 May Ex-dividend date for July 2003 preference dividend support the service that you no longer wish to receive unsolicited mail.
30 May July 2003 preference dividend record date If you would like more details, please write to: The Mailing Preference 9 June Final date for receipt of DRIP mandate forms see below Service, FREEPOST 22, London W1E 7EZ.
1 July Preference dividend payable Gifting shares to your family or to charity 1 July Final 2002 ordinary dividend payable To transfer shares to another member of your family as a gift, please ask the 13 August Announcement of 2003 half-year results Registrars for a Balfour Beatty gift transfer form.
If you only have a small 2004 number of shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them, you may 1 January Preference dividend payable wish to consider donating them to charity through ShareGift, the charity share donation scheme administered by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation.
The relevant 2 January Interim 2003 ordinary dividend payable share transfer form may be obtained from the Registrars: further information Provisional dates about the scheme is available from the ShareGift Internet site www.
Registrar and transfer office All administrative enquiries relating to shareholdings should, in the first instance, Share dealing services be directed to the Companys Registrars and clearly state the shareholders The Company has established an execution-only postal share dealing service, registered name and address and, if available, the full shareholder reference through Cazenove & Co. Ltd, for private investors who wish to buy or sell number.
Please write to: Balfour Beatty plcs shares.
Further details can be obtained from: The Balfour Beatty plc Registrar The Balfour Beatty Share Dealing Service Computershare Investor Services PLC Cazenove & Co. Ltd PO Box 435 12 Tokenhouse Yard Owen House London EC2R 7AN 8 Bankhead Crossway North Telephone: 020 7606 1768 Edinburgh EH11 4BR Alternatively, Hoare Govett Limited also offers a low-cost share dealing service.
Telephone 0870 702 0122 Further details can be obtained from: or by e-mail to: web.
co. uk Hoare Govett Limited LCSD They can help you to: 250 Bishopsgate check your shareholding: London EC2M 4AA register a change of address or name: Telephone: 020 7678 8300 obtain a replacement dividend cheque or tax voucher: Both Cazenove & Co. Ltd and Hoare Govett Limited are authorised and record the death of a shareholder: regulated by the Financial Sevices Authority.
amalgamate multiple accounts: resolve any other question about your shareholding.
Share price The Balfour Beatty share price can be found in the appropriate sections of Dividend mandates national newspapers under the classification Construction and Building If you wish dividends to be paid directly into your bank or building society Materials and is also available on Ceefax and Teletext and a number of account, you should contact the Registrars for a dividend mandate form.
personal finance websites on the Internet.
Historic share prices are available Dividends paid in this way will be paid through the Bankers Automated from the library at Hoare Govett.
Information about Balfour Beattys Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List SEDOL codes are: can also be obtained from the Registrars.
Ordinary shares: 0096162 Subject to shareholder approval, the final dividend for 2002 will be paid Preference shares: 0097820 on 1 July 2003.
If you have already elected to join the DRIP, then you need The London Stock Exchange ticker codes are: take no further action.
If you wish to join the DRIP, then you should complete a Ordinary shares: BBY mandate form and return it to the Registrars by no later than 9 June 2003 in Preference shares: BBYB order to participate in the DRIP for this dividend.
If you do not have a DRIP mandate form, please contact the Registrars.
Capital gains tax For capital gains tax purposes the market value on 31 March 1982 of Balfour Shareholder information on the Internet Beatty plcs ordinary shares of 50p each was 307.3p per share.
This has been Computershare Investor Services have introduced a facility enabling Balfour adjusted for the 1-for-5 rights issue in June 1992 and the 2-for-11 rights issue in Beatty shareholders to access details of their shareholding over the Internet, September 1996. subject to complying with an identity check.
You can access this service via the shareholder information section of the Balfour Beatty website at Enquiries www.
You can also obtain information on recent trends in Enquiries relating to Balfour Beattys results, business and financial position Balfour Beattys share price.
should be made in writing to the Corporate Communications Department at Recent legislation has now made it possible for Balfour Beatty in the Companys Registered Office address or by email to info@balfourbeatty.
conjunction with Computershare Investor Services to offer shareholders the opportunity to receive communications such as notices of shareholder meetings and the annual report and accounts electronically, rather than by post.
Balfour Beatty encourages the use of electronic communications as not only does it save the Company printing and postage costs, but it is also a more convenient and timely way of communicating with shareholders, and reduces demand on natural resources.
In order to receive shareholder communications electronically, you should register your details via the shareholder information section of the Balfour Beatty website.
Balfour Beatty plc 130 Wilton Road London SW1V 1LQ Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar London Telephone: 44 0 20 7216 6800 Photography by George Brooks Facsimile: 44 0 20 7216 6950 The photograph on page 18 is courtesy of Antnio Chaves.
com The photograph on page 21 is courtesy of Colin Garrett, Milepost 92 2. s. Depots.
