Balfour Beatty plc Principal accounting policies Annual report and accounts 2002 43 A summary of the principal accounting policies, all of which have been applied 6 Turnover consistently throughout the year and the preceding year, is set out below: Turnover represents amounts invoiced to outside customers, net of trade discounts, value added and similar sales-based taxes, except in respect of 1 Basis of accounting contracting activities where turnover represents the value of work carried out The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modified during the year including amounts not invoiced.
Turnover is recognised on for the revaluation of certain land and buildings, and comply with all applicable property developments when they are subject to substantially unconditional accounting standards and the Companies Act 1985.
The Group has adopted contracts for sale.
This has had no impact on 2002 or 2001.
Comparative figures have been restated to comply with UITF Abstract 34 Pre-contract costs 7 Profit recognition on contracting activities UITF 34.
The Group previously charged pre-contract costs against operating Profit on individual contracts is taken only when their outcome can be foreseen profit when incurred and recognised pre-contract cost recoveries in operating with reasonable certainty, based on the lower of the percentage margin earned profit when received.
In accordance with UITF 34, pre-contract costs continue to to date and that prudently forecast at completion, taking account of agreed be expensed as incurred until it is virtually certain that a contract will be claims.
Full provision is made for all known or expected losses on individual awarded, from which time further pre-contract costs are recognised as an asset contracts, taking a prudent view of future claims income, immediately such and charged as an expense over the period of the contract.
Amounts recovered losses are foreseen.
Profit for the year includes the benefit of claims settled on in respect of costs that have been written off are deferred and amortised over contracts completed in prior years.
This restatement reduced operating profits in 2001 by 1m.
Shareholders funds at 31 December 2001 were reduced by 3m net of 8 Research and development tax of 1m.
The effect on 2002 results is to increase operating profit by 7m Research and development expenditure is written off in the year in which and to increase profit after taxation by 5m.
2 Basis of consolidation 9 Tangible fixed assets The Group accounts include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiary Except for land and assets in the course of construction, the cost or valuation undertakings, together with the Groups share of the results of joint ventures of tangible fixed assets is depreciated over their expected useful lives, on a and associates drawn up to 31 December each year.
The results of subsidiaries, straight line basis at rates of 2.5% for buildings, or the life of the lease if less joint ventures and associates acquired or sold in the year are consolidated than 40 years, and 4% to 33% for plant and equipment.
from the respective date of acquisition or to the respective date of disposal.
Assets held under finance leases are treated as tangible fixed assets: In accordance with FRS 10 Goodwill and Intangible Assets, with effect from depreciation is provided accordingly, and the deemed capital element of future 1 January 1998, goodwill, being the excess of the fair value of consideration rentals is included within borrowings.
Deemed interest, calculated on a reducing over the fair value of net assets acquired, arising on the acquisition of balance basis, is charged as interest payable over the period of the lease.
The subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates is capitalised and amortised through rental costs arising from operating leases are charged against profit before the profit and loss account over the Directors estimate of its economic useful interest as they arise.
Goodwill arising before 1 January 1998 has been eliminated against reserves and is included in the profit and loss account on 10 Investments the disposal of the business to which it relates.
Joint ventures and associates are included in the consolidated balance sheet The Groups share of the net assets of contracting joint arrangements is at the Groups share of net tangible asset values, plus loans due from such included under each relevant heading within the balance sheet.
undertakings and attributable goodwill arising since 1 January 1998, less amounts amortised and written off.
The excess of attributable net assets of joint 3 Foreign currencies ventures and associates over their cost is included in the Groups revaluation Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the reserve.
Other Group investments and the Companys investments are stated at date of the transaction or, if hedged, at the forward contract rate.
Monetary cost plus loans, less amounts written off.
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at the balance sheet date or, if appropriate, at the 11 Stocks forward contract rate.
Stocks and unbilled contract work in progress are valued at the lower of The results of overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are cost and net realisable value.
Cost, where appropriate, includes a proportion translated at average rates of exchange for the year and their assets and of manufacturing overheads.
Applications for progress payments are liabilities are translated at year end rates.
Exchange differences on opening deducted from cost, with any excess included in other creditors as advance net assets less offsetting foreign currency loans and other hedging instruments progress applications.
to the extent that they hedge the Groups investments are reported in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
All other exchange differences 12 Taxation are dealt with in the profit and loss account.
The tax charge is composed of current tax and deferred tax.
Current tax is based on the profit for the year at the current rate.
4 Financial derivatives Deferred taxation is provided using the liability method.
Timing differences The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate risk and arising from provisions, post retirement benefits and capital allowances are to hedge exposures to fluctuations in foreign currencies.
Receipts and payments fully recognised.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent it is believed on interest rate instruments are recognised on an accruals basis over the life of they will be recovered against future taxable profits.
Deferred tax assets and the instrument.
Forward contracts used to hedge foreign currency investments liabilities are not discounted.
are revalued to year end rates and any exchange differences are taken to Provision is not made for taxation which would be payable if the retained reserves.
The difference between the spot and forward rates on such contracts profits of overseas subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates is recognised on an accruals basis as part of net interest payable.
Gains and were remitted to the UK, or which would arise on any excess of the sale losses on financial instruments used to hedge foreign currency transactions proceeds over the cost of land and buildings if they were to be sold at their are recognised on maturity of the underlying transaction in the profit and loss revalued amounts.
account or as adjustments to carrying amounts in the balance sheet.
Gains and losses on financial instruments which are terminated because the underlying 13 Pensions exposure ceases to exist are taken immediately to the profit and loss account.
Contributions to defined benefit pension schemes are charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the cost of providing pensions over employees 5 Finance costs working lives with the Group.
Variations in pension costs are allocated over the Finance costs of debt are charged in the profit and loss account over the term remaining service lives of employees as an adjustment to the regular pension of the instrument at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
Differences between contributions paid and amounts charged in the profit that are directly attributable to the construction of tangible fixed assets are and loss account are included as a prepayment or liability in the balance sheet.
capitalised as part of the cost of those assets commencing at the start of Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are charged to the profit construction and ceasing when the asset is complete and ready for use.
and loss account as they fall due.
