2 The market value of these shares exercised by Dr Brown and Mr Cameron at the time of exercise was 247p per share.
3 The performance condition for those options granted under the 1995 scheme, the 1996 scheme and the 1999 plan is either: a that the percentage growth in the Companys share price over the three years from the date of grant must exceed the percentage growth in the total return for the FTSE All-Share index over that three year period: or b that the average percentage share price movements of the Company over each of the three years beginning on a date not earlier than the grant date and ending on the date of exercise must exceed the average movements in the FTSE All-Share Index over each of those three years.
4 The performance condition for those options granted under the 1999 plan compares the Companys TSR to the TSR of a chosen group of biotechnology companies over a three-year period.
A median ranking must be achieved before any part of the option may be exercised 50% of the option and an upper quartile ranking must be achieved for the option to vest in full.
This condition if not initially acheived in full can be further measured over a four or five-year period measured from the same fixed base point.
5 No performance conditions apply to SAYE options.
6 All of the above options were granted for nil consideration, and are held over 10p ordinary shares in the Company.
7 The market price of shares at 31 December 2002 was 277p and the range during the year was 181p to 379p per share.
Further information on each of the Companys share option schemes, including the number of options outstanding, exercise prices and exercise periods, is set out in note 21 to the financial statements.
61 62 REMUNERATION REPORT 6e Long-Term Share Incentive Plan audited The Acambis Share Incentive Plan LTIP has been established for Executive Directors and certain senior employees.
The plan is designed to encourage participants to focus their efforts on longer-term growth in shareholder value and to encourage commitment to remain with the Acambis Group.
Long-term incentive awards are made, upon the recommendation of the Committee, by the Trustees of the Acambis Employees Trust and comprise performance shares being a right to acquire, at no cost, a fixed maximum number of shares in the Company.
The right to acquire shares can only be exercised after three years and is subject to a performance target.
Awards made from September 2001 onwards are subject to performance conditions relating to the performance of Acambis TSR compared to a comparator group of other companies within the industry over a single three-year period with no opportunity for re-testing.
For grants in 2003 this condition will apply and the comparator companies will be as detailed above in the section on share options.
The maximum allocation of shares would be achieved if Acambis is ranked in the upper quartile of the comparator group, being prorated down to a 30% allocation at a ranking of the median.
No allocation will be made if Acambis ranking falls below the median.
The performance condition is measured over a three-year period beginning at date of award.
For the purposes of TSR calculation, the Companys TSR will be averaged over the three months preceding the commencement of the period and the three months preceding a measurement date to ensure that results are not influenced by short-term volatility.
From 2003, awards to Executive Directors will be subject to an additional performance condition that requires the Committee to be satisfied that there has been improvement in the Companys underlying financial performance over the relevant performance period.
The market value of these shares at the date of vesting, 8 April 2002, was 323.5p per share and at the date of exercise, 25 September 2002, was 239p per share.
The performance target attached to this award measured the increase in market capitalisation of the Company over a three-year period.
Given the market capitalisation in the Company over the three-year period had exceeded the maximum target of a 100% increase, 100% of this award vested.
2 The exercise price for all awards made under the LTIP is 1.00 in total for the exercise of any number of shares comprised in an award.
All LTIP awards are held over ordinary 10p shares in the Company.
3 The market value of these shares at the date of the award, 22 April 2002, was 321p per share.
The performance target attached to these awards are as described for awards made from September 2001 onwards.
4 The performance condition for these awards compare the Companys TSR to the TSR of a chosen group of biotechnology companies over a three-year period.
A median ranking must be achieved before any part of the award may vest 30% of the award and an upper quartile ranking must be achieved for the award to vest in full.
After three years, vested plan shares may be left in the Trust and participants can then receive a grant of a further one matching share for each four plan shares so deposited.
The matching shares will vest provided the participant remains employed and does not withdraw his plan shares for a further two years.
5 In accordance with the rules of the LTIP, Mr Cameron elected to receive one third of his 2001 bonus 10,000 shares in the form of Acambis shares see annual bonus on page 56.
These shares are disclosed within the table of Directors interests on page 59.
This award represents the one matching share for every four shares to which Mr Cameron would be entitled if the basic award 10,000 shares were held by the Trust for a period of one year from award.
6 Following the vesting of Mr Camerons award during the year see note 1, he elected to leave the balance of these plan shares after paying applicable taxes with the Trust.
Provided Mr Cameron remains employed and does not withdraw his plan shares for a further two years, he can then receive an additional one matching share for each four plan shares so deposited.
7 These awards are not subject to performance conditions as the bonus awards invested and the plan shares deposited have already been performance tested.
