Increased UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax charges will apply if the Acambis shares are issued or transferred to a custodian for a clearing system or to a depositary who issues depositary receipts in respect of such shares.
These are generally at the rate of 1.5% of the consideration paid or the market value of the Acambis shares depending on the circumstances.
The above summary is not intended to constitute a complete analysis of all of the UK tax consequences of the ownership or disposition of Acambis shares.
This discussion is included for general information purposes only and may not apply to a particular stockholder in light of such stockholders particular circumstances.
Stockholders are urged to consult their own tax advisers as to the particular tax consequences to them of the ownership or disposition of Acambis shares, including the application of state, local and other foreign tax laws.
4d Description of property The following table summarises the premises which Acambis currently leases: Location Use Approximate area Lease dated Lease term 1 Peterhouse Technology Park, Cambridge, UK R&D office 30,000 sq ft December 1998 25 years 2 Cambridge, MA, USA R&D office 53,000 sq ft January 1996 10 years Cambridge, MA, USA Office 2,700 sq ft March 2002 18 months Canton MA, USA Manufacturing 47,000 sq ft December 2001 5 years Canton MA, USA Office warehousing 27,000 sq ft April 2002 5 years Notes 1 Apporoximately 15,000 sq ft is sub-leased to a third-party.
2 Until 31 December 2002, approximately 13,000 sq ft was sub-leased to a third-party.
Acambis reoccupied the space from the start of 2003.
The Group believes its properties to be adequately maintained and suitable for their intended use.
10d Exchange controls and other limitations affecting security holders There are no UK government laws, decrees or regulations restricting the import or export of capital or affecting the remittance of dividends or other payments to holders of the Companys ordinary shares who are non-residents of the UK.
There are no limitations relating only to non-residents of the UK under English law or the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association on the right to be a holder of, and to vote in respect of, the Companys ordinary shares.
Exchange rate information References in this report to US dollars, $, or are to the currency of the United States.
References to pounds sterling, pounds, pence or p are to the currency of the United Kingdom.
There are 100 pence to each pound.
Solely for your convenience, this report contains translations of certain pounds sterling amounts into US dollars at specified rates.
These translations should not be taken as assurances that the pounds sterling amounts actually represent such US dollar amounts or could be converted into US dollars at the rate indicated or at any other rate.
The table below sets forth, for the periods and dates indicated, the exchange rate for the US dollar against the pound based on the noon buying rate, expressed in dollars per pound sterling.
The period average is based on the average of the noon buying rates on the last day of each month during the period.
48 SUMMARISED GROUP STATEMENTS Selected financial information in thousands, except per share data 3a The following selected financial information for each of the fiscal years in the five-year period ended 31 December 2002 has been derived from Acambis audited Group Selected financial information financial statements.
The selected financial data has been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP, which differs in certain respects from US GAAP.
The Group financial To assist our Form 20-F readers, statements for the three-year period ended 31 December 2002 are included elsewhere in this Annual Report and Form 20-F.
The principal differences between UK GAAP comparative financial information and US GAAP are summarised in note 29. for 2002 is given in US dollars on the following two pages.
Translation of pounds sterling into US dollars for the year ended 31 December 2002 has been made at the rate of 1.00 $1.6095 based upon the mid-point closing rate at 31 December 2002.
This translation is provided solely for the convenience of the reader and does not reflect financial information in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for foreign currency translations.
Such translations should not be construed as representations that the sterling amounts represent, or have been or could be so converted into US dollars at that rate or any other rate.
The following information should be read in conjunction with the financial review on pages 14 and 15 and Acambis Group financial statements and the notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this document.
