Statement of accounting policies Accounting convention The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards and, except as explained below under Properties, the Companies Act 1985 and under historical cost accounting rules as modied by the revaluation of investment properties and operating assets.
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the groups financial statements.
Basis of consolidation and presentation of financial information The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the company and all its subsidiary undertakings, which have all been prepared to 31 December 2002.
The acquisition method of accounting has been adopted under which the results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of in the year are included in the consolidated profit and loss account from the date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
As permitted by s230 Companies Act 1985, a separate profit and loss account is not presented for Chelseld plc.
Goodwill and negative goodwill Positive goodwill arising on consolidation, representing the difference between the purchase price and the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary undertaking at the date of acquisition, is capitalised as an intangible xed asset and charged to the profit and loss account over its useful economic life.
Negative goodwill, where the fair value of the net assets is greater than the purchase price of the subsidiary undertaking at the date of acquisition, is included in xed assets and credited to the profit and loss account in the periods in which the fair values of the non-monetary assets purchased on the same acquisition are recovered, whether through depreciation, write down or sale.
As explained in note 14, prior to becoming a subsidiary undertaking, Global Switch Sarl Global Switch was accounted for as a joint venture.
In accordance with FRS2, and in order to give a true and fair view, purchased goodwill has been calculated as the sum of the goodwill arising on each purchase of shares in Global Switch, being the difference at the date of each purchase between the fair value of the consideration given and the fair value of the identiable assets and liabilities attributable to the interest purchased.
This represents a departure from the statutory method, under which goodwill is calculated as the difference between cost and fair value on the date that Global Switch became a subsidiary undertaking.
The statutory method would not give a true and fair view because it would result in the groups share of retained reserves, during the period that it was a joint venture, being re-characterised as goodwill.
The effect of this departure is to increase the revaluation reserve by 13,382,000, to decrease retained profits by 92,006,000, and to decrease purchased goodwill by 78,624,000.
Joint ventures A joint venture is an undertaking in which the group has a long-term interest and over which it exercises joint control.
In accordance with FRS9, joint ventures are included under the gross equity method.
As a result, the groups share of the profits less losses of joint ventures is included in the consolidated profit and loss account and its interest in their net assets is included as investments in the consolidated balance sheet.
Subsidiary undertakings The companys investments in its subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost or, where the directors consider an impairment in value has taken place, at that lower valuation.
38 Other xed asset investments Other xed asset investments include shares in the company acquired by the Chelseld Employee benefit Trust in respect of awards made under the LTIP, with the likely cost of the awards being amortised over the measurement period of the awards.
The remaining other xed asset investments are stated at cost less any provision for a permanent diminution in value.
Properties Properties held as stock are stated in the balance sheet at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Properties held as investments are shown as xed assets and are stated at cost in the year of acquisition and at valuation on the basis of open market value in subsequent years.
If, in the opinion of the directors, a property has been subject to a material change in value as a result of a change in circumstances in the year of acquisition, it is stated at valuation on the basis of open market value.
Properties held for development are shown as xed assets and are stated at the lower of cost and recoverable amount until such time as development risks are considered to have been substantially covered.
This would typically require planning consent to be in place, pre-letting agreements to be signed and construction risk to be substantially overcome.
Where this is the case, properties held for development are shown as xed assets and are stated at open market value.
Interest costs on borrowings which relate to significant development expenditure are capitalised as part of the cost of the development properties where a valuation of the property in its existing state supports the capitalisation of such interest.
To this extent interest is treated in a similar fashion to all other development costs.
In accordance with Statement of Standard Accounting Practice No.
19: i investment properties are revalued annually at open market value.
All surpluses and deficits arising on valuation are taken directly to the revaluation reserve, except that any impairment in the value of an investment property is taken to the profit and loss account for the year: and ii no depreciation or amortisation is provided in respect of freehold investment properties and leasehold investment properties with over 20 years to run.
This treatment may be a departure from the requirements of the Companies Act 1985 concerning depreciation of xed assets.
However, these properties are not held for consumption but for investment and the directors consider that systematic annual depreciation would be inappropriate.
The accounting policy adopted is therefore necessary for the accounts to give a true and fair view.
Depreciation or amortisation is only one of the many factors reected in the property valuations and the amount which might otherwise have been shown cannot be separately identied or quantied.
profit on the disposal of investment properties is recognised in the profit and loss account on completion of the sale and by reference to carrying value.
Operating assets Operating assets, which comprise the freehold land and buildings owned by Wentworth Club, are stated at cost or valuation less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is provided on the buildings to write off the cost or valuation, less any residual value, by equal instalments over a 50 year period.
Depreciation is not provided on the freehold land as the directors are of the opinion that the high standards maintained for the land ensure that there is no diminution in value.
In the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2000 the group adopted the transitional rules of FRS15 and retained the book amounts for operating assets which reect previous revaluations.
The valuations had therefore not been updated until the current year impairment see note 12.
39 Statement of accounting policies continued Depreciation on other tangible xed assets Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of other xed tangible assets, less any residual values, by equal instalments over their estimated economic lives as follows: Furniture, xtures and equipment 3 to 15 years Motor vehicles 4 years Plant and machinery 15 years Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where an event has occurred that results in an obligation to pay more or less tax in the future, except that: provision is not made in respect of property revaluation surpluses unless an unconditional sales agreement has been signed and rollover relief is not available to cover any gain arising.
deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the relevant timing differenced can be deducted.
No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures as it is not expected that any tax will be payable on them in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is measured on a non discounted basis at the tax rates which apply at the balance sheet date.
Pension costs The group makes payments to pension schemes on behalf of all eligible employees on a xed contribution basis.
Foreign exchange Monetary assets and liabilities denominated or recorded in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Trading results of subsidiary and joint ventures are translated at the closing rate for the year.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of the net assets of overseas subsidiary and joint ventures at the commencement of the year, together with the exchange movements on matching foreign currency loans, are taken to reserves.
Other exchange differences arising in the ordinary course of trading are included in the results for the year.
Financial instruments The group uses interest rate swaps for hedging purposes to reduce its sensitivity to interest rate uctuations arising from oating rate debt.
Amounts payable and receivable in respect of interest rate swaps are recognised as adjustments to the interest expense over the period of the contracts.
