DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED Mr Quarta, whilst an executive director, participated in a United Non-Executive Directors States executive retirement plan.
He retains benefits which The non-executive directors receive fees for their services in accrued whilst he was an executive director.
The main features of connection with Board and Board Committee meetings in line with this plan included a normal retirement age of 60, no individual the current market practice of comparable organisations.
The level contributions and an annual benefit upon retirement equivalent to of fees is determined by the Board as a whole on the recommendation 50 per cent of the average of his highest three years compensation, of the Group Chief Executive using independent surveys as required.
inclusive of bonus and taxable benefits in kind less amounts The Board decided at the end of 2002 that the additional received under certain other employer pension plans.
responsibilities of the role of chairman of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee should be recognised by the payment Additional information in respect of the defined benefit scheme of an annual fee of 5,000 in addition to the normal fee of a nonfor Mr McGlone and Mr Wood : executive director.
Details of the non-executive directors fees for 1.
The non-executive directors do not 2.
Dependants pension a contingent widows pension equal to participate in the Companys share option schemes, long-term two thirds of the members prospective pension.
Other incentive plan or pension arrangements except for Mr Quarta.
Mr dependants pensions may also be paid.
Quarta has retained for a limited period certain of his rights to exercise 3.
Early Retirement Rights there are no rights to, or upon, early share options and LTIPs granted whilst he was an executive director.
There is the option to exchange some pension for a The share options are exercisable until 31 December 2004 and the cash sum, up to the maximum allowed by the Inland Revenue.
LTIPs will vest in accordance with their terms on the usual date.
Pension increases pensions are guaranteed to increase in In addition, as set out on page 49, Mr Quarta retains an entitlement retirement by RPI up to 5 per cent.
Further discretionary to a pension which accrued whilst he was an executive director.
increases are possible if RPI is above 5 per cent.
Non-executive directors have letters of appointment for 5.
There are no discretionary benefits which affect or are taken specific periods.
At 4 March 2003, the unexpired terms were into account when calculating the value of benefits.
as follows: Additional information in respect of the defined benefit R Quarta 12 months D Rough 12 months scheme for Mr. McMillan and Mr. Van Allen R M Phillips 2 months R N Stillwell 12 months 1.
Dependants pension accrued benefit reverts to widow and is paid in lump sum.
No compensation would be payable for the early termination of 3.
Early Retirement Rights reduced benefit is available once the appointment of any non-executive director.
participants age plus credited service exceeds 59.
Benefit is This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 4 March subject to discretionary approval of BBA Group.
2003 and signed on its behalf by: 4.
Pension increases amount of pension benefit is dependent upon length of service and compensation.
Increases are not Richard Stillwell Chairman, Remuneration Committee guaranteed.
4 March 2003. make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES prudent: and United Kingdom company law requires the directors to prepare state whether applicable accounting standards have been financial statements for each financial year which give a true and followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and explained in the financial statements.
of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable to ensure that the financial statements comply with the future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for the system of basis in preparing the financial statements.
In preparing the internal control and for safeguarding the assets of the Company financial statements the directors are required to: and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
consistently: 50 BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2002
