AUDITORS REPORT Independent auditors report to the shareholders of BBA Group plc on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion We have audited the financial statements of BBA Group plc for the on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance year ended 31 December 2002 which comprise the Group profit procedures or its risk and control procedures.
and loss account, the Group and Company balance sheets, the We read the directors report and the other information Group cash flow statement, the statement of total recognised contained in the annual report for the above year as described in gains and losses, the reconciliation of movements in the contents section including the unaudited part of the directors shareholders funds, the statement of accounting policies and the remuneration report and consider the implications for our report related notes 1 to 25.
These financial statements have been if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have inconsistencies with the financial statements.
also audited the information in the part of the directors Basis of audit opinion remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom This report is made solely to the companys members, as a auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the companys members those matters we are required to state to part of the directors remuneration report described as having them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
It also includes an assessment of the significant fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume estimates and judgements made by the directors in the responsibility to anyone other than the company and the preparation of the financial statements and of whether the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the report, or for the opinions we have formed.
company and the group, consistently applied and adequately Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors disclosed.
As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the companys directors are responsible for the preparation of the information and explanations which we considered necessary in financial statements in accordance with applicable United order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Kingdom law and accounting standards.
They are also responsible assurance that the financial statements and the part of the for the preparation of the other information contained in the directors remuneration report described as having been audited annual report including the directors remuneration report.
Our are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also the directors remuneration report described as having been evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and in the financial statements and the part of the directors regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
remuneration report described as having been audited.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial Opinion statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair statements and the part of the directors remuneration report view of the state of affairs of the company and the group as at described as having been audited have been properly prepared in 31 December 2002 and of the profit of the group for the year then accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, ended and the financial statements and part of the directors in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the remuneration report described as having been audited have been financial statements, if the company has not kept proper properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information Deloitte & Touche specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors with the company and other members of the group is not disclosed.
London We review whether the corporate governance statement 4 March 2003 reflects the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2002 51
