l. c. ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Details of the Bellway p. l. c. 2003 Savings Related Share Option Scheme the SAYE Scheme 1.
Eligibility All employees and executive directors of the Company and any participating subsidiaries who have been employed for a minimum period determined by the board of directors of the Company shall be invited to participate in the SAYE Scheme.
Invitations may be made within 42 days after approval of the SAYE Scheme by the Inland Revenue and thereafter, normally, in each year during the period of 42 days following the announcement of the Companys interim or final results.
Invitations may not be made more than 10 years after the date of adoption of the SAYE Scheme by the Company.
Invitees will be given not less than 14 days in which to decide whether to accept the invitation and, if they choose to accept the invitation, to decide how much per month they wish to save which shall be not less than 5 nor more than 250 per month under a SAYE contract which they will be required to take out at the same time as the option is granted to them.
Grant of Options Where invitations are accepted, options will be granted by the Company or the trustees of an employee trust not later than 30 days after the date of the invitations not later than 42 days after that date, if the invitation is over-subscribed see paragraph 3 below.
No consideration shall be payable for the grant of an option.
Options may not be transferred.
Oversubscription The rules of the SAYE Scheme sets out steps for scaling down applications in the event that an invitation is oversubscribed.
Exercise Price The price at which participants may acquire ordinary shares will normally be 80 per cent of their middle market price quoted on the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange plc at close of dealings on the day immediately preceding the invitation date.
Limit on Share Capital No option may be granted to any participant which would cause the number of ordinary shares issued or remaining issuable by virtue of options or other rights granted in the preceding 10 years under the SAYE Scheme or any other employee share scheme established by the Company to exceed 10 per cent of the issued share capital at that time.
Exercise, Lapse and Exchange of Options Options will normally be exercisable during the period of six months following the bonus date of the SAYE contract taken out by participants at the time options are granted.
Options normally lapse on cessation of employment.
However, exercise is permitted for a limited period following cessation of employment for specified good leaver reasons.
Exercise is also permitted on an amalgamation or take-over of the Company.
There are also provisions for the exchange of options in specified circumstances.
The number of ordinary shares which participants can acquire on exercise of their options cannot exceed the amount in cash terms, that they have saved under their SAYE contract, together with any bonus or interest payable.
Adjustments With the prior approval of the Inland Revenue, the number of shares comprised in an option and or its exercise price may be adjusted if any capitalisation issue, offer by way of rights or any sub-division, reduction, consolidation or other variation of the Companys share capital occurs.
Rights Attaching to Shares The ordinary shares which are to be allotted and issued to a participant pursuant to the exercise of options will rank pari passu with all other issued ordinary shares, except for any rights determined by reference to a date preceding the date on which the option is exercised.
l. c. ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION continued 9.
Amendments and General The board of directors of the Company may at any time amend the rules of the SAYE Scheme provided that, in the case of amendments to the material advantage of participants relating to eligibility, limits on participation and the basis of determining a participants entitlement in the event of any variation of the Companys share capital, the prior approval of the Company in general meeting must be obtained.
Such prior approval will not, however, be required for amendments made to obtain or maintain Inland Revenue approval or to comply with the provisions of any existing or proposed legislation or to maintain favourable taxation treatment of any participating company or any participant.
No amendments shall have effect without the prior approval of the Inland Revenue.
Benefits provided are not pensionable.
Financial Calendar Announcement of results and ordinary dividends Half year April Full year October Ordinary share dividend payments Interim July Final January Preference share dividend payments At the rate of 9.5% per annum paid half yearly April and October Annual report posted to shareholders November December Annual General Meeting January Shareholders by Size of Holding at 31 July 2002 Holdings Shares Number % Holding % 0 - 2,000 1,339 56.9 1,130,000 1.0 2,001 10,000 659 28.0 2,910,025 2.6 10,001 - 50,000 186 7.9 4,288,552 3.9 50,001 and over 171 7.2 101,870,700 92.5 Total 2,355 100.0 110,199,277 100.0 Discount to shareholders The following discount arrangement is currently available to shareholders.
Should you intend to purchase a new Bellway home, you will be entitled to a discount of 625 per 25,000, or pro rata on part thereof, of the purchase price provided that: a you have been the registered holder of at least 2,000 ordinary shares for a minimum period of 12 months prior to the reservation of your new home.
b you inform our sales representative on site when reserving your property that you are claiming shareholder discount.
The above discount arrangement is only available to shareholders on the Company's Register: employees of investing companies or members of investing institutions would not therefore be eligible.
For further details please contact the Company Secretary, Bellway p. l. c. Seaton Burn House, Dudley Lane, Seaton Burn, Newcastle upon Tyne NE13 6BE, telephone 0191 217 0717 or email kevin.
