l. c. ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 ACCOUNTING POLICIES The significant accounting policies adopted and consistently applied in the preparation of the accounts are shown below: a Basis of accounting The accounts are prepared on the historical cost basis and in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
Where relevant, the requirements of all new accounting standards and pronouncements, whose implementation dates were during the year, have been adopted.
The effects of the adoption of FRS19 Deferred Tax are set out in notes 4 and 13 of the financial statements.
b Consolidation The Group accounts include the accounts of the Company and all its subsidiary undertakings, which are made up to 31 July.
Unless otherwise stated, the acquisition method of accounting has been adopted.
An associate is an undertaking in which the Group has a long term interest, usually for 20 50% of the equity voting rights and over which it exercises a significant influence.
Associated undertakings are stated in the Group balance sheet at the Group's share of their net assets as shown by their latest accounts.
The results attributable to the Group's holding in associated undertakings are shown separately in the Group profit and loss account.
The treatment of goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings has been outlined in note 18. c Turnover and profit Turnover represents the invoiced value of sales and rental income, excluding value added tax and transactions between members of the Group.
Turnover and profit on sales of properties are brought into account when the sales have been legally completed.
Sales of part exchange properties are not included in turnover but the net result of these transactions is classified as a cost of sale.
d Stocks Work in progress and stocks are stated at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value, less payments on account and related grants.
The cost of housebuilding work in progress includes site overheads.
Properties taken in part exchange are stated at the lower of acquisition cost and estimated net realisable value.
e Depreciation Freehold land is not depreciated.
Buildings held as fixed assets are being written off by equal annual instalments over 40 years.
Depreciation is provided on a straight line basis for vehicles, plant and equipment at rates which are calculated to write off the cost of those assets over their useful lives, which are estimated at between three and ten years.
f Foreign currencies The accounts of the overseas subsidiary undertaking are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the balance sheet and the resultant gains or losses are dealt with through reserves.
g Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred or accelerated because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
The Group has adopted FRS19 Deferred Tax in these financial statements.
The effect of adopting FRS19 for the previous year would have produced adjustments which are not considered material.
The comparative figures, therefore, have not been restated.
Also, the effect of not adopting FRS19 for the current year would have produced adjustments which are not considered material.
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS19.
h Pension costs The defined benefit scheme is a funded scheme and its costs are charged to the profit and loss account on a basis which spreads the cost of providing pensions over employees' estimated average working lives with the Group.
Defined contribution pension costs are charged to the profit and loss account in the period for which contributions are payable.
i Financial assets and liabilities Changes in the values of financial instruments are disclosed in the notes to the accounts but are not reflected in the profit and loss account, the statement of total recognised gains and losses or the balance sheet.
