l. c. ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at Newcastle Marriott Hotel Gosforth Park, High Gosforth Park, Newcastle upon Tyne NE3 5HN on Friday 10 January 2003 at 12.00 noon for the following purposes: 1.
To receive the accounts for the year ended 31 July 2002, the Directors' report and the Auditors' report thereon.
To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 July 2002.
To re-elect Mr P J Stoker, as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr A M Leitch, as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr D S Bramley, who was born on 25 November 1930, as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr D G Perry, as a director of the Company.
7 To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company at a remuneration to be determined by the directors.
As special business to consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions: 8.
Ordinary Resolution That the authorised share capital of the Company be increased from 36,500,000 to 38,250,000 by the creation of 14,000,000 ordinary shares of 12.5p each.
Ordinary Resolution That in substitution for the existing authority for the purposes of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act conferred upon the directors by a resolution passed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 16 January 1998 the directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 80 of the Act to allot relevant securities which for the purposes of this resolution shall have the same meaning as in Section 80 2 of the Act of the Company provided that: i the maximum amount of relevant securities that may be allotted pursuant to the authority given by this resolution shall be up to an aggregate nominal amount of 4,474,770: ii subject as provided in sub-paragraph iii below, such authority shall expire five years after the date of this resolution, but may be previously revoked or varied by an ordinary resolution of the Company: iii such authority shall permit and enable the directors to make an offer or agreement before the expiry of such authority, which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and to allot such securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if such authority had not expired: and iv in relation to the grant of any rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, shares in the Company, the reference in this resolution to the maximum amount of relevant securities that may be allotted is the maximum amount of shares which may be allotted pursuant to such rights.
Ordinary Resolution a That the Bellway p. l. c. 2003 Savings Related Share Option Scheme, the draft rules of which are produced to this meeting and initialled by the Chairman thereof for the purposes of identification and a summary of which is set out under shareholder information on pages 65 and 66 be and is hereby approved and adopted subject to such modifications, if any, as the directors consider necessary or appropriate to obtain the approval thereto of the Board of Inland Revenue under the provisions of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 and to comply with the requirements of the Listing Rules or the London Stock Exchange and that the Directors of the Company be and are hereby authorised to do all acts and things necessary or expedient to carry the said Scheme into effect.
l. c. ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING continued 11.
Special Resolution That the directors, subject to the passing of and pursuant to the general authority conferred on them by Ordinary Resolution number 9, be empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 of the Act as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities: i made in connection with an offer of securities, open for acceptance for a fixed period, by the directors to ordinary shareholders of the Company on the register on a fixed record date in proportion as nearly as may be to their then holdings of such shares but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with legal or practical problems under the laws, or the requirements of any recognised regulatory body or any stock exchange in any overseas territory or in connection with fractional entitlements and or ii wholly for cash otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph i above or pursuant to the Bellway p. l. c. Executive Share Option Scheme, the Bellway p. l. c. 1995 Employee Share Option Scheme, the Bellway p. l. c. 1996 Employee Share Option Scheme, the Bellway p. l. c. Savings Related Share Option Scheme and the Bellway p. l. c. 2003 Savings Related Share Option Scheme up to an aggregate nominal value of 688,745 and shall expire on the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or, if earlier, 15 months after the passing of this Resolution but the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities pursuant to such an offer or agreement as if the power conferred by this Resolution had not expired.
Special Resolution That the Company be authorised to purchase for cancellation its own ordinary shares and preference shares by way of market purchase upon and subject to the following conditions: i the maximum number of ordinary shares which may be purchased is 11,019,028 ordinary shares of 12.5p each, being approximately 10 per cent of the ordinary shares in issue: ii the maximum number of preference shares which may be purchased is 20,000,000 9.5% Cumulative Redeemable Preference Shares 2014 of 1 each, being the amount of preference shares in issue: iii the maximum price at which ordinary shares may be purchased is an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotations derived from The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the 5 business days immediately preceding the date on which the ordinary shares are contracted to be purchased and the minimum price is 12.5p per share, in both cases exclusive of expenses: iv the maximum price at which preference shares may be purchased shall be an amount calculated in accordance with the provisions contained in the Articles of Association of the Company: v the authority to purchase conferred by this Resolution shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company, or if earlier, 15 months after the passing of this Resolution provided that any contract for the purchase of any shares as aforesaid which was concluded before the expiry of the said authority may be executed wholly or partly after the said authority expires.
l. c. ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING continued Notes: i A member may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him her.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
ii Completion and return of the proxy will not preclude shareholders from attending and voting at the meeting.
iii There will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company, during usual business hours Saturdays and public holidays excepted from the date of this notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting the Register of Interests of the Directors and their families in the share capital of the Company.
A copy of this register together with copies of contracts of service and letters of appointment of the directors of the Company and the rules of the proposed Savings-Related Share Option Scheme will also be available for inspection during the Annual General Meeting and for at least fifteen minutes before it begins.
The Rules of the proposed Savings-Related Share Option Scheme will also be available for inspection during the same hours from the date of this notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting at the offices of ING Barings Limited, 60 London Wall, London EC2M 5TQ.
iv To be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and for the purposes of determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, shareholders must be on the Company's register of members not less than 48 hours prior to the time set for the meeting.
By Order of the Board G K Wrightson Company Secretary Bellway p. l. c. Seaton Burn House Dudley Lane Seaton Burn Newcastle upon Tyne NE13 6BE 14 October 2002 70
