PROXY CARD Proxy Card for use at the Annual General Meeting of Bellway p. l. c. to be held at 12.00 noon on Friday 10 January 2003.
Please indicate, by inserting a cross in the appropriate square, how you wish your votes to be cast on the Resolutions listed.
Unless so instructed and on any other Resolutions proposed at the meeting, your proxy will vote or abstain at his her discretion.
This proxy will be used only in the event of a poll being directed or demanded.
Annual General Meeting Resolution For Against 1.
To receive the Accounts for the year ended 31 July 2002, the Directors report and the Auditors report thereon 2.
To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 July 2002 3.
To re-elect Mr P J Stoker, as a director of the Company 4.
To re-elect Mr A M Leitch, as a director of the Company 5.
To re-elect Mr D S Bramley, who was born on 25 November 1930, as a director of the Company 6.
To re-elect Mr D G Perry, as a director of the Company 7.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration 8.
To authorise the increase in authorised share capital 9.
To authorise the Directors to allot relevant securities 10.
To adopt the new Bellway p. l. c. 2003 Savings Related Share Option Scheme 11.
To exclude the application of pre-emption rights to the allotment of equity securities 12.
To authorise market purchases of the Companys own ordinary shares and preference shares NOTES Delete the underlined if it is desired to appoint any other person, who need not be a member of the Company and insert his her name and address.
i To be effective this proxy must be deposited at the office of the Company's Registrars shown overleaf not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting for which it is to be used, together with the power of attorney or other authority under which it is executed or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority.
ii Any alterations to this form of proxy should be initialled.
iii In the case of a joint holding, this form may be signed by any of the joint holders, but the vote of the member whose name stands first in the Register of Members will be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders.
iv In the case of a corporation, the form of proxy should be under its Common Seal or under the hand of a duly authorised officer or attorney.
v Completion and return of the proxy will not preclude members from attending and voting at the meeting.
Third fold and tuck in BUSINESS REPLY SERVICE Licence No.
ANG 1468 1 Capita IRG plc Balfour House 390 - 398 High Road Ilford Essex IG1 1BR Second fold First fold
