R&A2002 Final Front Half CL 23 07 2002 5:55 PM Page 10 Managing Directors Operational Review Aerial view of Chelsea Bridge Wharf, Battersea Narrow Street, New Riverhead, high-quality student and key worker investment property activities.
These At 30 April 2002, the estimated gross Land The Market Westferry Road and Campden Hill.
are mainly carried out through joint margin on these 20,400 plots amounted Land is the vital ingredient in our In the financial year to April 2002, is especially pleasing that at Grosvenor Since its launch, it has created ventures, notably Berkeley Eastoak and to 1,700 million 2001: 1,470 million.
During the year, the land we secured over 5,000 reservations, Dock, St James secured approval for the accommodation for over 4,500 students Saad Berkeley Investment Properties.
Shareholders will appreciate that this market has remained extremely of which 4,500 were private master plan of 709 residential units and within London and the South East.
margin does not all flow straight competitive, particularly for sites with development units and the remainder detailed planning is expected in autumn A further 600 bedrooms of key through to pre-tax profits: there are, planning consents capable of immediate for housing associations.
2002. worker student accommodation are Commercial Portfolio of course, costs of conversion in terms implementation.
Land supply remains currently under development.
The Berkeley Group has a diverse of overheads and finance.
constrained and delays in securing The housing market has fluctuated Since the end of the financial year, commercial portfolio.
Gunwharf Quays planning permissions continue to add during the year.
The period from St James Homes has secured consent Berkeley College Homes recognise in Portsmouth, a mixed-use scheme Of the plots we own over 75% have to the shortage, so limiting the May to August 2001 saw a strong for 244 units at Feltham and continues the need for affordable, good owned jointly with Land Securities outline planning consent or better.
industrys ability to meet the demand market with rising prices and healthy to create development plans for quality student and key worker PLC, opened in February 2001 and During the year, the Group has been for housing.
demand across all areas of our land owned by Thames Water accommodation as well as the diversity comprises factory outlet shopping, very successful in securing planning operation.
However, the market was who are forecast to release over of their accommodation requirements.
leisure, offices, restaurants and bars.
consents on over 4,100 units, the Our policy during the year has been to already showing signs of moderating 2,000 plots for development in the next most notable being 622 units purchase land selectively and we have when the devastating events of 11 five years, again a major opportunity Berkeley Strategic Land Berkeley In addition at Gunwharf Quays, and 260,000 sq ft of mixed-use at broadly replaced the land either sold or September took place.
This affected for the future.
Strategic Land uses its planning there is still over 150,000 sq ft of Chelsea Bridge Wharf between used in the years operations.
We buyer confidence where, for the next expertise to secure and promote development to build and let.
Battersea Park and Battersea Power continue to sell land when we judge it three months, the market was Thirlstone Homes Thirlstone Homes land with longer term potential Renovation and re-construction of the Station, Clarence Dock in Leeds, commercially right to do so.
During quieter and sales prices slid back carries out niche developments in its core for the development of sustainable 38,000 sq ft historic Vulcan building is Royal Quarter in Kingston, Phase II the year we sold 29 sites realising modestly.
Demand picked up areas of south west London, Surrey and new communities through the well advanced and planning has been at Albert Embankment and Bromyard proceeds of 59.8 million 2001: in December 2001 and house prices the Thames Valley.
It is currently planning system.
secured on the Ariadne site, where Avenue, Acton.
This is in addition 75.3 million.
We also continue to continued to rise right through to working on 22 sites comprising work is due to commence shortly.
to the enhancements on sites we optimise existing land holdings by the end of May 2002. approximately 420 plots and has This division has had an excellent already own including Imperial Wharf, securing improved planning contracted another 4 sites comprising 112 year in achieving its core aims.
The Group, through its residential Putney Wharf and Redbank.
Accordingly, at 30 April Shareholders will no doubt be plots.
The division has a diverse product Progress has been made in advancing trading companies, has over 2,000,000 2002, we controlled 20,400 plots as aware of recent concerns over the portfolio with a particular 4 sites which are in local development sq ft of commercial property.
This is The Group is finding no shortage compared to 19,700 plots at 30 April sustainability of the market and the vision for high-value executive homes, plans and these sites comprise over forecast to contribute over 100 million of opportunities to grow our 2001.
Of these holdings, some 16,000 dangers of a housing crash.
Despite whilst sustaining the individuality of flats 700 plots.
The total portfolio of of gross margin.
The major mixed-use business organically, evidenced plots 2001: 15,800 plots are owned and high house price-earnings ratios and houses including both land held under option could sites are: for example by our purchase of included in the balance sheet, while historically a key benchmark, refurbishment conversion and new build.
deliver a maximum potential of Chelsea Bridge Wharf 260,000 sq ft : Gargoyle Wharf.
The Group strategy 2,600 plots 2001: 2,800 plots are interest rates are at their lowest level Thirlstone is focused on undertaking about 5,000 plots.
Royal Clarence Yard 130,000 sq ft : is to be very selective in its land contracted and a further 1,800 plots for decades, so affordability is smaller complex developments in a Clarence Dock 467,000 sq ft : purchase and then to purchase only 2001: 1,100 plots have terms agreed good.
Furthermore, there is still a brownfield land environment.
Berkeley Commercial The St George Wharf 251,000 sq ft on good margins.
severe shortage of new homes to commercial division acts as a plus a hotel site : Berkeley College Homes Berkeley commercial developer in its own right Imperial Wharf 210,000 sq ft : and College Homes builds specialist and is also responsible for our Gargoyle Wharf 290,000 sq ft. 10 The Berkeley Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 The Berkeley Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 11 R&A2002 Final Front Half CL 23 07 2002 5:58 PM Page 12 Managing Directors Operational Review Leybourne Lakes, Larkfield, Kent meet demand.
We might experience The Group is forecasting the a result of labour and skills shortages.
Procurement processes Joint Ventures Quality and Customer Service an easing or correction in the market forward sales position in 2002 2003 However, we have been able through the supply chain are being The Berkeley Group continues to Our customers are the key stakeholders which we would welcome, but we do remaining at this level.
The reason to meet the challenge this presents reviewed, consistent with the develop sites within joint venture in our business.
Success is founded on not expect a major downturn.
for the increase was to take into through developing closer partnerships Egan Agenda for a new approach structures and in 2002 sold 773 units the manner in which we manage their account the higher work-in-progress with main contractors and to construction.
Those expectations are led Reservations during the first 5 months on our major sites which include sub-contractors and the incorporation currently in construction on a by the high goals we set for ourselves in of 2002 have been at record levels and No.
1 Deansgate, Imperial Wharf, of greater elements of off-site We are nevertheless alert to the number of sites within 6 joint design, quality of product, service we have continued our policy of selling Putney Wharf, Chelsea Bridge Wharf manufacture and pre-assembly of risks associated with innovation in venture companies.
delivery and all aspects of our business our homes off plan at an early stage and The Royal Arsenal.
We shall continue with building systems and products performance.
They continue to grow of the development process.
This policy this successful strategy.
and are seeking to manage evolution Joint venture arrangements are a and we are very conscious that our underpins the cash receipts line in The profile of our sales is 50% to through limited and careful trial normal part of our business, as service must be constantly re-focused our cash flow and provides good owner-occupiers, 39% to investors The design and development of new and assessment in conjunction with evidenced by St James, which is our and improved.
protection against any adverse and 11% overseas investors cladding systems and materials and the research and regulatory bodies and joint venture with Thames Water: and change in market conditions.
include everyone from parents introduction of new access equipment is the warranty providers.
Saad Berkeley our joint venture with I am pleased to report that the National buying a house for their children enabling multi-rise buildings to be Saad Investments.
Our joint Housing Forum Customer Satisfaction As at 30 April 2002, we held forward through to major institutions speedily and safely enclosed without the We seek to ensure built-in quality venture partners also include Land Survey recognised our generally high sales of 3,725 units, representing buying a number of properties for use of extensive scaffolding.
at every stage of construction.
Securities, Development Securities, standards of service and performance.
We have a passion for eliminating Evans of Leeds, Chelsfield, AMEC, We also measure our performance total, 267 million was included in the We are continually researching and waste and defects and their causes, Argent, Peel Holdings, Ask throughout the Group internally by results for 2001 2002: shown as debtors Such investors have been influenced testing new construction systems and and delivering a high quality product Developments, G&J Seddon, asking customers for their opinions in our balance sheet, it reflects cash to over the last 24 months by the poor materials, both to meet and exceed to our customer.
United House and Centros Miller.
across a wide range of product and be collected as the units legally performance of alternative investments, new Building Regulation requirements We are also working closely service issues.
The balance of 785 million especially equities, and capital in areas such as energy conservation A Group forum exists for the with Government agencies and high level of customer satisfaction will benefit the current year as appreciation coupled with rental and also to enhance quality and interchange of best practice in public bodies.
but always with opportunity for well as 2003 2004. incomes has made residential property lifetime durability.
construction methods and components improvement.
We listen to our investment more attractive.
and thereby allows everyone to share in At the time of the share placement in customers and act upon what we hear.
In addition, St James held forward sales The projects at Imperial Wharf the knowledge of others.
January 2002, I believed that further There is no better or more credible of 741 units which represented cash due Our sales to overseas customers are and St George Wharf have been joint ventures we were working on judge of our performance and no of 178 million.
The Board remains mainly on the London schemes.
selected by The Housing Forum as would be agreed shortly but the better pointer to a secure future.
comfortable operating at gearing This shows that the Capital still demonstration projects under the Sustainability finalisation has taken longer than we levels of up to 40% given this level of remains an international centre for Governments Rethinking Construction We recognise the unique opportunities originally envisaged.
Good progress forward sales and since the year property development, and a place programme.
These projects evidence for us to make a major contribution to continues to be made on finalising the Production and Construction end the gearing has increased to where overseas purchasers feel major savings in time, site operative the development of sustainable terms, that are both beneficial to us and The capacity of the construction approximately 31%.
days and improved consistency of communities and a sustainable business.
industry continues to be constrained as The Berkeley Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 13 12 The Berkeley Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 R&A2002 Final Front Half CL 23 07 2002 5:58 PM Page 14 Managing Directors Operational Review The overall aim of our Sustainability with the Queens Award for Enterprise: execute our strategy with great Strategy is to make a long term Sustainable Development the first effectiveness: we have the funds contribution to the environmental, time this award has been granted to a available to undertake large social and economic fabric of the property developer for its approach to developments: and we are able to secure communities in which we work and to building mixed-use schemes in London opportunities when they arise without secure the advantages that this offers to delivering major benefits to the being forced to acquire land in a the Group.
We have published for the environment, society and the wider competitive situation, paying more than first time, alongside the Annual Report economy together with its culture of we would otherwise prefer.
and Accounts, a Sustainability Report continuous improvement over the last in recognition of the importance of the 5 years.
The Queens Award is one of The Berkeley Group was the 74th most issues to all our stakeholders.
the most prestigious awards for profitable quoted company in the UK Key performance indicators have been business performance with only nine in 2001.
This underlines the introduced to measure and assess our awards granted nationally this year.
tremendous achievement and consistent impacts and contributions across a performance of the Group over the range of environmental, social and In addition, the Group won awards last decade.
from the Evening Standard, NHBC Builder Awards, What House?, But laurels are not there to be rested We are proud to be undertaking RoSPA, as well as Britannia National upon.
The Group has in place the over 90% of all our developments on Housebuilder Awards and 16 NHBC management, land holdings and recycled brownfield land.
Awards financial strength to enable us, and results such as these could not be through organic growth, to outWater conservation, use of timber from achieved without first class, highly perform in the sector.
By aiming to renewable sources and the reduction trained and dedicated teams.
provide the very best of customer and recycling of waste are amongst the As the future depends on continuous service at the same time as working to issues which are of high priority for development in this challenging build environmentally sustainable improvement.
We have no doubt that environment in which the quality of communities, I am confident that it our attention to environmental and people is the key to success such is a challenge to which we shall social sustainability contributes to the plaudits should give us every continue to rise.
confidence for the years ahead.
Awards Conclusion I am delighted that The Berkeley The Berkeley Groups policy of having Group has continued to be successful in a sound capital base does produce a winning awards tangible proof of the lower return on equity and a higher Tony Pidgley commitment of our staff to quality and weighted average cost of capital.
St George was honoured However, this policy allows us to The Brewery, Abingdon-on-Thames, Oxfordshire The Berkeley Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 15 14 The Berkeley Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 R&A2002 Final Front Half CL 23 07 2002 6:01 PM Page 16 The Groups diversity helps it achieve its goals.
Each brand has an autonomous management but one quality is common to all each shares the same passion and commitment to high-quality schemes, transforming peoples lives, at work, home and play.
The Groups Brands Berkeley Homes London Berkeley Homes Home Counties St George Berkeley Commercial St James Homes Crosby Homes Thirlstone Homes Berkeley College Homes Berkeley Strategic Land 16 The Berkeley Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 The Berkeley Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 17 R&A2002 Final Front Half CL 23 07 2002 6:03 PM Page 18 From classic 5 bedroom executive homes, to 21st century riverside apartments, waterfront retail outlets, refurbished historic buildings and functional key worker & student accommodation, the Group builds truly diverse schemes.
Complete Diversity 1 2 3 4 A classic home built at Hurst Park, 1 Midhurst by Berkeley Homes The proposed Seacon Tower 2 at Wapping, London Retail and residential schemes 3 at Gunwharf Quays, Portsmouth Student accommodation at 4 Great Dover Street, London 18 The Berkeley Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 The Berkeley Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 19 R&A2002 Final Front Half CL 23 07 2002 6:04 PM Page 20 In the early 1990s, The Berkeley Group took a strategic decision to make urban regeneration the principal focus of its activities.
We did so for compelling business reasons but we were also aware of the contribution it would allow us to make to sustainable development.
In the years that have followed, we have had no reason to regret this key strategic decision.
Regeneration and Revival 1 4 5 2 3 6 7 8 The view from a penthouse balcony at The Royal Arsenal, Woolwich the former naval yard is being 1 5 Chelsea Bridge Wharf, Battersea, London regenerated and brought back to life The Point, Bristol a stunning riverside Kew Riverside, London the redevelopment 2 6 development by Crosby Homes of a former waterworks The Waterfront at Gunwharf Quays, The Keg Store an old brewery has 3 7 Portsmouth been redeveloped in the heart of Bristol The prestigious Hans Crescent development The former Smithfield Fish Market is being transformed in 4 8 in Knightsbridge, London the centre of Manchester 20 The Berkeley Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 The Berkeley Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 21 R&A2002 Final Front Half CL 23 07 2002 6:06 PM Page 22 The aim of our Sustainability Strategy is to make a long term contribution to the environmental, social and economic fabric of the communities in which we work and to secure the advantages that this offers to the Group.
Although our Sustainability Strategy has many key elements there Sustainability are two underlying principles a commitment to continuous improvement, and communication with stakeholders.
2 5 1 3 4 6 7 Barnes Waterside and the Wildfowl & Wetlands Trust, Barnes which was the St George was honoured with the Queens Award for Enterprise: Sustainable 1 4 Development - the first time this award has been granted to a property developer Global Winner of the British Airways Tourism for Tomorrow Awards 2001 The Groups divisions are building affordable housing The Group aims to reduce car dependency by making transport and access routes 2 5 and key worker accommodation a key consideration in the planning and concept stages of any development As part of our working practices on our major projects, we undertake Enhancing the local habitat and ecology is a crucial 3 6 archaeological surveys and work with specialist companies consideration on all of our development schemes In addition to stimulating vital economic, social and environmental regeneration in the areas in 7 which the Group works, we believe that business should play a role in supporting the community 22 The Berkeley Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 The Berkeley Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 23 R&A2002 Final Finance 23 07 2002 5:26 PM Page 2 Board of Directors and Advisers Tony Carey Tim Farrow Greg Fry Geoff Hutchinson Rob Perrins Roger Lewis Tony Pidgley Victoria Mitchell Tony Palmer Derek Sach Fred Wellings Greg Fry ACA Rob Perrins BSC HONS, ACA Company Secretary Executive Committee Roger Lewis FCA Claire Puttergill ACIS A W Pidgley Chairman Aged 45, joined the Company Aged 37, joined the Company in Aged 55, was appointed Group R St J H Lewis in 1982 and has been a Director of 1994.
He was appointed to the Group Chairman on 1 February 1999.
Registered office and A Carey St George PLC from its inception Main Board on 1 May 2001 and was He joined the Company in 1991 principal place of business G J Fry in 1986.
He was appointed to the appointed Group Finance Director and was appointed a Group Main Berkeley House RC Perrins Group Main Board with effect from on 2 November 2001.
He is a member Board Director in early 1992.
19 Portsmouth Road 1 May 1996 and is a member of of the Executive Committee.
He is a member of the Executive Cobham Audit Committee the Executive Committee.
Committee and Chairman of the Surrey KT11 1JG F Wellings Chairman Nomination Committee.
Geoff Hutchinson Derek Sach V M Mitchell Tony Pidgley Aged 43, joined the Company Aged 53, was appointed a Registered number H A Palmer in October 1993, initially with Non-executive Director on 29 June 1454064 D S Sach Aged 54, was a co-founder of the responsibility for the Midlands 1999.
He is currently a senior Company in 1976 with Jim Farrer.
He has been Chairman executive of The Royal Bank of Registrars and Remuneration Committee He is the Group Managing Director of the Crosby Homes Division since Scotland plc and a Non-executive transfer office DS Sach Chairman and Chairman of the Executive early 1995 and was appointed to Director of Associated British Ports Capita IRG Plc V M Mitchell Committee.
He is a member of the Group Main Board with effect Holdings PLC.
He is Chairman of Bourne House HA Palmer the Nomination Committee.
from 1 May 1996. the Remuneration Committee and a 34 Beckenham Road F Wellings Tony Carey BSc, FRICS member of the Audit and Beckenham David Martin Aged 54, joined St George PLC in Nomination Committees.
Kent BR3 4TU Nomination Committee Aged 51, joined the Company 1987 and was appointed Managing R St J H Lewis Chairman Fred Wellings on 1 November 1999 and was Director of that division in 1990.
Solicitors A W Pidgley appointed to the Group Main Board Aged 60, was appointed a He joined the Group Main Board Ashurst Morris Crisp V M Mitchell as Commercial Director.
He resigned Non-executive Director in March in 1993 and is a member of Sacker & Partners H A Palmer as a Director on 26 June 2001.
He was head of research at the Executive Committee.
D S Sach leading city institutions, specialising Stockbrokers F Wellings Victoria Mitchell Tim Farrow MCIOB in the construction industry, and UBS Warburg Aged 51, was appointed a NonAged 46, joined in 1997 as Managing remains active in the sector.
He is the executive Director on 1 May 2002.
Director of St James Homes Ltd. Senior Independent Director, Auditors She is a Consultant Director He was appointed to the Group Chairman of the Audit Committee  of FPDSavills, a Member of ING Main Board on 1 June 1998. and a member of the Remuneration Barings Residential Property Fund and Nomination Committees.
Bankers Mike Freshney Advisory Board, a Non-executive Barclays Bank Honorary Life President Aged 59, joined the Group Main Director of The Golding Group, Lloyds TSB Bank Jim Farrer MRICS Board on 3 August 1998, with South Africa and a Member of The Royal Bank of Scotland responsibility for the product, CABEs Enabling Panel.
She is Aged 72, was one of the two procurement and customer service.
a member of the Audit, founders of the Company and was He ceased to be a Director on 31 May Remuneration and Nomination Group Chairman until his retirement 2002, prior to his retirement at the Committees.
from full time employment in 1992. end of June 2002.
At that time he was appointed Tony Palmer FRICS, FCIOB Honorary Life President and took Aged 65, was appointed a up a position as a Non-executive Non-executive Director on 1 January Director on the Group Main Board.
1998, having retired as Chief He retired as a Non-executive Executive of Taylor Woodrow plc.
He is a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
24 The Berkeley Group plc The Berkeley Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Annual Report & Accounts 2002 The Berkeley Group plc The Berkeley Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Annual Report & Accounts 2002 25
