qxd 5 3 03 3:08 pm Page 4 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS THE ABBEY NATIONAL GROUP 4 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued underlying business performance improves, expected future In total, implementation costs are expected to lie in a similar ratio dividend growth rates and payout ratios cannot be nalised.
to those of other cost programmes in the financial services sector in recent years.
The majority of the implementation spend is We believe that the steps we are taking are consistent with expected to be incurred in 2003 and 2004.
It is the intention that our desire to ensure a strong capital position to protect against some of the cost savings will be reinvested where critical to the market shocks, and to maintain stability and offer security to our transformation of the business.
At the same time our actions are materially reducing the risks in the business against which capital is held.
Portfolio Business Unit As part of the strategic review, all businesses were challenged At all times we intend to be disciplined in managing for in terms of their underlying potential, within the context of the shareholder value.
A net capital release from the PBU is targeted.
companys need to focus on its competitive strengths.
As a result, To the extent that surplus capital arises from our actions, we favour all international operations excluding some international funding shareholder distribution unless there is a compelling strategic and and deposit taking activities have been deemed non-core, as has economic case for reinvestment.
First National due to the lack of synergy and brand compatibility.
It is important to stress that whilst we exit these operations, some Strategy of these businesses remain profitable, and are open for business Abbey National intends to maximise customer and shareholder as usual they simply do not t with the new focus.
We are targeting excellence via an intense focus as the largest pure-play provider of personal financial services in the The asset-based portfolios loans, leasing and bonds, representing a majority of the Wholesale Banks risk, have also been assigned to UK.
While not yet in optimal shape, we nevertheless start with the PBU.
This reects application of the same criteria and also the a franchise of around 16 million customers, a top 5 position in desire to align risk appetite with business advantage and many relevant markets, a distinctive, trusted and powerful brand stakeholder needs going forward.
In 2003 and thereafter, a material fall in pre-provisions PBU income Our goal is to deliver a compelling proposition to UK consumers, would be dependent on the pace of the wind-down of the asset who do not feel that they have been well served by the UK based portfolios.
In addition, dependent on market conditions banking industry.
Through the highest level of service and advice and the speed and manner of the asset run-off or disposal process to all, we will deliver more value to customers to earn their trust selected, further substantial credit related losses could arise as risk and commitment.
Work is underway to develop and implement is reduced and capital released.
All of the PBU portfolios and businesses will be managed to To support this, we have moved away from a vertical, silo-based maximise value to our shareholders, targeting the greatest net organisational approach, to a atter, functional structure.
Equally, it is important that this release of capital structure is built around the customer, and will deliver enhanced and management resource is timely.
As a result, consideration is performance through a streamlining of operations and enhanced being given to a range of strategies which would enable business focus on the economics of distribution and production.
A rigorous and asset disposal, or run-off, of the majority of assets in the PBU consolidation, rationalisation and sourcing review is underway.
within the next three years.
We will operate as one company based on function, with The activities we are exiting are primarily those where we have a single leadership team, whilst reducing risk and realising capital limited competitive advantage and therefore, if kept, would tend from non-core activities.
to produce weak returns on capital and be especially vulnerable to disproportionate losses in bear markets.
Cost reduction We are targeting annualised cost savings exceeding 200m in Progress to date our PFS businesses, deliverable by the end of 2005.
In addition, Abbey National has made considerable progress since the interim extensive cost savings will be realised in the Portfolio Business Unit stage and accelerated the transformation process since the strategic review commenced in November.
as disposals and rundowns are executed.
