qxd 5 3 03 3:08 pm Page 5 THE ABBEY NATIONAL GROUP BUSINESS REVIEW AND FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued 5 The Wholesale Banking asset base and concentrations have These KPIs are aimed at sales efficiency, profitability and length of relationships.
Market share will be a measure of our success, been significantly reduced, with excellent progress also made not a driver of value per se.
We have stepped away from the manufacture of with-profits bonds, replacing them with Our priorities for the next six months include: a version of Prudentials Prudence Bond in our branch network implementation of the new company structure, with all roles and a soon to be launched smoothed investment product confirmed and initial KPIs dened and communicated: for the intermediary channels.
We have taken major steps in mitigating shareholder and customer exposure to further delivering tangible improvements in terms of sales and service, downward movements in equity markets in relation to supported by the launch of new CRM software One on One the stock of business previously written.
Important risk and a new advice model in testing phase: mitigation has also been accomplished in pensions and on track performance versus the cost targets: and interest-rate exposures.
further substantial progress within the PBU.
In 2003, we have already contracted to sell the Consumer and Retail Lending businesses of First National Bank excluding Motor Challenges ahead Finance and Litigation Funding for a premium to net assets of On behalf of the whole Board, I would like to express our regret 218m, which will dispose of an estimated 3.9 billion of risk at the results and dividend cut that we have announced today.
However, we have absolute conviction that we are pursuing Since December, a transformation programme led by the the right strategy for Abbey National: for our customers, our Executive team and 50 top managers has been executed and employees, and our shareholders.
It will be a long, hard process the new top-level structure, strategy and implementation plan that we envisage spanning the next three years.
This has allowed planned cost savings to be our shareholders will want to see tangible progress along the way, validated and is a key enabler to future business improvement.
and we will be reporting regularly, the first such opportunity being at the time of the pre-close statement in June.
When we have As shown by this release, we have also signicantly increased completed our three year strategy, we intend Abbey National to disclosure and transparency in our reporting a discipline we be esteemed by all its stakeholders for its positive value attributes.
The strategy will focus all our resources on serving the personal Key Performance Indicators KPIs and financial services needs of the customer by delivering greater immediate goals value to our customers, we will earn more value for shareholders.
A key principle in the new organisation will be to increase Our focus, as a scale institution, will make us unique and will accountability and drive superior performance through greater enhance business performance and execution.
The events of internal and external transparency.
Over time, we will develop 2002 have also acted to focus minds, and this is already driving and disclose performance measures that are aligned to the an increased sense of determination and delivery within the long term improvement in company value, and will be used business.
Our people are integral to our success and they are to measure performance internally.
The high level KPIs are: We have aligned all our talent, investment and energies on a clear, single and unifying goal under a suitable organisational structure.
revenue per customer: We are now wholly focused on delivering.
operating costs per customer: new customer metrics: customer retention metrics: and Luqman Arnold passive customer metrics.
