qxd 5 3 03 3:49 pm Page 68 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS THE ABBEY NATIONAL GROUP 68 DIRECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT Group IT & Infrastructure Director Chairman Yasmin Jetha, FCMA Lord Burns Yasmin Jetha age 50 was appointed Group IT & Infrastructure Lord Burns age 58 was appointed Joint Deputy Chairman on Director in January 2001.
She joined Abbey National in 1985 1 December 2001 and Chairman on 1 February 2002.
He is also having previously held positions with Lucas CAV and Nationwide Chairman of Glas Cymru Ltd Welsh Water and a non-executive Building Society.
Her previous positions in Abbey National director of Pearson Group plc and British Land plc.
He was formerly include Director, Corporate Systems: Director, Retail Lending: Permanent Secretary to the Treasury and chaired the Parliamentary and Director, Retail Service and Operations.
In addition, she is Financial Services and Markets Bill Joint Committee.
Until October also a Pensions Trustee.
2001 he was a non-executive director, Legal & General Group Plc.
Non-executive directors Executive directors Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Group Chief Executive Non-Executive Director Luqman Arnold Luqman Arnold age 52 graduated with an honours degree in Keith Woodley, FCA Economics from London University in 1972 and has spent the time Keith Woodley age 63 was appointed director in 1996.
He was since then in the financial services industry, including a one year made Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive research sabbatical.
He was appointed Group Chief Executive in Director in April 1999.
He is a former non-executive director October 2002.
Prior to joining Abbey National plc, Luqman was at of National and Provincial Building Society and a former partner UBS AG where he was President and chaired the Group Executive of Deloitte Haskins & Sells.
A past President of the Institute of Board, at Banque Paribas as a member of the Executive and Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, he is currently Management Committees, and at Credit Suisse First Boston Complaints Commissioner for the London Stock Exchange and as a member of the Operating Committee.
a Council Member and Treasurer of the University of Bath.
Group Finance Director Leon Allen Stephen Hester Leon Allen age 63 was appointed director in 1998.
A US Stephen Hester age 42 was appointed Group Finance Director on Citizen, he was previously employed, for 18 years, at Procter 13 May 2002.
He started his career with Credit Suisse First Boston and Gamble and then spent 8 years with RJR Nabisco.
From 1986-1991 he was Co-Head UK Investment Banking that, he held appointments as CEO of Del Monte Foods Europe, and in 1991 was appointed Co-Head of the European Mergers and Chairman and Chief Executive of Del Monte Foods International Acquisitions and Industry Groups.
He was appointed to the Ltd and Chairman and Chief Executive of Tetley Group Limited.
Executive Board in 1996 as Chief Financial Officer and Head of He is currently a Non-Executive Chairman of Braes Group Ltd. Support Division until he was made Global Head of Fixed Income Vittorio Radice Division in 2000.
Vittorio Radice, age 45 an Italian citizen, was appointed director Managing Director, Wealth Management in 2001.
He is currently Chief Executive of Selfridges plc, however and Long Term Savings from 3 March 2003 he will move to Marks & Spencer plc as Malcolm Millington Executive Director, Home.
He was formerly Managing Director Malcolm Millington age 52 was appointed IT Director in January of Habitat UK and is also a Non-Executive Director of Shoppers 1999.
In June 2000 he became Managing Director, Business to Stop India Limited.
Consumer Banking and as of 1 March 2002, he is Managing Richard Hayden Director, Wealth Management and Long Term Savings.
He joined Abbey National in 1975 and was appointed Head of IT for Retail Richard Hayden age 57, a US citizen, was appointed director in 1993 and Group IT Director in 1997. in 1999.
He was previously employed at Goldman Sachs where, since 1969, he held a variety of positions including general partner Managing Director, Wholesale Banking and Deputy Chairman.
He is currently Executive Chairman, GSC Mark Pain, FCA Partners Europe Ltd. Mark Pain age 41 was appointed Finance Director in January Peter Ogden 1998 and Managing Director, Wholesale Banking in November Peter Ogden age 55 was appointed director in 1994.
He began his career with Touche Ross & Co and joined former Managing Director of Morgan Stanley & Co and is currently Abbey National in 1989.
His previous appointments include Manager, Strategic Planning: Manager, European Operations: Chairman of Computasoft Ltd and Omnia Ltd and a non-executive Regional Director, Retail: and Group Financial Controller.
director of Computacenter plc and PSION plc.
qxd 5 3 03 3:49 pm Page 69 THE ABBEY NATIONAL GROUP REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS DIRECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT continued 69 Lord Shuttleworth, FRICS Lord Shuttleworth age 54 was appointed director in 1996 and held the post of Deputy Chairman from 1996 to April 1999.
He was formerly Chairman of the National and Provincial Building Society and the Rural Development Commission.
He is currently Lord-Lieutenant for the County of Lancashire.
Executive managers Corporate Resources Director Jim Smart, CPFA, FCCA Jim Smart age 42 was appointed Corporate Resources Director in March 2002 and is a member of the Executive Committee.
His areas of responsibility include Human Resources, Health and Safety, Internal Audit, Group Customer Regulation Services, Regulatory Affairs, Group Legal Services and Group Secretariat.
He started his career with Abbey National in 1988 as Senior Audit Controller and has held a variety of positions including Group Personnel Director, Head of Financial Planning and Analysis and more recently Finance Director, First National Group.
Deputy Managing Director, Retail Banking John Berry John Berry age 54 was appointed Deputy Managing Director, Retail Banking in June 2002.
In November 2002 he assumed responsibility for the Retail Bank and attends the Executive Committee.
He joined Abbey National in 1969 and has held a wide variety of appointments including Operations Director, Marketing Director, European Director and more recently Retail Sales Director.
Organisational structure As part of the Groups strategic review, a new functional organisational structure is being implemented.
This has the effect of changing the roles and responsibilities of a number of full Board and Executive Committee members, with effect from 26 February 2003.
See Business overview Organisational structure for further details.
