4c-Accounting policies AW2 5 3 03 3:58 pm Page 96 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS THE ABBEY NATIONAL GROUP 96 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of presentation Goodwill arising on consolidation as a result of the acquisitions The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance of subsidiary undertakings, and the purchase of businesses prior to with the special provisions of Part VII Schedule 9 of the Companies 1 January 1998, has previously been written off directly to reserves.
Act 1985 applicable to banking companies and banking groups.
On disposal of subsidiary undertakings and businesses, such goodwill is charged to the profit and loss account balanced by Accounting convention an equal credit to reserves.
Where such goodwill in continuing The Group prepares its financial statements under the historical businesses has suffered an impairment, a similar charge to the cost convention, modified by the revaluation of certain assets profit and loss account and credit to reserves is made.
They are prepared in accordance with applicable Impairment of fixed assets and goodwill accounting standards of the Accounting Standards Board and Tangible fixed assets, other than investment properties, and pronouncements of its Urgent Issues Task Force and with the goodwill are subject to review for impairment in accordance with Statements of Recommended Accounting Practice issued by the FRS 11.
The carrying values of tangible fixed assets and goodwill British Bankers Association, the Irish Bankers Federation and are written down by the amount of any impairment, and the loss the Finance and Leasing Association.
Accounting policies are is recognised in the profit and loss account in the period in which reviewed regularly to ensure they are the most appropriate to this occurs.
Should an event reverse the effects of a previous the circumstances of the Group for the purposes of giving a true impairment, the carrying value of the tangible fixed assets and and fair view.
goodwill may be written up to a value no higher than the original Consistent with other banking groups, in preparing consolidated depreciated or amortised cost which would have been recognised financial statements, the long term assurance business is valued had the original impairment not occurred.
using the embedded value method, with adjustments made for Depreciation the impact of investment variances to long term assumptions.
Tangible fixed assets excluding operating lease assets and Basis of consolidation investment properties are depreciated on a straight line basis over The Group financial statements incorporate the financial their estimated useful lives, as follows: statements of the Company and all its subsidiary undertakings.
Freehold buildings: 100 years The accounting reference date of the Company and its subsidiary Long and short leasehold premises: Over the remainder of the lease, undertakings is 31 December, with the exception of those leasing, with a maximum of 100 years.
investment, insurance and funding companies, which, because Acquisition premiums are depreciated over the period to the next rent review.
of commercial considerations, have various accounting reference Freehold land: Not depreciated dates.
The financial statements of these subsidiaries have been Office fixtures, equipment and furniture: 5 to 8 years consolidated on the basis of interim financial statements for the Computer equipment: 3 to 5 years period to 31 December 2002.
For a description of depreciation on operating lease assets, The assets and liabilities of the long term assurance funds are see Assets leased to customers below.
presented separately from those of other businesses in order to reflect the different nature of the shareholders interests therein.
Interest receivable and payable Interest receivable and payable is recognised in the profit and loss Interest in subsidiary undertakings and account as it accrues.
Interest is suspended where due but not associated undertakings received on loans and advances in arrears where recovery is The Companys interests in subsidiary undertakings and doubtful.
The amounts suspended are excluded from interest associated undertakings are stated at cost less any provisions for receivable on loans and advances until recovered.
The Groups interests in associated undertakings are Fees, commissions and dividends receivable stated as the Groups share of the book value of the net assets Fees and commissions receivable in respect of services provided of the associated undertakings.
are taken to the profit and loss account when the related services Goodwill are performed.
Where fees, commissions and dividends are in the Goodwill arising on consolidation as a result of the acquisitions nature of interest, these are taken to the profit and loss account of subsidiary undertakings and the purchase of businesses after on a systematic basis over the expected life of the transaction to 1 January 1998 is capitalised under the heading Intangible fixed which they relate, and are included under the heading, Interest assets and amortised on a straight line basis over its expected receivable.
Income on investments in equity shares and other useful economic life.
The useful economic life is calculated using similar interests is recognised as and when dividends are declared, a valuation model which determines the period of time over which and included within Dividend income.
Fees received on loans with returns are expected to exceed the cost of capital, subject to a high loan-to-value ratios are accounted for as described under maximum period of 20 years.
AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4c-Accounting policies AW2 5 3 03 3:58 pm Page 97 THE ABBEY NATIONAL GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 97 Lending-related fees and commissions payable and advance.
Default is taken to be likely after a specified period of repayment default.
The length of the default period depends on discounts the nature of the advance and is generally no more than three Under certain schemes, payments and discounts may be made to months.
Once a loan is considered impaired, an assessment of customers as incentives to take out loans.
It is usually a condition the likelihood of collecting the principal of these loans is made.
of such schemes that incentive payments are recoverable by way This assessment is made using statistical techniques developed of early redemption penalty charges in the event of redemption based on previous experience and on management judgment of within a specified period, the penalty period, and it is the Groups economic conditions.
These techniques estimate the propensity policy and normal practice to make such charges.
Such incentive of loans to result in losses net of any recovery where applicable.
payments are charged to the profit and loss account over the penalty period where their cost is recoverable from the net interest A general provision is made against loans and advances to income earned from the related loans over the penalty period.
cover bad and doubtful debts which have not been separately If the loan is redeemed within the penalty period the incentive identified, but which are known from experience to be present payments are offset against the penalty charge.
When the in portfolios of loans and advances.
The general provision is related loan is redeemed, sold or becomes impaired any amounts determined using management judgment given past loss experience, lending quality and economic prospects, and is previously unamortised are charged to the profit and loss account.
The profit and loss account charge for such amounts is included under the heading, Interest receivable.
The specific and general provisions are deducted from loans and advances.
Provisions made during the year, less amounts released Commissions payable to introducers in respect of obtaining certain and recoveries of amounts written off in previous years are charged lending business, where this is the primary form of distribution, are to the profit and loss account.
charged to the profit and loss account over the anticipated life of the loans.
The profit and loss account charge for such commissions Share-based payments is included under the heading, Fees and commissions payable.
Following an assessment of recent accounting pronouncements, and consistent with UITF 17, the accounting treatment of shareDealing profits based payments has been changed.
The Group now accounts Dealing profits include movements in prices on a mark to market for the costs of share-based instruments on a fair value basis, basis, including accrued interest, on trading derivatives.
Dealing computed by reference to the grant date: such costs are expensed profits also include movements in prices, on a mark to market basis over the performance period to which the award relates.
The excluding accrued interest, on trading security positions, trading amount charged to the profit and loss account is credited to treasury and other bills and related funding.
Previously, the costs of equity-based instruments issued to employees under compensation schemes were generally Deferred income accounted for under the intrinsic value method.
The arrangement of certain UK loans and advances secured on residential properties with high loan-to-value ratios may result The 2001 and 2000 profit and loss accounts have been restated to in a fee being charged.
reflect this accounting policy change and as a consequence profit before tax has been reduced by 6m in 2001 and by 4m in 2000, In the Group accounts, such fees are deferred and are included with a corresponding credit to reserves.
Shares purchased through in the balance sheet under the heading, Accruals and deferred Employee Share Option Trusts ESOPs are accounted for at cost income.
The deferred income balance is taken to the profit and less any provisions for impairment, with any increase in the market loss account over the average anticipated life of the loan and is price only recognised on the occurrence of a trigger event such included under the heading, Other operating income.
as the exercise of the option.
No prior period adjustment to shareholders funds has been made.
Pensions Where pensions are provided by means of a funded defined Foreign currency translation benefits scheme, annual contributions are based on actuarial Income and expenses arising in foreign currencies are translated advice.
The expected cost of providing pensions is recognised into sterling at the average rates of exchange over the accounting on a systematic basis over the expected average remaining service period unless they are hedged in which case the relevant hedge lives of members of the scheme.
Dividends are translated at the rate prevailing on the date the dividend is receivable.
Monetary assets and liabilities Provisions for bad and doubtful debts A specific provision is established for all impaired loans where denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at it is likely that some of the capital will not be repaid or, where the rates of exchange current at the balance sheet date.
In the the loan is secured, recovered through enforcement of security.
Group financial statements, exchange differences on the translation No provision is made where the security is in excess of the secured of the opening net assets of foreign Group undertakings to the 4c-Accounting policies AW2 5 3 03 3:58 pm Page 98 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS THE ABBEY NATIONAL GROUP 98 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued closing rate of exchange are taken to reserves, as are those date at which the commitment to disburse funds is considered differences resulting from the restatement of the profits and losses to be binding.
of foreign Group undertakings from average to closing rates.
Purchase and resale and sale and repurchase agreements are Exchange differences arising on the translation of foreign currency included within Loans and advances to banks, Loans and advances borrowings used to hedge investments in overseas undertakings to customers, Deposits by banks and Customer accounts.
The are taken directly to reserves and offset against the corresponding difference between sale and repurchase and purchase and resale exchange differences arising on the translation of the investments.
prices for such transactions is charged or credited to the profit and Other translation differences are dealt with through the profit and loss account over the life of the relevant transactions within Interest loss account.
Securities Outright sales or purchases of securities combined with total Debt securities, equity shares and other similar interests return swaps which remove the risk inherent in those securities are securities held for investment purposes are stated at cost, accounted for as effectively sale and repurchase and purchase and adjusted for any amortisation of premium or discount on an resale agreements.
appropriate basis over their estimated remaining lives.
Provision is made for any impairment.
Investment securities are intended for Contracts involving the receipt of cash on which customers receive use on a continuing basis by the Group and have been identified an index linked return are accounted for in substance as equity as such.
The current market value of the contract is reported within Customer accounts.
This represents a change in In accordance with industry practice, securities which are not held accounting presentation following a review of industry practice.
for the purpose of investment and the associated funding of these The 2001 comparative balances have been restated to reflect this assets are stated at market value and profits and losses arising from this revaluation are taken directly to the profit and loss account.
change in accounting presentation and as a consequence Other The net return on these assets, excluding interest, appears in liabilities has reduced by 1,550m and Customer accounts has Dealing profits in the profit and loss account.
This net return increased by 1,550m.
comprises the revaluation profit and loss referred to above, plus Stock borrowing and lending agreements profits and losses on disposal of these assets.
The difference Obligations taken on pursuant to entering into such agreements between the cost and market value of securities not held for are reported as Commitments.
Income earned and expense paid investment is not disclosed as its determination is not practicable.
on stock borrowing and lending agreements is reported as Fees Securities market values are primarily derived using publicly and commissions receivable and Fees and commissions payable, quoted prices, direct broker quotes or recognised market models.
except when in the nature of interest, in which case they are Where such prices are unavailable, market values for those reported as Interest receivable and Interest payable.
securities have been derived using in-house pricing models.
Where Deferred taxation none of the above sources are available, securities are stated at amortised cost less provision for impairment.
The Group has adopted FRS 19, Deferred tax, in its financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2002.
Deferred Where securities are transferred between portfolios held for taxation is now provided on all timing differences that have not investment purposes and portfolios held for other purposes, the reversed before the balance sheet date at the rate of tax expected securities are transferred at market value.
Gains and losses on these to apply when those timing differences will reverse.
Deferred tax transfers are taken directly to the profit and loss account, and are assets are now recognised to the extent that they are regarded as included within Other operating income.
Previously, deferred taxation was accounted for where Securities are recognised as assets or, in the case of short positions, it was probable that a liability or asset would arise.
The 2001 and liabilities, at the date at which the commitment to purchase or sell 2000 comparative amounts have been restated to reflect this is considered to be binding.
accounting policy change and as a consequence the tax charge has been reduced by 24m in 2001 and by 16m in 2000.
Securities sold subject to sale and repurchase agreements are Shareholders funds including non-equity interests have been retained on the balance sheet where the risks and rewards of ownership of the securities remain with the Group.
Similarly, increased by 120m in 2001 and by 96m in 2000. securities purchased subject to purchase and resale agreements Subordinated liabilities including convertible debt and are treated as collateralised lending transactions where the Group debt securities in issue does not acquire the risks and rewards of ownership.
Bonds and notes issued are stated at net issue proceeds adjusted for Loans and deposits amortisation.
Premiums, discounts and expenses relating to bonds Loans and deposits are recognised as assets or liabilities at the and notes issued are amortised over the life of the underlying AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4c-Accounting policies AW2 5 3 03 3:58 pm Page 99 THE ABBEY NATIONAL GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 99 transaction.
Where premiums, discounts and expenses are matched Derivatives hedging anticipatory transactions are accounted for by swap fees, the respective balances have been netted.
on a basis consistent with the relevant type of transaction.
Where anticipatory transactions do not actually occur, related derivatives Derivatives are restated at fair value and changes in value are taken directly to Transactions are undertaken in derivative financial instruments, the profit and loss account and reported within Other operating derivatives, which include interest rate swaps, cross-currency income.
Where retained, such derivatives are reclassified as trading and foreign exchange swaps, futures, equity and credit or redesignated as a hedge of a non-trading item and accounted derivatives, options and similar instruments for both trading for accordingly.
Assets leased to customers Derivatives classified as trading are held for market making Assets leased to customers under agreements which transfer or portfolio management purposes within the Groups trading substantially all the risks and rewards associated with ownership, books.
Trading book activity is the buying and selling of financial other than legal title, are classified as finance leases.
All other instruments in order to take advantage of short term changes in assets leased to customers are classified as operating lease assets.
market prices or for market making purposes in order to facilitate The net investment in finance leases represents total minimum customer requirements.
Trading derivatives are carried at market lease payments less gross earnings allocated to future periods.
value in the balance sheet within Other assets and Other liabilities.
Income from finance leases is credited to the profit and loss Valuation adjustments to cover credit and market liquidity risks and account using the actuarial after tax method to give a constant future administration costs are made.
Positive and negative market periodic rate of return on the net cash investment.
values of trading derivatives are offset where the contracts have been entered into under master netting agreements or other Operating lease assets are reported at cost less depreciation.
arrangements that represent a legally enforceable right of set-off They are shown as a separate class of tangible fixed asset because which will survive the liquidation of either party.
Gains and losses they are held for a different purpose to tangible fixed assets used are taken directly to the profit and loss account and reported in administrative functions.
In the profit and loss account, income within Dealing profits.
in respect of operating lease assets is reported within Other operating income, and depreciation on operating lease assets is Derivatives classified as non-trading are those entered into reported within Depreciation and amortisation.
Provision is made for the purpose of matching or eliminating risk from potential for any impairment in value, any such amount being included in movements in foreign exchange rates, interest rates, and equity Depreciation and amortisation.
prices inherent in the Groups non-trading assets, liabilities and positions.
Non-trading derivatives are accounted for in a manner The Group selects the most appropriate method for recognition of income and depreciation according to the nature of the consistent with the assets, liabilities, or positions being hedged.
This is determined by various factors including Income and expense on non-trading derivatives are recognised the length of the lease in proportion to the total economic life of as they accrue over the life of the instruments as an adjustment the asset, any terms providing protection against early cancellation to Interest receivable or Interest payable.
Credit derivatives, and the amount of income retained in the lease to cover future designated as non-trading and through which credit risk is taken uncertainties in respect of the realisation of residual values.
on, are reported as guarantees which best reflects the economic For a large proportion of the Groups operating leases, the most substance of those transactions.
appropriate method of accounting for income and depreciation Where a non-trading derivative no longer represents a hedge is the actuarial after tax method.
Other operating leases are because either the underlying non-trading asset, liability or position accounted for on a straight line basis.
has been derecognised, or transferred into a trading portfolio, or Securitisations the effectiveness of the hedge has been undermined, it is restated Certain Group undertakings have issued debt securities, or have at market value and any change in value is taken directly to the entered into funding arrangements with lenders, in order to profit and loss account and reported within Other operating refinance existing assets or to finance the purchase of certain income.
Thereafter the derivative is classified as trading or portfolios of loan and investment assets.
These obligations are redesignated as a hedge of a non-trading item and accounted for secured on the assets of the undertakings.
In other circumstances where non-trading derivatives for linked presentation as stipulated in FRS 5 are met, the proceeds are reclassified as trading or where non-trading derivatives are of the note issues to the extent that there is no recourse to the terminated, any resulting gains and losses are amortised over the Group are shown deducted from the securitised assets on the face remaining life of the hedged asset, liability or position.
Unamortised of the balance sheet.
gains and losses are reported within Prepayments and accrued income and Accruals and deferred income on the balance sheet.
4c-Accounting policies AW2 5 3 03 3:58 pm Page 100 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS THE ABBEY NATIONAL GROUP 100 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Long term assurance business Reserve capital instruments The value of the long term assurance business represents the value Reserve capital instruments RCIs, included within Other long term of the shareholders interest in the long term assurance funds, capital instruments, are unsecured securities, subordinated to the which consists of the present value of the surplus expected to claims of unsubordinated and subordinated creditors.
Following emerge in the future from business currently in force, together the issue of UITF 33, Obligations in capital instruments, in February with the Groups interest in the surplus retained within the long 2002, the treatment of RCIs has changed.
RCIs are now treated as term assurance funds.
subordinated liabilities: previously RCIs were included within nonequity shareholders funds.
Interest payable on the RCIs is now In determining this value, assumptions relating to investment included within Interest payable: previously such interest was returns, future mortality, persistency and levels of expenses are included within Other non-equity interest appropriations.
based on experience of the business concerned.
The surplus expected to emerge in the future is discounted at a risk-adjusted The 2001 comparative amounts have been restated to reflect this discount rate after provision has been made for taxation.
In line accounting policy change and as a consequence profit before tax with developing industry practice and to improve transparency, the has been reduced by 19m, with profits attributable to ordinary accounting policy for investment values has been changed.
Shareholders funds including market values are now used as the base point for the projection.
non-equity interests have been reduced by 297m in 2001.
Previously an assumed current smoothed value in line with what Comparative amounts for 2000 are unaffected.
the values would have been had they followed an assumed long Changes in accounting policy term return over time was used.
The application of changes in accounting policy have had the The impact of the difference between the actual investment return following impacts: and the expected return over a year is shown within Embedded 2002 2001 2000 m m m value rebasing and other adjustments in the profit and loss account Profit attributable to shareholders and disclosed in note 20.
With the exception of products with Embedded value rebasing 480 328 72 material explicit investment guarantees, assumptions as to future FRS 17 deferred tax 100 24 16 investment returns rather than forward market rates are used to UITF 33 reserve capital instruments 36 19 assess the future value of both assets and liabilities, in all cases Expensing share options 7 6 4 projecting from the current market values.
Where material 423 329 60 investment guarantees are given, the market forward rate is used Opening shareholders funds to assess the value of the liability.
Any adjustments to other long Embedded value rebasing 353 25 term investment assumptions, such as changes in the proportions FRS 17 deferred tax 120 96 UITF 33 reserve capital instruments 297 held in various asset classes, are also included in Income from long 530 71 term assurance business.
Other reclassifications have been made to certain balance sheet The 2001 and 2000 comparative amounts have been restated to lines, see notes 25 and 31 for further details.
reflect this accounting policy change and as a consequence profit before tax has been reduced by 443m in 2001 and by 102m in 2000.
Shareholders funds including non-equity interests have been reduced by 353m in 2001 and by 25m in 2000.
Changes in the value, which is determined on a post-tax basis, are included in the profit and loss account grossed up at the effective rate of tax.
The post-tax increase in the value is treated as non-distributable until it emerges as part of the surplus.
The values of the assets and liabilities of the long term assurance funds are based on the amounts included in the financial statements of the Life Assurance companies.
The amounts of these assets, which are valued at market value, and liabilities of the long term assurance funds included in the consolidated balance sheet are based upon the life assurance balance sheets prepared in compliance with the special provisions relating to insurance groups of section 255A and Schedule 9A to the Companies Act 1985.
