Accounting Policies Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modified to include the revaluation of certain investments, and in accordance with applicable Accounting Standards.
The following principal accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Groups financial statements.
The Group has adopted FRS 19 Deferred Tax in these financial statements.
The comparative figures have been restated accordingly.
Consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the accounts of the Company and all its subsidiary undertakings made up to 30 September 2002.
As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, a separate profit and loss account of the Company is not presented.
The consolidated profit and loss account includes the results of subsidiary undertakings acquired during the year from their effective date of acquisition, the results of subsidiary undertakings disposed of during the year up to their effective date of disposal, and the Groups share of the results of associated undertakings.
In accordance with FRS 8, no disclosure is made of transactions or balances between group entities that have been eliminated on consolidation.
Associated undertakings are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at cost plus attributable share of revaluations and retained profits.
Goodwill Purchased goodwill and goodwill arising on consolidation in respect of acquisitions before 1 October 1998, when FRS 10, Goodwill and intangible assets was adopted, was written off to reserves in the year of acquisition.
Goodwill representing the excess of the fair value of the consideration and associated costs given over the fair value of the seperable net assets acquired arising on consolidation in respect of acquisitions since 1 October 1998 is capitalised and amortised over its estimated useful life.
The estimated useful life is normally considered to be twenty years, unless there are factors which indicate that a different period is appropriate.
The estimated value of unit trust management contracts is included in the calculation of the fair value of the net assets acquired as these contracts have no maturity date.
Other management contracts are excluded from the calculation of the net assets acquired and are treated as purchased goodwill.
Fixed intangible assets Unit trust management contracts purchased by the Group are stated at cost and disclosed as intangible assets.
These assets are not amortised, but are subject to an annual impairment review.
The present value in use representing the excess of the fair value of the consideration and associated costs over the fair value of the separate net assets acquired, of the closed fund life business purchased by the Group is treated as an intangible asset and is amortised over a ten year period.
The Directors consider that a ten year period is appropriate in respect of the Isle of Man life assurance business as this is in line with the expected pattern of cash emerging from the life fund.
Investments Listed fixed asset investments are held at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Unlisted fixed asset investments, other than associated undertakings, are valued at cost less provision for impairment, with the exception of Lombard International Assurance which has been valued on the basis of the relevant share of Lombards most recently available embedded value.
Investments held as current assets are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Stocks Stocks of units in managed funds are stated at the lower of cost and market value, calculated at the bid price on the balance sheet date.
Turnover Turnover represents the amount receivable in respect of the Groups activities in providing investment management and property asset management services.
Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised without discounting in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19.
32 Aberdeen Asset Management Leases Where the Group enters into a lease which entails taking substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset, the lease is treated as a finance lease.
All other leases are operating leases and the rental charges are taken to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the life of the lease.
Depreciation Depreciation is provided by the Group to write off the cost, less any anticipated residual value, of fixed tangible assets by equal instalments over their estimated useful economic lives as follows: Heritable property : 50 years Leasehold property : over the period of the lease Property improvements : 5 years or the period of the lease Computers, fixtures and fittings : 3 - 10 years Motor vehicles : 4 years Foreign exchange Transactions of UK companies which are denominated in foreign currencies are converted at the rates of exchange ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the gains or losses on translation are dealt with in the profit and loss account.
The assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated at the closing exchange rates.
Profit and loss accounts of such undertakings are consolidated at the average rates of exchange during the year.
Gains and losses arising on these translations are taken to reserves net of exchange differences arising on related foreign currency borrowings.
Pension costs The principal pension scheme operated by the Group is a self-administered money purchase scheme.
In addition overseas subsidiaries make contributions to various trade and state money purchase schemes.
Benefits from these schemes are based on contributions made.
Payments made to the schemes represent current service contributions and are charged to the profit and loss account.
The Group also operates two defined benefit pension schemes which arose on acquisitions.
Both of these schemes are closed to new membership and to future service accruals.
Contributions to these schemes, which are paid according to the advice of an actuary, are charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the cost over the expected working lives of active members.
Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP and Share Incentive Plan SIP The companys shares held by the ESOP and SIP are included in the financial statements as a fixed asset investment until such time as the interest in the shares is transferred unconditionally to the employees.
The cost of awards to employees that take the form of such shares is recognised in the period to which the employees performance relates.
Debt and debt issue costs Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds after deduction of issue costs.
The carrying amount is increased by the amortisation of issue costs in respect of the accounting period and reduced by payments made in the period.
Issue costs of debt are amortised in the profit and loss account over the term of such debt.
Long term life assurance business The Group includes the results of its long term life assurance business by consolidating shareholders entitlements as reflected in shareholders funds and the non-technical profit and loss account of the insurance companies accounts, prepared on a modified statutory solvency basis.
The technical account, which deals with long term insurance business premiums, claims, investment returns and other related insurance costs is not consolidated.
Policyholder assets are disclosed as a single item on the Group balance sheet, matched by a liability line item for liabilities of long term life assurance business, which includes any surplus not recognised in the group accounts.
Summaries of the long term insurance business technical account and balance sheet details are disclosed in note 25.
Exceptional items Items of income and expense that the Directors consider exceptional by virtue of their size or incidence are disclosed separately in order to facilitate an understanding of the results.
