Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the twentieth Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at The Gordon Suite, Aberdeen Exhibition and Conference Centre, Bridge of Don, Aberdeen AB23 8BL, at 12.30pm on Friday 17 January 2003 for the following purposes: 1.
To receive the Directors Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2002, together with the Auditors report thereon.
To declare a final dividend of 2.15 pence per ordinary share.
To reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as Auditors and to authorise the Directors to agree their remuneration.
To re-elect as a Director Mr C L A Irby who retires by rotation.
To approve the Remuneration Report.
To consider the following resolution which will be proposed as an Ordinary resolution: That the Directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purpose of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined in Section 80 2 of the Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 5,837,560 representing 33% of the present issued share capital provided that this authority shall expire unless previously renewed varied or revoked by the Company in general meeting at the next Annual General Meeting of the Company the Section 80 period save that the Company may prior to the expiry of the Section 80 period make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after the Section 80 period and the Directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
To consider the following resolutions which will be proposed as Special resolutions: 7.
That, subject to the passing of the previous resolution, the Directors be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Act to allot and make offers or agreements to allot equity securities as defined in Section 94 2 of the Act for cash during the period the Section 89 period at any time up to the next Annual General Meeting of the Company as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to i the allotment of up to an aggregate nominal amount of 884,478 representing 5% of the present issued ordinary share capital and ii the allotment of equity securities pursuant to a rights issue but so that the directors may, at any time prior to the expiry of the Section 89 period, make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after the expiry of the Section 89 period and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the power had not expired.
That the Company is, pursuant to Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985, hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 of the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company ordinary shares provided that: - 1 the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 8,844,787, representing 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the company: 2 the minimum price which may be paid for ordinary shares is 10 pence per ordinary share: 3 the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the ten business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary share is contracted to be purchased: Aberdeen Asset Management 63 4 the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which contract to purchase will be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may make the purchase of the ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract, and: 5 the authority hereby conferred shall expire on the earlier of the date of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2004 or 16 April 2004.
By order of the Board John Brett Secretary One Albyn Place Aberdeen, AB10 1YG 20 December 2002 Notes: 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a Member of the Company.
A Form of Proxy, in order to be valid, must be delivered to Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6ZR not later than 12.30pm Wednesday 15 January 2003.
The following documents are available for inspection during normal business hours at the Companys registered office on any weekday except Saturdays and public holidays, and at the place of the meeting for a period of fifteen minutes prior to the Annual General Meeting and during the meeting: i The Register of Directors Interests and those of their families in the share capital of the Company.
ii Copies of all contracts of service of Directors of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Only those Members entered on the companys Register of Members not later than 12.30pm on 15 January 2003 or, if the meeting is adjourned, shareholders entered on the companys Register of Members not later than 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting.
