4 BG GROUP PLC 2002 financial calendar Annual General Meeting 22 April 2003 Ex-dividend date for 2002 final dividend 19 March 2003 Record date for 2002 final dividend 21 March 2003 Payment of 2002 final dividend Shareholders 2 May 2003 ADR holders 12 May 2003 Financial year end 31 December 2003 chairmans and chief executives statement where every individual in the organisation has a clear sense of and manage risk at asset, regional and Group levels.
We will their contribution to Group goals and a real desire to take continue to maintain the highest standards of governance personal responsibility to search for improved solutions.
throughout the Group, based on our absolute commitment to integrity and high ethical standards in all our operations.
OPERATING RESPONSIBLY We made two changes to your Board of Directors during the Our Statement of Business Principles has been reviewed by the year.
In August, Ashley Almanza was appointed Chief Financial Board.
It continues to provide a firm foundation of values and Officer and Executive Director on the Board.
Ashley, who has operating principles.
held a number of senior finance positions with the Group over We remain strongly committed to the health, safety and security the last nine years, succeeds Andrew Bonfield.
We would like to of our employees and of all those affected by our operations.
thank Andrew for the commitment and leadership he brought Over the last few years, we have made great strides in improving to the Company in his time with us.
In September, Sir Robert safety.
We had an injury rate of 0.7 per million hours worked Wilson, currently chairman of Rio Tinto plc and non-executive this year, continuing the downward trend from previous director of Diageo plc, was appointed non-executive Director.
However, despite our efforts, We would also like to thank our shareholders.
Many of you have we deeply regret that there were two contractor fatalities at been with us for some time and have witnessed the Groups our Karachaganak project in Kazakhstan in 2002.
Any fatality is remarkable transformation from a national utility to a major unacceptable.
We therefore make considerable efforts to identify player in the worlds liberalising energy markets.
and share lessons learnt with our partners and contractors.
Although gas is a relatively clean and efficient fuel, we place our THE FUTURE responsibility to minimise the impact of our operations on the Your Companys goal is to deliver top quartile shareholder environment at the core of our business planning.
We operate returns as measured against the performance of our energy within a company-wide environmental management system to industry peers.
We have already established an enviable track minimise environmental impacts.
We have made a commitment record.
With the continuing support of our shareholders and that all major activities where we have a controlling interest our people, we are well positioned to seize the wealth of will achieve external certification of their environmental opportunities in the global market.
During 2002, BG assets in Bolivia, Brazil, Northern Ireland and Egypt achieved ISO 14001.
We recognise that our licence to operate depends in part on the value we can return to the communities among whom we develop our projects.
As well as community investment projects Sir Richard Giordano KBE Chairman managed through the BG Foundation with its theme of skills transfer, we aim to develop awareness of how our businesses can support social and economic development in the communities.
With respect to governance, we are witnessing the emergence of new standards.
BG Group is already well positioned to meet these new requirements.
Our governance system, in which your Board is closely engaged, is based on our clear and strongly held Business Principles.
We have robust processes to identify Frank Chapman Chief Executive
