140 BG GROUP PLC 2002 definitions For the purpose of this document the following definitions apply: Euros FEED Front End Engineering Design $ US dollars Group The Company and its subsidiary undertakings UK pounds Sterling GW Gigawatt API American Petroleum Institute km Kilometres bcf Billion cubic feet Lattice or Lattice Group Lattice Group plc or any of its subsidiary bcm Billion cubic metres undertakings, joint ventures or associated bcma Billion cubic metres per annum undertakings BG The Company or the Group or any of its Lattice Group plc Lattice Group plc, the ultimate parent subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures or company of Lattice associated undertakings mmbbl Million barrels BG Energy Holdings mmboe Million barrels of oil equivalent Limited or BGEH BG Energy Holdings Limited, a subsidiary of the Company mmcm Million cubic metres BG Energy Holdings BG Energy Holdings Limited and its mmcmd Million cubic metres per day subsidiary undertakings consolidated with mmscf Million standard cubic feet its share of joint ventures and associated undertakings mmscfd Million standard cubic feet per day BG Transco Holdings Transco Holdings plc formerly named BG mmscm Million standard cubic metres Transco Holdings plc and its subsidiary mmscmd Million standard cubic metres per day undertakings consolidated with its share of joint ventures and associated mtpa Million tonnes per annum undertakings MW Megawatt billion or bn One thousand million Ofgem The Office of Gas and Electricity Markets boe Barrels of oil equivalent PSA Production Sharing Agreement boed Barrels of oil equivalent per day PSC Production Sharing Contract bopd Barrels of oil per day ROACE Return on Average Capital Employed CCGT Combined Cycle Gas Turbine sq km Square kilometres Combined Code The Combined Code on Corporate tcf Trillion cubic feet Governance appended to the ListingRules of the UK ListingAuthority Transco The gas transportation business carried out by Transco plc Company BG Group plc Transco Holdings plc Transco Holdings plc formerly known as DCQ Daily Contract Quantity BG Transco Holdings plc, which became demerger The demerger of certain businesses part of Lattice on demerger principally Transco by BG to Lattice Transco plc Transco plc formerly known as BG Transco Group plc, which became effective on plc and before that as BG plc, a subsidiary 23 October 2000 of Transco Holdings plc and which became DTI Department of Trade and Industry part of Lattice on demerger EPC Engineer Procure Construct UKCS United Kingdom Continental Shelf BG Group plc 100 Thames Valley Park Drive Reading, Berkshire RG6 1PT www.
com Registered in England No.
3690065 Designed and produced by Corporate Edge.
Printed by St Ives Burrups.
BG Group Annual Review 2002 CONTENTS 1 Financial Highlights 2 Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement 3 Financial Calendar 4 The Year in Review 5 Business Development 7 Governance and Risk 9 Corporate Responsibility 11 Board of Directors 12 Summary Directors Report 13 Summary Remuneration Report 17 Summary Financial Statements 19 Notice of Annual General Meeting Important note This Annual Review is only a summary of information in the Companys accounts, Directors Report and Directors Remuneration Report.
It does not contain sufficient information to allow for a full understanding of the results of the Group and the state of affairs of the Company or the Group or of its policies and arrangements concerning Directors remuneration as would be provided by the full BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2002.
Shareholders who would like more detailed information may obtain a copy of the full Annual Report and Accounts for 2002 from our website www.
Alternatively it is available free of charge from the Head of Investor Relations at the registered office address on the back page.
If you wish to receive the full Annual Report and Accounts in future years please write to Lloyds TSB Registrars at their address, shown on the back page.
BG BG GR GROU OUP P PL PLC C 200 2002 2 1 1 BG IS AN INTEGRATED GAS MAJOR: OUR FOCUS IS ON UNDERSTANDING, BUILDING AND SUPPLYING NATURAL GAS MARKETS AROUND THE WORLD.
financial highlights bg continuing operations 2002 2001 i ii Turnover m 2 610 2 508 ii Total operating profit m 888 833 ii Earnings m 424 465 ii Earnings per share p 12.0 13.3 iii Cash inflow from normal operating activities m 1 015 837 Capital investment m 1 510 1 079 Net borrowings m 1 002 538 Net assets m 3 348 3 530 i Results of gas trading activities are presented on a net basis and 2001 has been restated accordingly.
There is no impact on operating profit ii Excluding exceptional items iii Cash flow excluding one-off items 2 BG GROUP PLC 2002 SIR RICHARD GIORDANO, CHAIRMAN LEFT FRANK CHAPMAN, CHIEF EXECUTIVE chairmans and chief executives statement This has been a year of strong growth: an excellent performance in a difficult business environment.
Our integrated gas major strategy continues to deliver strong During 2002, BG increased its proved gas and oil reserves by 31% growth against a background of political turbulence and global through commercialisation of discoveries, reserves upgrades economic slowdown.
BGs success is based on core strengths and acquisitions.
Today, we have an outstanding hydrocarbon across the gas chain from reservoir to burner tip.
We have an resource base: 8.7 billion barrels of oil equivalent, of which more outstanding ability to find and develop gas reserves at very than 4.6 billion barrels are proved and probable reserves.
We have a proven track record in developing represents over 64 years of potential production at 2002 and serving gas markets in many parts of the world.
confident that this strategy and these skills will enable us to External benchmarking studies showed BGs exploration and continue to deliver profitable growth and to provide production business as a top quartile performer in three year exceptional shareholder value.
average finding and development costs, annual unit operating costs and reserves replacement.
Our skills in Liquefied Natural BUSINESS PERFORMANCE Gas enable us to move our gas reserves long distances to markets In our second full year of business as the new BG Group, with unsatisfied demand for natural gas.
During the year our we delivered another strong set of results.
Operating profits Transmission and Distribution T&D throughput increased by increased by 7% whilst underlying operating profit increased 4% and we added over 1 400 km of new gas distribution network.
by 13% at constant upstream prices.
As a result of the We revised our 2003 and 2006 T&D volume targets to reflect unanticipated and abruptly imposed North Sea tax surcharge, adverse economic conditions in Argentina, and the delayed earnings fell by 9%.
Excluding the 95 million tax surcharge, power market growth in Brazil and greater than anticipated earnings per share would have been 11% higher than in 2001. availability of high sulphur fuel oil.
Gas-fired power generation Our total operating profit has grown by a compound average provides opportunities to pull gas through to developing markets.
rate of 41% per annum since 1997 due to strong growth and the 2002 saw a 19% increase in profits from Power and we achieved transformation of our cost base.
This growth has been achieved our 2003 power capacity target ahead of schedule.
across our upstream and downstream segments.
The Group We also explore opportunities to create new businesses, particularly continued to generate strong operating cashflows and, where these exploit synergies with our distribution activities notwithstanding a substantial capital investment programme and enhance existing assets.
We are developing new businesses of 1.5 billion, we ended the year with gearing of only 23%.
in three market segments: natural gas vehicles, domestic In accordance with our existing dividend policy, your Board is combined heat and power and telecommunications networks.
recommending a final dividend of 1.55 pence per ordinary share, making a full year total of 3.1 pence.
STRATEGY Our essential strategy and direction continue unchanged: strong BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS growth and good returns from an integrated and internationally Our businesses continue to perform well and we are in a good diversified energy business, with the emphasis clearly on gas: position to deliver our 2003 targets for production and for developing reserves, building and accessing markets: and return on average capital employed.
participating in the mid-stream enabling businesses.
Excluding exceptional items BG GROUP PLC 2002 3 financial calendar Annual General Meeting 22 April 2003 Ex-dividend date for 2002 final dividend 19 March 2003 Record date for 2002 final dividend 21 March 2003 Payment of 2002 final dividend Shareholders 2 May 2003 ADR holders 12 May 2003 Financial year end 31 December 2003 BG AT WORK With respect to governance, we are witnessing the emergence BGs skills across the value chain are central to the realisation of of new standards.
BG Group is already well positioned to meet our strategy.
It is in the execution of our projects that BG truly these new requirements.
We will continue to maintain the excels and this depends on having the right people.
We would highest standards of governance throughout the Group, based like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to what they have on our absolute commitment to integrity and high ethical achieved during 2002. standards in all our operations.
Our successes in the past few years in exploiting opportunities We made two changes to your Board of Directors during the throughout the gas chain have demonstrated the depth of our year.
In August, Ashley Almanza was appointed Chief Financial skills and expertise.
Underpinning these competencies is a Officer and Executive Director on the Board.
Ashley, who has performance culture, which is now the hallmark of BG.
We are held a number of senior finance positions with the Group over creating an environment where every individual in the the last nine years, succeeds Andrew Bonfield.
We would like to organisation has a clear sense of their contribution to Group thank Andrew for the commitment and leadership he brought goals and a real desire to take personal responsibility to search to the Company in his time with us.
In September, Sir Robert for improved solutions.
Wilson, currently chairman of Rio Tinto plc and non-executive director of Diageo plc, was appointed non-executive Director.
OPERATING RESPONSIBLY We would also like to thank our shareholders.
Many of you have Our Statement of Business Principles continues to provide a been with us for some time and have witnessed the Groups firm foundation of values and operating principles.
We remain remarkable transformation from a national utility to a major strongly committed to the health, safety and security of our player in the worlds liberalising energy markets.
employees and of all those affected by our operations.
Over the last few years, we have made great strides in improving safety.
THE FUTURE We had an injury rate of 0.7 per million hours worked this year Your Companys goal is to deliver top quartile shareholder 0.9 in 2001, 1.2 in 2000. returns as measured against the performance of our energy Although gas is a relatively clean and efficient fuel, we place our industry peers.
We have already established an enviable track responsibility to minimise the impact of our operations on the record.
With the continuing support of our shareholders and environment at the core of our business planning.
We operate our people, we are well positioned to seize the wealth of within a company-wide environmental management system to opportunities in the global market.
We have made a commitment that all major activities where we have a controlling interest will achieve external certification of their environmental management systems.
During 2002, BG operations in Bolivia, Sir Richard Giordano KBE Chairman Brazil, Northern Ireland and Egypt achieved ISO 14001.
We recognise that our licence to operate depends in part on the value we can return to the communities among whom we develop our projects.
As well as community investment projects, we aim to develop awareness of how our businesses can support social and economic development in the communities where we operate.
Frank Chapman Chief Executive 4 BG GROUP PLC 2002 bg is an integrated gas company with activities across the whole range of gas operations, from the reservoir to the final consumer.
the year in review In a world where gas is abundant, During 2002 BG increased its production We increased our throughput by 4% affordable and the cleanest of fossil by 25% and increased its proved reserves in 2002.
We revised our 2003 and 2006 fuels, demand is expected to grow at by 31% through acquisitions, new T&D throughput targets, principally to rates faster than for other major sources discoveries and projects.
reflect adverse economic conditions in of energy.
This should present valuable Argentina and the effects in Brazil of the During the past year we completed 25 opportunities for companies such as slower than anticipated development exploration and appraisal wells, of which BG, that are experts in gas.
of a thermal power market and 18 were successful, resulting in a 72% higher than anticipated supplies of We focus on understanding, building success ratio.
Over the past five years a competing fuel.
and supplying natural gas markets.
we have achieved a 71% annual average We have four major business segments.
success rate in exploration and Power Generation Power Our high performing Exploration and appraisal wells.
Power comprises the development, Production E&P business, which finds ownership and operation of natural Liquefied Natural Gas LNG and develops reserves, remains the gas-fired power generation plants.
BGs LNG business combines the centre of gravity of our activities.
The development and use of LNG import and This segment is a strong and reliable increasingly opportunity-rich Liquefied export facilities with the purchase, contributor to BGs profits and offers Natural Gas LNG segment together shipment and sale of LNG.
During 2002 with Transmission and Distribution we achieved our 2003 power capacity T&D and Power Generation Power, Our experience of the LNG export sector, target ahead of schedule.
form our downstream activities and gained from the Atlantic LNG export give us a complete range of skills across project, gives BG a strong position in the New Business the gas chain.
fast-track development and operation We also explore opportunities to create of LNG export facilities.
We seek to new businesses, particularly where BG is an international business, deliver our equity gas reserves and those these exploit synergies with our existing currently active in some 20 countries of others to attractive markets through activities.
We are developing new across five continents.
We believe LNG importation facilities.
We also have businesses in three market areas: natural that our combination of skills and interests in a number of LNG vessels.
gas vehicles, domestic combined heat experience across the gas chain and and power, and telecommunications our geographical diversity are key to During 2002 we increased our LNG networks.
the creation of shareholder value.
Exploration and Production E&P Transmission and Distribution T&D E&P comprises exploration, development, T&D comprises the development, production and marketing of ownership and operation of major gas hydrocarbons, with a focus on gas.
pipelines and distribution networks and the supply of gas through these to the end customer.
ATLANTIC LNG TRAIN 2 COMMENCED BG GROUP PLC 2002 5 PRODUCTION, TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO LEFT.
WORK HAS BEEN UNDERTAKEN TO EXTEND THE ARMADA FIELDS LIFE, NORTH SEA.
BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT United Kingdom We have a major exploration and The Buzzard six well appraisal USA production business on the UK programme was completed in June 2002 BG LNG Services, LLC, has a service Continental Shelf, power generation and we have now started development agreement to utilise the available activities, equity interests in natural gas planning with project sanction capacity at the Lake Charles LNG pipelines and gas sales under longand anticipated by mid-2003.
importation terminal in Louisiana for short-term contracts.
We operate the 22 years from 1 January 2002.
In the first In Northern Ireland, a new 600 Megawatt Armada fields in the central North Sea, year of operations, we received and combined cycle gas turbine power plant the Blake field in the Outer Moray processed 44 cargoes of LNG.
at BGs Ballylumford power station is Firth and some of the Easington expected to commence full commercial Southern Cone: Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil Catchment Area fields ECA in the and Uruguay operations in the second quarter of 2003, southern North Sea.
replacing existing ageing and less BG has a significant position throughout We significantly consolidated our North efficient generating capacity.
the gas chain in the natural gas market Sea asset base, particularly in the Moray in South Americas Southern Cone.
We Trinidad and Tobago Firth, in May 2002 when BG and BP remain active in Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil We continue to build on our position signed what is believed to be one of the and Uruguay, own stakes in natural gas as a major gas player by developing and largest asset exchanges in the recent pipelines and participate in two major producing natural gas reserves off the history of the UK North Sea.
BG disposed gas distribution businesses in the region: east and north coasts of Trinidad, for sale of its interest in its Brae Area assets but Companhia fide Gas fide So Paulo S. A. in local markets and for LNG exports.
BG increased its interests in the Neptune Comgas in Brazil and Argentinas also holds stakes in the Atlantic LNG and Elgin Franklin fields and acquired MetroGAS S. A. MetroGAS.
Inevitably, export facility ALNG, which is already an interest in the Atlantic and Glenelg Argentinas deteriorating economic and supplying markets in the USA, Spain and discoveries.
regulatory environment has had a Puerto Rico.
Volumes In February 2002, the high pressure high In 2002 the government approved delivered decreased by over 11% and sales temperature Jade gas condensate field a development plan for the Dolphin Deep decreased by 71%.
The Blake Flank and Starfish fields in the East Coast development an extension of the Comgas volumes increased by 31% and Marine Area which are expected to supply Blake Channel development received sales increased by 14%, despite the effect gas to ALNG.
In August 2002, production government approval in November 2002 of the devaluation of the Brazilian Real.
commenced from the Hibiscus field in with first oil targeted for the third In December 2002 we announced that the North Coast Marine Area and the quarter of 2003 and, in December 2002, we had extended our existing agreement second train at ALNG commenced first gas flowed from the Juno to sell gas from our Bolivian fields to production.
Train 3 is expected to development ECA Phase 2.
Comgas until 2011. commence operations in the second quarter of 2003.
6 BG GROUP PLC 2002 EQUIPMENT FOR THE SUB-SEA PRODUCTION IN THE SCARAB SAFFRON FIELDS, EGYPT.
MAHANAGAR GAS CONTINUES TO SHOW SIGNIFICANT VOLUME GROWTH OF COMPRESSED NATURAL GAS CNG, INDIA.
In November 2002, first gas flowed through the Southern Cross Pipeline, in which BG has an interest and which links Understanding for Enel S. p. A. to become markets in Uruguay with Argentina.
a 50% shareholder in the project, which is scheduled to be sanctioned by the BG is a major investor in the Exploration work continues and we end of 2003.
Indian gas market with interests in completed a 3D seismic survey off the Mahanagar Gas and Gujarat Gas.
Kazakhstan Both of these gas distribution companies We have been active in Kazakhstan Mediterranean Basin showed a significant increase in volumes for over a decade.
In 2002, substantial In Egypt BG made significant upstream in 2002: Mahanagar Gas 47% sales progress was made with Phase 2 of the and downstream progress.
We continued volumes and Gujarat Gas 77% volume development of the Karachaganak gas our highly successful drilling record with throughput.
condensate field, which will allow liquids a new discovery in the West Delta Deep from the field to be exported to world South-east Asia Marine Area WDDM.
First gas from the markets via the Caspian Consortium line.
In September 2002, the Tangguh Scarab Saffron fields within WDDM is First oil exports are on target for the partners, including BG, announced the expected in March 2003. third quarter of 2003. sale of part of the output of the Construction work started on the first proposed Fujian importation terminal in BG increased to 16.67% its interest in the train of our LNG export project, Egyptian China.
Marketing of the remainder of the North Caspian Sea venture, when the LNG ELNG, following the signature of capacity continues.
The San Lorenzo Kashagan field was declared commercial an agreement with Gaz fide France for the power station in the Philippines, in which in June 2002.
A development plan for the sale of the output of this train.
BG owns an interest, commenced full first phase of the Kashagan development commercial operations in October 2002.
In Tunisia, negotiations continue with has been submitted to the Kazakhstan the government on the development of Government for approval.
Also in 2002, the Barca power station.
The plant could hydrocarbons were discovered at the commence operations in 2006.
Kalamkas prospect in the North Caspian Sea.
In 2002 we were awarded seven exploration licences in the western India Mediterranean, offshore Spain where The purchase of exploration and we aim to start exploration drilling later production assets in February 2002 in 2003. established India as our sixth core geographic area.
BG acquired interests in We have been granted key approvals the Tapti gas field and the Panna Mukta by the Italian Government and Port oil and gas fields, offshore India.
authorities to construct and operate an LNG regasification facility at Brindisi on the south-east coast of Italy.
In February 2003 we signed a Memorandum of BG GROUP PLC 2002 7 governance and risk CORPORATE GOVERNANCE has a controlling shareholding.
Where Committees Corporate governance is the system it has a minority interest, BG encourages The Board has delegated authority to by which companies are directed and and helps its partners to establish the following committees on specific controlled.
UK listed companies are such controls.
All of the committees have required to include a statement on formal terms of reference or, in the BG Group plc has separate posts of corporate governance in their annual case of the Audit Committee, a written Chairman and Chief Executive.
This statement must include charter, approved by the Board.
Further consists of three Executive Directors a narrative on how the principles of details about each committee are set out the Chief Executive, the Deputy Chief the Combined Code have been applied on pages 28 and 29 of the BG Group Executive and the Chief Financial Officer and whether or not the company has Annual Report and Accounts 2002.
The and ten non-executive Directors, complied throughout the year with all membership of each of the committees including the Chairman and Deputy the provisions set out in the Combined is shown on page 11.
The Deputy Chairman also Code.
The Combined Code is appended acts as the Senior Independent Director.
The Group Executive Committee to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing manages BGs business day-to-day Authority.
The Board has a schedule of matters within limits set by the Board.
specifically reserved to it for decision, BG is committed to achieving high including matters of key strategic The Chairmans Committee advises standards of corporate governance importance, financial policy and material and assists the Chairman in the throughout its operations and to acquisitions and disposals.
integrity and high ethical standards in all its business dealings.
The Board All the Directors have access to the The Audit Committee oversees the continually reviews developments in advice and services of the Company Companys financial reporting process, corporate governance.
Secretary, and Directors, if necessary, monitors the adequacy of internal are free to take independent professional control and risk management The following statement sets out how advice as to Board decisions at processes and reviews the external we implement corporate governance.
and internal auditors independence Statement of compliance with the and performance.
The Board considers that all Directors provisions of the Combined Code bring an independent judgment to The Finance Committee considers The Directors consider that the Company the Boards deliberations in respect of financing and treasury decisions has complied throughout the financial strategy, performance, resources, key concerning the Group.
period with the provisions set out in appointments and standards of conduct.
Section 1 of the Combined Code.
The Nominations Committee All non-executive Directors are recommends appointments to The Board of Directors considered by the Board to be the Board.
The Board leads and maintains full and independent of management and free effective control over all wholly-owned from any business or other relationship companies and all activities where BG which could interfere with the exercise of their independent judgment.
8 BG GROUP PLC 2002 the company is committed to achieving high standards of corporate governance throughout the group and to integrity and high ethical standards in all its business dealings governance and risk The Remuneration Committee reviews reviewed by the Audit Committee on the Companys remuneration strategy behalf of the Board.
and policy and approves individual remuneration packages for Executive RISK FACTORS Directors.
A summary Remuneration The key risks to our business are: Report is on pages 13 to 16.
The full Failure to deliver our business targets: Remuneration Report is set out on pages 60 to 69 of the BG Group Country risks: Annual Report and Accounts 2002.
Competition: Internal Control Failure to protect our reputation: The Board has overall responsibility for our system of internal control and for Health, Safety, Security and reviewing its effectiveness, whilst the Environment: role of management is to implement Insurance: and Board policies on risk and control.
The system of internal control is designed to Failure to attract and retain human manage, rather than eliminate, the risk resources.
of failure to achieve business objectives.
Further details of each of these risk In pursuing these objectives, internal factors are set out on pages 32 and 33 controls can provide only reasonable and of the BG Group Annual Report not absolute assurance against material and Accounts 2002. misstatement or loss.
The Board has established key policies and has carried out a specific assessment of the system of internal control for the purpose of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Risk Management The process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company is embedded in our business activities.
Risk management is a core part of our strategy and business planning, investment appraisal, performance management and health, safety, security and environmental management processes.
The effectiveness of this process is regularly BG GROUP PLC 2002 9 corporate responsibility BUSINESS PRINCIPLES Underpinning the Business Principles are In 2002 we sustained our drive to deliver We recognise our obligation to our eight key Group Policies: superior safety performance with a shareholders and to the many reduction in the frequency of lost time Personal Conduct: communities in which we operate in injuries staff and contractors per different cultures around the world.
Human Resources: million man-hours worked to 0.7.
This built on safety success in 2001.
BGs Statement of Business Principles Governance: sets out the fundamental values and Our goal for safety management is Human Rights: principles within which we operate as that no harm is suffered by employees we drive to create shareholder value.
Communications: or contractors, or by those associated with our activities.
We deeply regret the The Statement was first published in Health, Safety and Environment: two contractor fatalities in Kazakhstan 1998 and is reviewed by the Board Security: and during 2002.
The most recent review of the these incidents have led to changes in Business Principles took account of Corporate Conduct.
methods of work and implementation external developments in corporate The Statement of Business Principles of specific solutions to avoid recurrence.
social responsibility and new and the associated Group Policies will be The lessons learnt were shared across BG requirements that followed the series available on our website.
Our 2002 Social and with our partners and contractors.
of corporate collapses in the USA.
In and Environment Report provides further February 2003, the Board also approved Security is an integral part of BG Groups information on our policies and activities recommendations to incorporate clauses business and we evaluate the risks of in this area.
on fraud, theft and security.
operating in our varied environments worldwide.
We incorporated the UK US Our inclusion in a number of external HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY AND Voluntary Principles for Security and ENVIRONMENT ethical indices including the Dow Jones Human Rights in our Security Group Sustainability Indexes is public recognition We believe that the protection of the Policy in February 2003.
During 2002 of our social and environmental health and safety of our employees economic instability in South America, performance.
and all those affected by our business, and tension both in the Middle East and and the protection of the environment between India and Pakistan, provided and security of our assets, are critical security challenges.
Effective risk to our overall success.
We deliver assessment and good mitigation these objectives through continuous processes allowed our businesses to performance improvement.
The annual continue whilst minimising losses Chairmans Awards recognise and reward of revenue.
excellence in health, safety and environment, community development and peoples performance.
Our assets continue to make steady progress with health risk assessments.
10 BG GROUP PLC 2002 TREE PLANTING PROGRAMME, KARACHAGANAK FIELD, KAZAKHSTAN LEFT.
SCHOOL CHILDREN BENEFIT FROM BGS SPONSORSHIP OF TWO SCIENCE BUSES, TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO.
We have a responsibility to minimise our impact on the environment wherever we can.
Our core business Bolivia and Indonesia.
We have adopted We recognise that the social and has a potential net beneficial impact the environmental position to go economic impacts of oil and gas on the environment because gas is a beyond compliance, seeking to meet exploration and development activities relatively low carbon and clean fuel, internationally accepted good practice.
In 2002 we produced capable of high efficiencies.
However, a social impact assessment strategy.
our activities also have the potential HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT Throughout 2002 we participated in the to produce negative environmental BG people are a critical part of the BG World Bank Group Extractive Industries impacts and we control our impacts proposition, a key source of competitive Review, which seeks to understand social through environmental management advantage.
We employ 4 606 people and economic impacts from our industry.
During 2002, BG Bolivia, Comgas around the world, 3 884 of whom work Brazil, Phoenix Natural Gas Northern outside the UK and 3 599 of whom Ireland, Rosetta field Egypt and the are non-UK nationals.
Building and Hibiscus development Trinidad and continuously developing a high-calibre, Tobago received certification to ISO 14001. multinational workforce is essential to the continued growth of the Company Climate change is a major environmental and success of our integrated gas issue for BG.
including the commissioning of Atlantic LNG Train 2 and expansion of the COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT transmission and distribution networks We seek to support social and economic in South America, India and Northern development in the communities where Ireland to new customers should we do business.
We make voluntary and increase gas supply allowing gas to contractual contributions to society, displace higher carbon fuels.
Direct sponsor local groups and run employee emissions from BG-operated facilities involvement programmes.
We also during 2002 were 5.7m tonnes, a 6% undertake social impact assessments, decrease on 2001. develop community relationships and Conservation of biodiversity and access contribute to sustainable development.
to sensitive areas present a challenge to BG Groups voluntary and contractual extractive companies.
We have piloted contributions to society in 2002 totalled Biodiversity Action Plan development 6.5m 7m in 2001.
This includes in Egypt and are working with partners donations of cash, employee skills to minimise impacts in sensitive or equipment.
environments in the North Caspian Sea, BG GROUP PLC 2002 11 board of directors Sir Richard Giordano KBE 68 David Benson 64 William Friedrich 54 Chairman and Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Deputy Chief Executive and General Counsel Sir Richard Giordano was appointed Chairman of David Benson was appointed to the Board of William Friedrich was appointed Deputy Chief British Gas plc in January 1994, having been a British Gas plc as a non-executive Director in Executive with effect from 23 October 2000. non-executive Director since December 1993.
He is a senior advisor to Fleming He joined British Gas plc in December 1995 as is non-executive deputy chairman of Rio Tinto plc Family and Partners and is also chairman of General Counsel after a 20 year career with and a non-executive director of US-based GeorgiaCharter European Trust.
He is a non-executive Shearman & Sterling, where he became a partner Pacific Corporation Inc. After working as a lawyer director of Daniel Thwaites plc, Murray in 1983.
Whilst with the firm, he practised as with Shearman & Sterling, the international law International Trust plc and the US-based Rouse a general corporate lawyer, working mainly on firm based in the USA, he was chairman and chief Company and Dover Corporation.
He is also international transactions, and ultimately headed executive of BOC Group plc from 1985 to 1991 chairman of the Trustees of the COIF Charity the firms worldwide project development and and chairman from 1994 to 1996.
He started his career with Shell before he project finance practice.
i, ii, iv previously served on the boards of National Power joined Kleinwort Benson with which he has been plc and Reuters plc and has been non-executive associated for nearly 40 years.
iii, vi Keith Mackrell 70 deputy chairman of Grand Metropolitan plc.
Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent He is a trustee of Carnegie Endowment for Sir John Coles GCMG 65 Non-Executive Director International Peace.
ii, iii, iv, v, vi Non-Executive Director Keith Mackrell was appointed Deputy Chairman Sir John Coles was appointed to the Board of with effect from 23 October 2000, having been Frank Chapman 49 BG plc as a non-executive Director in March 1998. appointed to the Board of British Gas plc as a Chief Executive He had a 37 year career with the Foreign and non-executive Director in June 1994.
The Board Frank Chapman was appointed Chief Executive Commonwealth Office FCO and retired as nominated him Senior Independent Director with effect from 23 October 2000, having been Permanent Under-Secretary of State in the FCO with effect from 1 January 2001.
He is also a appointed to the Board of BG plc in February 1997. and Head of the Diplomatic Service in November non-executive director of Govett Asian Recovery He joined British Gas plc in November 1996.
He is a trustee of the Imperial War Museum Trust plc and other companies.
He is a governor He has had an international exploration and and chairman of Sight Savers International.
of the London School of Economics and chairman production career spanning some 27 years and, iii, vi of Enterprise LSE.
He is a former director of Shell prior to joining British Gas plc, spent 18 years International Petroleum Company Limited, with with Shell and four years with BP.
i, ii, iv, v which he had a career spanning 35 years.
Paul Collins 66 ii, iii, vi Non-Executive Director Ashley Almanza 39 Paul Collins was appointed to the Board as a nonChief Financial Officer Dame Stella Rimington DCB 67 executive Director with effect from 23 October Non-Executive Director Ashley Almanza was appointed Chief Financial 2000.
He retired in September 2000 as a vice Officer in August 2002.
He joined British Gas plc in chairman and member of the management Dame Stella Rimington was appointed to the 1993 as a Finance Manager in the Exploration and committee of Citigroup Inc.
Previously, he was Board of BG plc as a non-executive Director in Production division.
Over the following years, a vice chairman since 1988 and director since February 1997.
She had a career with the Security he held a number of Corporate and Business 1985 of Citicorp and its principal subsidiary, Service spanning 27 years.
She was the first Unit roles including Finance Director of BG Citibank.
He is a woman Director General of MI5 and the first International Downstream and Deputy Finance director of Kimberly-Clark Corporation and person to hold the post to have her name made Director of BG International.
During this time, he Genuity Corporation and a director and vice public.
She is also a non-executive director of also worked on the successive Group demergers.
He is also a Marks and Spencer plc.
iii, v, vi He acted as Group Finance Director from October trustee of the University of Wisconsin Foundation 2000 to January 2001 before he was appointed and the Glyndebourne Arts Trust, and is a member Lord Sharman 60 Group Financial Controller.
Prior to joining British of the Advisory Board of Welsh, Carson, Anderson Non-Executive Director Gas plc he trained as a chartered accountant, & Stowe, a US private equity firm.
iii, vi Lord Sharman was appointed to the Board working in South Africa and London.
i, ii, iv as a non-executive Director with effect from Elwyn Eilledge CBE 67 23 October 2000.
He is currently non-executive Peter Backhouse 51 Non-Executive Director chairman of Aegis Group plc and non-executive Non-Executive Director Elwyn Eilledge was appointed to the Board of BG director of Reed Elsevier plc.
A chartered Peter Backhouse was appointed to the Board plc as a non-executive Director in February 1997. accountant, he was chairman of KPMG as a non-executive Director in July 2000.
He was He is also chairman of the Financial Reporting International from 1997 to 1999, having been formerly executive vice president, refining and Advisory Board to the Treasury and former a senior partner since 1994. iii, vi marketing at BP Amoco plc.
Previous roles at chairman of BTR PLC.
He was previously chairman BP included deputy chief executive of BP Oil and of Ernst and Young International Limited, the Sir Robert Wilson KCMG 59 chief executive of BP Oil Europe.
He has gained chartered accountants, with which he worked Non-Executive Director considerable gas experience in international for nearly 30 years.
iii, v, vi Sir Robert Wilson was appointed to the Board as LNG and in UK natural gas as head of BPs UK gas a non-executive Director in September 2002.
He is also a member of the been chairman of Rio Tinto plc since 1997 and prior Advisory Board of Carlyle Riverstone Energy to that was chief executive between 1991 and 1997.
Partners, a US private equity fund.
iii, vi He is also a non-executive director of Diageo plc and The Economist Newspaper Ltd. iii Membership of committees i Group Executive ii Chairmans Committee iii Audit iv Finance v Nominations vi Remuneration 12 BG GROUP PLC 2002 summary directors report BGs business segments are Exploration and Production E&P, Liquefied In 2002, the loss on disposal of fixed assets and investments of 14m Natural Gas LNG, Transmission and Distribution T&D, Power Generation included the disposal of BGs 100% investment in Iqara EcoFuels Limited, Power and Other activities.
and part of the Rose field, realising losses of 7m and 2m respectively.
Profit on disposals in 2001 of 98m included profits on the sale of Storage RESULTS OF BGS OPERATIONS and associated assets.
Operating results excluding exceptional items: BGs turnover in 2002 was 2 610m, 4% higher than 2001s turnover of 2 508m.
In previous years, Earnings per share and ratios: Profit for the financial year excluding BG has presented its gas trading activities the purchase and re-sale of exceptional items was 424m, compared to 465m in 2001.
These results third-party gas on a gross basis within the E&P segment i. e. reported include the impact of the change in the tax rate enacted in the Finance Act within both turnover and operating costs.
In view of the nature of these 2002, comprising a 10% surcharge on current year North Sea profits and an activities and as they have become more significant, BG believes that a net associated adjustment relating to opening UK deferred tax balances.
The basis of presentation is more appropriate.
Accordingly, both turnover and impact of this surcharge was to increase the 2002 tax charge by a total of operating costs for prior periods have been restated to show the results 95m, of which 51m related to the opening balance adjustment.
Earnings of trading activities on a net basis within operating costs.
This restatement per share fell by 10% from 13.3p to 12.0p including this tax rate change.
has no impact on operating profit.
Group turnover growth was driven by Excluding this surcharge, earnings per share would have been 14.7p up 11%.
significant increases in the E&P and LNG segments 272m and 228m, BGs gearing ratio debt divided by debt plus equity was 23% as at respectively, offset by a fall of 293m from the T&D segment which was 31 December 2002 compared to 13.2% the previous year.
The increase affected by the adverse economic and regulatory environment in Argentina, reflected an increase in net debt from 538m to 1 002m which arose together with the impact of the Brazilian Real currency depreciation.
from the substantial level of capital investment in the year.
Total operating profit grew by 55m 7% to 888m, with strong growth BGs post-tax return on average capital employed ROACE was 10.9% from E&P and Power being partially offset by lower profit from LNG compared to 13.4% in 2001.
Excluding the North Sea tax surcharge referred and T&D.
E&Ps total operating profit increase of 21% to 731m reflected strong Dividend: The Directors are proposing a final dividend for the year of 1.55p production volume growth of 25%, partially offset by lower realised gas per ordinary share to be paid on 2 May 2003, bringing the total dividend for prices.
Excluding the impact of price changes, operating profit would have the year ended 31 December 2002 to 3.1p per ordinary share.
Progress and outlook: The development of BGs businesses is discussed on LNGs total operating profit fell by 21m, principally due to the costs pages 2 to 10. associated with establishing BGs position at Lake Charles within our shipping and marketing business.
BGs share of the profit of Atlantic LNG Employees: At the end of 2002, BG had more than 4 600 employees, of ALNG an associated undertaking was in line with 2001 as an increase in which around 3 900 were based outside the UK.
volumes was offset by lower prices.
In addition, ALNG Train 2 commenced Annual General Meeting: The Annual General Meeting will be held at its start-up during August 2002.
2.00pm on Tuesday, 22 April 2003 at the International Convention Centre, T&Ds total operating profit fell by 69m to 50m in 2002, principally due to Birmingham.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting, which includes an the 72m fall in profit at MetroGAS, where results suffered the effects of the explanation of the proposed resolutions, is set out on pages 19 to 21. devaluation of the Argentine Peso and the countrys adverse economic and Independent auditors report: The independent auditors report on the full regulatory environment.
Excluding the results of MetroGAS, total operating Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2002 and on the profit grew by 7%.
This was driven by the results of Comgas where strong auditable part of the Directors Report was unqualified and did not contain volume growth up 31% and gross profit improvement led to an 88% a statement concerning accounting records or failure to obtain necessary increase in Sterling reported profit, despite the significant adverse impact information and explanations.
The auditors report did not contain a 9m of the Brazilian Real depreciation.
statement under Section 237 2 or 237 3 of the Companies Act 1985.
Powers total operating profit increased by 20m 19% reflecting increased This summary Financial Statement was signed on behalf of the Board on profitability across the segment.
The largest single contribution came from 21 February 2003 by the 12m commissioning and operating income at the San Lorenzo plant which commenced operation on 1 October 2002.
In addition, our Seabank Sir Richard Giordano Chairman and Premier Power operations both delivered good results throughout the year.
Ashley Almanza Chief Financial Officer Other activities reported a loss of 25m 2001 loss of 46m.
The principal reason for the high net cost in 2001 was a corporate provision for bad debts of which 8m was released in 2002.
Exceptional items: There were no exceptional operating items in 2002.
2001 turnover included a receipt of 34m arising from the House of Lords judgment in favour of the Central Area Transmission System partners in their dispute with Teesside Gas Transportation Limited.
BG GROUP PLC 2002 13 summary remuneration report INTRODUCTION Components of Remuneration This report provides a summary of BG Groups remuneration policy.
The full The current remuneration package for Executive Directors comprises report is set out on pages 60 to 69 of BG Group Annual Report and performance-related and  components.
The Accounts 2002. performance-related components are the performance-related incentive schemes referred to above and the  components Responsibility for reviewing Group remuneration strategy and policy, are base salary, taxable benefits and pension entitlements.
In addition, the recommending any changes and approving individual remuneration Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Companys all-employee packages for the Executive Directors rests with the Remuneration share schemes.
Pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group and Committee.
The Committee consists exclusively of independent nonthe provisions of Schedule A to the Combined Code have been taken into i executive Directors and meets on at least four occasions each year.
Other account in determining the remuneration packages for Executive Directors.
than as detailed on page 15, no changes are proposed to the remuneration policy this year.
The Committee will review the policy on a regular basis and The proportion of each Executive Directors total remuneration that is recommend changes as and when appropriate in forthcoming years.
performance related is significant even for target which is based on budget performance.
For stretch significantly above budget performance, Summary Remuneration Policy the amount of remuneration payable is higher as is the proportion that is BG needs to be able to employ and retain international employees of the performance related.
New legislation the Directors Remuneration Report highest calibre with the necessary skills, capabilities and experience in order Regulations 2002 requires us to explain the relative importance of those to execute its business strategy and thereby deliver strong growth.
The elements of remuneration which are, and those which are not, performance catchment area for recruitment is increasingly outside the UK and the related.
In fulfilling this requirement, we have had to make a number of required talent is scarce.
assumptions, including what the Companys share price growth will be over the next three years and what our total shareholder return will be relative The overriding objectives of our remuneration policy are to enable the to that of a comparator group of companies.
Based on such assumptions, recruitment and retention of this limited executive resource and to reinforce the average proportion of remuneration that is performance related for our strong performance ethic.
Accordingly, the central premise of our target performance is approximately 45% for Executive Directors.
For stretch remuneration policy is that, whilst reward arrangements should be market performance, the average is approximately 75%.
competitive, employees should look to performance-related incentives rather than base salaries to achieve above average reward.
Base Salaries Executive Directors salaries are benchmarked against the median of the To implement our policy, we have a well-developed, company-wide FTSE 50 and reviewed each year on 1 April.
This review takes into account performance management system and we operate three complementary individual performance and market competitiveness.
Pensionable salary is performance-related incentive schemes for executives.
The three schemes derived from base salary only.
are the Annual Incentive Scheme AIS, the Long Term Incentive Scheme LTIS and the Company Share Option Scheme CSOS.
These schemes form Annual Incentive Scheme a significant proportion of the total reward package for executives.
The Company operates a cash-based Annual Incentive Scheme AIS, which provides an incentive opportunity in the range of 0% to 100% of base salary.
The AIS is designed to focus executives on the business priorities for the financial year and reinforce our individual performance culture.
The aim of At the start of the incentive year 1 January, based on the Companys the LTIS is to motivate participants to maximise total shareholder return business priorities, the Remuneration Committee sets both the performance ii TSR as measured against a comparator group of international oil and gas measures and the targets.
These targets ensure that incentives at the companies over a period of three years.
The CSOS aims to drive real earnings higher end of the range are payable only for demonstrably superior growth over the long-term, the mechanism used for measuring this being Company and individual performance.
iii published earnings per share EPS growth relative to the growth in the retail price index, excluding mortgage interest repayments RPIX.
Further details of the AIS, the LTIS and the CSOS are set out below.
The varying performance periods and performance conditions of the three schemes combine and complement each other to enable the measurement and reward of both shortand long-term performance and of absolute AIS, sustained CSOS and comparative LTIS financial performance.
The Remuneration Committee considers that this combination of performance measures aligns executives interests with those of shareholders and establishes a clear link between pay and performance.
i The names of the members of the Remuneration Committee can be found on page 11. ii TSR is defined as the return on investment obtained from holding a companys shares over a period.
It includes dividends paid, the change in the capital value of the shares and other payments to, or by, shareholders within the period.
iii EPS is calculated by dividing the earnings for the financial year excluding exceptional items by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue and ranking for dividend during the year.
14 BG GROUP PLC 2002 summary remuneration report continued For the Executive Directors and other members of the Group Executive companies in the comparator group.
The TSR performance is measured Committee, the financial performance measure for the 2002 incentive year by the independent external corporate broker, Hoare Govett Limited, a was EPS, adjusted to take into account the volatility of Exploration and subsidiary of ABN Amro Holding NV.
For the 2003 incentive year, the Remuneration The LTIS comparator group for the 2002 allocation comprises 21 Committee has agreed that the financial performance measures for international oil and gas companies including BG Group plc of which 12 are Executive Directors and other members of the Group Executive Committee iii headquartered in the USA, three in the UK and six elsewhere in Europe.
will be EPS again adjusted for commodity prices and return on average i capital employed ROACE.
This group has been chosen because the Remuneration Committee believes that the group comprises our major business competitors i. e. those When determining incentive payments, the Remuneration Committee companies against which BG is compared by shareholders.
considers health, safety and environmental performance in addition to absolute and underlying financial performance.
When setting the targets The performance conditions set by the Remuneration Committee for the for 2002, the Remuneration Committee could not have foreseen the 2002 allocation are more stringent than for previous allocations and are as introduction of the North Sea tax surcharge.
For 100% of the allocated shares to be transferred, the Company therefore decided to exclude the adverse effects of the surcharge when they must achieve the Number One TSR performance position within the determined the 2002 AIS payments.
Seventy five percent of shares will be transferred if upper quartile TSR performance is achieved.
A proportion of between 75% and Payments in respect of the 2002 incentive year will be made in April 2003 100% of the allocated shares will be transferred for between upper quartile based on 2002 results.
Only 30% of the allocated shares will be Long-Term Incentives Estimated Present Value transferred if median TSR performance is achieved.
A proportion of between During 2001, the Remuneration Committee sought external, independent 30% and 75% of the allocated shares will be transferred for between median ii advice from external remuneration consultants, Towers Perrin, to establish and upper quartile performance.
Below the median all shares will be an objective measure to describe the value at the time of grant or allocation forfeited.
There is no retest provision.
of long-term incentives which may, or may not, pay out in the future.
This In the event of a change of control, vesting of shares under the LTIS is not measure is referred to as the Estimated Present Value EPV.
The EPV takes automatic and would depend upon the extent to which the performance account of the risk that all grants and allocations may be forfeited.
This EPV conditions had been met at the time.
is then used to determine the appropriate levels of face value CSOS grants and LTIS allocations.
Company Share Option Scheme CSOS Approximately 1 200 employees are currently eligible to participate in the The changes approved by shareholders last year enable the Remuneration CSOS including UK payroll employees and overseas employees above a Committee to make awards under both schemes, up to a maximum certain level of seniority.
combined EPV of 175% of base salary each year.
However, we stated the intention of the Committee that long-term incentive grants in 2002 would The Company grants an option over its shares to each eligible employee not exceed a maximum combined EPV of 130% of base salary.
The actual and the option price is set at the fair market value at the time of the grant.
maximum combined EPV granted during 2002 was slightly less than 130%.
As described below, the CSOS measures performance according to EPS growth relative to the growth in RPIX.
The Remuneration Committee Each year, the Remuneration Committee decides on the appropriate blend considers that the inclusion of an EPS performance measure ensures that of CSOS grants and LTIS allocations that will be made to Executive Directors.
executives only receive rewards when the Company has achieved sustained Awards will always be made under both schemes, with not less than oneearnings growth during the performance period.
To the extent that the third and not more than two-thirds of the total combined EPV being performance target has been met three years from the date of grant, the delivered by either scheme.
For the 2002 awards, the Executive Directors Option may be exercised in whole or in part at any time up to the expiry received two-thirds of the total combined EPV through the LTIS and oneof ten years from the date of grant.
In 2002, the levels of grant made to individual employees were Long Term Incentive Scheme LTIS differentiated based on each individuals performance to date and Currently, a limited number of high performing employees deemed to expectation of future contributions.
For the 2002 grant, the Remuneration be making a significant contribution to the Companys long-term TSR Committee set the following performance targets, which it considers to be performance are allocated Company shares under the LTIS.
For all of the Option to be exercisable, the Company marks the beginning of the performance period.
The Companys TSR must achieve EPS growth over three years of RPIX plus 30%.
Half of the performance against that of a comparator group over the three year period Option will be exercisable if EPS growth over three years is RPIX plus 15%.
will determine what proportion of the allocated shares will be transferred A proportion of between half and all of the Option will be exercisable if into the ownership of the employee.
The Remuneration Committee the Company achieves EPS growth over three years of RPIX plus between considers that measuring performance against a comparator group of 15 30%.
Below this, the Option cannot be exercised.
companies ensures that executives are rewarded not solely based on BG Groups performance but also relative to the performance of the other i Average capital employed consists of total shareholders funds plus net borrowings averaged between the start and end of year.
ROACE represents total operating profit before exceptional items less BGs share of net interest receivable and payable by joint ventures and associated undertakings and the interest charge relating to the unwinding of discount on provisions as a percentage of average capital employed.
ii Towers Perrin has given, and not withdrawn, its written consent to the issue of this document with the inclusion of reference to its name in the form and content in which it appears.
A copy of the consent letter is available for inspection at BG Group plc, 100 Thames Valley Park Drive, Reading, Berkshire RG6 1PT.
iii The other companies in the comparator group are Amerada Hess Corporation, Anadarko Petroleum Corporation, BP plc, Burlington Resources Inc. ChevronTexaco Corporation, ConocoPhillips Petroleum, Duke Energy Corporation, El Paso Corporation, ENI SpA, ExxonMobil Corporation, Kerr McGee Corporation, Marathon Oil Corporation, Norsk Hydro ASA, Occidental Petroleum Corporation, Repsol YPF SA, Royal Dutch Petroleum Co.
Shell Transport & Trading Co. plc, Statoil ASA, TotalFinaElf SA and Unocal Corporation.
A different comparator group was used for the 1999, 2000 and 2001 allocations.
BG GROUP PLC 2002 15 Fixed point retesting is allowed in years four and five, in which EPS growth Sharesave of RPIX plus 40% or plus 50% respectively must be achieved for all of the The Sharesave Scheme provides for eligible employees to acquire the Option to become exercisable.
This ensures that management is motivated Companys shares with the proceeds of a monthly savings contract.
Eighty to make the right decisions for the long-term growth of value without one percent of eligible employees currently participate in the Sharesave compromising the stretching performance conditions.
At the end of year Scheme, contributing an average monthly payment of 207 the maximum five, the Option will be exercisable only to the extent that the performance being 250. conditions have been met.
Shareholding Guidelines In the event of a change of control, exercise of the Option under the CSOS During 2002, shareholding guidelines were introduced for Executive is not automatic and would depend upon the extent to which the Directors, Group Executive Committee members and certain other senior performance conditions had been met at the time.
employees to encourage substantial long-term share ownership.
These guidelines require that over a period of five years, Executive Directors build Currently, grants to individuals under the CSOS are subject to a limit based up and then retain a holding of shares with a value equivalent to two-times on the aggregate of awards made within the preceding 12 month period.
The required holding for other members of the Group Executive This is inconsistent with the individual limit contained in the LTIS, which is Committee is one-times base salary.
The guidelines require that, in relation based on allocations made in a calendar year.
This timing differential limits to 2002 and future LTIS allocations, vested shares net of tax should be the Remuneration Committees flexibility when apportioning the combined retained by the individual until their required shareholding level is reached.
EPV of awards between CSOS and LTIS on an annual basis.
Pension It is therefore proposed to amend the CSOS to bring the grant basis into line The Executive Directors are members of the BG Pension Scheme and the with the LTIS, such that the limits on grants to individuals will be based on BG Supplementary Benefits Scheme.
Benefits accrue at a rate designed to grants made in a calendar year for both schemes.
Approval will be sought target a pension equivalent to two-thirds of their final 12 months salary on from shareholders at the 2003 Annual General Meeting to this amendment.
retirement from BG at age 60, inclusive of pension rights earned either in This will ensure that the Remuneration Committee has the flexibility under previous employments or previous pension arrangements.
each scheme to determine the appropriate blend of awards under CSOS and LTIS that may be made to Executive Directors.
This is a technical, rather Service Contracts than substantive, amendment.
It will not result in increased annual grants The Executive Directors service contracts, including arrangements for early being made.
termination, are carefully considered by the Remuneration Committee and are designed to recruit, retain and motivate Directors of the quality required ALL-EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES to manage the Company.
The Remuneration Committee considers that a To encourage share ownership, the Company currently provides two Inland notice period of one year is appropriate.
Revenue approved all-employee share schemes for its UK employees: the Share Incentive Plan SIP and the Sharesave Scheme.
The Executive Directors service contracts contain change of control provisions.
Should the Directors employment be terminated within 12 months SIP of a change of control, they are entitled to liquidated damages.
The amount There are two parts to the BG Group SIP the Partnership Shares Plan and of liquidated damages is equal to one years then gross salary and a credit the Free Shares Plan.
of one years pensionable service less any deductions the employer is required to make, which the Remuneration Committee considers to be a Under the Partnership Shares Plan, eligible employees are offered the genuine pre-estimate of loss.
The Remuneration Committee considers that opportunity to buy Company shares from pre-tax earnings as part of a these clauses assist with recruitment and retention and that their inclusion regular share purchase plan.
Sixty one percent of eligible employees is therefore in the best interests of shareholders.
participate in this plan of which 66% are contributing the maximum of 125 per month.
Other than change of control clauses, the Executive Directors service contracts do not contain provisions for compensation in the event of early A Free Shares award of 983 shares was made in May 2002 to all eligible termination.
When calculating termination payments, the Remuneration employees in the UK based on BGs performance during 2001.
These shares Committee takes into account a variety of factors including individual and will be held in trust for up to five years.
For 2002, the Board will allow Company performance, the obligation for the Director to mitigate his or her awards of Free Shares in the Company to be made up to a value of 3 000 own loss for example by gaining new employment, the Directors age and the statutory limit for each individual.
All eligible employees will receive length of service.
the same number of shares.
This number will be determined based on the extent to which the Company has met the agreed profit targets for 2002.
16 BG GROUP PLC 2002 summary remuneration report continued Non-Executive Directors Non-executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any of the The Board aims to recruit non-executive Directors of a high calibre with Companys share schemes, incentive schemes or pension schemes.
broad commercial, international or other relevant experience.
Non-executive Performance Graph Directors are generally appointed for an initial three year period.
The terms The graph below shows BG Groups total shareholder return performance i of their engagement are set out in a letter of appointment.
The initial since listing calculated in accordance with the Directors Remuneration appointment and any subsequent reappointment is subject to election or Report Regulations 2002 against the FTSE 100.
We have chosen the FTSE 100 re-election by shareholders.
The letters of appointment do not contain because this is a recognised broad equity market index of which BG is a notice periods or provisions regarding termination payments.
ii Non-executive Directors are paid a basic fee.
Additional fees are also payable, for example, for chairing a committee of the Board or acting as Deputy Chairman.
The level of Directors fees is reviewed against market practice every two years, taking into account the required time commitment.
The next review takes place this year.
HISTORICAL TSR PERFORMANCE Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding over a period since the listing of BG Group plc on 13 December 1999 Vertical axis Value of hypothetical 100 holding 130.00 120.00 110.00 100.00 90.00 80.00 70.00 60.00 Dec Feb Apr Jun Aug Oct Dec Feb Apr Jun Aug Oct Dec Feb Apr Jun Aug Oct Dec 99 00 00 00 00 00 00 01 01 01 01 01 01 02 02 02 02 02 02 BG Group based on spot values FTSE 100 based on spot values i Sir Richard Giordano has an employment contract with the Company.
ii Sir Richard Giordano receives a salary, which takes into account his time commitment and contribution, particularly in relation to the Companys international activities.
BG GROUP PLC 2002 17 summary consolidated profit and loss account for the year ended 31 December 2002 2001 Exceptional Business Exceptional Business Total items a performance b Total items a performance b m m m m m m Group turnover c 2 610 2 610 2 542 34 2 508 Operating costs c 1 877 1 877 1 815 1 815 Group operating profit 733 733 727 34 693 Share of operating profits less losses in joint ventures and associated undertakings 155 155 140 140 Total operating profit 888 888 867 34 833 Profit loss on disposals 14 14 98 98 Profit on ordinary activities before interest 874 14 888 965 132 833 Net interest 80 80 63 17 80 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 794 14 808 902 149 753 Tax on profit on ordinary activites 374 374 287 28 259 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 420 14 434 615 121 494 Minority shareholders interest 10 10 29 29 Profit for the financial year 410 14 424 586 121 465 Dividends 110 110 105 105 Transfer to reserves 300 14 314 481 121 360 Earnings per ordinary share: Basic 11.6p 0.4 p 12.0p 16.7p 3.4p 13.3p Diluted 11.6p 0.4 p 12.0p 16.7p 3.4p 13.3p Dividends per ordinary share: Interim 1.55p 1.5p Final 1.55p 1.5p Directors remuneration m d 3.6 2.9 Capital expenditure including investment m 1 510 1 079 Average number of employees 4 491 4 309 a Exceptional items are detailed on page 12. b Business performance represents the underlying performance of BG, excluding the impact of exceptional items.
c Results of gas trading activity have been re-presented on a net basis.
This restatement has no impact on operating profit.
d Directors remuneration for 2002 includes emoluments of 2.5m 2001 2.2m and 1.1m 2001 0.7m in respect of bonus payments under the BG Group Annual Incentive Scheme 2001 under the BG Group Short Term Incentive Scheme.
As at 31 December 2002, the three Executive Directors were members of the BG Pension Scheme and the BG Supplementary Benefits Scheme, which are both defined benefit pension schemes.
AUDITORS STATEMENT TO THE MEMBERS OF BG GROUP PLC We have examined the Summary Financial Statement, set out on pages 11, 12, 17 and 18 of this document.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS The Directors are responsible for preparing this summarised Annual Review in accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the Summary Financial Statement within this summarised Annual Review with the Annual Report and Accounts, Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration Report of BG Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2002 and its compliance with the relevant requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in this summarised Annual Review and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Summary Financial Statement.
BASIS OF OPINION We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6, The auditors statement on the Summary Financial Statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
OPINION In our opinion the Summary Financial Statement is consistent with the Annual Report and Accounts, the Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration Report of BG Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2002 and complies with Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985, and the regulations made thereunder.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors, 1 Embankment Place, London WC2N 6RH 18 BG GROUP PLC 2002 segmental analysis continuing operations excluding exceptional items Group turnover Total operating profit loss for the year ended 31 December 2002 2001 2002 2001 m m m m Exploration and Production 1 555 1 283 731 606 Liquefied Natural Gas 309 81 8 29 Transmission and Distribution 541 834 50 119 Power Generation 189 192 124 104 Storage 75 21 Other activities 66 90 25 46 Less: intra-group sales 50 47 2 610 2 508 888 833 summary consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2002 2001 m m Fixed assets 5 656 5 168 Current assets 1 127 1 257 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 1 579 1 340 Net current liabilities 452 83 Total assets less current liabilities 5 204 5 085 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 880 691 Provisions for liabilities and charges 976 864 3 348 3 530 BG shareholders funds 3 324 3 406 Minority shareholders interest 24 124 3 348 3 530 Gearing ratio debt debt equity 23.0% 13.2% Debt equity ratio debt equity 29.9% 15.2% Important note This Annual Review is only a summary of information in the Companys accounts, Directors Report and Directors Remuneration Report.
BG GROUP PLC 2002 19 notice of fourth annual general meeting of bg group plc This document is important.
If you are in any doubt about its content, you Resolution 13 should consult an appropriate independent adviser.
To re-appoint  LLP as Auditors of the Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which If you have sold or transferred all of your shares in BG Group plc, please send accounts are laid before the Company and to authorise the Directors to this document and all accompanying documents to the purchaser or determine their remuneration.
transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through or to whom the sale or transfer was effected so that they can be passed on to the Resolution 14 person who now owns the shares.
That the Company be and is hereby authorised to make donations to EU political organisations and to incur EU political expenditure in an aggregate The fourth Annual General Meeting of BG Group plc the Company will amount not exceeding 200 000 during the period ending on the date of be held in Hall 1 of the International Convention Centre, Birmingham B1 2EA the Annual General Meeting in 2004: for the purposes of this resolution, on Tuesday, 22 April 2003 at 2.00 p. m. for the transaction of the business set donations EU political organisation and EU political expenditure have out below.
the meanings given to them in Section 347A of the Companies Act 1985 as amended by the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
This Notice contains the resolutions to be voted on at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Resolutions 1 to 15 below are ordinary resolutions Resolution 15 which will be passed if more than 50% of the votes cast are in favour of the That the Directors be and are hereby authorised to amend, subject to the resolutions.
approval of the board of the Inland Revenue, the rules of the BG Group Company Share Option Scheme in the manner summarised in the Resolution 1 Explanatory Notes forming part of this Notice and as set out in the draft To receive the accounts and reports of the Directors and the Auditors for the rules available at the Meeting and signed by the Chairman for the purposes year ended 31 December 2002. of identification.
Resolution 2 Resolution 16 below is a special resolution which will be passed if not less To declare a final dividend of 1.55 pence per ordinary share payable on than 75% of the votes cast are in favour of the resolution.
2 May 2003 to holders of ordinary shares on the register of shareholders of the Company at the close of business on 21 March 2003.
Resolution 16 That the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make Resolution 3 market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Companies To re-elect Sir Richard Giordano as a Director of the Company.
Act 1985 as amended of ordinary shares of 10 pence each of the Company Resolution 4 ordinary shares provided that: To re-elect Mr David Benson as a Director of the Company.
a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be Resolution 5 acquired is 352 958 187: To re-elect Mr Frank Chapman as a Director of the Company.
b the minimum price which may be paid for any such ordinary share is 10 pence, the nominal value of that share: Resolution 6 To re-elect Sir John Coles as a Director of the Company.
c the maximum price which may be paid for any such ordinary share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations Resolution 7 for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily To re-elect Mr Elwyn Eilledge as a Director of the Company.
Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is contracted to be purchased: and Resolution 8 To re-elect Mr Keith Mackrell as a Director of the Company.
d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2004 or on 22 July 2004 if Resolution 9 earlier: but a contract for purchase may be made before such expiry which To re-elect Dame Stella Rimington as a Director of the Company.
will or may be executed wholly or partly thereafter, and a purchase of Resolution 10 ordinary shares may be made in pursuance of any such contract.
To elect Mr Ashley Almanza as a Director of the Company.
A member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint a proxy or Resolution 11 proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote instead of him her.
A proxy need not To elect Sir Robert Wilson as a Director of the Company.
be a member of the Company.
Resolution 12 Registered office By order of the Board That the Remuneration Report as set out on pages 60 to 69 of the BG 100 Thames Valley Park Drive Emma Nichol Group Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2002 Reading Company Secretary be approved.
Berkshire RG6 1PT Dated 21 February 2003 Registered in England No.
3690065 A proxy form is enclosed with this Notice and instructions for its use are shown on the ii a copy of the rules highlighting the proposed changes to the BG Group Company form.
The completed proxy form should be returned to Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Share Option Scheme referred to in Resolution 15: and Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6BA.
Alternatively, you can submit your proxy iii the register of interests of the Directors and their families in the share capital of electronically at www.
1 The following documents, which are available for inspection during normal business 2 The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations hours at the registered office of the Company on any weekday Saturdays and public 1995, specifies that only those holders of ordinary shares registered in the register of holidays excluded, will also be available for inspection at the place of the Annual members of the Company as at 6.00 p. m. on 20 April 2003 shall be entitled to attend or General Meeting from 1.00 p. m. on the day of the Meeting until the conclusion of vote at the Meeting in respect of the number of ordinary shares registered in their name the Meeting: at that time.
Changes to entries on the relevant register of securities after 6.00 p. m. on i copies of Directors service contracts with the Company: 20 April 2003 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the Meeting.
20 BG GROUP PLC 2002 notice of fourth annual general meeting of bg group plc continued EXPLANATORY NOTES To avoid any possibility of inadvertently contravening the 2000 Act, the Directors consider that it would be prudent to follow the procedure ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS RESOLUTION 1 specified in the 2000 Act to obtain shareholder approval to incur a level of The Directors must lay before the Meeting, the accounts of the Company expenditure to cover all these activities as it did at the 2002 Annual for the financial year ended 31 December 2002, the Directors Report, the General Meeting.
Resolution 14 seeks authority to incur total expenditure Remuneration Report and the Auditors Report on those accounts and of 200 000 in the forthcoming year.
The Board will not use this authority the auditable part of the Remuneration Report.
to make any political donations as that expression would have been understood before the 2000 Act became law.
DECLARATION OF A DIVIDEND RESOLUTION 2 A final dividend of 1.55 pence per ordinary share is recommended by the BG GROUP COMPANY SHARE OPTION SCHEME RESOLUTION 15 Directors for payment to ordinary shareholders who are on the register of Each year, the Remuneration Committee determines the appropriate blend the Company at the close of business on 21 March 2003.
It is proposed that of awards under the Company Share Option Scheme CSOS and the Long shareholders declare this dividend by passing Resolution 2.
A final dividend Term Incentive Scheme LTIS that will be made to executives within a can only be paid after it has been so declared by the shareholders at a maximum combined Estimated Present Value EPV.
EPV is defined in the general meeting.
If so declared, the date of payment of the final dividend section headed Long-Term Incentives Estimated Present Value on page 14. will be 2 May 2003.
An interim dividend of 1.55 pence per share was paid on The extent to which awards may be made under the schemes is also subject 13 December 2002. to the individual limits contained therein.
Grants to individuals under the APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTORS RESOLUTIONS 3 TO 11 CSOS are subject to a limit based on the aggregate of awards made within Any person appointed by the Directors since the last Annual General the preceding 12 month period.
However, this is inconsistent with the Meeting must retire at the first Annual General Meeting after their individual limit contained in the LTIS which is based on awards within a appointment and may be elected by shareholders.
In addition, Directors are calendar year.
This timing differential limits the Remuneration Committees subject to re-election by shareholders every three years.
flexibility when apportioning the combined EPV of awards between CSOS and LTIS on an annual basis.
Mr Ashley Almanza and Sir Robert Wilson were appointed by the Directors since the last Annual General Meeting.
Sir Richard Giordano, Mr David It is therefore proposed to amend the CSOS to bring the award basis into Benson, Mr Frank Chapman, Sir John Coles, Mr Elwyn Eilledge, Mr Keith line with the LTIS such that the limits on grants to individuals will be based Mackrell and Dame Stella Rimington were last elected at the Annual on awards made in a calendar year for each scheme.
This will ensure that General Meeting in 2000 and are now proposed for re-election.
the Remuneration Committee has the flexibility under each scheme to determine the appropriate blend of awards under CSOS and LTIS that may Biographical details of all of the Directors are shown on page 11. be made to executives.
REMUNERATION REPORT RESOLUTION 12 This is a technical, rather than substantive, amendment.
It will not result in The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations increased annual grants being made.
came into force on 1 August 2002.
The Regulations require companies quoted on the London Stock Exchange to put an ordinary resolution to AUTHORITY TO MAKE MARKET PURCHASES OF OWN SHARES shareholders at the Annual General Meeting seeking approval of the RESOLUTION 16 Remuneration Report.
In certain circumstances it may be advantageous for the Company to purchase its own ordinary shares and Resolution 16 seeks authority from The vote is advisory in nature, in that payments made or promised to shareholders to do so.
The Directors intend to exercise this power only Directors will not have to be repaid in the event that the ordinary resolution when, in the light of market conditions prevailing at the time, they believe is not passed.
that the effect of such purchases will be to increase the underlying value RE-APPOINTMENT AND REMUNERATION OF AUDITORS per share having regard to the intent of the Institutional Investor Guidelines RESOLUTION 13 and is in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Other investment The Company is required to appoint auditors at each general meeting opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall position of the at which accounts are laid before the Company, to hold office until the next Company will also be taken into account before deciding upon this course such meeting.
Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the of action.
Any shares purchased in this way will be cancelled and the Directors propose to re-appoint  LLP as Auditors of number of shares in issue will be reduced accordingly.
The resolution also proposes that the Directors be authorised The Resolution specifies the maximum number of shares which may be to determine the level of the Auditors remuneration.
Following the acquired 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital and the conversion of our auditors  to a Limited Liability maximum and minimum prices at which they may be bought.
Partnership LLP from 1 January 2003,  resigned on 13 February 2003 and the Directors appointed its successor, The total number of options to subscribe for equity shares outstanding at  LLP, as auditors.
This represents 0.93% of the issued share capital at that date.
If the Company bought back the maximum number of POLITICAL PARTIES, ELECTIONS AND REFERENDUMS ACT 2000 shares permitted pursuant to the passing of this Resolution, then the total THE 2000 ACT RESOLUTION 14 number of options to subscribe for equity shares outstanding at that date It is the Companys policy not to make any donations to political parties would represent 1.03% of the issued share capital as reduced following and the Board does not intend to change that policy.
The 2000 Act came those repurchases.
There are no warrants to subscribe for ordinary shares into force in February 2001 and includes very broad definitions of political outstanding at 20 February 2003. donations and expenditure which may have the effect of covering a number of normal business activities that would not be thought to be political Your Directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of all the donations in the usual sense.
These could include support for bodies above Resolutions.
engaged in law reform or government policy review, involvement in seminars and functions that may be attended by politicians, job exchanges between industry and government and the provision of additional paid leave for employees fulfilling their duties as local government councillors.
S H E B S E P T A C O T N S E SUFFOLK STREET D S U T BRIDGE ST P L L I T T G N I E D T I K G E B E D T H H GRANVILLE I S W G A A W H O R N STREET O T G S N 4 I L R S T I M R E E T 5 SUMMER ROW T 7 D E E R S T S BG GROUP PLC 2002 21 Electronic Proxy Voting Shareholders may register the appointment of a proxy for this Meeting electronically by contacting the website, www.
co. uk, where full details of the procedure are given.
That website is operated by the Companys Registrar, Lloyds TSB Registrars.
Shareholders are advised to read the terms and conditions relating to the use of this facility before appointing a proxy.
These terms and conditions may be viewed on the website.
Any electronic communication sent by a shareholder that is found to contain a computer virus will not be accepted.
Electronic communication facilities are available to all shareholders and those who use them will not be disadvantaged in any way.
Summary of AGM business A summary of the business carried out at the Meeting will be published on the Companys website, www.
com How to get to the Meeting The map below shows the location of the Meeting.
Car parking is available at the International Convention Centre ICC as shown on the map.
Parking spaces for the disabled are available on request from the ICC.
Please call 0121 644 6006 if you wish to reserve a space.
LANCASTER CIRCUS ST. CHADS CIRCUS J1 M5 M6 J6 M6 SNOW COLMORE M42 M40 HILL CIRCUS Spaghetti Junction MASSHOUSE NATIONAL CIRCUS INDOOR ARENA PARADISE NIA CIRCUS ICC MOOR ST NEW ST INTERNATIONAL CONVENTION CENTRE HOLLOWAY CIRCUS J5 M42 M40 FIVE WAYS J1 M42 M5 M40 A38 A41 A45 J3 M5 R H O W P L D L W E O O N R W H T A B A A456 A I C MBR DGE ST L Y S T V I N S C H M E E A A D N E L T T E E R L S T R T COLMORE ROW 6 O W 5 B 4 A S GREAT CHARLESST T E R B E R O R A T Y D S A O D I L L O O H M O K O R S T R E E T H I G A 3 8 H S T How to find out more about BG BG Group Corporate Individual Savings If you would like to learn more about our Accounts ISAs operations and business policies, the following Carr Sheppards Crosthwaite Ltd, Clock House, publications are available on our website, Dogflud Way, Farnham, Surrey GU9 7UL.
com or on request from the Telephone 01252 712 049 registered office address: Low cost share dealing services Information on a range of low cost share dealing Annual Report and Accounts services is available from our Registrar on 2002 Social and Environment Report 0870 600 3951 or at www.
com Information on gifting your shares Statement of Business Principles and To transfer your shares to another member of Group Policies your family as a gift, please ask our Registrar How to receive shareholder communications for a gift transfer form.
The completed transfer electronically form and relevant share certificate s should Through Shareview you can register to receive be completed and returned to our Registrar to Company communications electronically.
record the change in ownership.
If you have Shareview is a free service from our Registrar, a small number of shares and would like to Lloyds TSB Registrars, which gives you access donate them to charity, please ask our Registrar to information on your investments including for a ShareGift charity donation scheme balance movements, indicative share prices and transfer form.
Information is also available information on recent payments.
To register on the ShareGift website www.
org for this service visit www.
co. uk Enquiries and follow the simple instructions.
Enquiries relating to the Groups results, business Electronic Proxy Appointment and financial position should be made in writing Shareholders can submit proxies for the to the Head of Investor Relations, at the registered Annual General Meeting electronically on office address or by email to invrel@bg-group.
co. uk General enquiries about shareholder matters Consolidated tax vouchers Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, Shareholders who receive their dividend direct West Sussex BN99 6DA.
Telephone 0870 600 3951 to their bank or building society will receive Registered office a consolidated tax voucher once every year.
BG Group plc, 100 Thames Valley Park Drive, The consolidated tax voucher shows all dividend Reading, Berkshire RG6 1PT payments made in the tax year and is sent to shareholders with their Annual Report and Registered in England No.
3690065 Accounts or Annual Review, just prior to them receiving any tax return from the Inland Revenue.
Shareholders wishing to receive a tax voucher in respect of each dividend payment should contact our Registrar.
External websites BG Group is not responsible for the content of external internet sites quoted in this Annual Review.
BG Group plc 100 Thames Valley Park Drive Reading, Berkshire RG6 1PT www.
com Designed and produced by Corporate Edge.
