BG GROUP PLC 2002 71 principal accounting policies BASIS OF PREPARATION AND ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES The preparation of Financial Statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingencies at the date of the Financial Statements and the reported revenues during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from these estimates.
The business activities demerged to Lattice in 2000 are presented in these accounts as discontinued operations.
These accounts have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards, using historical cost principles for continuing operations and using historical cost principles modified through the revaluation of certain fixed assets for discontinued operations.
The accounting policies, where applicable, are materially in accordance with a Statement of Recommended Practice SORP issued by the Oil Industry Accounting Committee entitled Accounting for Oil and Gas Exploration, Development, Production and Decommissioning Activities although there are two areas where the accounting policies differ from the SORP.
These are shown in the section on exploration expenditure see below.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The accounts comprise a consolidation of the accounts of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings and incorporate the results of its share of joint ventures and associated undertakings.
The results of undertakings acquired or disposed of are consolidated from or to the date when control passes to or from the Company.
Most of BGs exploration and production activity is conducted through joint arrangements.
BG accounts for its own share of the assets, liabilities and cash flows associated with these joint arrangements.
GOODWILL On the acquisition of a subsidiary undertaking, joint venture or associated undertaking, fair values are attributed to the net assets acquired.
Goodwill, which represents the difference between the purchase consideration and the fair value of the net assets acquired, is capitalised.
Goodwill which has a limited useful economic life is amortised over an appropriate period on a straight-line basis not exceeding 20 years.
Goodwill eliminated against Group reserves prior to the implementation of Financial Reporting Standard FRS 10, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, has not been reinstated, but will be charged to the profit and loss account on any subsequent disposal of the net assets to which it is related.
When goodwill is denominated in a foreign currency, it is translated into Sterling in line with the Groups accounting policy on foreign currencies see below.
TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS All tangible fixed assets are carried at depreciated historical cost.
Additions represent extensions to, or significant increases in, the capacity of tangible fixed assets.
Contributions received towards the cost of tangible fixed assets including government grants are included in creditors as deferred income and credited to the profit and loss account over the life of the assets.
Interest charges on borrowings used to finance major capital projects are capitalised.
Depreciation Freehold land is not depreciated.
Other tangible fixed assets, except exploration and production assets, are depreciated on a straight-line basis at rates sufficient to write off the historical cost of individual assets over their estimated useful economic lives.
The depreciation periods for the principal categories of assets are as follows: Freehold and leasehold buildings up to 50 years Mains and services up to 60 years Plant and machinery 5 to 25 years Meters up to 20 years Motor vehicles and office equipment up to 10 years Exploration and production assets are depreciated from the commencement of production in the fields concerned, using the unit of production method based on the proved developed reserves of those fields, except that a basis of total proved reserves is used for acquired interests and facilities.
Changes in these estimates are dealt with prospectively.
Asset lives are kept under review and complete asset life reviews are regularly carried out.
72 BG GROUP PLC 2002 principal accounting policies continued IMPAIRMENT OF FIXED ASSETS Any impairment of fixed assets is calculated as the difference between the carrying values of income generating units including associated goodwill and the estimated value in use at the date the impairment loss is recognised.
Value in use represents the net present value of expected future cash flows discounted on a pre-tax basis.
Impairment of fixed assets is recognised in the profit and loss account within operating costs.
STOCKS Stocks are stated at weighted average historical cost less provision for deterioration and obsolescence.
REVENUE RECOGNITION Revenue recognition associated with exploration and production sales natural gas, crude oil, petroleum and chemical products is recorded when title passes to the customer.
Sales of liquefied natural gas LNG and associated products are recognised when the LNG passes the delivery point at the loading port or the tailgate of the regasification terminal.
LNG shipping revenue is recognised over the period of the relevant contract.
Revenue from transportation and distribution activities is recognised in the same period in which the related volumes are delivered to the customer.
Power generation revenues are recognised on the availability status of the power station to produce at a given point in time.
The costs of actual production are also passed through and recognised in revenue whenever power is generated.
All other revenue is recognised when title passes to the customer.
EXPLORATION EXPENDITURE The SORP see basis of preparation and accounting principles, above requires depreciation of licence acquisition costs on a straight-line basis.
It also permits capitalisation of all costs incurred as intangible fixed assets.
BG accounts for exploration expenditure under the successful efforts method and differs from the SORP as described below.
Exploration expenditure, including licence acquisition costs, is capitalised as an intangible fixed asset when incurred and certain expenditure, such as geological and geophysical exploration costs, is expensed.
Areview of each licence or field is carried out, at least annually, to ascertain whether proved reserves have been discovered.
When proved reserves are determined the relevant expenditure, including licence acquisition costs, is transferred to tangible fixed assets and depreciated on a unit of production basis.
Expenditure deemed to be unsuccessful is written off to the profit and loss account.
BG considers this application of the successful efforts method to be appropriate as it provides comparability with the Groups peer group and because it treats licence acquisition costs in a manner which is consistent with the treatment of other exploration assets within intangible fixed assets.
DECOMMISSIONING COSTS Provision is made for the net present value of the estimated cost of decommissioning at the end of the producing lives of fields.
When this provision gives access to future economic benefits, an asset is recognised: otherwise the costs are charged to the profit and loss account.
The unwinding of the discount on the provision is included in the profit and loss account as a financial item and is included within the net interest charge.
FOREIGN CURRENCIES Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at closing rates of exchange or, where they are hedged using cross-currency swaps, at the swap rate.
Trading results of overseas subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associated undertakings are translated into Sterling at average rates of exchange or, where hedged, at the contract rate of exchange.
Differences resulting from the retranslation of the opening net assets and the results for the year are taken to reserves.
Exchange differences on monetary assets and liabilities are taken to the profit and loss account, except that exchange differences on foreign currency net borrowings used to finance foreign currency net investments are taken to reserves.
All other exchange movements are dealt with through the profit and loss account.
DEFERRED TAX Provision is made in full for the deferred tax arising on the difference between the accounting treatment and tax treatment for depreciation in respect of accelerated capital allowances and other timing differences.
Provision for deferred petroleum revenue tax is shown net of allowable corporation tax relief reflected in the deferred corporation tax balance and is made in respect of applicable fields based on current forecasts.
BG GROUP PLC 2002 73 LEASES Rentals under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Derivative financial instruments utilised by the Group are interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps, forward rate agreements, interest rate swaptions, tax equalisation swaps and forward exchange contracts.
A derivative financial instrument is considered to be used for hedging purposes when it alters the risk profile of an existing underlying exposure of the Group in line with the Groups risk management policies.
Derivatives used for hedging are accounted for on an accruals basis.
During the year there were no interest rate or exchange rate derivatives used for trading purposes.
Termination payments made or received in respect of derivatives are spread over the shorter of the life of the original instrument or the life of the underlying exposure in cases where the underlying exposure continues to exist.
Where the underlying exposure ceases to exist, any termination payments are taken to the profit and loss account.
Interest differentials on derivative instruments are recognised by adjusting the net interest charge.
Premiums or discounts on derivative instruments are amortised over the shorter of the life of the instrument or the underlying exposure.
Currency swap agreements and forward exchange contracts are retranslated at the rates ruling in the agreements and contracts.
Resulting gains or losses are offset against foreign exchange gains or losses on the related borrowings or, where the instrument is used to hedge a committed future transaction, are deferred until the transaction occurs.
PENSIONS The cost of providing retirement pensions and related benefits is charged to the profit and loss account over the periods benefiting from the employees services.
The regular pension cost, variations from the regular pension cost and interest are all charged within employee costs.
The difference between the charge or credit to the profit and loss account and the contributions paid to the pension schemes in which the Group participates is shown as an increase or decrease in the provision.
Deferred tax on this provision has been accounted for in full.
The transitional disclosure requirements of FRS 17, Retirement benefits, are included within the pensions note note 27, page 106.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AND ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE All research and development and advertising expenditure is written off as incurred.
