Richard A. Pym, Group Chief Executive Core 4 Our Premier current account was In the first half of the year the mortgage consistently a best buy for customers lending market grew signicantly faster than in 2002 and we now have more than we and many market commentators had 300,000 customers.
The launch of our new expected.
Our net lending market share internet banking system in July was very in the first half of the year was 1.7%.
successful and we have plans to further However, the second half saw a significant develop this system.
Much of our systems improvement, with our net lending market infrastructure has been redeveloped over share rising to 2.7%, giving a total for the the last three years, giving us confidence year of 2.2%.
Whilst this is below our 2002 in our ability to meet future targets.
year end market share of total UK mortgage 2002 was a good year for our retail deposit balances of 3.5%, we achieved our goals in business with customer deposits rising by the markets and distribution channels that 1.1bn to 17.5bn.
we targeted and announced at the start of 2002.
The maintenance of asset quality is a Retail Bankings focus on the provision of key objective, and we do not operate in the good value products across the Core 4 higher risk sectors of the mortgage market has gained significant media coverage that offer personal customers buy-to-let during 2002.
The Core 4 products mortgages, sub-prime mortgages or high achieved over 1,000 best buy mentions loan-to-value loans.
These areas are estimated in national newspapers, and we received to have accounted for around 20% of new a series of awards for both our mortgage mortgage lending in the UK in 2002. products and our on-line solutions for intermediary and retail mortgage customers.
In 2002 profits in our unsecured personal By focusing our promotions on the loans business increased by 34%, rmly Core 4, with simple, easy to understand reversing the previous downward trend.
advertisements, we have achieved a Lending balances were maintained at significant improvement in the efficiency around 2.1bn, with new business of of our marketing expenditure.
During 2002 we increased our emphasis on selling credit protection Partner 4 insurance to customers and implemented a new application processing system, We also sell to customers our Partner 4 which in December enabled us to start products of credit cards, investment risk-based pricing.
products, life assurance and general 6 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Group Chief Executives Review continued insurance.
These are provided in product holding per customer from partnership with market leading suppliers.
1.50 products to 1.63 products at the end of December 2002, and are on track During 2002 we extended our to achieve our 2003 year end target of partnership arrangements, with new 1.65 products.
agreements with MBNA for credit cards and Legal & General for life assurance.
Commercial Banking Our partnerships with these leading 2002 was a year of change within our companies enable us to offer our Commercial Banking business, with pre-tax customers a more attractive range of profit of 70m compared to 74m in 2001, credit cards and life assurance products reecting 9m of increased costs associated than we could previously.
We remain with new cash market agreements.
committed to growing our credit card '00 '01 '02 business, with all cards continuing to A lot of progress has been made in be branded Alliance & Leicester.
developing and implementing a new Customer Product business model for our cash handling Cross Holdings Customer Relationships business during 2002.
The market for The development of customer relationships cash in the UK and the role of the Post is a key element of our strategy.
Since Office in the cash cycle are changing July 2000 we have increased the average from 2003 onwards.
As a result of these Customer Services, Tunbridge Wells 1.50 1.57 1.63 2 2 0 5 7 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report & Accounts 2002 forthcoming changes, the Post Office complex task which we estimate will a new challenger in British banking, giving gave notice on our cash handling be more expensive than dealing with customers a genuine alternative to the contract in 2001.
In March 2002 we the Year 2000 millennium bug.
If the traditional players, and using our size to launched our new partnership with Government is given a euro mandate by our advantage by being quicker to Securicor for wholesale cash handling, the UK electorate, it is vital that the UK respond to customer needs and by being and we reached agreement with the Post banks and the Government itself be given genuinely customer focused.
Office for retail cash handling services.
sufficient time to convert all the complex systems that constitute the UKs financial The changes in the cash market have and economic backbone.
Richard A. Pym, Group Chief Executive resulted in a number of new alliances being established, and we are very pleased The Board that Alliance & Leicester with Securicor are When the Group Board asked me to take providing the cash for Lloyds TSB branches over as Group Chief Executive, I inherited and ATMs in England and Wales.
executive leadership of the business from Our commercial lending activities saw our Chairman, John Windeler, who had continued growth, although in the current led the Group in an executive capacity for economic climate we maintain a cautious just over two years.
During that time he approach on credit standards.
set in hand a major strategic review of our business, the successful results of which Our Staff began to show in 2002.
John has now I would like to thank our staff for their reverted to non-executive Chairman and contribution to our success in 2002.
Our he has been an excellent mentor to me in market research shows that we rate highly my new role.
He has let me get on with as a friendly and approachable bank.
my new job whilst always being available This is due to the positive attitudes of to provide advice and support, and I thank our staff, which are reinforced by training him for his assistance.
programmes and the general culture of During Johns chairmanship the Board has the business.
Our staff have continued to been strengthened and we have very full adapt to considerable change in 2002 as and lively debates on business issues.
All we make further progress in implementing our non-executive directors contribute fully our strategy.
to the business and I have been delighted both by the personal support they have The major emerging issue for all employers and staff is how future pensions are funded.
given me, and for the more general advice Reduced returns on investments, longer they contribute to the management team throughout the year.
life expectancy and additional taxes on pension funds makes the funding of future pensions more expensive.
The Future During 2002 we celebrated our 150th We closed our dened benefit scheme to Anniversary.
On 15 November 1852, new members in 1998, introducing a new John Henry Davies founded the Leicester dened contribution scheme, and less Permanent benefit Building Society.
From than 50% of our current staff are members those origins, the Group has grown both of the original dened benefit scheme.
organically and via acquisitions to be a We have increased our contributions to major player in UK financial services.
the dened benefit scheme to the levels recommended by our Actuary.
The total charge to the Groups profits in respect of pensions increased from 16.5m in 2001 to 27.5m in 2002, including 5m relating to a one-off provision for pension claims from part-time employees.
In 2002 we celebrated 150 years of serving our customers The Euro A key political decision, which may affect us in 2003, is the possible conclusion of the debate on the adoption of the euro as the With so much good work put in place in UKs currency.
This is not a matter on which 2002, and 150 years of experience behind we express a corporate view: our role is to us, we look forward to the future with ensure that we will be ready if the euro is confidence.
But there is nothing in our adopted and we are undertaking suitable attitude which is complacent, and we preparatory work to reect that possibility.
are mindful of the potential dangers of Actual conversion to the euro will be a the economic climate.
