savings products alliance trust savings limited ATS Our savings products comprise the Alliance Select Pension, assets being administered, and the economies of scale PEP, ISA and Investment Plans and the Alliance CAT ISA, available, particularly through the use of modern the only investment trust ISA in the UK to qualify under the computer systems.
For example, for purchases of Governments CAT standards in respect of Charges, Access Alliance Trust stock the dealing charge is only 1, and Terms.
All these products are provided and regardless of the amount invested, plus the unavoidable administered in-house by ATS, our banking and financial 0.5% stamp duty reserve tax.
services subsidiary, using our own staff and systems.
stakeholder and CAT standards Each product has different tax rules and advantages.
The Investment Plan is unrestricted in size but has no tax CAT Charges, Access and Terms standard products require, advantages.
The PEP and ISA are both tax-free but amongst other matters, charges to amount to no more than subscriptions of up to 7,000 per year can only be made 1% per annum including government stamp duty and all to the ISA.
The Pension attracts tax relief on contributions other costs.
The Alliance Select products do not qualify for and there is no additional tax on income received in the Plan.
CAT standards because the charges are transaction rather However it has limits on contributions, and pension benefits than percentage based, even though in many instances they cannot be taken before age 50. will not exceed 1%.
For example ATS makes a 1 charge on a 50 investment in the Alliance Trust and charges the alliance select philosophy same amount on an investment of 5,000.
The former would break the 1% CAT standard limit, the latter would not.
The Alliance Select Products are designed with four key principles in mind:- Stakeholder pensions comply with similar criteria to the CAT standards, but otherwise follow the same tax rules as All investors are stockholders in The Alliance Trust PLC other money purchase pensions.
We decided not to develop or The Second Alliance Trust PLC.
Each customer thereby a stakeholder pension because the impact of annual has a direct interest in the success of the organisation changes over the long term is significant, and, for a pension as a whole.
The minimum investment is 50. investor, the expenses of the Alliance Select Pension may The products are designed for long term investors but be considerably below the 1% level, depending on the recognise that there will be times when financial plans investors investment and activity.
To achieve flexibility subscriptions can be started and stopped without penalty, purchases alliance select pension made or deferred and investments sold, when required.
Our self-invested personal pension SIPP is our fastest We aim to cater for investors who wish to manage growing product, reflecting the wish of many individuals for their own portfolios as well as those who wish to a pension which is designed to be capable of travelling with delegate some or all of their investment management them throughout life, with sufficient investment flexibility through use of managed funds.
We therefore provide a and choice for a complete portfolio to be built around pension wide range of over 200 investment trusts, over 400 planning with one pension provider.
A pension is now a true equity securities and a selection of corporate bonds, cradle to retirement savings product as the tax rules gilts, bond funds and a deposit account facility from introduced last year allow children and non-earners to have which investors can choose on a self-select basis.
pensions, as well as those who have earned income.
The To limit cross-subsidisation between investors charges core investment of the Alliance Trusts is the first building are levied on a transaction basis according to the work block in a pension for a child but the flexibility of the Select involved and there are no annual or ad valorem fees.
In Pension means that as time passes and pension assets particular this means that large investors do not grow, investments can be changed without moving subsidise small ones, inactive investors do not providers and without having a number of small, separate subsidise active ones and long term investors do not and potentially uneconomic pension plans.
The low charges also reflect ATS bargaining power, with over 1bn of investors 46 For investors seeking a simple core investment in the alliance select PEP Alliance Trust only with a 0.75% annual charge, the Alliance Transferring PEPs to ATS has recently become even more CAT ISA is available.
Since the PEP rules were changed in 2001, the whole of a PEP can be invested in the alliance select investment plan Alliance Trusts as a low cost solution for those who want Our Select Investment Plan is a general purpose, flexible stability and simplicity in their PEP portfolio.
For those who savings vehicle for your core investment and for your wish to manage a spread of investments, the investment investment portfolio.
It is popular with those investing for choice given by the Alliance Select PEP allows consolidation themselves, their children and their grandchildren, and of PEPs held elsewhere thereby enabling rationalisation and many trusts also use the Plan to hold their investment potentially more economical management.
Subscriptions are often made by regular direct waiving PEP transfer-in charges until 5 April 2003. debits to reduce investment timing risk and to benefit from pound cost averaging.
alliance select and CAT ISAs The same features of the Alliance Select PEP are available in the Alliance Select ISA which, as well as accepting transfers, is available for subscriptions up to the annual 7,000 limit.
Stocks and shares and cash components are available on a maxi or mini basis with the cash component also available on a TESSA-only basis.
Tax-free interest is payable in the cash component and the full Select choice of securities is available in the stocks and shares component.
As with the PEP, ATS is waiving ISA transfer-in charges until 5 April 2003. informally with directors and the Companys management.
alliance investor seminars Representatives of ATS will be present to provide We shall be hosting a number of seminars for private information on ATS products.
investors which will be held at the locations set out below.
We extend an invitation to all stockholders who would like If you would like to attend free of charge any of these to come along to learn more about the Alliance Trusts and seminars, please telephone us on 01382 306006 or e-mail our savings products.
Those attending will be able to meet us at contact@alliancetrusts.
com investor seminars 2002 date area venue 22 May 2002 North East England Gosforth Park Racecourse, Newcastle 24 25 September 2002 South East Denbies Wine Estate, Dorking, Surrey 26 September 2002 South East Royal Windsor Racecourse 14 November 2002 West Scotland The Hilton, William Street, Glasgow ATS is regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Products are provided on a direct offer transaction basis and marketed only in the United Kingdom to UK investors.
Most charges are transaction based and may be high or low depending on how you manage the investments in your plan.
The value of investments and any income from them may go down as well as up and you may not get back the amount you put in.
Past performance is no guide to future returns.
Taxation levels, bases and reliefs are subject to change and may depend on individual circumstances.
Alliance Trust Savings Limited, PO Box 164, Meadow House, 64 Reform Street, Dundee DD1 9YP Tel: 01382 306006 Web: www.
com For security and compliance monitoring purposes telephone calls may be recorded.
