financial statements accounting policies Where the Company has elected to receive its dividends in 1 basis of accounting the form of additional shares rather than in cash, the The financial statements which follow on pages 32 to 42 amount of the cash dividend is recognised as income.
Any have been prepared under the historical cost convention, excess in the value of the shares received over the amount modified to include the revaluation of fixed assets.
They of the cash dividend is recognised in capital reserves.
also assume the going concern basis of accounting and that Foreign income is converted at the rate of exchange the Company will continue to have approval as an applicable on the appropriate date.
They have been drawn up in accordance with applicable accounting standards and with the 4 expenses and interest Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies.
Expenses and interest are accounted for on an accruals basis using the exchange rate applicable on payment where The consolidated statement of total return and balance appropriate.
Expenses are charged through the revenue sheet include the financial statements of the Company and account except where they directly relate to the acquisition its subsidiary companies as at 31 January 2002, made up to or disposal of an investment, in which case they are added the same date.
The Company and its subsidiaries comprise to the cost of the investment or deducted from the the Alliance Trust Group.
proceeds as the case may be.
2 valuation of fixed assets 5 taxation Listed investments are valued at market prices or middle Following FRS 19, provision is made for deferred taxation market prices as appropriate.
Unlisted investments and on all timing differences.
mineral rights are valued by the Board on the basis of market prices, latest dealings, stockbrokers valuations, petroleum consultants valuations and accounting information 6 reserves as appropriate.
Foreign assets and liabilities are valued using the middle rates of exchange ruling at the year end.
Gains and losses on the realisation of investments and foreign currency are accounted for in the realised capital Office premises are shown at the valuation as at 31 January reserve.
Increases and decreases in the valuation of 2001 carried out by chartered surveyors on a current open investments held at the year end are accounted for in the market value basis.
No depreciation has been charged on unrealised capital reserve.
this asset as, in the opinion of the Board, any provision for depreciation would be immaterial in relation to the revenue 7 pension costs for the year and the assets of the Company.
The pension scheme is a defined benefit scheme and is 3 income open to all qualifying employees.
Contributions are charged against revenue.
They are calculated by reference to Income from quoted equity shares is brought into account actuarial valuations carried out for the trustees at intervals on the ex-dividend date or, where no ex-dividend date is of not more than three years.
They represent a proper quoted, when the Companys right to receive payment is charge to cover the accruing liabilities on a continuing basis.
Franked investment income and foreign income dividends are shown as the amount receivable only.
Other income includes any taxes deducted at source.
Fixed returns on non-equity shares and debt securities are recognised on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective yield on the investment.
