dividend reinvestment capital gains tax Dividends may be reinvested in further stock units through For capital gains tax purposes, the market value of each the Alliance Select Investment Plan.
For information please 25p unit of the Companys ordinary stock at 31 March 1982 contact ATS on 01382 306006. was 2.85.
There have been no stock splits or other corporate events affecting the calculation of the increase in income tax on dividends value of the Companys stock since that date.
Dividends paid by the Company carry a tax credit at 10% of No capital gains tax liability arises in respect of a disposal of the gross dividend being the net dividend plus the 10% tax the Companys stock while held within a PEP, ISA or credit.
Where the stock is held in a PEP or ISA, tax credits on investor seminars dividends paid before 6 April 2004 may be reclaimed by the PEP or ISA manager.
Details of investor seminars which we are holding appear on page 47.
In addition, at the annual general meeting there Individual UK taxpayers who are not liable to higher rate will be presentations by Gavin Suggett, Chief Executive and tax and who hold their stock outside a PEP or ISA incur Sheila Ruckley, Investor Relations Director.
Following no further income tax liability.
refreshments, there will be a presentation at 1.30pm by Higher rate UK taxpayers, who hold their stock outside ATS.
Stockholders and ATS clients are invited.
Time will be a PEP or ISA, are subject to income tax at 32.5% of the set aside to answer your questions.
gross dividend, but are able to set the tax credit off against part of this liability.
tax vouchers If your dividends are paid directly to your registered address, or to your bank or building society, or to ATS for reinvestment through the Alliance Investment Plan, the tax voucher which you need for your tax records will be sent to your registered address.
ATS will automatically supply you with a consolidated tax voucher for all securities purchased and held in the Alliance Investment Plan, shortly after the end of each tax year.
If your dividends are received by another nominee, such as your stockbrokers nominee, you must contact that person for the tax voucher.
