Directors remuneration report This report sets out the remuneration policy for the Companys Against this broad policy, the Committee has set the content of senior executives, including the executive directors, outlines the the senior executives total remuneration package by reference various elements of their remuneration, and details the amounts of to a variety of factors, including market practices for companies remuneration paid in 2002. of similar size, type and standing, current economic conditions, prevailing operating conditions within both the Group and the The Remuneration Committee financial services industry generally, the earnings of the Groups The Remuneration Committee the Committee comprises the employees and the skills and management capabilities which the following non-executive directors, appointed by the Board: Group must secure in order to attain its strategic objectives.
George Paul Chairman The Committees philosophy is that senior executives own interests Wim Dik should be aligned with those of the Companys shareholders.
Elizabeth Vallance It therefore believes that, whilst paying a competitive basic salary, Andr Villeneuve the majority of the total remuneration package should be closely linked to the performance of the business and delivered in the The Group Chief Executive normally attends the meetings of the form of shares.
The policy seeks to provide an appropriate balance Committee, except when his own remuneration is being discussed, between the delivery of the annual business plan and the longas does the Group Human Resources Director.
term profitable growth of the Company.
The Committee, which has four scheduled meetings each year, During the year, New Bridge Street Consultants were appointed considers all aspects of remuneration paid to senior executives, to review and advise on the current remuneration policy and and makes recommendations to the Board on the remuneration packages which were introduced in 2000 upon the merger of CGU policy, strategy and framework for this group of employees.
New Bridge Street Consultants report, which The remuneration policy is reviewed by the Committee on a was considered by the Committee in July 2002, confirmed that regular basis to ensure that it remains appropriate within the overall the Companys remuneration policy and levels of market and for the achievement of its objectives.
Within the remuneration were broadly in line with market practice for scope of the policy, which is approved by the Board, the companies of similar size.
Two areas in relation to the long-term Committee determines the level of remuneration paid to each incentive plans, where the Companys approach differed from that of the executive directors.
recommended by institutional investors, were noted and these are Mike Pemberton, the Group Human Resources Director, has commented upon below.
A number of minor matters which were provided material assistance to the Committee during the year suggested were considered and will be adopted.
advising on market trends, practices and appropriate levels of No material changes have been made to the remuneration policy remuneration.
He has been supported by Ernst & Young LLP who during the year and none are planned for the current year.
have advised on remuneration benefits generally, including salary However, the Committee will continue to review and develop the levels, bonus and incentive arrangements.
Deloitte & Touche advise policy to reflect market conditions and changes in best practice.
on the calculation of total shareholder return for the purposes of the long-term incentive plans.
In addition, the Committee has Remuneration package taken into account the views of Pehr Gyllenhammar, Chairman, The remuneration package for the Companys senior executives and Richard Harvey, Group Chief Executive, on performance comprises the following elements: assessment.
Ernst & Young LLP is the Companys auditor and has provided other audit and assurance services to the Group as a basic salary: disclosed in note 13 on page 64.
Deloitte & Touche provide no an annual bonus plan to encourage executives to meet annual other material services to the Group.
targets relating to business and personal performance: On a regular basis, the Committee commissions its own a deferred bonus plan linked to the annual bonus plan to independent review of the remuneration policy and the packages encourage executives to take all of their bonus in the form of paid, to ensure that the policy reflects good practice and that shares and retain them for a period of three years: the packages remain competitive and in line with the market.
New Bridge Street Consultants, who provide no other services to a long-term incentive plan to align executives longer-term the Group, were appointed by the Committee to undertake such a interests with those of shareholders: review during the year.
a non-contributory defined benefit pension entitlement and The Committee also exercises discretion on behalf of the Board in other benefits.
relation to the operation of the Groups various share schemes and The balance of these elements is such that, for directors achieving incentive plans.
Target performance, basic salary represents approximately 40% The Board determines the level of fees paid to the Companys of the remuneration package, with the annual bonus deferred non-executive directors following a recommendation from the bonus plan representing 35% and the long-term incentive plan executive directors.
At Stretch performance, basic pay represents approximately 28% of the remuneration package, with the In line with best practice, and in anticipation of regulations which annual bonus deferred bonus plan representing 36% and the longare now in place, the Company put its remuneration report to a term incentive plan also representing about 36%.
Stretch vote at last years Annual General Meeting.
performance would represent the achievement of business results significantly better than the business plan target.
Remuneration policy The Companys remuneration policy seeks to provide remuneration packages appropriate for each particular market in which the Company operates, which attract and retain high calibre employees and encourage and reward superior performance in a manner which is consistent with the interests of shareholders.
The policy is aimed at ensuring senior executives are rewarded fairly for their individual and collective contributions to the Companys performance.
35 Aviva plc Annual report accounts 2002
