31 Directors report 51 Consolidated statement of total 33 Corporate governance recognised gains and losses 35 Directors remuneration report 51 Reconciliation of movements in 43 Statement of directors responsibilities consolidated shareholders funds 43 Independent auditors report 52 Consolidated Group balance sheet 44 Accounting policies 54 Consolidated cash flow statement 47 Consolidated profit and loss account 55 Company balance sheet Technical account long-term business 56 Notes to the accounts 48 Consolidated profit and loss account 91 Five year review Technical account general business 92 Alternative method of reporting 49 Consolidated profit and loss account long-term business Non-technical account 99 Aviva Group of companies 50 Reconciliation of Group operating 100 Shareholder information profit to profit on ordinary activities before tax 30 Aviva plc Annual report accounts 2002 Directors report The directors submit their report and accounts for Aviva plc, The directors retiring by rotation in accordance with the articles of together with the consolidated accounts of the Aviva Group of association at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being companies, for the year ended 31 December 2002. eligible, offering themselves for reappointment are Mike Biggs, Guillermo fide la Dehesa, Pehr Gyllenhammar and Richard Harvey.
Annual General Meeting Mike Biggs and Richard Harvey each have a service contract with a A separate document accompanying the Annual report and accounts Group company, details of which can be found on page 37. contains the notice convening the Annual General Meeting and a Sir Michael Partridge retires by rotation at the forthcoming Annual description of the business to be conducted thereat.
The Annual General Meeting but will not be seeking re-election.
General Meeting of the Company will be held on 7 May 2003 at The Barbican Centre, Silk Street, London EC2Y 8DS at 11.00am.
There were no contracts of significance in existence during or at the end of the year in which a director of the Company was Change of name materially interested.
Following shareholders approval at last years Annual General Meeting, the Company changed its name from CGNU plc to Directors interests Aviva plc on 1 July 2002.
The table below shows the interests held by each person who was a director at the end of the financial year in the ordinary shares Principal activities of 25 pence each in the Company, as recorded in the register Aviva plc is the holding company of the Aviva Group of companies, maintained by the Company in accordance with the provisions of which transacts life assurance other than industrial life and Section 325 of the Companies Act 1985.
Details of any options long-term savings business, fund management, and all classes and awards held through the Companys share schemes and of general insurance through its subsidiaries, associates and incentive plans are shown on pages 39 to 41.
All the disclosed branches in the United Kingdom, continental Europe and Ireland, interests are beneficial.
North America, Asia, Australia and other countries throughout the At 1 January At 31 December 2002 2002 world.
The Group also invests in securities, properties, mortgages and loans and carries on the business of trading in property.
Mike Biggs 20,703 43,550 Details of material acquisitions and disposals made by the Group Guillermo fide la Dehesa 144 144 during the year are contained on pages 67 to 69.
Wim Dik 200 Pehr Gyllenhammar 16,756 25,760 Review of operations, current position and future prospects Richard Harvey 21,205 21,829 Details of the Groups operations for the accounting period, its Sir Michael Partridge 2,297 2,004 current position and future prospects are contained in the George Paul 25,464 30,593 Chairmans statement, Group Chief Executives review and Philip Scott 26,772 68,571 business operating and financial reviews set out on pages 2 to 27.
Patrick Snowball 290 3,447 Derek Stevens 1,991 2,005 Going concern Philip Twyman 17,131 24,286 After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation Elizabeth Vallance 830 830 that the Company and the Group as a whole have adequate Andr Villeneuve 640 640 resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable Tony Wyand 13,964 31,389 future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern The following changes to directors interests during the period basis in preparing the accounts.
1 January 2003 to 25 February 2003 have been reported to the Company.
They relate to shares acquired through the reinvestment Results of dividends in Personal Equity Plans and or Individual Savings The Group results for the year are shown in the Consolidated profit Accounts, and through the acquisition of Partnership Shares by the and loss account on pages 47 to 49.
Trustee of the Aviva All Employee Share Ownership Plan.
Dividend Number of shares The directors are recommending a final dividend of 14.25 pence Mike Biggs 20 2001: 23.75 pence per share which, together with the interim Richard Harvey 215 dividend of 8.75 pence 2001: 14.25 pence per share, produces Sir Michael Partridge 16 a total dividend for the year of 23.00 pence 2001: 38.00 pence George Paul 42 per share.
The total cost of dividends for 2002, including Philip Scott 194 preference dividends, will amount to 536 million 2001: Patrick Snowball 194 874 million, requiring 1,070 million to be transferred from reserves 2001: 615 million, restated.
Substantial shareholdings The final dividend for 2002 will be paid on 16 May 2003 to all As at 25 February 2003, the Companys register of substantial holders of ordinary shares on the Register of Members at the shareholdings maintained in accordance with the provisions of close of business on 28 March 2003.
The Companys Dividend Section 211 of the Companies Act 1985 showed that the Reinvestment Plan will be available to shareholders in respect of only holding exceeding the 3% disclosure threshold was that of the payment of the final dividend.
In addition, a Transcontinental Legal & General Investment Management Limited which held Account Payment Service will be available to shareholders residing 81,261,749 ordinary shares, representing an interest of 3.60% in certain participating jurisdictions.
Further details of these of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
arrangements can be found within the shareholder information on page 100.
United Kingdom employees The Group is committed to continuing communication and Share capital dialogue with employees.
News about the Group is provided Details of the share capital and shares under option as at through a variety of channels, but primarily through the intranet, 31 December 2002, and shares issued during the year which television broadcasts and face-to-face briefings.
ended on that date, are given in note 32 on pages 77 to 78.
Directors The names of the present members of the Board and their biographical notes appear on pages 28 to 29.
31 Aviva plc Annual report accounts 2002 Directors report continued Employees are encouraged to have their say on how they view Information on health and safety matters is communicated to staff the Company and their employment through confidential through the normal communication channels.
Under the Groups staff opinion surveys.
Results are fed back to staff and, where Health and Safety Policy, the Group Chief Executive is accountable appropriate, action plans are put in place to address key issues.
Through their participation, staff can help to shape future Standards of Business Conduct employment developments.
In addition, regular discussions The Group operates a Standards of Business Conduct Policy which take place with the staff representative bodies.
provides guidance for every employee, Group-wide, to act with The Company encourages and promotes employee development.
integrity in all business relationships.
Support includes the building of relevant competencies, Charitable donations encouraging staff to gain appropriate professional qualifications Aviva has continued to support community initiatives and and assistance with wider personal development.
charitable causes worldwide, and the total Group commitment The Groups operations in the United Kingdom have established during the year was 5.9 million.
employee career and recognition frameworks, which draw In 2002, the Groups community investment in the United together the formal competencies, target settings and review Kingdom, as measured using the Business in the Communitys systems and links them to appropriate rewards and benefits.
benchmarking template, totalled 4.9 million of which 2.3 million At the 2001 Annual General Meeting, shareholders approved the 2001: 1.3 million was direct donations to charitable establishment of an All Employee Share Ownership Plan as a way organisations.
for employees to participate further in the Groups success through Political donations share ownership.
The Group operates two elements of the plan.
No political donations were made in the United Kingdom during The partnership element allows eligible employees to purchase the year 2001: nil.
It is the Companys policy not to make Aviva shares at the prevailing market price from their pre-tax donations to political organisations or for political causes, and it income.
The second element enables staff to receive free shares, has no intention of changing this policy.
at the Boards discretion, based broadly on the performance of the Companys operations in the UK.
The Group also operates a At the 2002 Annual General Meeting, shareholders passed a savings related share option scheme, which provides employees resolution authorising the Board to make expenditure, up to an with an opportunity to save over a fixed period and acquire share aggregate limit of 100,000, on activities which fall under the options at a discount to the prevailing market price.
Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act PPER.
This piece of legislation introduced a very broad definition of EU political Corporate Social Responsibility CSR expenditure in the European Union, such that some of the activities Aviva defines CSR as embracing corporate performance in undertaken throughout the Groups businesses in the EU could environmental management, community, employees, human now fall within that definition.
rights, health and safety, suppliers, customers and standards of There is a requirement for companies to seek shareholders business conduct.
approval for expenditure falling under the PPER and therefore, In light of the guidelines of the Association of British Insurers, at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, shareholders will be the governance of Avivas CSR programme is subject to a fixed asked to renew the authority granted at the 2002 Annual General schedule.
The Board reviews progress and plans on an annual Meeting to permit political expenditure, as defined by the PPER, basis, whilst the Executive Committee regularly reviews progress up to 100,000 so as to avoid inadvertent infringements of that throughout the year.
High level progress is reviewed internally by a legislation.
Further clarification on this issue can be found in the CSR Steering Group which meets four times each year and which notice of meeting for the Annual General Meeting which comprises senior executives from principal businesses.
Detailed external review is undertaken each year with participants Creditor payment policy and practice drawn from various parts of the business together with It is the Groups policy to pay creditors when they fall due for representatives from non-governmental organisations.
Terms of payment are agreed with suppliers when most important CSR policy review group for Aviva.
CSR risks and negotiating each transaction and the policy is to abide by those opportunities are assessed as part of the review process.
Avivas terms, provided that the suppliers also comply with all relevant CSR programme is externally assured every two years.
Avivas CSR report contains full details of progress achieved within The Company has no trade creditors.
In respect of Group activities the CSR programme during the year.
A copy of the printed in the United Kingdom, the amounts due to trade creditors at summary CSR report is available from the Group Company 31 December 2002 represented approximately 29 days of average Secretary or the full report may be viewed on www.
com csr daily purchases through the year 2001: 27 days.
Employee practice Auditor Aviva Group companies are committed to providing equal In accordance with Section 384 of the Companies Act 1985, a opportunities to all employees, irrespective of their sex, sexual resolution is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General orientation, marital status, creed, colour, race, ethnic origin or Meeting for the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as auditor of disability.
The commitment extends to recruitment and selection, the Company.
training, career development, flexible working arrangements, promotion and performance appraisal.
In the event of members of By order of the Board.
staff becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and to provide specialised training where this is appropriate.
Health and Safety The health and safety of staff is a priority and is reviewed at regular intervals.
Each business unit has an appointed health and safety Richard Whitaker representative, whose role is to bring to the attention of senior Group Company Secretary management any areas of concern that should be addressed 25 February 2003 within the health and safety programme.
Registered Office: St. Helens 1 Undershaft, London EC3P 3DQ Registered in England No.
2468686 32 Aviva plc Annual report accounts 2002
