Corporate governance continued Relations with shareholders financial misstatement or loss, and include the safeguarding of The Company places considerable importance on communications assets, the maintenance of proper accounting records, the with shareholders and responds to them on a wide range of issues.
reliability of financial information, compliance with appropriate It has an ongoing programme of dialogue and meetings between legislation, regulation and best practice, and the identification and the executive directors and its major institutional shareholders, control of business risks.
where a wide range of relevant issues including strategy, During the year, the Group Audit Committee, on behalf of the performance, management and governance are discussed within Board, has reviewed the effectiveness of the framework of the the constraints of the information already known to the market.
Groups systems of internal control, the principal features of which As and when considered appropriate, the Company seeks the are as follows.
views of major investors, particularly on remuneration issues, both directly and through consultation with the Association of Control environment British Insurers.
The Group has an established governance framework.
At its Annual General Meetings, the Company complies with the This framework is designed to oversee the Groups operations Combined Code as it relates to the disclosure of proxy voting, world-wide and assist the Group in achieving its ambitions.
the separation of resolutions and the attendance of Committee The key features of the control environment within this governance Chairmen.
The notice of the Annual General Meeting is sent structure include: the terms of reference for the Board and each out at least 20 business days before the meeting, to ensure that of its committees: a clear organisational structure, with shareholders have sufficient time in which to consider the items documented delegation of authority from the Board to executive of business.
management: a Group policy framework, which sets out risk management and control standards for the Groups operations Both the Companys Annual report and Annual review are world-wide: and procedures for the approval of major transactions designed to present a balanced and understandable view of the and capital allocation.
The Chairmans statement, Group Chief Executives review and business operating and financial Risk identification and assessment reviews on pages 2 to 27 provide an assessment of the Groups The Board has in place a system of business risk management, affairs and position and will be supported by a presentation to be which has been integrated throughout the Group into the business made at the Annual General Meeting.
Institutional investor The Groups risk management and control framework is designed As a major investor, the Group monitors the governance of the to support the identification, assessment, monitoring and control companies in which it invests.
Morley Fund Management Limited, of risks significant to the achievement of its business objectives.
the Groups UK asset management company, has regular meetings During the year work has commenced to align this framework to with senior management of companies where it will raise all the requirements of the Financial Services Authoritys Prudential relevant matters which may affect the future performance of Sourcebook.
Risk management functions within the business are those companies.
responsible for assessing and reporting the potential impact and probability of the most significant risks identified across the Group Morley operates a Corporate Governance and Voting Policy in and the adequacy of related mitigation programmes.
This includes respect of the voting rights it holds in UK companies.
The policy assessing and reporting risks arising from the Groups financial, also extends to cover social, environmental and ethical issues.
regulatory and operational activities as well as social, ethical and Details of how voting discretion has been used on any particular environmental risks.
The results of these assessments are reviewed issue are available to clients upon request.
In addition, Morley by the Group Business Risk Committee, under the chairmanship of engages with the management of the companies in which it the Group Finance Director and reported to the Board at each invests on contentious matters, and its policy is applied flexibly meeting.
The overall risk management process is reviewed six after careful consideration of all relevant information.
monthly by the Group Audit Committee and annually by the Board.
Appointment of the auditor Ernst & Young LLP was appointed as auditor of the Company in Control procedures and monitoring systems 2001 following a competitive bid process between the firms which The Group has a well-developed system of planning and had acted as auditors of Norwich Union and CGU prior to their monitoring, which incorporates Board approval of a rolling three merger in 2000.
During the current year, Ernst & Youngs audit year Group Business Plan.
Performance against the Group Business signing partner will change as part of a rotation process.
Plan is monitored monthly by the executive directors and reviewed The Company has established a policy aimed at safeguarding and at each Board meeting.
This report also includes reports on risk, supporting the independence of the auditor by avoiding conflicts audit, compliance, solvency and liquidity.
Performance is also of interests.
The policy sets out the approach to be taken by the reported formally through the publication of Group results and Group when using the services of the auditor and distinguishes accounting policies applied consistently throughout the Group.
between those matters where the Company requires an Operational management report frequently to the Executive independent view, such as audit and assurance work, from other Directors and the Board receives regular representations from consultancy work.
The policy recognises that there may be a small management responsible for each principal business operation.
number of areas where, for pragmatic or historical reasons, it may The Group has well-established internal audit, risk management be in the Companys interests to use the auditor for other work and compliance functions.
There are formal procedures in place but such appointments are subject to a clear and transparent for both internal and external auditors to report independently approval process.
their conclusions and recommendations to management and to An analysis of the fees paid to the auditor in 2002 is set out in the Group Audit Committee.
Compliance with the Combined Code Internal controls The Company has complied fully throughout the accounting The Board has ultimate responsibility for the systems of internal period with the provisions set down in Section 1 of the Combined control maintained by the Group and for reviewing their Code, except that during the period two executive directors had effectiveness.
The systems are intended to provide reasonable contracts with notice periods which exceeded 12 months.
The assurance, but not an absolute guarantee, against material auditors report on page 43 covers their review of the Companys compliance with the relevant provisions of the Combined Code.
34 Aviva plc Annual report accounts 2002
