From a benchmarking exercise The benefits paid from the Scheme are subject to Inland Revenue undertaken on its behalf, the Committee is aware that the limits.
There is in place an unfunded pension top-up arrangement Companys performance conditions are very demanding compared to ensure that senior executives receive the benefits promised by with such plans generally.
The Committee believes that it is the Scheme notwithstanding an Inland Revenue limit relating to important to strike a balance between setting challenging their level of earnings, which in some cases caps the amount of performance conditions and retaining the motivational incentive pension that can be paid from a tax-approved scheme.
Where this which is the fundamental purpose of the plan.
After careful limit applies, additional benefits are provided from the unfunded consideration, it believes that this is best achieved by retaining arrangement.
Mike Biggs, Richard Harvey and Philip Twyman are the demanding conditions but allowing one retest at the end affected by this limit and therefore will, at retirement, receive some of five years.
No retesting takes place if any part of the of their pension benefits from the unfunded arrangement.
performance condition has been met at the end of the three Other benefits year performance period.
In addition to the benefits described above, senior executives are Whether or not the performance conditions have been met is entitled to the benefit of a company car allowance and private determined by the Committee.
The rules of the plans require the medical insurance.
Committee to request an independent consultant to determine the The Company operates a number of Inland Revenue approved allrelevant TSR positions.
In respect of the ROCE calculation, the employee share plans in the UK.
Senior executives are entitled to Committee requests that the Groups auditor expresses a view on participate in these plans on the same basis as other eligible the basis of the calculation used.
These include the Free Share element of the Aviva The following graph compares the TSR performance of the All-Employee Share Ownership Plan AESOP.
Under this plan, Company with the TSR of the FTSE100 index.
The period covered eligible employees can receive up to a maximum of 3,000 pa in is the three years since the beginning of 2000, the year in which the form of shares from the profits of the Company, free of tax, CGU and Norwich Union merged to form Aviva.
The graph also subject to a retention period.
The Partnership element of the includes the median TSR of the companies in the comparator AESOP allows participants to invest up to 125 per month out of group.
This graph is included as it is the group with which their gross salary in the Companys shares.
performance is measured for the purposes of the long-term The Aviva Savings Related Share Option Scheme allows eligible incentive plan.
In addition to insurers, there are a number of employees to acquire options over the Companys shares at a European banks in the comparator group.
Aviva has outperformed discount of up to 20% to their market value at the date of grant.
the insurers over each of the three years, two years and one year In order to exercise the options, participants must have saved the periods to December 2002, but has underperformed the whole consideration through either a three, five or seven year approved comparator group.
savings contract, subject to a maximum savings limit of 250 per month.
Three year total shareholder return comparison 120 Service contracts Service contracts agreed with each executive director incorporate 110 their terms and conditions of employment.
Philip Twyman and Tony Wyand are both approaching their 100 retirement dates when their service contracts will terminate.
Accordingly, Mr Wyands contract will terminate in November 2003 90 and Mr Twymans in April 2004.
In line with the Companys policy, the other executive directors have rolling service contracts which 80 came into effect on 1 June 2000 and which can be terminated by Aviva the Company giving 12 months notice and by the director giving 70 Comparator Group Median six months notice.
FTSE 100 Return Index 60 In respect of the early termination of a service contract, the Company would, depending upon the circumstances, either seek 50 to make a payment in respect of damages less an amount for Dec Dec Dec Dec 1999 2000 2001 2002 appropriate mitigation, or would invoke a provision in the service contract allowing it to terminate the contract by making a Shares are acquired in the market and are held in trust for use in payment of one years basic salary in lieu of notice.
connection with these incentive plans.
Under the Companys discretionary redundancy arrangements, Pension arrangements which apply to UK based employees, an executive director may, The remuneration package for senior executives in the United depending on his length of service, receive an ex-gratia payment Kingdom includes Company contributions into the Groups pension of up to one years basic salary should he leave employment on scheme.
All executive directors are members on a non-contributory the grounds of redundancy.
No special arrangements would apply basis of the defined benefit section of the Aviva formerly CGNU should there be a change in the control of the Company.
The Company is currently reviewing its policies against the Under the Scheme, executive directors have a normal retirement statement on best practice on executive contracts and severance age of 60 and accrue pensions at a rate of one-thirtieth of their recently issued by the Association of British Insurers.
final pensionable salary for each year of service since they became The non-executive directors, including the Chairman, have letters a senior executive, subject to a maximum pension of two-thirds of of appointment which set out their duties and responsibilities.
No pension benefits are accrued on Such appointments are for three years and may be renewed by bonuses or other benefits.
The Scheme provides a lump sum mutual consent.
The Company may terminate these appointments death-in-service benefit of four times the members basic salary at at any time without the payment of compensation.
the date of death and a spouses pension equal to two-thirds of a members actual or prospective pension.
Post-retirement, pensions are reviewed annually and increases are guaranteed at a rate equivalent to the annual increase in the Retail Prices Index up to a maximum of 10% per annum.
37 Aviva plc Annual report accounts 2002 Index
