Corporate governance Application of the Combined Code Remuneration Committee The Financial Services Authority requires listed companies to Details of the Remuneration Committee, including its membership disclose, in relation to Section 1 of the Combined Code produced and duties are set out in the Directors remuneration report on by the Committee on Corporate Governance in June 1998 page 35. the Combined Code, how they have applied its principles and whether they have complied with its provisions throughout the Audit Committee accounting year.
The Audit Committee comprises the following non-executive directors, appointed by the Board: During 2003 we will be reviewing our corporate governance arrangements in the light of changes proposed to the Combined Derek Stevens Chairman Code following the recent reports by Higgs and Smith.
Guillermo fide la Dehesa George Paul The Board of Directors Sir Michael Partridge The Board has eight scheduled meetings each year and meets The Committee meets four times each year to assist the Board more frequently as required.
It currently comprises seven in discharging its responsibilities for the Companys financial non-executive directors, excluding the Chairman, and six executive announcements including considering the appropriateness of directors.
Each non-executive director serves for a fixed term of accounting policies, business risk management, internal control three years, which may be renewed by mutual agreement, and issues and regulatory compliance, as well as to oversee the there is no limit to the number of terms a director may serve.
objectivity and effectiveness of the internal and external auditors.
The Companys articles of association require that, following The Committee receives reports on significant issues raised at the appointment by the Board, directors must submit themselves for audit committees which have been established in the Groups election by shareholders at the following Annual General Meeting.
The Committee meets regularly with the The articles also provide that one-third of directors must retire by external auditors, in the absence of management, and reports rotation each year, but are eligible to submit themselves for regularly to the Board.
re-election by the shareholders, and that all directors are obliged to retire at least every three years.
Nomination Committee The Board has a formal performance review process to assess how The Nomination Committee comprises the following directors, well the Board, its committees and processes are performing and appointed by the Board: how they might be improved.
The review also assesses the Pehr Gyllenhammar Chairman performance of each director and the contribution he she makes.
Guillermo fide la Dehesa The last review was undertaken in July 2002.
Richard Harvey The directors bring to the Board a wide range of experience and Elizabeth Vallance skills and participate fully in decisions on the key issues facing the The Committee deals with the constitution of the Board and Group.
To ensure that the non-executive directors are able to considers the balance of skills and experience of the directors.
exercise an independence of judgement, the Nomination It oversees the appointments and reappointments to the Board, Committee undertakes an annual review of directors interests in monitors potential conflicts of interests and reviews annually the which all potential or perceived conflicts and issues relevant to their independence of the non-executive directors.
The Committee independence are considered.
Based on the December 2002 makes recommendations to the Board as appropriate.
review, the Board considers that all of the current non-executive directors and the Chairman are independent of management and Chairmans Committee free of any relationship that could materially interfere with the The Chairmans Committee comprises the following non-executive exercise of their independent judgement.
directors, appointed by the Board: Directors receive appropriate training when joining the Board and Pehr Gyllenhammar Chairman are required to commit to continue their personal development George Paul through attendance and participation on courses, seminars, Derek Stevens workshops and lectures on issues relevant to the Groups business.
Elizabeth Vallance The duties of the Board and its committees are set out clearly in The main duties of this Committee are to review the performance formal terms of reference, which are reviewed annually, stating the of the Group Chief Executive and the other executive directors, items specifically reserved for decision by the Board, which include and the succession planning for this group of management.
the approval of the Groups strategy and business plans, The Committee makes recommendations to the Board acquisitions and disposals outside delegated limits, significant as appropriate.
financial decisions and approval of key business policies.
The said terms of reference contain a procedure whereby directors may, in Information Technology Strategy Committee the furtherance of their duties, seek independent professional This Committee comprises the following members appointed by advice at the Companys expense if considered appropriate.
the Board: Directors are fully briefed in advance of Board meetings on all matters to be discussed and at the Board meetings directors Andr Villeneuve Chairman receive regular reports on the Groups financial position, key areas Wim Dik of the Groups business operations and other material issues.
Pehr Gyllenhammar Richard Harvey The Group Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Sven Skarendahl Board procedures are followed and all directors have access to his Philip Twyman advice and services.
Sven Skarendahl is an independent consultant.
He is not a director of the Company but has been appointed by the Board to this Committee due to his The Board has established a number of committees, including broad experience in technology and internet-based companies.
Remuneration, Audit, Nomination, Chairmans and Information Technology Strategy.
Each operates within clear terms of reference The Committee advises the Board on the Groups information and the minutes of their meetings are circulated to all directors.
33 Aviva plc Annual report accounts 2002
