45 Pension and other post-retirement benefit costs a The Group operates a large number of pension schemes around the world, whose members receive benefits on either a defined benefit basis or a defined contribution basis.
The largest defined benefit schemes are in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Canada and Ireland, where the scheme assets comprise over 95% of the total defined benefit scheme assets throughout the Group.
Of this total, the United Kingdom comprises some 80%.
The assets of the main United Kingdom, Irish and Canadian schemes are held in separate trustee-administered funds and, in the Netherlands, the main scheme is held in a separate foundation which invests in the life funds of the Group.
An actuarial report has been submitted for each of the defined benefit schemes within the last three years, using appropriate methods for the respective countries on local funding bases.
These reports showed no material deficits in any of the main schemes.
b The Group has continued to account for pensions in accordance with SSAP24 and the disclosures given in section c below are those required by that accounting standard.
FRS17 Retirement Benefits was issued in November 2000 and differs from SSAP24 in a number of ways.
These are principally in the choice of assumptions, and that the difference between the market value of assets and liabilities is immediately recognised in the balance sheet under FRS17, whereas changes in assets and liabilities are recognised on a smoothed basis under SSAP24.
The accounting provisions of FRS17 were not expected to be mandatory for the Group until the year ending 31 December 2003 but, in the transitional period, certain disclosures were required in the notes to the accounts.
In November 2002, the Accounting Standards Board issued an amendment to FRS17 which extended the transitional period through to, in the Groups case, the year ending 31 December 2005.
The transitional disclosures, to the extent not given in section c, are set out in section d below.
c In the United Kingdom, the Group operated two main pension schemes until their merger on 31 December 2001 to form the CGNU Staff Pension Scheme, which has since been renamed the Aviva Staff Pension Scheme.
New entrants now join the defined contribution section of the scheme, as the defined benefit section is generally closed to new employees.
The merged scheme was valued as at an effective date of 1 April 2002, on a market value basis using the Projected Unit Method.
The main financial assumptions used were a pension increase rate of 2.5%, a salary increase rate of 4.25% and an interest rate of 6.4%.
The scheme had an asset value of 4,639 million, projected accrued liabilities of 4,010 million and a funding level of 116%.
The cost of future service benefits in respect of defined benefit members was 21.4% of pensionable salaries which, after allowing for amortisation of the scheme surplus and interest on the balance sheet prepayment, led to a net pension cost for the period to 31 December 2002 of 8.2% of pensionable salaries.
The pension cost was then increased to allow for the amounts credited to members accounts under the defined contribution section of the scheme.
The employing companies contributions to the defined benefit section of the merged scheme throughout 2002 were 12.5% and 3.2% of employees pensionable salaries in respect of members of the previous CGU scheme and NU scheme respectively.
The employers contribution rate for 2003 has been agreed as 25% of pensionable salaries for all members of this section.
In the Netherlands, Canada and Ireland, regular actuarial valuations of the main schemes are made in accordance with local funding and or accounting standards.
Total pension costs for the schemes in these countries have been taken as equal to the locally determined accounting costs or contributions paid to the plans as, at a Group level, these are not considered to be materially different from charges calculated under a detailed application of SSAP24.
The Group also operates a variety of smaller pension arrangements in these and other countries, where costs have also been based on those calculated locally.
The 2002 pension costs of defined benefit and defined contribution schemes for the Group were 117 million 2001: 89 million.
There were no significant contributions outstanding or prepaid as at 31 December 2002. d FRS17 Retirement benefits i The valuation used for FRS17 disclosures has been based on the most recent actuarial valuations, updated to take account of the requirements of FRS17 in order to assess the liabilities of the major schemes at 31 December 2002.
The updating was made by actuaries in each country, with overall co-ordination by external consultants, Watson Wyatt.
Other than the actuary of the Aviva Staff Pension Scheme, the actuaries making the calculation were independent of the Group.
Scheme assets are stated at their market values at 31 December 2002.
The details for the main defined benefit schemes are shown below.
Where schemes provide both defined benefit and defined contribution pensions, the assets and liabilities shown exclude those relating to defined contribution pensions.
UK Netherlands Canada Ireland 2002 2001 2002 2001 2002 2001 2002 2001 Date of most recent actuarial valuation 1.4.
