British Empire Securities and General Trust p. l. c. Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the One Hundred and Thirteenth Annual General Meeting of British Empire Securities and General Trust p. l. c. will be held at Grocers Hall, Princes Street, London EC2R 8AD at 12 noon on Thursday, 19 December 2002 for the following purposes: Ordinary Business 1.
To receive and adopt the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2002 together with the Reports of the Directors and Auditors thereon.
To approve the final dividend of 1.1 pence per Ordinary Share.
To approve the special dividend of 0.4 pence per Ordinary Share.
To re-elect Mr I. S. Robertson CBE, a Director retiring by rotation under the Articles of Association.
To re-elect Sir David Kinloch Bt, a Director retiring by rotation under the Articles of Association.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys Auditors.
To authorise the Directors to fix the Auditors remuneration.
Special Business To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following as Special Resolutions: 8.
THAT the Directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised and empowered pursuant to section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined in section 80 of the Act and empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Act as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to allot equity securities as defined in Section 94 of the Act for cash provided that this authority and power shall expire on whichever is the earlier of the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or 31 January 2004 and shall be limited to: i the allotment of any such securities having an aggregate nominal value not exceeding 800,400 5 per cent of the equity share capital in issue on 21 November 2002 : and ii the allotment of equity securities at a price of not less than net asset value per share on the day preceding allotment or, if earlier, the agreement to allot, except that such authority and power shall enable the Company to make offers or agreements which would or might require any such securities to be allotted after the expiry of such period and the Directors may allot any such securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if the authority had not expired.
THAT the Company be and is hereby authorised in accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 of the said Act of the Ordinary shares of 10p each in the Company the shares provided that: i the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 23,996,005. ii the minimum price which may be paid for a share shall be 0.10: iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a share shall be 5 per cent above the average of the mid market values of the shares on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the 5 business days before the purchase is made: and iv unless reviewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 31 January 2004 save that the Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase shares which will or may be completed or executed wholly or partly after such expiry.
By Order of the Board For and on behalf of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Secretary One Bow Churchyard Cheapside London EC4M 9HH 21 November 2002 Notes 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote instead of him her.
A proxy need not also be a member of the Company.
A form of proxy is enclosed for use in connection with the business set out above.
This form of proxy should be completed and sent, together with the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy of that power of attorney, to reach the Registrars at the address printed on the form of proxy not later than 12 noon on 17 December 2002.
The register of Directors interests in the Ordinary Shares of the Company will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours Saturdays excepted from the date of this notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting and at Grocers Hall for fifteen minutes prior to and during the Meeting.
There are no service contracts between any of the Directors and the Company.
51 British Empire Securities and General Trust p. l. c. Company Information Directors Corporate Broker William Gawne Fossick, Chairman UBS Warburg Clive Mace Gilchrist 1 Finsbury Avenue Sir David Oliphant Kinloch Bt London EC2M 2PA Iain Samuel Robertson CBE John Cannell Walton Secretary Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Registered Office One Bow Churchyard Auditors Cheapside Ernst & Young LLP London Rolls House EC4M 9HH 7 Rolls Building Fetter Lane Investment Manager London EC4A 1NH Asset Value Investors Limited One Bow Churchyard Bankers and Custodian For further information Cheapside JP Morgan Chase Bank contact Customer Services London EC4M 9HH Woolgate House on 0500 00 00 40 Coleman Street Registrars and Transfer Office London EC2P 2HD Lloyds TSB Registrars Limited PO Box 28448 Solicitors Finance House Watson, Farley and Williams Orchard Brae 15 Appold Street Edinburgh EH4 1XY London EC2A 2HB Registrars Shareholder Helpline Corporate Advisors Tel.
0870 6015366 Intelli Corporate Finance Limited 63 Queen Victoria Street Registrars Broker Helpline London EC4N 4UA Tel.
