General Shareholder Information Release of Results Share Price Listings Half year results are announced in early February.
Full year The market price of the Companys ordinary shares is results are announced in early September.
published daily in The Financial Times and in other leading newspapers.
The Financial Times also shows figures for Annual General Meeting the estimated net asset value and the discount.
The AGM is held in London in October.
The market prices of the Companys preference, preferred ordinary and debenture stocks can be found in the BACS London Stock Exchange Daily Official List.
Dividends and interest can be paid to shareholders and stockholders by means of BACS Bankers Automated Performance Details Share Price Information Clearing Services : mandate forms for this purpose are Details of the Companys share price and net asset value available from the Registrar.
Alternatively, shareholders can be found on the Henderson website.
The address is can write to the Registrar the address is given on the http: its.
com inside back cover of this report to give their instructions: these must include the bank account number, the bank Shareholder Details account title and the sort code of the bank to which Shareholders who hold their shares in certificated form payments are to be made.
can check their shareholding with the Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, via Disability Act www.
com Please note that to gain Copies of this Report and Accounts and other documents access to your details on the Computershare site you will issued by the Company are available from the Company need the holder reference number on the top left hand Secretary.
If needed, copies can be made available in a corner of your share certificate.
variety of formats, including Braille, audio tape or larger type as appropriate.
ISIN SEDOL number You can contact the Registrar, Computershare Investor The ISIN code SEDOL Stock Exchange Daily Official Services PLC, which has installed telephones to allow List number of the Companys shares is speech and hearing impaired people who have their own GB0001990497.
textphone to contact them directly, without the need for an Nominee Share Code intermediate operator.
Specially trained operators are Where notification has been provided in advance, the available during normal business hours to answer queries Company will arrange for copies of shareholder via this service.
communications to be provided to the operators of Alternatively, if you prefer to go through a typetalk nominee accounts.
Nominee investors may attend general operator provided by the Royal National Institute for Deaf meetings and speak at them when invited to do so by the People the number is 0800 959 598.
For investors through the Henderson Investment Trust Investors in the Henderson Investment Trust Share Plan Share Plan, Henderson PEP or ISA a textphone telephone and the Henderson PEP or ISA receive all shareholder service is available on 020 7850 5406.
A letter of direction or instruction, as available during normal business hours.
appropriate, is provided to facilitate voting at general meetings of the Company.
36 Directors and other Information Directors Registered Auditor S M fide Zoete Chairman Ernst & Young LLP R D C Hubbard OBE FCA Rolls House M P Nicholls MA MBA 7 Rolls Buildings Sir Keith Stuart MA FRSA CIMgt FCIT Fetter Lane H A Weir MA MBA London EC4A 1NH Investment Manager Stockbrokers Henderson Global Investors Limited, HSBC Investment Bank plc an Company, Vintners Place authorised and regulated by the Financial 68 Upper Thames Street Services Authority London EC4V 3BJ Portfolio Manager: J S Curtis MA Solicitors Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer Secretary 65 Fleet Street Henderson Secretarial Services Limited, London EC4Y 1HS represented by K M Burwood FCIS New Zealand Registrar Registered Office Computershare Investor Services Limited 4 Broadgate PO Box 92119 London EC2M 2DA Auckland 1020 Telephone: 020 7818 1818 New Zealand Facsimile: 020 7818 1819 Telephone: New Zealand 64 09 488 8777 Registered Number New Zealand Stockbrokers Registered as an investment company in ABN AMRO Craigs England and Wales No.
34871 Farming House 102-104 Spring Street Registrar PO Box 13155 Computershare Investor Services PLC Tauranga Owen House New Zealand 8 Bankhead Crossway North Edinburgh EH11 4BR Telephone: 0870 702 0010 A MEMBER OF THE ASSOCIATION OF INVESTMENT TRUST COMPANIES Henderson Investment Trust Share Plan The Henderson Investment Trust Share Plan offers a simple and flexible way of investing in The City of London Investment Trust plc.
The Share Plan offers the following: Regular savings from 50 per month quarter, or lump sum investments from 500 and additional top-up from 100 An income reinvestment facility.
Alternatively, you can have dividends paid to your bank or building society account All paperwork and documentation is simplified and reduced to a minimum Half yearly valuations with consolidated tax certificate and complimentary newsletters Henderson ISA You can invest in The City of London Investment Trust plc through a Henderson ISA.
The ISA offers the following: Tax free income and tax free growth Regular savings from 100 per month or lump sum investments from 2,000 An income reinvestment facility.
Alternatively, you can have dividends paid to your bank or building society account Half yearly valuations, reports and complimentary newsletters Both Mini and Maxi ISAs available for investment by lump sum or regular savings Henderson Transfer PEP Although you cannot subscribe new funds to any PEP, it is possible to transfer existing PEP funds in cash from other managers into a Henderson PEP.
This offers you the opportunity to invest PEP funds in The City of London Investment Trust plc.
Further Information Please consult our website http: its.
com or write to Henderson Global Investors, FREEPOST, Newbury RG14 2ZZ.
Alternatively, please contact your professional adviser for further information or call our Investor Services Department on freephone 0800 106 106 quoting the reference REPORT.
Please call 44 20 7452 1315 if you are telephoning from abroad.
We may record telephone calls for our mutual protection and to improve customer service.
Please remember that the value of an investment and the income from it can fall as well as rise as a result of market and currency fluctuations and you may not get back the amount originally invested.
Tax assumptions may change if the law changes and the value of tax relief will depend upon individual circumstances.
Henderson Global Investors is the name under which Henderson Global Investors Limited, Henderson Investment Funds Limited, Henderson Fund Management plc and Henderson Administration Limited all authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority, provide investment products and services.
The City of London Investment Trust plc is managed by HGI9224 2002 Printed by Perivan, London
