Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the 110th Annual General as a Special Resolution: Meeting of The City of London Investment Trust plc 7 THAT in substitution for all existing authorities and the Company will be held at 4 Broadgate, London subject to the passing of resolution 6 the directors EC2M 2DA, on Friday, 18 October 2002 at 12.00 noon be empowered pursuant to section 95 of the for the transaction of the following: Companies Act 1985 the Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 94 2 of Ordinary Business the Act for cash pursuant to the authority 1 To receive the report of the directors and the conferred by resolution 6 as if section 89 1 of the audited accounts for the year ended 30 June Act did not apply to the allotment.
This power: 2002. a expires at the conclusion of the annual general 2 To re-elect Sir Keith Stuart as a director of the meeting of the Company in 2003, but the Company.
Company may make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be 3 To elect Mrs H A Weir as a director of the allotted after expiry of this power and the directors Company.
may allot equity securities in pursuance of that offer or agreement: and 4 To re-appoint the auditors, Ernst & Young LLP.
b shall be limited to allotments of equity securities 5 To authorise the directors to determine the for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount equal auditors remuneration.
to 2,565,637 being 5 per cent of the issued Special Business share capital at the date of this report.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following as a Special Resolution: resolutions: 8 THAT the Company be and is hereby authorised in as an Ordinary Resolution: accordance with section 166 of the Companies Act 6 THAT in substitution for all existing authorities the 1985 the Act to make market purchases within directors be generally and unconditionally the meaning of section 163 of the Act of ordinary authorised pursuant to section 80 of the shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company Companies Act 1985 the Act to exercise all the Ordinary Shares, provided that: powers of the Company to allot relevant securities i the maximum number of Ordinary Shares hereby within the meaning of section 80 up to an authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99% of the aggregate nominal amount of 2,565,637 being Companys issued share capital at the date of the 5 per cent of the issued share capital at the date Annual General Meeting equivalent to 30,767,127 of this report for a period expiring unless Ordinary Shares at the date of this notice : previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in general meeting at the conclusion of ii the minimum price which may be paid for an the annual general meeting of the Company in Ordinary Share is 25p: 2003, but that the Company may make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after expiry of this authority and the board may allot relevant securities in pursuance of that offer or agreement.
34 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes iii the maximum price which may be paid for an 1 Any member of the Company entitled to attend and vote Ordinary Share is an amount equal to 105 per cent at this meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies of the average of the middle market quotations for to attend and, on a poll, to vote on his or her behalf.
A an Ordinary Share taken from the London Stock proxy need not be a member of the Company.
Exchange Official List for the 5 business days immediately preceding the day on which the 2 Pursuant to section 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Ordinary Share is purchased or such other amount Regulations 2001, only those shareholders registered in as may be specified by the London Stock the register of members of the Company at 12.00 noon Exchange from time to time: on 16 October 2002 shall be entitled to attend and or vote at the Annual General Meeting in respect of the iv the authority hereby conferred shall expire at number of shares registered in their name at that time.
the conclusion of the annual general meeting of Changes to entries on the relevant register of securities the Company in 2003: and after 12.00 noon on 16 October 2002 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to v the Company may make a contract to purchase attend and or vote at the meeting.
Ordinary Shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which 3 A form of proxy is enclosed and to be valid must be completed and deposited at the office of the Registrar to will or may be executed wholly or partly after the the Company not less than 48 hours before the time expiration of such authority and may make a appointed for holding the meeting.
The return of the form purchase of Ordinary Shares pursuant to any such of proxy duly completed will not preclude a shareholder contract.
from attending and voting in person at the meeting.
By order of the board 4 This notice is sent for information only to holders of the K M Burwood FCIS second preference stock who are not entitled to attend For and on behalf of or vote at the meeting.
Henderson Secretarial Services Limited, Secretary 3 September 2002 5 The register of directors interests, kept by the Company in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
CHRISTOPHER ST EARL ST Registered Office: FINSBURY SQ SUN ST 4 Broadgate, London EC2M 2DA.
4 LIVERPOOL ST STATION ELDON ST LIVERPOOL ST FINSBURY CIRCUS LONDON WALL Henderson Global Investors, 4 Broadgate, London EC2M 2DA 35 APPOLD ST BLOMFIELD ST FINSBURY SQ PA FINSBURY VEMENT MOORGATE WILSON ST FINSBURY AVE
