Glossary of terms Terms used in the report and accounts US equivalent or brief description Acquisition accounting Purchase accounting Associate Equity investment Capital allowances Tax term equivalent to US tax depreciation allowances Cash at bank Cash Creditors Payables Debtors Receivables Finance lease Capital lease Financial year Fiscal year Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity Interest receivable Interest income Interest payable Interest expense Joint venture Equity investment Net asset value Book value Own shares Treasury stock Profit Income Profit and loss account Income statement Profit and loss account reserves Retained earnings Profit for the financial year Net income Provisions Reserves Called up share capital Ordinary shares, capital stock or common stock issued and fully paid Scrip dividend Stock dividend Secured loan Collateralised loan Shareholders funds Shareholders equity Share premium account Additional paid-up capital or paid-in capital not distributable Share issues Stock outstanding Stocks Inventories Tangible fixed assets Property, plant and equipment Turnover Revenue 120 The BOC Group plc Report and accounts 2002 The BOC Group plc is a public limited company listed on the London and New York Stock Exchanges and registered in England.
This is the report and accounts for the year ended 30 September 2002.
It complies with UK regulations and incorporates the annual report on Form 20-F for the Securities and Exchange Commission to meet US regulations.
An annual review and summary financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2002 has been issued to all shareholders who have not elected to receive this report and accounts.
Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar London using RingMaster.
Photography by George Brooks and Edward Webb.
The BOC Group plc Report and accounts 2002 The BOC Group plc Registered office: Chertsey Road, Windlesham, Surrey GU20 6HJ, England Tel: 01276 477222 Fax: 01276 471333 English Register No.
com Report and accounts 2002 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2002 The BOC Group plc Registered office: The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2002 Chertsey Road, Windlesham, Surrey GU20 6HJ, England Tel: 01276 477222 Fax: 01276 471333 English Register No.
zrwnowazony rozwj sustainable growth 03 Chairmans statement 33 Summary financial statements 05 Chief executives review 34 Report of the directors 07 Improving the service for 35 Independent auditors statement our customers 35 Directors remuneration 09 Focusing on high growth potential 37 Group profit and loss account 11 Improving efficiency 38 Group balance sheet 13 Developing our people 39 Group cash flow statement 15 We continue to lead in Asia 40 US accounting information 17 The perfect blend of technology 41 Shareholder information 19 Investments and acquisitions 21 Operating review 27 Fulfilling our wider responsibilities 29 Board of directors 31 Executive management board Financial highlights Turnover Operating profit Profit before tax Capital expenditure before exceptional items 4,017.9m 500.1m 335.3m 354.3m 5,000 600 500 500 500 4,000 400 400 400 300 3,000 300 300 2,000 200 200 200 1,000 100 100 100 0000102 0000102 0000102 0000102 Total Group turnover reduced by Operating profit, excluding exceptional Profit before tax is shown after deducting Capital expenditure of subsidiary businesses three per cent compared with last year.
This was exceptional items of 94.7 million.
was 354.3 million, a similar level to that On a constant currency basis, however, six per cent lower than last year, but These exceptional items were mainly for 2001. turnover increased by two per cent.
just one per cent lower on a constant for restructuring costs, write downs, Of the total capital expenditure, The overall reduction was due to a currency basis.
and termination costs relating to the 44 per cent was in the Process Gas lower level of activity in the BOC Edwards The main reduction was in the BOC Process Plants business.
Profit before tax Solutions business and 35 per cent in the business which was adversely affected Edwards business where the decline in was seven per cent lower than last year.
Industrial and Special Products business by the worldwide downturn in the revenue resulted in a reported profit The net interest charge for the year was last year 48 per cent and 27 per cent semiconductor industry.
The BOC Edwards one third the level of the previous year.
Interest on net borrowings respectively.
On a regional basis, decline of 19 per cent, on a constant On a constant currency basis, the other fell by 16 per cent to 103.1 million from 34 per cent of the expenditure was in currency basis, offset increases on a similar businesses all showed increases compared 123.4 million last year.
Also included in Europe 2001: 38 per cent, 38 per cent basis in all the other businesses: Process with last year.
Process Gas Solutions was up the net interest charge are the financing in the Americas 2001: 31 per cent and Gas Solutions turnover increased by 22 per cent, Industrial and Special Products elements related to the Groups pension 20 per cent in the Asia Pacific region four per cent, Industrial and Special was up five per cent, Afrox hospitals was up schemes assets and liabilities.
Products by seven per cent, Afrox hospitals 25 per cent and Gist was up 20 per cent.
pension schemes assets fell by 27.8 million The Groups share of the capital by 23 per cent and Gist by 14 per cent.
Currency translation had an adverse to 134.1 million compared with last year, expenditure of joint ventures and associates New business acquisitions contributed impact compared with last year of some while the financing cost on the pension was 34.5 million 2001: 53.3 million.
127.1 million of additional turnover 28 million, most notably from the schemes liabilities was only slightly lower This expenditure was mainly in the in 2002.
36 per cent decline in the rate of the than last year at 106.1 million.
Process Gas Solutions business in the South African rand.
2002 results Analysis by business Turnover Operating profit before exceptional items 4,017.9m 500.1m 1 Process Gas Solutions 1 Process Gas Solutions 1 1 5 5 4 1,200.6m 30% 185.2m 37% 4 3 2 Industrial and Special Products 2 Industrial and Special Products 1,605.3m 40% 248.0m 50% 3 BOC Edwards 3 BOC Edwards 688.2m 17% 26.1m 5% 3 4 Afrox hospitals 4 Afrox hospitals 2 259.0m 6% 29.7m 6% 5 Gist 2 5 Gist 264.8m 7% 25.5m 5% Corporate 14.4 m -3% 01 02 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2002 Shareholder information Electronic shareholder communications American Depositary Shares Shareholders can now elect to receive shareholder documents, such as annual and interim The BOC Group plc American Depositary Shares ADS are listed on the New York Stock reports and notices of general meetings, electronically from the companys website rather than Exchange and trade under the symbol BOX.
One ADS represents two The BOC Group plc in hard copy through the mail.
This has the advantage of improving the speed of communications Ordinary shares.
JPMorgan Chase Bank is the depositary and their address for enquiries is: and reducing administrative costs of printing and postage.
The terms on which this electronic JPMorgan Chase Bank facility is provided can be found on the companys website www.
com or on request from JPMorgan Service Center, PO Box 43013, Providence, RI 02940-3013, USA the registered office.
Any shareholder wishing to take advantage of this free service may do so by Telephone: 1 781 575 4328 registering their details on the Lloyds TSB Registrars shareview website at www.
com shareholder Dividend reinvestment plan A dividend reinvestment plan is available through JPMorgan Chase Bank as depositary for A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP, through which Ordinary shareholders may invest the holders of ADSs.
All enquiries regarding this plan should be addressed to: whole of their cash dividends in additional shares in the company, is available.
Ordinary shareholders on the register at the record date may participate in the plan provided their Global Invest Direct, JPMorgan Chase Bank application forms are received by the DRIP notice date shown in the financial calendar above.
PO Box 43013, Providence, RI 02940-3013, USA Copies of the explanatory brochure and application form are available from Lloyds TSB Telephone, toll free: JPMorgan Service Center on 1 800 749 1687 or 1 800 428 4237 Registrars whose details appear above.
ShareGift Payment of dividends Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which makes it uneconomic to sell Ordinary shareholders and loan stock holders may arrange to have their dividends or interest them, may wish to consider donating them to charity through ShareGift, a registered charity paid directly into a bank or building society account through the Bankers Automated Clearing administered by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation.
A ShareGift donation form can be obtained System BACS.
Mandate forms are available from Lloyds TSB Registrars whose details appear from Lloyds TSB Registrars whose details appear above.
Further information about ShareGift above.
The tax voucher relating to any dividend or interest payment made via BACS will is available at www.
org or by writing to: ShareGift, The Orr Mackintosh Foundation, be mailed directly to the registered address of the share or loan stock holder.
Share dealing service Unsolicited mail Details of a postal share dealing service can be obtained from: The company is obliged by law to make its share register publicly available and as a consequence some shareholders may receive unsolicited mail.
If you wish to limit the amount of unsolicited The BOC Group plc Share Dealing Service mail you receive, contact:The Mailing Preference Service, FREEPOST 22, London W1E 7EZ.
Cazenove & Co. Ltd Telephone: 020 7291 3310 or register on-line at www.
uk 12 Tokenhouse Yard, London EC2R 7AN, England Telephone: 020 7606 1768 The Mailing Preference Service is an independent organisation which offers a free service to the public.
Registering with them will stop most unsolicited consumer advertising material.
Annual General Meeting 2003 The Annual General Meeting will be held on 17 January 2003 at the Institution of Electrical Engineers Lecture Theatre, Savoy Place, London WC2R 0BL, England commencing at 11.00 am.
The BOC Group plc 2002 Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar London Principal photography by George Brooks, John Edwards and Edward Webb Printed by CTD Capita Introduction BOC is organised by three lines of business: Process Gas Solutions solves the process needs of the largest customers: Industrial and Special Products meets demands for smaller quantities of gas and related services: and BOC Edwards concentrates on the needs of the semiconductor industry while serving a host of other markets.
BOC also has two specialist businesses.
Gist is a logistics company and Afrox hospitals is southern Africas largest private health care supplier.
Return on capital Net cash requirement Interest cover Earnings per share before exceptional items before exceptional items before exceptional items 12.3% 120.3 m 4.9 times 55.94p 15 0 5 60 50 -25 4 10 40 -50 3 30 -75 2 5 20 -100 1 10 -125 0000102 00 01 02 0000102 0000102 The Group return on capital employed Cash ow from operating activities was Interest cover the number of times that Earnings per share earnings attributable was 12.3 per cent.
This was lower than 759.3 million.
Excluding exceptional cash the net interest charge on borrowings to Ordinary shareholders divided by the 12.9 per cent return achieved last year.
items, this was two per cent lower than the is covered by operating profit before the average number of shares in issue The reduction was due entirely to the previous year.
Excluding the BOC Edwards exceptional items was 4.9 times.
This was throughout the year before exceptional lower profitability of the BOC Edwards business there was an eight per cent an improvement on the 4.3 times for the items was 55.94p, compared with 57.51p business this year.
The net inow on working capital previous year.
Excluding interest capitalised, last year.
This is a reduction of three per the return on capital employed increased to was higher than last year, but this was more the cover was 4.8 times compared with cent.
On a constant currency basis, there 13.8 per cent compared with 12.9 per cent than offset by the lower cash profit.
4.2 times in 2001. is no percentage change compared with in the previous year.
Capital expenditure net of disposals, Net debt at 30 September 2002 was the previous year.
Excluding BOC Edwards, the returns at 324.5 million, was four per cent above 1,325.6 million, an increase of 53.5 million Total earnings per share, including for all businesses improved from last year.
This year, a net 215.5 million was compared with 30 September 2001. exceptional items, were 41.36p compared The most notable improvement was in spent on acquisitions and disposals of The average cost of net debt was with 46.03p last year.
Process Gas Solutions, where returns businesses compared with 133.6 million in 6.3 per cent, compared with 7.4 per cent increased to 9.2 per cent from 7.7 per cent the previous year.
The main acquisitions last year.
last year, mainly through improved were the Seiko Instruments turbomolecular operational efficiency and cost savings.
pumps business in Japan and the Unique Despite weak manufacturing conditions in Gas business in Thailand.
some markets, the Industrial and Special The net cash outow for the Products business also increased its return year before nancing activities was on capital to over 20 per cent.
120.3 million, compared with an outow of 2.3 million last year.
As in the previous year, free cash ow net cash ow before investing activities was strongly positive, at 166.5 million for the year.
2002 results Analysis by region Turnover Operating profit before exceptional items 4,017.9m 500.1m 1 Europe 1,069.6m 27% 1 Europe 155.2m 31% 1 1 2 Americas 1,291.8m 32% 2 Americas 121.3m 24% 3 Africa 441.0m 11% 3 Africa 56.7m 11% 4 Asia Pacific 1,215.5m 30% 4 Asia Pacific 166.9m 34% 4 2 4 2 3 3 In my first statement since becoming A revitalised BOC chairman following the last Annual General Since the joint bid for the company from Meeting in January 2002, I thought that Air Liquide and Air Products lapsed over I should give you an overview of your two years ago, your company has been company, followed by a perspective on the invigorated under the executive leadership recent past, the challenges that lie ahead and of Tony Isaac.
A new team of executive and your boards approach to addressing them.
non-executive directors has been built, I have travelled extensively and had the all of whom share the same passion and opportunity to visit operations and to meet commitment for the future development of customers and staff throughout the world.
The same revitalisation has occurred I am immensely impressed by the capability at every level of the company.
of the company and the goodwill it enjoys.
The board has reviewed all aspects of There are also good opportunities for the strategy, performance and governance during future that I will comment on later.
There is an ambitious forward programme for our management and staff to Chairmans statement achieve.
Our principal objective is to deliver superior returns to our shareholders, both in the form of dividends and share price appreciation.
The graphs shown on the following page indicate how we stand now against this objective.
They will be updated in future annual reports so that shareholders can monitor progress.
I have chosen October 2000 as the start point for the graphs as it was the beginning of the first financial year after the bid lapsed.
One graph shows progress in total shareholder returns relative to the FTSE 100 group of companies to the end of this financial year.
It demonstrates outperformance relative to this group.
The second graph compares your companys performance with its main global gases competitors.
The message here is less positive and spurs us on to improve our position.
Delivering superior returns Our strategy to deliver superior returns for shareholders is to focus on sustained and sustainable growth in earnings and improvements in capital efficiency.
These, in turn, require us to grow the scale and scope of your company whilst continuously improving the efficiency and productivity of capital and other resources.
Success will 03 04 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2002 enable us to sustain a progressive dividend Continuing the strategy semiconductor industry and of Asian policy, on which the board is seeking your Tony Isaac and his management team have business in general.
Roberto Mendoza, endorsement at the next Annual General been pursuing a consistent strategy.
One of who joined in October 2002, brings to Meeting.
It would also result in the value of BOCs strengths is its compressed gases our deliberations a lifetime of experience your shares being underpinned through business, contained within Industrial and in business and finance.
increased support in the market.
This line of business has a I am particularly pleased that Tony Isaac We are also seeking your endorsement sensible balance of growth opportunities in accepted the boards invitation to stay as at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting new products, services and geographies chief executive until June 2005, which is for our remuneration policy.
This has been matched by careful management of its core beyond his previous retirement date.
thoroughly reviewed and is designed to industrial business.
Process Gas Solutions This will give the Group the continuity support the strategy I explained above.
seeks to increase the percentage of BOCs of executive leadership that is so vital It is in line with current best practice.
business that comes from tonnage schemes, for sustained value creation.
The board has also reviewed all aspects where dedicated plants supply large volumes I took over the chairmanship at the of governance in its widest sense, adopting of gas to customers on long-term contracts.
Annual General Meeting in January when best practice wherever opportunities have It has a solutions-driven approach that Sir David John retired.
David had been a been identied and has updated its approach really does differentiate it from its director since 1993 and chairman for to social responsibility.
BOC Edwards offers a unique six years.
Howard Macdonald and in this report.
combination of products and services to Harry Groome also retired at the Annual Finally, the board has reviewed its own the semiconductor industry and is a leader General Meeting having served BOC performance, a process which it will undertake in the supply of vacuum products to a wide for nearly 12 and six years respectively.
annually, and board process improvements range of other customers.
Despite its cyclical I thank all three for their contributions.
nature, the semiconductor industry is an excellent long-term market and one Thank you Dividend that BOC Edwards is well set to serve.
Your company has a very strong business, The BOC Group has performed well over The two other specialist businesses in the close customer relationships and highly the last year.
Excluding BOC Edwards, where portfolio, Gist and Afrox hospitals, have committed employees.
On behalf of the orders from semiconductor manufacturers well developed strategies to meet their board I thank our customers for their were down sharply, operating profit before individual market needs.
business and our staff for their achievements.
exceptional items for the year increased Having identied underperforming assets Over the last two years the industrial 11 per cent at constant currency.
This is a in our portfolio, management has either gases industry has provided solid investment strong result against a background of variable improved them to acceptable levels of opportunities in an uncertain world and I economic growth in markets that are performance or sought to dispose of them.
am delighted to have joined one of the UKs important to us, with Australia and South This programme has both generated cash truly world-class companies.
The foundations Africa showing sustained improvement while and improved the Groups return on capital for future prosperity are rm and your manufacturing activity in the UK and US was employed.
A well founded investment and board is confident of the continuing more restrained.
As a result the board was acquisitions process has added a number of success of your company.
pleased to propose a first interim dividend attractive new businesses to the Groups for 2003 of 15.5p per share.
This follows our portfolio this year, strengthening our established policy of maintaining a consistent geographical presence and the growth first interim dividend and reecting any prospects of our lines of business.
increase in the second interim dividend when we announce our half year results.
Following Board of directors Rob Margetts Chairman a period when many discounted the value of This year I am delighted that two new dividends as they searched for often illusory non-executive directors have joined your growth, the importance of dividends to board.
Matthew Miau brings extensive shareholders is more apparent today.
knowledge of the global electronics and Total shareholder return since 1 October 2000 Total shareholder return October 2000 October 2002 BOC relative to FTSE 100 compared with major gases companies relative to respective local indices Percentage Percentage 40 80 30 70 20 60 10 50 0 40 -10 30 -20 BOC 20 BOC relative to FTSE 100 -30 FTSE 100 10 Other gases companies -40 0 Oct-00 Apr-01 Oct-01 Apr-02 Oct-02 a very strong business Chief executives review 2002 has been another good year for BOC.
Financial overview All parts of the Group made progress and all This year we adopted two new UK improved their profitability, apart from BOC accounting standards, FRS17 and FRS19, and Edwards whose semiconductor market was restated our 2001 and 2000 results on the depressed year on year.
same basis to allow a comparison with this years results.
At constant currencies, turnover increased two per cent in 2002 and although operating profit excluding exceptional items fell one per cent, it was up 11 per cent for the Group excluding BOC Edwards.
Operating cash ow remained strong, despite exchange rate movements and lower profits from BOC Edwards, totalling 826.6 million before exceptional items.
Free cash ow after interest, tax, dividends and capital spending but before acquisitions was 166.5 million for the year.
Delivering on commitments Followers of BOCs recent progress may feel a comfortable familiarity with some of our continuing achievements this year.
Our commitment to safety and the environment has been constant, as has the importance we place on improving customer service.
We also continue to apply pressure to our cost base.
What may surprise some is that this year we completed a record number of acquisitions, involving some 207.3 million, and that we have made significant advances by leading local consolidation around the world.
These are components of our consistent drive for profitable growth and for improvements in margins, return on capital and cash ow.
I have made the point before that our organisation structure is an important factor in our recent success.
Where it is important that a programme spans the whole Group, for instance to maximise the potential of our people or to understand and manage our risks, we run it well as a corporate initiative.
We also set financial targets and have a consolidated strategy for the Group.
What drives most of our business decisions, though, are our lines of business strategies, which are tied closely to the needs of our customers.
We only invest or make an acquisition if it ts with a line of business 05 06 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2002 another good year for BOC strategy.
Most of our people work within and operating profit before exceptional responsibilities in the communities where business units that are responsible for items was down 66 per cent at constant we live and to the environment in general.
In the second quarter there was an I also pay particular attention to the there is a clear sense of purpose throughout improvement in orders from semiconductor development and well being of our people BOC and an understanding of what needs to manufacturers but the sales of consumer in BOC and to our safety performance.
Let me explain briey what the products that use chips, such as mobile I visit many parts of BOC during the year lines of business have achieved this year.
phones and computers, showed no such and am always impressed by the dedication increase.
As a result growth was not and commitment of our employees.
The lines of business sustained, but we believe we have moved off The whole management team works hard Process Gas Solutions had a very successful the bottom.
BOC Edwards took advantage to make the most of the talent we have year as turnover grew four per cent and of the low point in the cycle to make a around us and to help all employees operating profit before exceptional items number of acquisitions, the largest of which understand that the job they do is important.
grew 22 per cent at constant currency.
was the turbomolecular pumps business of At the same time I want everyone within Its determination to deliver tailored Seiko Instruments Inc.
The general vacuum BOC, and all those whom our business solutions was well rewarded when we part of the business continued to perform touches, to be safe and to avoid being hurt signed our joint venture in China with YPC, solidly, and we strengthened it further with by our activities.
a subsidiary of Sinopec, giving us a head start the acquisition of Smiths Groups vacuum We are also keenly aware that we are in Nanjing, which is known as the chemicals and pressure business.
These acquisitions are at work to serve our customers.
I thank all capital of China.
This is an important win in being integrated successfully.
our many customers for their continued itself but just as importantly it shows that All three of our lines of business are business.
I also thank our suppliers for the Process Gas Solutions approach meets present in Japan and we announced helping us to full our customers needs.
the needs of todays market.
In September in September our intention to merge Finally, this has been a poor year for share Linde BOC Process Plants LLC was our Japanese gases business, OSK, with prices around the world and, despite established, combining BOC Process Plants Air Liquide Japan.
We await clearance to outperforming the FTSE 100 index in total with Lindes US plant building organisation.
do so from Japans competition authorities.
shareholder returns by 46 per cent over the This both assures our access to world-class The deal, which will give us a 45 per cent last two years, BOC has been unable to plant technology at a competitive cost and share in the combined Japan Air Gases defy fully the effects of lower markets.
delivers cost savings estimated at around business, is important in a market that is I thank all our shareholders for their 15 million a year.
starting to consolidate and in an economy continued support.
Industrial and Special Products is where growth prospects remain low.
concentrating on its business centred As Japan Air Gases scope extends only to around the welding and cutting of metal and Japan it was agreed to treat BOC Edwards on its high growth sectors such as hospitality, equipment business separately so it could medical and packaged chemicals.
Managing continue to support Japanese customers these businesses globally is beginning to wherever they operate.
Tony Isaac Chief executive produce important benets, notably through Our two specialist businesses, Gist the widespread transfer of best practice, and Afrox hospitals, both performed well.
As well as Gist continues to demonstrate that its delivering increased profit from the mature value-adding approach is attractive to a part of the business we are also transforming range of customers.
Afrox hospitals grew the growth prospects for the line of business by increasing the breadth of services at its overall, with turnover this year up seven per existing hospitals and through acquisitions.
cent and operating profit before exceptional You will nd more details in the items up five per cent at constant currency.
BOC Edwards, reliant as it is on the fortunes of the semiconductor industry, Our wider responsibilities had a difficult year, yet remained in profit Attending to growth and the financial health when many similar suppliers reported of the Group are key priorities.
Turnover was down 19 per cent programmes to ensure we full our wider improving the service for our customers Cellaguard Cleaning components Monitoring carbon dioxide The Kachina business of levels in cellars where BOC Edwards specialises dispense gases are kept is in cleaning components of important for safety.
The the process tools for a BOC Cellaguard system number of the worlds sounds an alarm when leading microelectronic unusual levels of carbon manufacturing companies.
dioxide are detected in the atmosphere.
Good customer service starts with Being a customer should be a good delivering what has been ordered when it experience, shouldnt it?
In Australia there is has been promised.
That is the message we a project called The Dream.
We asked our get most strongly from our customers customers how they would like to feel when through our satisfaction surveys, and we are dealing with BOC and now we are trying to pretty good at doing it.
Delivering accurately make their dream come true.
BOC people and on time is at the core of Gists logistics are looking at every aspect of a customers business.
In Process Gas Solutions, electronic experience from when an order is placed to sensors let us test the levels of liquid when our invoice is paid.
This is our project, gases on customer sites remotely and run deliberately without the help of external help make sure we top the tanks up in consultants, and the lessons we are learning time.
For Industrial and Special Products, are being picked up around BOC.
once we have received an order for a Customers tell us they expect good cylinder of gas it is a matter of automatically service and are prepared to pay for it.
assigning it to a vehicle and developing a They are also prepared to pay more for route plan to get it to the customer in the additional services that we can provide most efficient way.
But none of this is any better than they can.
As a result the dividing good if the product, whether it be a vacuum line between what is a product and what pump or a cylinder containing a complex is a service is becoming less and less mixture of gases, is not available in time clear as customers choose to call on a and here we rely on some of the most wider range of our knowledge and capability.
Either way, we get the business because we add value.
BOC makes an important contribution to the working life of the world.
We know that many of our customers could not run their businesses if we were not there to give them the products and services they need.
Thinking this way certainly helps maintain customer service at the front of our thoughts.
Hearing what our customers say BOCs customer service centres work successfully around the world.
The UK centre receives 1.5 million phone calls a year with an average response time of under ten seconds.
We survey our customers regularly.
In the UK the average scores they give us are: 8.95 out of 10 for overall service 9.35 out of 10 for our delivery reliability 9.27 out of 10 for the quality of our order taking service 8.28 out of 10 for the way we resolve queries 07 08 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2002 Keeping business in business The national scheduling centre in the US forecasts customers use of our liquid gases and arranges 45,000 deliveries each month to more than 10,000 bulk customers.
It works 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
Serving the service industries Service is what the hospitality business is all about.
BOC makes sure that beers and carbonated drinks are always on tap at our customers premises.
Putting the e in eBusiness Internet-based systems make it easier to do business with BOC.
Customers can order gas, nd safety information and manage their accounts.
Growing where the The medical market growth is Mention medical gases and BOC Gazy is our business people naturally think of in Poland.
BOC is well oxygen, but BOC offers positioned in some of the a much wider range of fastest growing economies products and services for in Asia, Latin America this expanding market.
Food for thought Gases are used in the chilling, freezing and packaging of food.
As our taste for ready meals and carbonated drinks increases, so do applications for BOCs gases.
Chemicals and petroleum Environmental and economic factors are driving the increased use of gases, particularly hydrogen, by the worlds chemical and petroleum companies.
09 10 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2002 focusing on high growth potential When in 1886 Arthur and Leon Brin Our lines of business can move capital, Concentrating on high growth sectors founded the business that was to become people and resources globally and follow Annual growth BOC, it was showbusiness that gave them customers to wherever they want to do potential Sector Growth drivers for BOC their first big opportunity.
Through our lines of business for limelight in theatres was the foundation we have insights to the changing worlds Oil & chemicals hydrogen for clean fuels 5-10% and upgrading heavy crudes, of the business but if BOC had seen itself of demand and customer expectation.
enhanced oil recovery as the National Limelight Company it is Choosing how to invest nite resources to Environmental energy conservation, 5-10% doubtful its history would have run for grow and to grow profitably is a challenge control of emissions, 20 years, let alone for over a century.
but one that BOC is well able to meet.
water quality Over these generations BOC has grown Semiconductor new technology, 15% by investing for the demands of the future communications, long while delivering answers for todays needs.
compound semiconductors term Food and ready meals, food safety, Many of the industries we have supplied for beverage process technology in Asia 5-10% decades now nd their future lies beyond Medical home therapy, cost 10-15% the developed western economies.
If we had pressures, new products, responded to this trend we would have been income growth in Asia too late, but we foresaw the opportunity and Hospitality outsourcing, safety 10-15% prepared in advance.
We committed to the legislation, industry restructuring development of Asia many years ago and continue to invest to safeguard our leading Fibre optics and local networks, 10-15% opto-electronics permanently online, position.
Our important stakes in Latin long-distance carriers America and eastern Europe similarly in Asia make us players in these fast growing regional markets.
Our line of business structure is unique in our industry.
It gives us the edge in understanding where we can win and allows us to respond quickly.
Large customers in the oil and chemicals sector have seen the inspiration in the solutions we have generated to their problems and have rewarded us with some of their most prestigious contracts.
In the high growth markets for medical, hospitality and special gases we have dedicated teams developing products and services which we then apply to each of our countries in turn.
And our commitment to the fastest growing industry of the last 50 years, semiconductors, remains a source of long-term profitable growth.
World-class production Moving towards one Lean production business process processes at BOC infrastructure Edwards meet world-class SAP is BOCs chosen suite standards and have the of computer systems that exibility to react to the allow us to standardise cyclical nature of the our processes around semiconductor industry.
The result will be a world-class business operating environment.
Brinsworth operations centre The third of BOCs operations centres is based at Brinsworth, Yorkshire, in the UK improving efficiency 11 12 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2002 Improved distribution brings cost and environmental benets Joint production, product swaps and better eet utilisation saves cost and reduces pollution.
We saved one million miles from the distribution network across 15 US states alone.
Managing the big It is a long road to improved efficiency and picture and the detail one that is never fully travelled.
If all the As well as balancing supply initiatives underway in BOC were counted and demand across BOCs production network, each they would number many hundreds and they operations centre keeps a build on hundreds more that have been watchful eye on the successfully completed over the years.
detailed performance of It is a continual journey seeking better each plant.
Some efficiency programmes can be centrally The same technology, already used in the managed, such as the standardisation of US and introduced last year in the UK, has computer systems to ensure information can been extended further and now we be shared around the globe.
Others are the remotely monitor the production line result of local ingenuity and the search to do performance on behalf of one of our things just that little bit better.
More often important food customers an idea born now it is a combination of both, where to deliver efficiency now delivers a direct local teams share their experience and customer service.
achievements and the best ideas are picked The prizes can be large.
All the initiatives up and used everywhere.
that form Process Gas Solutions Wisdom At Wolverhampton in the UK a new programme will reduce costs by some system will use ultrasound to test cylinders, 50 million a year.
The efforts of BOC a trial having shown it to be eight times Edwards have kept that business profitable more efficient than the existing method.
during a severe downturn in its main This will then be shared around the world.
The operations control centre in Australia A downturn that drove many other already controls 12 plants around the suppliers into loss.
Similarly in Industrial country and next year it will remotely and Special Products, standardising on the manage plants in New Zealand.
best operational and commercial practice wherever it is found in BOC brings cost savings and better customer service in its train.
efficient plants, efficient systems and an efficient business.
We are getting better all the time but the process never stops.
Running our plants remotely using our operations service centres Operations centres run 24 hours a day with benets including improved plant reliability and efficiency.
Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, US Operating 14 plants accounting for over 6,000 tonnes per day of capacity.
Sydney, Australia 12 ASU and CO plants in Australia now run 2 remotely.
New Zealand plants to be added next year.
Brinsworth, Yorkshire, UK Phased roll out to cover all major tonnage sites and on-site systems.
First example of a customer-owned process being controlled remotely.
Asia operations centre being set up.
Our leaders are drawn from throughout the Group and five nationalities are represented on our executive management board.
We spend a lot of effort identifying the leaders of the future and then testing them in a range of roles to give them the breadth of experience to manage at the top.
There are some 46,000 BOC people around As we move from a past where business the world.
There are many things that give us was concentrated in traditional industrial pride in our individuality as we live and work economies we see that our diversity of in different cultures and societies, serving talent wins us new business in the emerging different customers.
There are many other markets of the world.
things that bind us together within BOC.
We train to ensure We share a common commitment to ACTS we are safe when at work and we train to accountability, collaboration, transparency prepare for our future in BOC.
ACTS has the great advantage on our own individual development plans of being short, simple and understood because it is really our responsibility to everywhere in BOC.
We work within our manage our career in the company.
Each of line of business structure that is unique in us has an important part to play in BOCs our eld and brings both direction and success and it is good to know that what opportunity to our working lives.
we do in BOC improves peoples lives and contributes to the communities in which We believe that people in BOC are treated we work.
fairly, that the jobs we do are important and that we are recognised and rewarded for what we do and how well we do it.
Every two years we ask employees their views in a worldwide survey and we compare the results against those from the best performing companies in the world.
developing our people High potential Steven Fang is Process Systems zone vice president for China.
China is a source of people with high business potential.
BOC develops them within the country and through key roles in the UK, Australia Training for success and the Americas.
The LEAD series of extended courses prepares senior managers for even bigger things.
Gwen Jones attended LEAD to build on her MBA, and is now managing director, hospitality within Industrial and Special Products.
13 14 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2002 On the first rung BOC has active graduate recruitment programmes, offering tailored career paths for talented recruits from a variety of technical and commercial disciplines.
Getting feedback This year we surveyed 14,000 people in BOC.
Our three highest scores compared with other high performing companies were: I am proud to be associated with The BOC Group overall 87% favourable response 9% above global high performing norm Growing from within Training for BOC has an active policy performance I think the job I perform is of promoting from within As well as traditional considered important by my and giving young graduates classroom-based training business enabling function 90% favourable response and managers early BOC runs a variety of 7% above global high performing norm exposure to a range of on-line and remote There is good co-operation business experiences.
between my work team Its IMSS safety training and other teams 69% favourable response and validation system is 6% above global high performing norm one of the most advanced you will nd anywhere.
Building for the future in Nanjing BOCs joint venture with YPC, a subsidiary of Sinopec, in Nanjing, China gives us a leading position in the city known as the chemicals capital of China.
Early in Asia BOCs early presence in Asia laid the foundations for our leading position in the markets of the region.
Our operation in Shanghai was BOCs first investment in China.
Asia Pacic BOC growing with our customers The countries of Asia Pacic are of increasing importance to BOC.
They contribute: 30 per cent share of BOCs turnover 34 per cent share of BOCs operating profit 15 16 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2002 Growth in Thailand BOC now owns almost 100 per cent of Thai Industrial Gases, having bought out the minority shareholders.
We continue to invest in Thailand, both organically and through acquisitions.
we continue to lead in Asia Focusing on Asia Already nearly one-third of BOCs sales come from Asia Pacic.
BOC invests in developing its people as well as in new plant and equipment to maintain its position in the region.
BOC was investing in Asia long before it became popular to talk about the tiger economies and the Asian miracle.
In the late 1990s the expansion subsided, but still growth remained at levels that were the envy of the developed western world and BOC held its faith in the region.
Today most of Asia continues to transform both its Industrial gases companies can traditionally industrial base and its infrastructure, and expect economic expansion to translate into BOC is well placed to enjoy the growth that increased business, but BOC wants more comes from being a leader in many of the than its fair share of this growth.
To achieve key Asian economies.
this we are acquiring local assets and companies that take our line of business China offers many of the biggest prizes strategies forward.
We have also bought out and continues to attract a large slice of minorities in countries such as Thailand the direct foreign investment owing into where we did not own 100 per cent Asia.
Western chemicals companies are of the equity.
We are also leading local establishing world-scale production facilities consolidation to broaden the range of in cities such as Nanjing.
Semiconductor products and services we can offer our companies invest, eager to contribute to customers, as in the purchase of a subsidiary Chinas demand for electronic goods.
And BOC is there as an essential partner Japan recently has not been part of this in the growth of the country.
There we intend to combine our business with a competitors to produce a stronger business more able to compete in a difficult market.
Our line of business structure allows us to marshal our capital, resources and people and apply them wherever they are needed.
Asia is now a source of potential management talent in its own right, and this year alone some half a dozen young Asian managers have been appointed to key roles in Australia, the UK and the Americas.
BOC tailors its technology response.
Technology gives us an edge.
We need The effort that keeps BOC Edwards up technology to make our operations more alongside the leaders of the semiconductor efficient and to continue to grow in the industry is different from the accumulated markets we choose.
It is as important that understanding that helps Process Gas we capture the good idea that makes a Solutions develop applications for the small but discernible difference to a local food, metals and other process industries.
operation as it is that we patent a new Where technology requires a community of application for one of our gases.
They both scientists to produce a successful result, we show an organisation determined to do establish the community.
Where innovation better and set on improving the service to takes place on the customers production its customers.
That should be the reason for line we make sure we keep technologists investing in technology: to produce real close to our customers.
And when we benets at a reasonable cost.
see technology available outside BOC that will help us grow our business, we apply it First in freezing with enthusiasm.
BOCs new impingement freezer is in a class of its own when it comes to The external face of technology brings freezing food products visible benets to customers.
It brings new such as burgers.
Patented products and better ways of doing things.
BOC technology gives it It brings improved cylinders with integral the edge.
valves that makes life easier for the paramedic.
It allows on-line ordering over the Internet.
It helps ensure patients receive the highest quality of care in our Afrox hospitals.
And it brings expertise in products such as hydrogen and applies it to help solve the energy needs of the future.
Equally important is the impact that technology plays within BOC.
Systems that bring the right information quickly to the screens in our customer service centres save time and ensure accuracy.
Technology makes our plants more efficient and allows them to be controlled from remote locations.
A common systems base allows us to process transactions from Hong Kong at our global data centre in the UK, moving the information back and forth over the Internet.
Safety first for deep mine workers The AfroxPac 35 will keep a miner alive underground for 35 minutes even when other sources of breathable air are exhausted.
A rugged solution to a real life or death problem.
the perfect blend of technology 17 18 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2002 Positioning BOC Edwards for growth Technology acquisitions to strengthen total offering: Hydromatix liquid purication systems of copper and solid waste streams Semco design and manufacture of liquid chemical delivery and collection Seiko pumps the turbomolecular pumps business of Seiko Instruments Inc. Development and qualication is proceeding with new technology processes for 300mm wafer fabs and sub-0.13 micron line widths.
Improved cylinders seen demand grow bring medical benets wherever it is introduced.
Not every innovation This is the latest version need be earth-shattering.
tailored for the US The range of more market.
portable medical cylinders with integral valves has Making the most of helium Helium is a scarce and valuable gas.
BOC technology helps recover and recycle it once it has been used in a customers production process.
Some parts of BOC are capital-intensive Since 1999, when BOC sold its gases and need investment to grow.
Because it business in Benelux, we have looked for normally takes time for profits to ow opportunities to lead local consolidation.
and to recoup the initial expenditure, Good businesses can be made better and each investment is looked at very closely.
poor businesses can be turned into cash.
Over recent years BOC has pursued a As good prospects have been identied in consistent course, tying investments and Europe, the Americas and Asia the acquisitions strongly to the strategies momentum has increased.
The ow of the lines of business and leading of acquisition opportunities has grown local consolidation where market so strong that we now have a pool of conditions demand.
seasoned managers with expertise in this area worldwide.
In the semiconductor market opportunities Much energy goes into making the most arise to acquire companies at the low point of the businesses we already have our of the business cycle.
BOC Edwards has investments and acquisitions add to the used such opportunities to good effect, story of growth.
grafting on new capabilities and adding new businesses without the time, cost and risk inherent in starting from scratch.
Industrial and Special Products has been a major source of acquisition activity, expanding both geographically and in its chosen sectors by purchasing good businesses and integrating them into its existing infrastructure.
Process Gas Solutions, which traditionally accounts for a large part of the Groups capital expenditure, channels most of its investment in two directions.
It supplies and operates new plants linked to long-term contracts with major customers and it buys existing plants and runs them on behalf of customers, charging for the gas or services it provides.
As we prove to our key customers how well we can engineer solutions, the scale of the projects we are invited to participate in grows.
This is good, profitable business where our customers value the difference we make to their business more than the fact that we just know how to make gases.
investments and acquisitions Matheson purchase strengthens Canadian business BOC bought Mathesons Canadian special gases business in April.
It ts very well with BOCs existing gases business in Canada.
Building the BOC semiconductor production Edwards range and the technology is BOC Edwards bought the key to business the turbomolecular relationships with process pumps business of Seiko.
Turbo pumps are used on process tools to evacuate process chambers in 19 20 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2002 Acquisitions made in 2002 Process Gas Solutions 48.1 million Industrial and Special Products 57.3 million BOC Edwards 86.2 million Afrox hospitals 15.7 million Total acquisitions 207.3 million ISP growth opportunities Unique Gas, acquired this year, offers ISP growth in the expanding Thai market as well as exposure to key market sectors in the region, notably LPG and packaged chemicals.
Investing for the manufacturing operations chemicals industry on Teesside in the This year BOC north-east of the country.
commissioned Englands largest hydrogen plant to serve Huntsmans Our three lines of business, Process Gas In the US, business was at.
The recovery Solutions, Industrial and Special Products and in steel, growth in CO volumes, continued 2 BOC Edwards, respond to the individual new business and price increases helped needs of their customer groups.
Process Gas compensate for lower volumes elsewhere Solutions provides tailored solutions to the and a record number of companies seeking process needs of our largest customers in bankruptcy protection.
BOCs CO business 2 industries such as oil rening, chemicals and was strengthened by the acquisition of steel.
Industrial and Special Products serves Messers CO assets in the US.
A replacement 2 customers who need smaller volumes of gas, Process Gas Solutions plant to supply the WCI steel works in Ohio normally in cylinders.
BOC Edwards supports Process Gas Solutions PGS increased was commissioned in May and a new plant a number of industries and in particular offers turnover by four per cent and operating profit was built in North Carolina to meet local a unique range of products and services for before exceptional items by 22 per cent at demand.
In Latin America BOC increased its the semiconductor industry.
Sales rose as new plants shareholding from 30 to 35 per cent in the came on stream and prices were increased.
company supplying nitrogen to Pemexs Gulf Operating profit rose more quickly following of Mexico oilelds.
Good profit improvement the wider introduction of best operating was seen in Venezuela, Colombia and Chile.
Operating review practices and the continued emphasis on Operating profit rose faster in Australia cost reduction.
The combination of BOC than turnover as new projects continued to Process Plants with Lindes US plant building come on stream and cost containment organisation, announced in March, was programmes were successful.
There was a successfully completed by the year end.
Linde full years production from BP at the BOC Process Plants LLC will provide BOC Bulwer Island plant and increased customer with access to world class technology and demand for product from the Port Kembla annual savings of 15 million.
The plant relocated to serve OneSteel Investment remained at low levels as most at Whyalla was commissioned, also enabling customer industries are at the bottom of PGS to shut down old merchant capacity their investment cycles.
Growth in production at Adelaide.
In South Africa there were was also restrained.
Steel proved the significant increases in both turnover and exception, with strong output in Asia, operating profit, one reason being the steel Australia and South Africa and recovery in the industry that operated at high capacity levels.
US following the introduction of tariffs earlier in the year.
Chemicals showed little sign of cyclical recovery but our investments in this industry produced resilient returns.
The merchant market for liquid products improved.
Customer service levels improved, prices were increased and PGS ran effective cost reduction programmes, bringing more plants under remote control from centralised operations centres and improving further the scheduling of its tanker eets.
Chemicals on Teesside New production facility BOC continues to invest in South Australia to support the chemicals An air separation unit was industry worldwide.
commissioned to serve Tony Isaac, BOC chief the OneSteel steelworks executive, visited BOC and at Whyalla in South customer installations at Australia.
It also provides Teesside in the UK.
more efficient production facilities to serve the wider state and Northern Nitrogen supply Territory markets.
BOC increased its shareholding in the company supplying nitrogen to Pemexs Gulf of Mexico oilelds from 30 to 35 per cent.
21 22 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2002 Industrial and Special Products Industrial and Special Products ISP grew turnover by seven per cent and operating profit before exceptional items by five per cent at constant currency.
This year ISP established four business sectors industrial, medical, Asia in general, and China in particular, hospitality and special gases to work with continue to offer PGS some of the best the business units worldwide.
BOC in China has driven by market conditions and the distinct worked hard to ensure it has the skills and needs of each customer group have already resources to support growth and our three produced increased growth.
In parallel, the largest joint venture companies are now wider implementation of best operational and run by Chinese nationals, having previously commercial practice has reduced costs.
One result of ISP has promoted local restructuring, with this concentrated effort in China was the a special gases acquisition in Canada and the signing of a joint venture agreement with proposed purchase of Praxairs gases business YPC, a subsidiary of Sinopec, that establishes in Poland.
It has also used acquisitions to BOC in the strategically important Nanjing speed its development in growth markets, chemicals corridor.
In Korea operational as the purchase of Unique Gas has done in improvements produced profit growth in a the Thai markets for packaged chemicals generally at economy while the HyCO plant and liqueed petroleum gas LPG.
for TPCC, a Japanese Thai joint venture company in Thailand, is on track to enter service next year.
Our businesses in Pakistan and Bangladesh are small but both are well run and have proved resilient despite difficult political conditions in Pakistan.
Volume growth and enhanced productivity saw improved profitability in India.
The industrial background in the UK was less supportive.
The result, even after strong cost reduction efforts, was a small increase in turnover accompanied by a small decrease in profit.
There was a high number of business closures and a trend for customers to transfer production overseas.
The hydrogen plant serving Huntsman started production in January and the purchase later in the year of the Teesside gases pipeline network from ETOL underlined BOCs commitment to the chemicals industry in the north-east of England.
WCI Steel Developing the special In May 2002 a replacement gases network plant was commissioned to During the year a new supply oxygen to the WCI special gases plant was steelworks in Ohio.
opened to supply customers in the Gulf States of the US.
Poland BOC has been present in Poland since the liberalisation of the market in the 1990s and is currently awaiting approval to acquire Praxairs Polish gases business.
In the UK, ISP grew both sales and operating profit above the rate of ination.
It has maintained its position in the declining industrial market while growing in sectors like special gases, medical and hospitality There was strong GDP growth in Australia, where the service element is of increasing led by increased manufacturing output, which importance.
This year ISP overcame the in turn produced significant growth for ISP complexities of selling direct to refrigeration in operating profit and only slightly less in contractors by signing a deal with a leading turnover.
All product and service sectors refrigerants wholesaler for all its outlets in benefited.
Sales of safety products continued the UK.
Among new product introductions, to grow and the supply chain for safety and a successful ethylene business has been welding products was rationalised using developed from scratch over the last two expertise from Gist.
The Elgas LPG business years.
In operations, a cylinder test facility had a good year, helped by a colder winter is being commissioned at Wolverhampton and greater stability in the world price for Operating review that uses ultrasound technology and is petroleum products.
some eight times more efficient than South Africa also saw a resurgence in its predecessor.
manufacturing with notable increases in demand for BOCs core cutting and welding products.
Good business performance was also reported from other African countries.
Exports of gas equipment from South Africa to BOC companies were up signicantly and the AfroxPac35 mining rescue product which was launched this year has been an immediate success.
The economic environment in south-east Asia was less buoyant.
Countries that had shown resilience in the downturn of the late 1990s, such as Taiwan, Singapore and Hong Kong, proved more vulnerable this time as electronics manufacturing slowed.
BOC benefited from last years acquisition of the minorities in Thai Industrial Gases and the acquisition this year of Unique Gas in Thailand and NIOI in Malaysia.
As a result, turnover for our south-east Asia business unit as a whole rose signicantly, but the increase in operating profit was smaller.
Applying the latest technology The new cylinder testing facility at Wolverhampton in the UK is the forerunner of similar plants around the world using ultrasound technology.
Growing in Thailand Launching welding BOC has seen good products in the US organic growth in Thailand A new range of gas which was supplemented apparatus was successfully this year with the launched in the US under acquisition of Unique Gas, the well-known Airco a specialist in packaged brand name.
23 24 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2002 In the US the economy was at and the BOC Edwards manufacturing slowdown affected the BOC Edwards turnover declined by sales of gas and welding equipment and 19 per cent and operating profit before consumables more so than gas itself.
exceptional items was down by 66 per cent Pricing improvements and the control at constant currency, although the business of costs could not compensate for a remained strongly cash generative.
Capital investment by the semiconductor The launch of a new range of Airco-branded industry declined at the end of 2001 and gas apparatus was well received.
This is the continued at a low level this year, despite latest phase in a global project that started some improvement in the second half of in South Africa and has revitalised gas the year.
Chip manufacturing is increasingly equipment sales in a number of national centred in Asia and the growth seen in markets.
In Canada economic conditions China, supported by Taiwanese investment, were similar to the US.
The Canadian special has not been repeated in other regions.
gases business of Matheson was acquired in The pharmaceutical and bio-sciences markets April and is being successfully integrated.
for general vacuum products continued to grow and this was also reected in improved revenue and profit from BOC Edwards pharmaceutical equipment business.
Demand for vacuum products slowed in chemicals and in metallurgy, for which the aerospace industry is a major customer.
Bulk gas sales for semiconductor manufacturing were lower in Europe following the closure of some fabs.
In the US a major win from a leading manufacturer in the north-west and continuing productivity improvements helped balance the impact of closures elsewhere.
In Asia, business wins also balanced reduced demand from existing customers.
China was the exception, with BOC Edwards achieving a high success rate, particularly with ground-breaking projects in Shanghai.
BOC Edwards has strengthened its position in speciality gases and is now supplying NF for cleaning operations from 3 its plant in South Africa.
Semiconductor parts cleaning BOC Edwards first parts cleaning facility in Europe was opened at Corbeil-Essonnes, to support the Altis Semiconductor fab.
Hydromatix acquisition The growing exhaust gas abatement business has now been complemented by liquid abatement systems, used to purify waste streams in semiconductor manufacturing.
Industrial products Vacuum sub-systems 100 per cent The acquisition from Acquisition of Seiko committed Smiths Group brings Instruments turbo pumps BOC has been a expertise in systems business anticipates the committed supplier to engineering, using growing demand for Marks & Spencer for both vacuum and sub-systems that support more than 30 years.
This year Gist took on the distribution of Marks & Spencers entire range of chilled and Logistics on-line Operating review ambient foods.
Gist brings its e-fullment and operational supply chain experience to bear on behalf of on-line wholesaler Blueheath under a three-year contract signed this year.
Gist Gist grew turnover by 14 per cent and operating profit before exceptional items by 20 per cent.
Between January and June it took responsibility for the remaining part of Marks & Spencers chilled and ambient food BOC Edwards maintained or improved its distribution:it now handles all of this business.
position as an equipment supplier to the It manages all warehouse and distribution leading semiconductor manufacturers.
It is operations for Budgens and won a contract to involved in all major fabs currently under operate a new supply chain for the John Lewis construction.
It strengthened its position by Partnership.
All three of these customers are acquiring Seiko Instruments turbomolecular major UK retailers.
pumps business and extended the services it Orders for products and services made can offer by acquiring Hydromatix and Semco.
over the Internet continue to grow steadily.
The vacuum equipment division was awarded benefiting from this, Gist provides e-fullment a Queens Award for Innovation for its new warehousing operations for Ocado, the process-enabling pumping technologies on-line home delivery business established in developed for the semiconductor industry.
partnership with the Waitrose supermarket In the non-semiconductor area it added the chain:for Marks & Spencers lunch to go Smiths range of general vacuum businesses.
operations:and for the on-line wholesaler, All these acquisitions are being successfully Blueheath.
Meanwhile Kachina, the semiconductor parts cleaning business, opened new service facilities in Oregon, France and China.
The drive by manufacturers to reduce the cost per bit continues, and one approach they are taking is to outsource major sub-systems.
BOC Edwards is positioned to benefit from this trend, because it has good relationships with major equipment manufacturers and products suited to this need, such as the turbomolecular pump business.
During the year BOC Edwards sold its glass coating business.
25 26 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2002 High quality care Afrox hospitals continues to invest in the latest technology and in training for its nursing staff.
Acute care hospitals Afrox hospitals is a leading supplier of private health care in southern Africa, owning more than 60 acute care hospitals and clinics.
Continuing growth in Afrox hospitals Afrox hospitals has grown successfully both organically and through acquisition.
This years acquisitions included the Amahosp and Wilgers hospital groups.
Afrox hospitals More than three-quarters of Afrox hospitals turnover comes from its acute care hospitals, with the remainder coming from health care services and its chronic care hospitals.
Turnover this year rose by 23 per cent and operating profit before exceptional items by 25 per cent at constant currency, but both were reduced by the weakness of the South African rand when converted into sterling.
Good performance in most parts of the business was affected by a decline in the Direct Medicines business.
Afrox hospitals added nearly 1,000 acute care beds this year following the acquisition of the Amahosp and Wilgers hospitals.
These acquisitions improved its national network of hospitals, but the steady consolidation of the private hospitals sector makes major growth by acquisition less likely in the future.
To compensate, enhanced facilities at the acute care hospitals are increasing organic growth with the addition of services such as renal dialysis, mental health care rehabilitation, pathology and radiology.
Each year Afrox hospitals trains some 400 new nurses and improves the skills of 5,000 more.
Even so, better wages in other countries continue to attract well qualied staff overseas and increase the pressure on medical salaries in South Africa.
A business the size of BOC touches the lives Although we believe we have high standards, of many people.
Our products and services it became clear that believing is one thing and are essential for many industrial processes.
proving it to others is something different.
We help others make a living and it would So this year we set out to benchmark be true to say that our modern world could ourselves and understand how we measured not function without the industrial gases up against all the components of CSR.
We give employment to over What we discovered was that we did indeed 46,000 people and do business with many generally perform well but that we lacked suppliers that help us generate wealth around the formal procedures and tools needed to the world.
Our economic activity delivers report our progress externally.
To address rewards to our shareholders and contributes this we formed a team from all of our lines of to the wellbeing of communities where we business and key functions to review our CSR live and work.
policies and processes and to recommend improvements.
That programme is progressing well.
BOC is in business to make a profit, but those So, what sort of things does BOC do well?
Fullling our wider with a stake in BOC are also increasingly You will see graphs opposite plotting some of responsibilities interested in how that profit is made.
It is no our safety and environmental performance longer enough just to be a conscientious and measures.
In general we measure safety ethical employer and producer.
Today you against the highest standards available.
need to prove that you are.
And it makes We include a BOC employee in our lost good business sense to do so, because failure workday case rate statistics if he or she to recognise social, ethical and environmental misses a single shift as a result of an accident.
These wider In industry generally, employees are only responsibilities are often referred to as included if they have been absent for three corporate social responsibility, or CSR.
We have made progress on safety but CSR covers many aspects, including any accident is one too many, so we have set employment, health, safety and the ourselves the target of halving recordable environment, human rights, community accidents over the next five years.
Because BOC works in a hazardous industry we have long placed an emphasis on our safety, health and environmental performance.
Put simply, we want to avoid hurting anybody as we go about our business.
We believe we treat our employees fairly and have a strong culture of dealing ethically with our customers and suppliers.
We are also well aware of the impact we can have on local communities.
The standards we follow are the same wherever we work, although legal, cultural and economic conditions vary in the 50 or so countries where we are active.
Improving air and water quality BOC technology helps our customers reduce harmful emissions to the air and improve the quality of waste water.
Beachwatch The BOC Foundation has supported the Clean Coast project, part of the Keep Wales Tidy campaign, to provide both practical help and raise environmental awareness.
United Way Horse-drawn recycling In the US BOC employees Avon Friends of the Earth participate in the United use two heavy horses and a Way scheme.
BOC also dray for kerb-side runs matched-giving collection and recycling in schemes in several rural Somerset.
to examine its viability on a wider scale is supported by The BOC Foundation.
27 28 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2002 Overall safety performance 2001 2002 Improvement Lost workday case rate 0.40 0.37 8% Total recordable case rate 0.92 0.76 17% Passenger car avoidable accident rate 2.14 1.72 20% Truck avoidable accident rate 2.15 2.13 1% Hazardous waste Ozone depleting BOC does not make donations to political variability in national potential legal classification parties.
Charitable donations, on the other hand, play an integral part in our community Tonnes x 1000 Tonnes released involvement work.
We prefer to engage our 20 30 employees in this work and see matchedgiving and similar schemes as an effective 24 15 way of channelling our charitable giving.
Good environmental practice is also good Last year BOC made charitable donations 18 10 business practice.
Last year we concentrated of 1.28 million.
The BOC Foundation for 12 on fuel efficiency in our UK gases transport the Environment, which was set up in 1990, eet.
This programme saved us fuel worth continues to fund a host of worthwhile 5 6 340,000 and saved an equivalent amount environmental projects, with a further of carbon dioxide emissions.
These range from 098990001 02 098990001 02 continues to develop and exploit technologies continuing support for work on sustainable Non-compliances Lost workday case rate that help our customers improve their urban drainage schemes to a study to avoid violation of laws, environmental performance, particularly pollution associated with dirty water from complaints and spillages by improving water quality and reducing dairy farms.
Each of our sites reports BOCs business is founded on providing No.
sites reporting incidents comprehensive environmental data yearly and practical solutions to business problems.
125 0.6 there are now over 30 BOC sites qualied to Our approach to corporate social 0.5 100 the ISO14001 environmental standard.
responsibility similarly involves pragmatic Every two years we survey our employees programmes driven by our underlying 0.4 75 to understand how they feel about BOC.
commitment to high ethical and social values.
0.3 The results help us improve and they also 50 give us a sense of the overall health of the 0.2 organisation.
Last year 8,000 employees from 25 0.1 around the world lled in Voice of BOC surveys.
87 per cent of them responded 098990001 02 0 98 99 00 01 02 favourably to the statement I am proud to be associated with The BOC Group overall.
In general the responses compared well with results from other high performing companies tracked by the polling organisation ICR.
The comparison was less favourable on ethnic and gender diversity in the workplace and the causes are being studied in detail.
Computers in schools BOC actively supports the involvement of its employees in community projects.
In Thailand the gift of computers gave a local school access to computing resources for the first time.
Earthship New Zealand water The Low Carbon Network In New Zealand is building its first Earthship BOCs community with the help of The BOC environmental grants Foundation.
Earthships are programme is working solar powered home and with other organisations work spaces built from used to help the community tyres, which are themselves protect and improve its a big waste problem.
01 02 05 06 03 Board of directors 04 Rob Margetts CBE 01 Fabiola Arredondo 03 Dick Grant 05 56, chairman.
56, chief executive, Process Gas Solutions.
He is Appointed in November 2001.
She is the Appointed an executive director in July 2000. chairman of Legal & General Group plc, a managing partner of FRA Holdings LLC, a He also has responsibility for Latin America non-executive director of Anglo American private investment rm, and was previously and technology.
He was formerly regional plc, chairman of the Natural Environment the managing director of Yahoo!
Europe, a director, south Pacic and south Asia, and Research Council and a governor of Imperial director of BBC Worldwide and held senior previously ran divisions in Ohmeda, Gases College, London.
Previously he was with executive positions at BMG Entertainment.
He holds an ICI PLC for 31 years, becoming a main board She is a non-executive director of Bankinter SA honours degree in engineering from director in 1992 and vice chairman in 1998. and the World Wildlife Fund UK and is also Leeds University.
He is a fellow of both the Royal Academy a member of the US Council on Foreign Gran Lundberg 06 of Engineering and the Institution of Relations and the World Economic Forum.
She has a BA in political science from Appointed in July 2000.
He was appointed Stanford University and an MBA from Tony Isaac 02 senior independent director in November Harvard University.
He was executive vice president of the Appointed an executive director in October Julie Baddeley 04 ABB Group based in Zurich until his retirement 1994 and became chief executive in May 2000.
He is chairman of The TAC Group He was previously finance director of Arjo Appointed in May 2001.
She was an executive and chairman of The Pharmadule Group, Wiggins Appleton plc, which he joined shortly director of Woolwich plc until October 2000, both with headquarters in Sweden, and is before the fide-merger from BAT Industries p. l. c. responsible for e-commerce, information also chairman of the DUNI AB Group.
Prior to that he had been finance technology and human resources, and was involved in three venture capital companies director of GEC Plessey Telecommunications previously head of change management based in Sweden and in Switzerland and Ltd since its formation in 1988.
He is a for Maritime Region, Accenture.
She is a nonholds an M Eng and MBA.
non-executive director of Exel plc and executive director of the Yorkshire Building Ren Mdori 07 International Power plc.
Society, the Government Pensions Group, and 45, group finance director.
two venture capital trusts, I-Net VCT plc and Appointed an executive director in July 2000.
She is also a member of the He joined BOC in 1987 and has held several Audit Commission, an Associate Fellow of finance appointments in the Group.
Templeton College, Oxford and a Companion He was appointed finance director of of the Institute of Management.
She has an BOCs gases business in the Americas MA honours degree in zoology from in 1997.
Before joining BOC, he worked Oxford University.
for Accenture and Schlumberger Ltd.
He is a finance graduate of the Universit fide Paris-Dauphine and has a doctorate degree in economics.
29 30 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2002 07 12 09 10 11 08 Board committees Roberto G Mendoza 08 Dr Raj Rajagopal 11 Audit committee 57, non-executive director.
The audit committee meets regularly with internal and external auditors, as well as management, to review the effectiveness of Appointed in October 2002.
He is a founding Appointed an executive director in July 2000. internal controls, matters raised in their regular reports to the partner of Integrated Finance Ltd, the He joined BOC in 1981 and has held several committee and the half year and full year financial statements prior to their submission to the board.
The committee reviews non-executive chairman of Egg Plc, and a positions in BOC Edwards.
He was appointed the programme and effectiveness of risk management within board member of ACE Limited, Prudential Plc, managing director, Edwards Vacuum Products the Group as well as ensuring that an appropriate relationship between BOC and the external auditors is maintained.
Reuters Group Plc and Vitro S. A.
He joined in 1993 and managing director, vacuum The committee comprises only independent non-executive J. P. Morgan in 1967 and served as vice technology division in 1996.
He was directors and is chaired by Chris ODonnell.
chairman of the board from 1990 to 2000. appointed a non-executive director of FSI Management resources committee Mr Mendoza was a managing director of International Inc in January 2001.
He has a The management resources committee meets approximately six times a year.
The committee recommends to the board the Goldman Sachs & Co from 2000 until he PhD in mechanical engineering.
policy on executive directors remuneration and the specic resigned to co-found Integrated Finance Ltd remuneration, benets and terms of employment of each John W alsh 12 executive director.
The committee comprises only independent in 2001.
He was born in Cuba, obtained a BA non-executive directors and is chaired by Gran Lundberg.
47, chief executive, Industrial and in history from Yale and an MBA with high Nomination committee Special Products.
distinction from the Harvard Business School.
The nomination committee meets periodically as required.
Appointed an executive director in July 2001.
The committee monitors the composition and balance of Matthew Miau 09 He was previously president, Process Gas the board and identies and recommends to the board the appointment of new directors.
All the independent non-executive 56, non-executive director.
He joined directors and the chief executive serve as members of this Appointed in January 2002.
He is chairman of BOC in 1986 as vice president, special gases committee.
The committee is chaired by Rob Margetts.
MiTAC-Synnex Group, one of Taiwans leading and has held various senior management Pensions committee The pensions committee was reconstituted during the year and high-tech industrial groups.
He is also a positions in the Group, including president, now oversees the review of governance and control procedures Convenor of Civil Advisory Committee of Process Plants.
He has a BA in economics and applying to all employee retirement benefit plans and reviews National Information and Communications an MBA in finance and marketing, both from and makes recommendations on the investment policies and strategies applied to the Groups retirement benefit plans.
Initiatives NICI and a member of the Board Harvard University.
The committee comprises two independent non-executive of Supervisors of the Industrial Technology directors, the chief executive and the finance director.
The committee is chaired by Julie Baddeley.
Research Institute ITRI and the Board of Executive management board Directors of the Institute for Information The executive management board meets regularly having Industry III, Taiwan.
primary authority for the day-to-day management of the Groups operations and policy implementation pursuant to the Groups strategy agreed with the board.
The committee comprises the Chris ODonnell 10 chief executive, the other executive directors and certain senior 56, non-executive director.
managers and is chaired by Tony Isaac.
Further details are given Appointed in March 2001.
He is chief on pages 31 and 32. executive of Smith & Nephew plc.
Previously Investment committee The investment committee meets regularly and reviews and he held senior positions with Davy Ashmore, approves Group commitments up to certain levels set by the Vickers Limited and C R Bard Inc.
The committee comprises the chief executive, the other executive directors and certain senior managers and is chaired honours degree in mechanical engineering by Tony Isaac.
from Imperial College, London and an MBA from the London Business School.
He is a chartered engineer and a member of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers.
John Bevan 01 45, chief executive Asia since June 2000.
Appointed to the executive management board in June 2000.
He joined BOC in 1978 as a graduate in the Australian gases business and has held various positions in general management in Australia, Korea, Thailand and the UK.
He has a degree in commerce marketing from the University of New South Wales.
Nick Deeming 02 48, group legal director and company secretary since May 2001.
Appointed to the executive management board in May 2001.
He has over 16 years Executive management board in-house counsel experience, including Schlumberger SEMA and Axa PPP Healthcare, specialising in corporate and commercial law.
He has a degree in law from Guildhall University, an MBA from Craneld University and qualied as a solicitor in 1980.
01 03 06 04 02 05 31 32 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2002 Stephen Dempsey 03 Tony Isaac 06 Dr Raj Rajagopal 09 51, group director, corporate relations since 60, chief executive since May 2000.
49, chief executive, BOC Edwards since February 1999.
Appointed to the executive management June 1998.
Appointed to the executive management board in July 1996.
See page 29 for Appointed to the executive management board in October 1999.
He joined BOC in biographical details.
See page 30 for 1990 as director of marketing services for biographical details.
Rob Lourey 07 the UK gases business and has held various 45, group human resources director since Greg Sedgwick 10 communications roles in the Group.
41, group director, business development an MA in geography from Oxford University Appointed to the executive management since June 2000. and an MBA from Craneld University.
He joined BOC in Appointed to the executive management Peter Dew 04 Australia in 1996 and most recently was board in June 2000.
He also has responsibility 42, group director, information management human resources director for Asia Pacic.
He joined BOC since February 1998.
He has a bachelor of business degree in in 1984 and has held a variety of senior Appointed to the executive management personnel management.
management roles in the south Pacic board in October 1999.
He joined BOC in region, most recently managing director, Ren Mdori 08 1986.
He has held information technology Industrial and Special Products.
He was 45, group finance director since June 2000. roles in the Groups businesses in South previously market sector director, minerals Appointed to the executive management Africa, the UK and most recently as and a director of BOC India.
See page 29 for information management director for degree in marketing and a masters degree biographical details.
the Groups businesses in Asia Pacic.
in business planning from the University of New South Wales.
Dick Grant 05 56, chief executive, Process Gas Solutions John W alsh 11 since June 2000.
47, chief executive, Industrial and Appointed to the executive management Special Products since June 2001. board in July 1996.
See page 29 for Appointed to the executive management biographical details.
See page 30 for biographical details.
08 11 09 07 10 33 34 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2002 Summary financial statements Report of the directors Summary financial statements The summary financial statements comprise the profit and loss account, balance sheet and cash The following pages contain summary financial statements flow statement.
Together they show the financial performance of the Group in 2002 and trends for the year.
Financial information relating to any large over a three-year period.
We have also included a report on directors remuneration.
In addition, there is a reconciliation of profit to show the effect of the main differences group is complex, but our aim here is to present the between UK and US accounting principles.
We have done this for the benefit of our US shareholders and to meet the requirements of our listing on the New York Stock Exchange.
key data on the financial performance of the Group in a The accounts have been prepared on the following principles: manner that will help shareholders understand it quickly They are based on the historical cost accounting convention used by nearly all UK companies and easily.
All of the information has been extracted from and comply with applicable UK accounting standards.
They are prepared on a going concern basis.
This means that the Group has adequate the full report and accounts and we have added notes resources to continue operations for the foreseeable future.
The Group accounts include the results of the parent company and all its subsidiaries, joint to explain what the key numbers mean where we felt ventures and associates.
Subsidiary undertakings are those businesses controlled by the this would be helpful.
Of course, these summary financial Group and their results are fully included.
Joint ventures are those businesses which the Group jointly controls with one or more other parties.
Associates are those businesses in statements by definition do not present the detail that which the Group has a participating interest and exercises significant influence.
For joint is included in the full report and accounts and which ventures and associates only the Groups share of their results is included.
Acquisitions are included from the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions during the would permit a comprehensive analysis of the Groups year the difference between the price paid for a business and the fair value of its net assets is capitalised and amortised over its useful economic life.
Registered shareholders can obtain a copy of Following the adoption of two new accounting standards for retirement benefits and deferred the full report and accounts free of charge or choose to tax, information for 2001 and 2000 has been restated to be comparable with 2002.
Profit and loss and cash flow statements of the Groups overseas operations are translated receive it in future years by writing to Lloyds TSB at average rates of exchange for the financial year.
Assets and liabilities denominated in Registrars at the address on page 41. foreign currencies are translated at the rates of exchange at the end of the financial year.
The principal rates of exchange to sterling affecting the Group were: US Australian Japanese S African 34 Report of the directors dollar dollar yen rand 35 Independent auditors statement 2002 year end 1.57 2.89 191.45 16.58 35 Directors remuneration average 1.47 2.77 184.34 15.64 37 Group profit and loss account 38 Group balance sheet 2001 year end 1.47 2.98 175.09 13.24 39 Group cash flow statement average 1.44 2.76 170.04 11.47 40 US accounting information 41 Shareholder information 2000 year end 1.48 2.73 159.77 10.68 average 1.56 2.56 166.03 10.24 Report of the directors Business review dividend of 15.5p per share has been declared for payment on 3 February 2003 and A review of the Groups business activities and their performance can be found on participation in the dividend reinvestment plan will be available to shareholders whose pages 21 to 26.
The report of the directors deals with other issues that the board and applications have been received by Lloyds TSB Registrars by 13 January 2003. management regard as important to the conduct of the companys affairs.
Corporate governance Employment policies The BOC Group is committed to business integrity, high ethical values and professionalism BOCs employment policies are designed to underpin the Groups operating requirements in all its activities.
As an essential part of this commitment, the board supports the highest and growth strategies.
Where practicable, policies are adapted to meet local requirements.
The board has applied the principles contained in section 1 of the Combined Code on Communication and involvement BOC places a high priority on communicating with its Corporate Governance appended to the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules and during the year people and has invested in web-based communications technology to convey consistent and has moved to a position of full compliance in the following areas: coherent messages to employees around the world.
i on 8 November 2001 Gran Lundberg was appointed to the role of senior independent Resourcing, training and development Programmes are designed to ensure that the Group non-executive director: and has a pool of well-qualified, gifted individuals able to meet both its day-to-day operational ii the share award plan, established in 2000 following the lapse of the offer by Air Liquide needs and its plans for the future.
and Air Products to provide a mid-term incentive for senior managers, vested in June 2002.
No further awards have been, or will be, made under the plan.
Reward and recognition Reward and recognition programmes are designed to endorse outstanding individual and team performance.
With regard to executive directors service contracts, the company has recently moved to a policy for all executive directors, which policy is in the course of being implemented, of service Retirement benefit plans BOC fully supports its peoples efforts to provide for their retirement contracts that can be terminated by the company on one years notice.
and provides a range of opportunities for them to participate in programmes tailored to suit local conditions.
Risk management and internal control The board of directors has overall responsibility for the Groups system of risk management and internal controls.
Employee share schemes Employees are encouraged to share the financial benefits of the The BOC risk management programme assists management throughout the Group to Groups success through a number of option and incentive schemes.
identify, assess and mitigate business risk.
Since its introduction in 2001, over 100 risk workshops Diversity BOC values the rich ethnic and cultural diversity of its people and is committed to and reviews have been conducted across the Group.
The output from each assessment is a list maintaining a workplace free from discrimination for reasons of race, creed, culture, nationality, of prioritised risks with associated action plans to manage them.
A report to the board is made gender, sexual orientation or marital status.
twice a year of the key risks facing the Group and actions to manage these key risks.
The directors have delegated to executive management the establishment and Safety and environment implementation of a system of internal controls.
The internal control system is monitored and The Group continues to place the highest priority on issues of safety.
The nature of our supported by an internal audit function that operates on a global basis and reports its results to business activities means that our employees encounter many hazards in the workplace.
management and the audit committee of the board.
The system is rigorous and designed to These include flammable and toxic gases and operations that often involve high pressures ensure that directors maintain full and effective control over all significant strategic, financial, and extreme temperatures.
Common to all our businesses is the movement of products and organisational and compliance issues.
the various hazards associated with driving, distribution and service operations.
Our overall Having reviewed its effectiveness, the directors are not aware of any significant weakness or safety performance improved again this year, demonstrating managements vigilance and deficiency in the Groups system of internal controls.
attention to this essential aspect of our business.
BOC has a comprehensive environmental programme and conducts an annual survey to The board and committees A complete list of the companys directors, with their biographies, highlight any potential environmental impacts from our sites.
It is believed that the Group photographs, and board committee memberships can be found on pages 29 and 30.
A summary is in substantial compliance with all material environmental laws and regulations.
BOC also and explanation of their remuneration is given on pages 35 and 36.
The six principal board contributes technology and processes to meet the environmental needs of customers.
committees are described on page 30.
All the independent non-executive directors are members of both the audit and management resources committees with the exception of the independent Supplier payment policy non-executive chairman who attends by invitation.
The nomination committee comprises all the The Group applies a policy of agreeing and clearly communicating the terms of payment as part of independent non-executive directors and the chief executive.
the commercial arrangements negotiated with suppliers and then paying according to those terms.
In addition, the UK-based businesses have committed to the Better Payment Practice Code.
Auditors The auditors report on the full financial statements was unqualified and did not contain any Corporate donations statement concerning accounting records or failure to obtain necessary information or The BOC Group and its businesses made donations of 1.28 million, of which 458,000 explanations.
A further 214,000 was used to support projects identified by The BOC Foundation for the Environment.
As in previous years, no political donations were By order of the board made in the UK.
Nick Deeming Secretary Dividends Windlesham Two dividends were paid in 2002.
A first interim dividend of 15.5p per share was paid in 22 November 2002 February and a second interim dividend of 22.5p per share was paid in August.
A first interim 35 36 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2002 Independent auditors statement Directors remuneration Independent auditors statement Directors remuneration To the members of The BOC Group plc Remuneration policy We have examined the summary financial statement of The BOC Group plc and the amounts The management resources committee MRC sets the overall remuneration policy of disclosed relating to directors remuneration in the directors remuneration statement.
The BOC Group and makes recommendations to the board on the framework of executive Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors remuneration.
It meets approximately six times a year.
The terms of reference conform with The directors are responsible for preparing the annual review and summary financial best practice.
The MRC determines, on behalf of the board, the detailed terms of service of the statements in accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our executive directors and other members of the executive management team including basic opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statement within the annual review and salary, performance related bonus arrangements, benefits in kind, long-term incentives and summary financial statements with the annual financial statements and directors report and its pension benefits.
The MRC does not retain remuneration consultants but appoints professional compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the United Kingdom Companies external advisors as it sees fit.
During the year professional advice was sought from external Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained consultants Deloitte & Touche.
These advisors did not provide any other services to the in the annual review and summary financial statements and consider the implications for our Group.
The MRC is also provided with information and data from national and international report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the surveys on executive pay and conditions such as those provided by Towers Perrin, Mercer summary financial statement.
Human Resources consultants, Watson Wyatt and Monks Partnership Limited.
The MRC also reviews the remuneration of the Group chairman following a recommendation Basis of opinion from the chief executive and senior independent director, though the board as a whole We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6, The auditors statement on determine the non-executive directors fees.
the summary financial statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the The fees of the non-executive directors are set at a level which will attract individuals with United Kingdom.
the necessary experience and ability to make a significant contribution to The BOC Groups Opinion affairs and are benchmarked with those fees paid by other UK listed companies.
Non-executive In our opinion the summary financial statement is consistent with the annual financial directors fees will be increased from 30,000 to 37,000 per annum and the committee chair statements and the directors report of The BOC Group plc for the year ended 30 September fees increased from 5,000 to 8,000 per annum, effective 1 January 2003.
These increases, 2002 and complies with the applicable requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act after tax, will be used to acquire shares in the company which will be held by the non-executive 1985, and the regulations made thereunder.
directors for the remaining period of their term of office with the company.
BOCs remuneration policy for executive directors and other executive management is  designed to attract and retain executives of the highest calibre so that The BOC Group of Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors companies is managed successfully to the benefit of its stakeholders.
In setting remuneration London levels the MRC takes into account the remuneration practices found in other UK listed 22 November 2002 companies of similar size, internationality and complexity and seeks to benchmark its whole remuneration at about the median level for this group.
During the year the MRC carried out a review of executive remuneration packages and Notes: decided that a realignment was necessary to support the companys business strategy to The maintenance and integrity of statutory and audited information on the companys improve both earnings growth and capital efficiency and to ensure that the packages were website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does market competitive.
In reaching its conclusions the MRC took the view that performance not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no related remuneration should form a substantial element of total remuneration thereby responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since aligning the interests of directors with those of shareholders, which would be reflected they were initially presented on the website.
through share price growth and dividends.
As such, a proposal will be put to shareholders Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial at the Annual General Meeting to adopt new long-term incentive arrangements.
These statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
arrangements are intended to encourage innovation and value-added growth and strengthen the link between short-term performance and sustainable improvement in shareholder value over the longer term.
Directors remuneration The performance measures for the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP will be based one third on The graph below shows BOCs TSR performance compared to the FTSE 100 index TSR over the last five years.
Earnings Per Share EPS before exceptional items, one third on Return on Capital Employed TSR is defined as share price growth plus reinvested dividends.
This provides a basis for comparison as a relevant equity index in which BOC is a constituent member.
The company believes that other indices and time periods ROCE before exceptional items and one third on the companys Total Shareholder Return display aspects of relative performance on a more appropriate basis see Group chairmans statement and TSR performance relative to industry based comparator groups that is, an index of FTSE LTIP proposals.
based manufacturing companies and a global industrial gases group.
The performance measure Percentage for the Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS 2003 will be assessed on the growth in basic 40 BOC EPS before exceptional items as reported in the annual report and accounts.
The MRC consider these performance measures to be important drivers of sustainable improvement in 30 FTSE 100 shareholder value that focus executives attention and effort on profitable growth and capital 20 efficiency in both the short and long term.
Details of the arrangements are summarised in the chairmans letter and explanatory notes 10 to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
The MRC believes that executives interests in long-term share price performance is an important link to future organisational performance.
0 Additionally, the MRC encourages the executive management group to grow personal shareholding in the business over time.
It is anticipated that each executive would build towards -10 a shareholding equivalent in value to one years gross salary.
The MRC believes that the vehicle -20 of the long-term incentive package will facilitate the building of such a shareholding over a period of time.
Includes overseas and relocation expenses.
Mr Isaacs remuneration in 2000 included a payment of 250,000 which represented an additional discretionary bonus for his commitment and performance during the period of the offer.
As part of the same arrangement, Mr Isaac received a further payment of 500,000 in 2002.
Total fees for non-executive directors services in the year were 352,000.
Included in this amount were the chairmans fees of 180,000.
Total directors remuneration in 2002, including the charge to profit in respect of amounts paid to former directors was 6.4 million compared with 4.7 million the previous year.
Share incentive payments to former directors totalled 1.7 million.
These amounts were provided for in previous years.
37 38 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2002 Group profit and loss account Group balance sheet Group profit and loss account Years ended 30 September 1 The value of sales during the year, including long-term 2001 2000 contracts, by all businesses in which the Group has a 2002 restated restated controlling interest subsidiary businesses together with Before After Before After Before After the BOC share of sales during the year by all businesses exceptional Exceptional exceptional exceptional Exceptional exceptional exceptional Exceptional exceptional which the Group jointly controls joint ventures and the items items items items items items items items items BOC share of sales during the year by all businesses in million million million million million million million million million which the Group has a significant but not a controlling 1 Turnover, including share of interest associates.
It excludes VAT and similar joint ventures and associates 4,017.9 4,017.9 4,159.2 4,159.2 3,878.8 3,878.8 sales-based taxes and sales between Group businesses.
2 Less:Share of turnover of joint ventures 324.1 324.1 340.0 340.0 258.0 258.0 2 The value of the Groups share of sales in joint ventures Share of turnover of associates 36.1 36.1 46.3 46.3 41.1 41.1 and associates, which is deducted to show turnover of subsidiary businesses only.
Turnover of subsidiary undertakings 3,657.7 3,657.7 3,772.9 3,772.9 3,579.7 3,579.7 3 Turnover less the costs of sales and operating expenses 3 Operating profit of in subsidiary businesses principally salaries and wages, raw subsidiary undertakings 425.6 74.0 351.6 458.4 105.7 352.7 439.8 4.4 435.4 materials, manufacturing, sales and distribution costs and research and development.
4 Share of operating profit of joint ventures 63.8 0.5 63.3 59.0 2.2 56.8 48.1 48.1 4 The value of the Groups share of operating profit of joint ventures and associates.
4 Share of operating profit of associates 10.7 10.7 13.2 0.4 12.8 8.5 8.5 5 The operating exceptional items are mainly the amounts Total operating profit including share of that the Group has spent or provided for joint ventures and associates 500.1 74.5 425.6 530.6 108.3 422.3 496.4 4.4 492.0 a major reorganisation programmes Loss on termination disposal b impairment and write down of assets c the net profit and loss account impact arising from the of businesses 20.2 20.2 proposed take-over of the Group.
Profit on disposal of businesses 12.5 12.5 6a The charge made by banks and others for money Profit on disposal of fixed assets 3.6 3.6 borrowed by the Group, including the Groups share Profit on ordinary activities of interest charges on borrowings by joint ventures before interest 500.1 94.7 405.4 530.6 104.7 425.9 496.4 8.1 504.5 and associates b the cost of financing the Groups pension scheme liabilities 6a Interest on net debt 103.1 123.4 111.5 c the interest income from the Groups pension scheme assets.
6b Interest on pension scheme liabilities 106.1 107.2 100.7 7 The total of all taxes on profits of the Group, including 6c Expected return on pension the Groups share of taxes on the profits of joint ventures scheme assets 139.1 166.9 149.5 and associates.
Interest net 70.1 63.7 62.7 8 Profit after tax and interest charges attributable to shareholders other than BOC in subsidiary businesses.
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 335.3 362.2 441.8 9 The total amount of profit earned by the Group after 7 Tax on profit on ordinary activities 106.2 104.6 135.2 deducting interest and tax charges and minority interests, Profit on ordinary activities after tax 229.1 257.6 306.6 but before the payment of dividends to shareholders.
8 Minority interests 26.2 33.5 28.0 10 Dividends to shareholders for the year.
9 Profit for the financial year 202.9 224.1 278.6 11 The Group profit for the financial year divided by the 10 Dividends 186.6 180.3 170.2 average number of Ordinary shares in existence during the year.
Retained profit for the financial year 16.3 43.8 108.4 Earnings per 25p Ordinary share, basic 11 on published earnings 41.36p 46.03p 57.19p before exceptional items 55.94p 57.51p 53.53p All turnover and operating profit arose from continuing operations.
Group balance sheet At 30 September 12 The value of goodwill and items such as patents and trademarks at their original cost less amortisation.
2001 2000 Goodwill is the excess of the amount paid for a business over the fair value of its net assets.
Amortisation is the 2002 restated restated charge made each year to reduce the value of such intangible items by spreading the cost over their expected million million million economic life.
Fixed assets 13 The value of land, buildings, plant, machinery, cylinders, computers and other equipment at their cost less 12 Intangible assets 150.7 48.1 49.2 depreciation.
Depreciation is the charge made each year to reduce the value of tangible assets other than land 13 Tangible assets 3,027.4 3,168.6 3,294.0 by spreading the cost over their expected economic life.
14 Investment in joint ventures 317.3 302.4 308.9 14 The Groups share of the net assets held by joint ventures and associates, and loans to them by Group companies.
14 Investment in associates 63.7 56.2 54.2 15 Other investments held by the Group.
Investment in own shares 42.5 59.5 60.5 16 The net assets or liabilities used or incurred in running the business on a day-to-day basis.
This includes 15 Other investments 45.1 31.7 32.7 amounts due from customers and those due to suppliers, as well as the cost of products being manufactured or 3,646.7 3,666.5 3,799.5 ready for sale.
It also includes amounts held by the Group in cash or as deposits with banks and the amounts repayable within one year on loans from banks and other institutions.
Current assets 1,246.4 1,286.5 1,416.8 17 Liabilities and provisions of the Group.
This includes amounts due to banks and other institutions as well as Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 1,247.9 1,281.7 1,551.7 provision for deferred tax payments which are repayable more than one year from the balance sheet date.
16 Net current liabilities assets 1.5 4.8 134.9 18 The value of the net assets of the Groups pension schemes in businesses where schemes are in surplus.
19 The value of the net liabilities of the Groups pension schemes in businesses where schemes are in deficit.
Total assets less current liabilities 3,645.2 3,671.3 3,664.6 20 The total value of issued share capital and money the company has put into reserves.
Reserves are amounts attributable to BOC shareholders used within the Group to finance current activities and future growth.
17 Creditors: amounts falling due beyond one year 1,179.0 1,079.3 918.6 17 Provisions for liabilities and charges 407.5 419.2 449.3 21 Total share capital and reserves of subsidiary businesses attributable to shareholders other than BOC.
Total net assets excluding pension assets and liabilities 2,058.7 2,172.8 2,296.7 18 Pension assets 54.3 107.0 402.0 19 Pension liabilities 311.0 56.0 31.1 Total net assets including pension assets and liabilities 1,802.0 2,223.8 2,667.6 20 Shareholders funds 1,684.1 2,086.2 2,394.0 21 Minority shareholders interests 117.9 137.6 273.6 Total capital and reserves 1,802.0 2,223.8 2,667.6 Significant accounting ratios Significant accounting ratios These ratios are often used to judge the financial health of a company.
2001 2000 22 Total operating profit before exceptional items expressed as a percentage of the average capital employed in 2002 restated restated the business.
1 22 Return on average capital employed % 12.3 12.9 12.5 23 The number of times that the net interest charge on net debt is covered by total operating profit before 23 Interest cover times 4.9 4.3 4.5 exceptional items.
24 Net debt equity ratio % 73.6 57.2 49.0 24 Net debt as a percentage of shareholders funds.
25 Net debt capital employed % 36.9 32.0 29.4 25 Net debt as a percentage of capital employed.
For this ratio, capital employed comprises total capital and reserves, long-term liabilities and all current borrowings, net of cash and deposits.
The summary financial statements on pages 37 to 40 were approved by the board of directors on 22 November 2002 and are signed on its behalf by: A E Isaac R Mdori Director Director 39 40 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2002 Group cash flow statement US accounting information Group cash flow statement Years ended 30 September 26 See notes 3 and 4.
2001 2000 2002 restated restated 27 See notes 12 and 13. million million million 28 Removes the Groups share of operating profit before exceptional items of joint ventures and associates.
26 Total operating profit before exceptional items 500.1 530.6 496.4 See note 4.
27 Depreciation and amortisation 330.9 329.5 313.3 29 Increases and decreases in the levels of working capital since the previous year end.
28 Operating profit before exceptional items 30 The amount spent on exceptional operating items.
of joint ventures 63.8 59.0 48.1 31 Adds the cash dividends received from joint ventures and associates.
28 Operating profit before exceptional items of associates 10.7 13.2 8.5 32 Net interest paid to suppliers of finance, and dividends paid to shareholders other than BOC in subsidiary businesses.
29 Changes in working capital and other items 70.1 51.7 48.6 33 Money spent by the Groups subsidiaries on buying fixed tangible assets see note 13 and investments less 30 Exceptional cash flows 67.3 51.8 0.5 the proceeds from the sale of any similar items.
34 Money spent by the Group to acquire businesses less the proceeds from the sale of any similar items.
Net cash inflow from operating activities 759.3 787.8 705.0 35 Dividends paid in cash to holders of shares in The BOC Group plc.
31 Dividends from joint ventures and associates 33.9 23.5 22.1 32 Returns on investments and servicing of finance 90.7 87.2 105.2 36 The net amount of cash inflows and outflows.
Tax paid 96.2 100.6 62.8 33 Capital expenditure and financial investment 324.5 311.9 408.3 34 Acquisitions and disposals 215.5 133.6 62.0 35 Equity dividends paid 186.6 180.3 170.2 36 Net cash outflow before use of liquid resources and financing 120.3 2.3 81.4 US accounting information 37 Extracted from the Group profit and loss account on page 37.
Reconciliation to US accounting principles The consolidated financial statements of the Group are prepared in accordance with UK 38 Under US GAAP, current market values and interest rates, reviewed annually, are used to assess pension fund assets and liabilities and hence the costs to the Group of providing pension benefits to employees.
Under UK GAAP, generally accepted accounting principles UK GAAP.
These differ in certain respects from the main difference arises in the treatment of actuarial gains and losses which are amortised in the income statement accounting principles accepted in the US US GAAP.
for US GAAP purposes, and recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses for UK GAAP purposes.
The application of the different accounting principles results in adjustments being needed 39 US GAAP does not allow revaluation of any assets whereas UK GAAP permits the revaluation of land and buildings.
to show what the Groups profit would be under US GAAP.
The main adjustments are shown 40 Under US GAAP, goodwill is shown as an asset on the balance sheet.
For acquisitions made since 30 June 2001, individually in the table below together with an explanation of the difference between UK goodwill is not amortised but is subject to annual impairment reviews.
For acquisitions made before 30 June 2001, GAAP and US GAAP giving rise to these adjustments.
goodwill is amortised by a charge to the profit and loss account over its expected life.
Under UK GAAP, goodwill is shown in the balance sheet and amortised by a charge to the profit and loss account over its expected life.
However, 2001 2000 until September 1998, UK GAAP permitted goodwill to be charged directly to reserves see note 20.
2002 restated restated million million million 41 The Group enters into a number of financial instruments to manage its exposure to currency and interest rate risks.
Under UK GAAP, such instruments are shown at their carrying value.
Under US GAAP, these 37 Profit on ordinary activities before tax under UK GAAP 335.3 362.2 441.8 instruments are marked to market and any change in value is recognised in either the income statement or through 38 Pensions 35.4 24.9 0.7 comprehensive income.
39 Revaluations realised on asset disposals 6.0 1.1 42 The Groups share of the net assets of its joint ventures and associates as calculated under UK GAAP is shown 40 Amortisation of goodwill 3.7 7.9 7.9 within fixed asset investments.
For the purposes of reporting on a US GAAP basis, an adjustment is made to the fixed 41 Financial instruments 19.5 8.5 10.7 asset investments to recognise a difference in the method of reporting profits.
42 Share of net assets of joint ventures and associates 4.8 43 The charging of restructuring costs in the profit and loss account may be different under US GAAP because the 43 Restructuring costs 6.5 7.9 principles are more prescriptive regarding the content of these items and the date at which the restructuring cost is recognised.
44 Write-down of previously revalued assets 21.2 Other 0.2 0.4 3.1 44 For US GAAP purposes, certain fixed assets are held at a lower value than for UK GAAP purposes.
As a result, a write-down in 2002 for UK GAAP purposes was not required under US GAAP.
Profit before tax under US GAAP 413.9 377.1 417.7 45 Extracted from the Group profit and loss account on page 37.
45 UK tax charge 106.2 104.6 135.2 46 Deferred income tax 25.6 11.3 16.8 46 The increase or decrease in deferred taxes of the Group on a US GAAP basis.
Share of taxation in joint ventures and associates 0.6 4.6 47 The amount of Group profit on a US GAAP basis attributable to shareholders other than BOC in 47 Minority interests 26.7 27.6 25.9 subsidiary businesses.
48 The Group profit for the financial year on a US GAAP basis divided by the average number of Ordinary shares in Profit for the financial year under US GAAP 255.4 234.2 268.8 existence during the year excluding those owned by the Group for employee share schemes.
Earnings per 25p Ordinary share Basic Profit from continuing operations 52.08p 48.10p 52.62p 48 Profit for the financial year 52.08p 48.10p 55.18p 41 42 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2002 Shareholder information Shareholder information Ordinary shareholdings by investor type at 30 September 2002 Shareholder enquiries Shareholders who have questions relating to the Groups business or wish to receive copies of % Number of% Number of of total number Type of 25p shares of ordinary the interim statements should write to: accounts of accounts investor million capital Group Manager Investor Relations 31,693 72 Individuals 28.6 6 The BOC Group plc, Chertsey Road, Windlesham, Surrey GU20 6HJ, England 10,422 23 Institutional investors 454.8 91 Telephone: 01276 477222 2,050 5 Other corporate investors 13.9 3 E-mail: ir@group.
com 44,165 100 497.3 100 Registrar Administrative enquiries concerning shareholdings in the company such as the loss of share certificates, change of address, dividend payment arrangements, amalgamation of multiple accounts, or requests for the full report and accounts should be sent directly to: Financial calendar 1 Ordinary Shares 12 4% Unsecured Loan Stock Lloyds TSB Registrars American Depositary Shares 2012 2017 The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA, England 1 First interim Second interim Half year Half year Telephone: 0870 600 3958 Fax: 0870 600 3980 Teltex for shareholders with hearing difficulties: 0870 600 3950 Ex-dividend 27 Dec 2002 2 Jul 2003 5 Mar 2003 3 Sep 2003 Website: www.
co. uk Record date UK 31 Dec 2002 4 Jul 2003 7 Mar 2003 5 Sep 2003 US 31 Dec 2002 3 Jul 2003 Correspondence should refer to The BOC Group plc, stating clearly the registered name and DRIP notice date 13 Jan 2003 11 Jul 2003 address and, if available, the full account number which starts with 0385.
Payment date UK 3 Feb 2003 1 Aug 2003 2 Apr 2003 2 Oct 2003 Shareholding information US 10 Feb 2003 8 Aug 2003 To view up-to-date information about your shareholding visit the Lloyds TSB Registrars 1.
Proposed dates shareview website at www.
co. uk The portfolio service provides access to more information on your investments including Report and balance movements, indicative share prices and details of recent dividend payments.
To register 3 months Half year 9 months Preliminary accounts with Lloyds TSB Registrars as a user of the portfolio service and for more information visit the Group results 4 Feb 2003 15 May 2003 5 Aug 2003 13 Nov 2003 Dec 2003 website at www.
co. uk 03 Chairmans statement 33 Summary financial statements 05 Chief executives review 34 Report of the directors 07 Improving the service for 35 Independent auditors statement our customers 35 Directors remuneration 09 Focusing on high growth potential 37 Group profit and loss account 11 Improving efficiency 38 Group balance sheet 13 Developing our people 39 Group cash flow statement 15 We continue to lead in Asia 40 US accounting information 17 The perfect blend of technology 41 Shareholder information 19 Investments and acquisitions 21 Operating review 27 Fulfilling our wider responsibilities 29 Board of directors 31 Executive management board Financial highlights Turnover Operating profit Profit before tax Capital expenditure before exceptional items 4,017.9m 500.1m 335.3m 354.3m 5,000 600 500 500 500 4,000 400 400 400 300 3,000 300 300 2,000 200 200 200 1,000 100 100 100 0000102 0000102 0000102 0000102 Total Group turnover reduced by Operating profit, excluding exceptional Profit before tax is shown after deducting Capital expenditure of subsidiary businesses three per cent compared with last year.
The BOC Group plc 2002 Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar London Principal photography by George Brooks, John Edwards and Edward Webb Printed by CTD Capita The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2002 The BOC Group plc Registered office: The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2002 Chertsey Road, Windlesham, Surrey GU20 6HJ, England Tel: 01276 477222 Fax: 01276 471333 English Register No.
