Accounting Policies ACCOUNTING CONVENTION PENSION COSTS The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost For dened benefit schemes the amount charged to the profit and loss convention and in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
account in respect of pension costs is the estimated regular cost of providing the benets accrued in the year, adjusted to reect variations The accounting policies have been applied consistently throughout the from that cost.
For dened contribution schemes the amounts charged year and the preceding year in dealing with items that are considered are the contributions payable in the year.
material in relation to the Groups financial statements.
LEASES BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION Assets held under finance leases are capitalised as tangible xed assets The Group financial statements consolidate the accounts of the Company at fair value and the corresponding rentals liability is shown net of interest and its subsidiary undertakings, all of which are drawn up to 31 December under finance leases within creditors.
The capitalised values are written each year.
The acquisition method of accounting has been adopted.
off over the shorter of the period of the lease and the useful life of the The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold during the year are asset concerned and finance charges are written off over the period consolidated from or to the date on which control passed.
In accordance with Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 a separate Rental costs under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss profit and loss account dealing with the results of the Company has account over the period of the lease.
TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS GOODWILL Tangible xed assets are stated at cost or valuation.
Depreciation is Purchased goodwill arising on the acquisitions of subsidiary undertakings provided on a straight line basis, to reduce the carrying value to the before 1 January 1998, when FRS 10 Goodwill and Intangible Assets estimated residual value at the point of sale, at the following annual rates: was adopted, was written off to reserves in the year of acquisition and, as allowed by this Standard, has not been reinstated in the balance sheet.
Land nil Fixtures and ttings 10% to 20% Purchased goodwill arising on acquisitions since 31 December 1997 Plant and machinery 5% to 20% has been capitalised and is being amortised in equal instalments over Leasehold property over the period of the lease its estimated useful life up to a maximum of twenty years.
Provision Buildings 2% is made for any impairment.
Motor vehicles 25% TURNOVER Turnover represents amounts receivable for goods and services sold to outside customers, excluding value added tax.
INVESTMENTS Investments are held at cost less provision for impairment.
STOCK Stock is valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
In the case of manufactured products, cost includes the attributable proportion of manufacturing overhead costs.
Net realisable value comprises the estimated selling price less all further costs to completion and all costs to be incurred in selling and distribution.
24 Bodycote annual report 2002 TAXATION GOVERNMENT GRANTS Current UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts Capital based government grants are included within accruals and expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that deferred income in the balance sheet and credited to the profit and loss have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
account over the estimated useful economic lives of the assets to which they relate.
Revenue based government grants are credited to Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have the profit and loss account in the period in which they are receivable.
originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a DEBT right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds after deduction date.
Timing differences are differences between the Group's taxable of issue costs.
The carrying amount is increased by the finance cost profits and its results as stated in the financial statements that arise from in respect of the accounting period and reduced by payments made the inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different in the period.
Finance costs of debt are recognised in the profit and from those in which they are recognised in the financial statements.
loss account over the term of such instruments at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be DERIVATIVES AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits The Group uses derivatives and financial instruments to reduce from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can exposure to foreign exchange risk.
The Group does not hold or issue be deducted.
derivatives or financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of the retained earnings of overseas For a forward foreign exchange contract to be treated as a hedge, the subsidiaries only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends instrument must be related to actual foreign currency assets or liabilities have been accrued as receivable or a binding agreement to distribute or to a probable commitment.
It must involve the same currency or past earnings in future has been entered into by the subsidiary.
similar currencies as the hedged item and must also reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange movements on the Groups operations.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected Gains and losses arising on these contracts are deferred and recognised to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected in the profit and loss account, or as adjustments to the carrying amount to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or of xed assets, only when the hedged transaction has itself been substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured reected in the Groups accounts.
If an instrument ceases to be on a discounted basis to reect the time value of money over the period accounted for as a hedge, for example, because the underlying hedged between the balance sheet date and the dates on which it is estimated position is eliminated, the instrument is marked to market and any that the underlying timing differences will reverse.
The discount rates resulting profit or loss recognised at that time.
used reect the post-tax yields to maturity that can be obtained on government bonds with similar maturity dates and currencies to those of the deferred tax assets or liabilities.
FOREIGN CURRENCIES The results of overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling using average rates of exchange during the year.
Assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries are translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of investments in subsidiary undertakings at closing rates are taken to reserves, together with exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings which finance a proportion of foreign currency investments.
Bodycote Bodycote annual report 2002 annual report 2002 25 25
