Information for Investors EDINBURGH FUND MANAGERS There is no charge for buying or holding shares Edinburgh Fund Managers plc was formally through InvestIT other than 0.5% Government established in 1969 and has grown steadily Stamp Duty which is currently payable on all share since that time now with offices in Edinburgh, purchases.
There is a nominal 10 VAT transaction Dundee, London, Newcastle, Canada and the fee applied to all sales.
Today Edinburgh Fund Managers is one of the largest managers of investment trusts in Edinburgh Fund Managers the UK with around 3.4 billion of such funds Investment Trust ISA PEP under management as at 31 January 2002.
ISA Total assets managed by the group at the same Investors have the opportunity to invest up to date were over 7.0 billion.
7,000 in an Individual Savings Account ISA in each of the tax years up to 2005 2006.
7,000 Investment Trusts invested in DIGIT through the Edinburgh Fund It is the business of investment trusts, advised by their Managers Investment Trust Maxi ISA allows managers, to invest in the shares of other companies.
investors to maximise the amounts placed in stocks The investment objectives vary from trust to trust and shares in a tax-efficient savings vehicle.
ranging from investment for capital growth and or income, to trusts which invest internationally, in a A feature of the Edinburgh Fund Managers specific area of the world or in a single country market.
Investment Trust ISA is its low charges.
The initial Investing in investment trusts provides a spread of charge is 30 VAT and the annual management fee investments, managed by experts, at low cost.
No charges are made for buying or selling shares other than Government Stamp Duty Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trusts DIGIT on share purchases.
objective is to achieve growth of income and capital from a portfolio invested in the UK.
PEP PEP investors can continue to hold their existing HOW TO INVEST PEPs.
No further contributions can be made to Ordinary shares DIGIT through a PEP other than reinvestment of Investors can buy and sell shares in DIGIT directly any income generated.
However, investors will be through the Edinburgh Fund Managers Investment able to transfer between different PEP funds and Trust Savings Plan, Investment Trust ISA and different PEP providers without losing their tax Investment Trust Pension.
An on-line ISA facility is advantages.
To enable new investors to take available through DIGITs and Edinburgh Fund advantage of investing in a PEP in DIGIT, a PEP Managers website.
Alternatively shares can be transfer brochure is available.
Again charges are low bought directly through a stockbroker or indirectly with no entrance transfer fee being charged.
An through a lawyer, accountant or other professional annual management charge of 0.5% VAT capped adviser.
PRODUCT DETAILS The Edinburgh Fund Managers InvestIT The Edinburgh Fund Managers Investment Trust Pension Investment Trust Savings Plan The Investment Trust Pension enables investors to InvestIT provides a straightforward way to invest in save for retirement by investing in DIGIT.
Investors can make regular monthly Investment Trust Pension offers the choice of a payments minimum 30 per month or invest Personal Pension Plan or a Free Standing Additional occasional lump sums minimum 250 initially and Voluntary Contributions Plan.
Existing shareholders can also invest made monthly, yearly or by lump sums, and there in the Plan and have their dividends reinvested.
are low minimum investment amounts.
PAGE 34 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Information for Investors Note For information concerning your shareholding, Please remember that past performance is not please contact: necessarily a guide to the future.
Stock market and Registrar currency movements may cause the value of shares Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland and the income from them to fall as well as rise and PO Box 28448 investors may not get back the amount they Finance House originally invested.
Orchard Brae Edinburgh EH4 1WQ As with all equity investments, the value of Telephone: 0870-601 5366 investment trusts purchased will immediately be Textphone: 0870-600 3950 reduced by the difference between the buying and Website: www.
co. uk selling prices of the shares, the market makers spread.
For information and application forms on the Investors should further bear in mind that the value InvestIT, ISA PEP, Pension and Share Exchange of any tax relief will depend on the individual Schemes please contact: circumstances of the investor and that tax rates and reliefs, as well as the tax treatment of ISAs PEPs, Support Desk may be changed by future legislation.
Edinburgh Fund Managers plc Donaldson House Keeping you informed 97 Haymarket Terrace DIGITs share price appears under the heading Edinburgh EH12 5HD Investment Trusts in the Financial Times and other Telephone: 0131-313 1000 national newspapers.
Investors can also obtain the or FREE on 0800-028 6789 24 hours latest share price by phoning FT Cityline on 0906- 843 3334.
All calls cost 60p per minute.
InvestIT Administrator Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland For internet users, detailed data on DIGIT, including Registrar Department SP price and performance information, is available on PO Box 28448 www.
com, the Edinburgh Fund Managers Finance House website www.
com and the TrustNet website Orchard Brae www.
Edinburgh EH4 1WQ Telephone: 0870-606 0268 Lloyds TSB Registrars also have a website www.
co. uk which includes a Individual Savings Account Personal Equity Plan page entitled Shareholder Services, which gives Administrator shareholders an insight into their shareholding.
The Cogent Investment Operations Limited website also has information about how to register a PEP ISA Administrator change of name and what to do if you have lost 3 Finsbury Avenue your share certificate.
London EC2M 2PA Telephone: 0800-028 6789 Pension Administrator Edinburgh Pension Centre Personal Pension Management Limited 141 Castle Street Salisbury Wiltshire SP1 3TB Telephone: 0800-137 079 PAGE 35 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Head Office Edinburgh Fund Managers plc Donaldson House 97 Haymarket Terrace Edinburgh EH12 5HD Telephone: 0131-313 1000
