Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General SPECIAL BUSINESS Meeting of Dunedin Income Growth Investment To consider and, if thought fit, pass the Trust PLC will be held at Discovery Point, Dundee, following resolution as a special resolution: on Tuesday 23 April 2002 at 12 noon, for the following purposes: Special resolution 7.
That, in substitution for an existing authority, ORDINARY BUSINESS the company be and it is hereby authorised in 1.
To receive the reports of the directors and accordance with section 166 of the Companies auditors and the accounts for the year to 31 Act 1985 the Act to make market purchases January 2002. within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Act of ordinary shares of 25p each in the company 2.
To declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares provided that: shares.
To re-elect Robert Douglas Miller as a director i the maximum number of shares hereby of the company.
authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99% of the issued share capital of the company as 4.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of at the date of the passing of this resolution: the company.
To authorise the directors to fix the ii the minimum price which may be paid for a remuneration of the auditors for the year to share shall be 25p: 31 January 2003. iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses 6. that, in substitution for any existing authority which may be paid for a share shall be an under section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 amount equal to 105% of the average of the the Act, but without prejudice to the exercise middle market quotations as derived from of any such authority prior to the date hereof, the Daily Official List of the London Stock the directors be and they are hereby generally Exchange for the shares for the five business and unconditionally authorised, in accordance days immediately preceding the date of with section 80 of the Act, to allot relevant purchase: and securities as defined in section 80 2 of the Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of iv unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, 9,134,816 such authority to expire on 22 April the authority hereby conferred shall expire 2007, unless previously revoked, varied or on 22 October 2003 save that the company renewed by the company in general meeting, may, prior to such expiry, enter into a save that the company may, at any time prior to contract to purchase shares under such the expiry of such authority, make an offer or authority which will or may be completed or enter into an agreement which would or might executed wholly or partly after such expiry require relevant securities to be allotted after the and may make a purchase of shares pursuant expiry of such authority and the directors may to any such contract.
allot relevant securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if such authority had not By order of the board expired.
Edinburgh Fund Managers plc, Secretary 19 March 2002 Registered office: Donaldson House, 97 Haymarket Terrace, Edinburgh EH12 5HD PAGE 31 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Notice of Meeting Notes: determining the rights of any person to attend or 1.
A member who is entitled to attend and vote at vote at the meeting, notwithstanding any the meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to provisions in any enactment, the articles of attend and, on a poll, vote on his her behalf.
A association of the company or other instrument proxy need not be a member of the company.
A form of proxy for use by shareholders is 4.
There are special arrangements for holders of enclosed with these accounts.
Completion and shares through The Edinburgh Fund Managers return of the form of proxy will not prevent any Investment Trust Savings Plan, Investment Trust shareholder from attending the meeting and PEP ISA and Investment Trust Pension.
These are voting in person.
To be valid, the form of proxy explained in the Letter of Direction which such should be lodged, together with any Power of holders will have received with this report.
Attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or an extract from the Books of Council and Session or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority at the address stated thereon, so as to be received not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the company specifies that only those shareholders entered on the register of members of the company as at 6.00pm on 19 April 2002 or, in the event that the meeting is adjourned, on the register of members 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of ordinary shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to the entries on the register of members after 6.00pm on 19 April 2002 or, in the event that the meeting is adjourned, in the register of members 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be disregarded in PAGE 32 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2002
