Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and i the maximum number of Shares hereby thirteenth Annual General Meeting of The authorised to be purchased is 14.99% of the Edinburgh Investment Trust plc will be held in the issued share capital of the company as at the Caledonian Hilton Hotel, Princes Street, Edinburgh date of the passing of this resolution: on Wednesday 3 July 2002 at 12 noon, for the following purposes: ii the minimum price which may be paid for a Share shall be 25p: ORDINARY BUSINESS 1.
To receive the report of the directors and iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses auditors and the financial statements for the year which may be paid for a Share shall be an to 31 March 2002: amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotation as derived from 2.
To declare a final dividend on the ordinary the Stock Exchange Daily Official List for shares.
the Shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: 3.
To re-appoint Mr Richard Barfield a director of and the company: iv unless previously revoked, renewed or varied, 4.
To re-elect Mr Roy Summers a director of the the authority hereby conferred shall expire company.
on the earlier of 2 January 2004 or at the conclusion of the annual general meeting of 5.
To re-elect The Earl of Eglinton and Winton a the company to be held in 2003, save that director of the company: the company may, prior to such expiry enter into a contract or contracts to purchase 6.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of Shares under such authority which would or the company.
might be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and the company 7.
To authorise the directors to fix the may make such a purchase in pursuance of remuneration of the auditors for the year to any such contract or contracts as if the 31 March 2003. authority hereby conferred had not expired.
SPECIAL BUSINESS By order of the board To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following Edinburgh Fund Managers plc resolution which will be proposed as a special Secretary resolution.
31 May 2002 Special resolution Registered office: 8.
That, in substitution for any existing authority, Donaldson House, 97 Haymarket Terrace, the company be and it is hereby authorised in Edinburgh EH12 5HD accordance with section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Act of any of its ordinary shares of 25p each Shares in such manner and upon such terms as the directors of the company may from time to time determine, provided that:- PAGE 36 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Notice of Meeting Note: 1.
A member who is entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend and, on a poll, vote on his her behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of the company.
A form of proxy for use by shareholders is enclosed with these accounts.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not prevent any shareholder from attending the meeting and voting in person.
To be valid, the form of proxy should be lodged, together with any Power of Attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or an extract from the Books of Council and Session or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority at the address stated thereon, so as to be received not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the company specifies that only those shareholders entered on the register of members of the company as at 6.00pm on 1 July 2002 or, in the event that the meeting is adjourned, on the register of members 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of ordinary shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to the entries on the register of members after 6.00pm on 1 July 2002 or, in the event that the meeting is adjourned, in the register of members 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting, notwithstanding any provisions in any enactment, the articles of association of the company or other instrument to the contrary.
There are special arrangements for holders of shares through InvestIT The Edinburgh Fund Managers Investment Trust Savings Plan and Individual Savings Account Personal Equity Plan and Pension arrangements.
These are explained in the Letter of Direction which such holders will have received with this report.
PAGE 37 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
