Information for Investors The Manager dividends reinvested.
There is no charge for buying or The manager, Edinburgh Fund Managers plc, holding shares through InvestIT other than 0.5% provides a range of savings products that allow the Government Stamp Duty which is currently payable purchase of shares in The Edinburgh Investment on all share purchases.
A transaction fee of 10 VAT Trust EIT.
Edinburgh Fund Managers plc was formally Edinburgh Fund Managers established in 1969.
Today Edinburgh Fund Investment Trust ISA PEP Managers is one of the largest managers of ISA investment trusts in the UK with over 3.4 billion of Investors have the opportunity to invest up to funds under management as at 31 March 2002.
7,000 in an Individual Savings Account ISA in Total assets managed by the group at the same date each of the tax years up to 2005 2006.
invested in EIT through the Edinburgh Fund Managers Investment Trust Maxi ISA allows Investment Trusts investors to maximise the amounts placed in stocks It is the business of investment trusts, advised by their and shares in a tax-efficient savings vehicle.
managers, to invest in the shares of other companies.
The investment objectives vary from trust to trust The initial charge is 30 VAT and the annual ranging from investment for capital growth and or management fee is 0.5% VAT.
No charges are made income, to trusts which invest internationally, in a for buying or selling shares other than Government specific area of the world or in a single country market.
Stamp Duty on share purchases.
Investing in investment trusts can provide a spread of investments, managed by experts, at low cost.
PEP PEP investors can continue to hold their existing HOW TO INVEST PEPs.
No further contributions can be made to The Ordinary shares Edinburgh Investment Trust through a PEP other Investors can buy and sell shares in EIT directly than reinvestment of any income generated.
However, through the Edinburgh Fund Managers Investment investors will be able to transfer between different Trust Savings Plan, Investment Trust ISA and PEP funds and different PEP providers without losing Investment Trust Pension.
An on-line ISA facility is their tax advantages.
To enable new investors to take available through EITs and Edinburgh Fund advantage of investing in a PEP in EIT, a PEP transfer Managers website.
Alternatively shares can be bought brochure is available.
No transfer fee is charged.
An directly through a stockbroker or indirectly through a annual management charge of 0.5% VAT capped at lawyer, accountant or other professional adviser.
PRODUCT DETAILS Pension InvestIT The Edinburgh Fund Managers The Edinburgh Fund Managers Investment Trust Investment Trust Savings Plan Pension enables investors to save for retirement by InvestIT provides a straightforward way to invest in investing in EIT.
The Investment Trust Pension offers EIT and other investment trusts managed by a Personal Pension Plan.
Contributions can be made Edinburgh Fund Managers.
Investors can make regularly or by lump sums.
regular monthly payments minimum 30 per month, 20 per month in InvestIT for Children or invest Note occasional lump sums minimum 250 initially and Please remember that past performance is not 30 thereafter, 150 initially and 20 thereafter in necessarily a guide to the future.
Stock market and InvestIT for Children.
Existing shareholders can also currency movements may cause the value of shares transfer their shares into the Plan and have their and the income from them to fall as well as rise and PAGE 39 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Information for Investors investors may not get back the amount they For information and application forms on the originally invested.
InvestIT, ISA, PEP, Pension and Share Exchange Schemes please contact: As with all equity investments, the value of Support Desk investment trusts purchased will immediately be Edinburgh Fund Managers plc reduced by the difference between the buying and Donaldson House selling prices of the shares, the market makers spread.
97 Haymarket Terrace Edinburgh EH12 5HD Investors should further bear in mind that the value Telephone: 0131-313 1000 of any tax relief will depend on the individual or FREE on 0800-028 6789 24 hours circumstances of the investor and that tax rates and reliefs, as well as the tax treatment of ISAs PEPs, InvestIT Administrator may be changed by future legislation.
Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland Registrar Department SP Keeping you informed PO Box 28448 The companys share price appears under the Finance House heading Investment Trusts in the Financial Times, Orchard Brae and other national newspapers.
Investors can also Edinburgh EH4 1WQ obtain the latest share price by phoning FT Cityline Telephone: 0870-606 0268 on 0906-843 2422.
All calls cost 60p per minute.
Individual Savings Account For internet users, detailed data on The Edinburgh Personal Equity Plan Administrator Investment Trust, including price and performance Cogent Investment Operations Limited information, is available on the companys website ISA PEP Administrator www.
com and the managers website 3 Finsbury Avenue www.
London EC2M 2PA Telephone: 0800-028 6789 Lloyds TSB Registrars also have a website www.
co. uk which includes a Pension Administrator page entitled Shareholder Services, which gives Edinburgh Pension Centre shareholders an insight into their shareholding.
The Personal Pension Management Limited website also has information about how to register a 141 Castle Street change of name and what to do if you have lost Salisbury your share certificate.
Wiltshire SP1 3TB Telephone: 0800-137 079 For information concerning your shareholding please contact: Registrar Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland PO Box 28448 Finance House Orchard Brae Edinburgh EH4 1WQ Telephone: 0870-601 5366 Textphone: 0870-600 3950 The above has been approved for the purposes of Section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 by Edinburgh Fund Managers plc which is regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
PAGE 40 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 PAGE 41 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Managed by Head Office Edinburgh Fund Managers plc Donaldson House 97 Haymarket Terrace Edinburgh EH12 5HD Telephone: 0131-313 1000
