Information for Investors EDINBURGH FUND MANAGERS Edinburgh Fund Managers Edinburgh Fund Managers plc was established Investment Trust ISA PEP in 1969.
Today Edinburgh Fund Managers is ISA one of the largest managers of investment The Edinburgh Fund Managers Investment Trust trusts in the UK with over 3.4 billion of funds Individual Savings Account ISA is a tax efficient under management as at 31 January 2002. savings vehicle.
There are two types of ISAs Total assets managed by the group at the same available, a Maxi and a Mini.
A Maxi ISA allows date were over 7.0 billion.
investors to maximise the amounts placed in stocks and shares.
Investors will have the opportunity to Investment Trusts invest up to 7,000 in this tax year in Edinburgh US It is the business of investment trusts, advised by Tracker Trust where they take out a Maxi ISA.
their managers, to invest in the shares of other companies.
The investment objectives vary from The initial charge is 30 VAT and the annual trust to trust ranging from investment for capital management fee is 0.5% VAT.
No charges are growth and or income, to trusts which invest made for buying or selling shares other than internationally, in a specific area of the world or in a Government Stamp Duty on share purchases.
Investing in investment trusts can provide a spread of investments, managed by PEP experts, at low cost.
PEP investors can continue to hold their existing PEPs.
No further contributions can be made to a HOW TO INVEST PEP other than reinvestment of any income Ordinary shares generated.
However, investors will be able to Investors can buy and sell shares in Edinburgh US transfer between different PEP funds and different Tracker Trust directly through a stockbroker or PEP providers without losing their tax advantages.
indirectly through a lawyer, accountant or other To enable investors to take advantage of transferring professional adviser.
Alternatively shares can be into a PEP in Edinburgh US Tracker Trust, a PEP bought directly through The Edinburgh Fund transfer brochure is available.
Again charges are low Managers Investment Trust Savings Plan, Investment with no entrance transfer fee being charged.
An Trust ISA PEP and the Investment Trust Pension.
annual management charge of 0.5% VAT capped at 40 is charged.
PRODUCT DETAILS InvestIT The Edinburgh Fund Managers The Edinburgh Fund Managers Investment Trust Savings Plan Investment Trust Pension InvestIT provides a straightforward way to invest in The Investment Trust Pension enables investors to Edinburgh US Tracker Trust and other investment save for retirement by investing in Edinburgh US trusts managed by Edinburgh Fund Managers.
The Investment Trust Pension offers Investors can make regular monthly payments the choice of a Personal Pension Plan or a Free minimum 30 per month or invest occasional Standing Additional Voluntary Contributions Plan.
lump sums minimum 250 initially and 30 Contributions can be made monthly, yearly or by thereafter.
Existing shareholders can also invest in lump sums, and there are low minimum investment the Plan and have their dividends reinvested.
is no charge for buying or holding shares through InvestIT other than 0.5% Government Stamp Duty which is currently payable on all share purchases.
A transaction fee of 10 VAT is levied on all sales.
PAGE 28 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Information for Investors Note For information and application forms on the Please remember that past performance is not InvestIT, ISA PEP, Pension and Share Exchange necessarily a guide to the future.
Stock market and Schemes please contact: currency movements may cause the value of shares and the income from them to fall as well as rise and Support Desk investors may not get back the amount they Edinburgh Fund Managers plc originally invested.
Donaldson House 97 Haymarket Terrace Investors should further bear in mind that the value Edinburgh EH12 5HD of any tax relief will depend on the individual Telephone: 0131-313 1000 circumstances of the investor and that tax rates and or FREE on 0800-028 6789 24 hours reliefs, as well as the tax treatment of ISAs and PEPs, may be changed by future legislation.
InvestIT Administrator Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland Keeping you informed Registrar Department SP The companys share price appears under the PO Box 28448 heading Investment Trusts in the Financial Times, Finance House The Daily Telegraph, The Times, The Independent Orchard Brae and The Scotsman.
Investors can also obtain the Edinburgh EH4 1WQ latest share price by phoning FT Cityline on Telephone: 0870-606 0268 0906-003 1598.
All calls cost 60p per minute.
Individual Savings Account Personal Equity Plan For internet users, detailed data on Edinburgh US Administrator Tracker Trust, including price and performance Cogent Investment Operations Limited information, is available on the companys website ISA PEP Administrator www.
com and on the 3 Finsbury Avenue Edinburgh Fund Managers website www.
com London EC2M 2PA and the TrustNet website www.
Telephone: 0207-410 4018 For information concerning your shareholding, Pension Administrator please contact: Edinburgh Pension Centre Personal Pension Management Limited Registrars 141 Castle Street Computershare Investor Services PLC Salisbury Owen House Wiltshire SP1 3TB 8 Bankhead Crossway North Telephone: 0800-137 079 Edinburgh EH11 4BR Telephone: 0870-702-0010 Website: www.
co. uk The above has been approved for the purposes of Section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 by Edinburgh Fund Managers plc which is regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
PAGE 29 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the ninety-ninth Annual 9.
That, in substitution for any existing authority General Meeting of Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc under Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 will be held at the registered office of the company, the Act, but without prejudice to the exercise Donaldson House, 97 Haymarket Terrace, of any such authority prior to the date hereof, the Edinburgh, on Monday 13 May 2002 at 11.00am directors be and they are hereby generally and for the purpose of transacting the following unconditionally authorised, pursuant to Section business: 80 of the Act, to allot relevant securities as defined in Section 80 2 of the Act up to an ORDINARY BUSINESS aggregate nominal amount of 7,365,097, such 1.
To adopt the reports of the directors and auditors authority to expire on 12 May 2007, unless and the financial statements for the year ended previously revoked, varied or extended by the 31 January 2002: company in general meeting, save that the company may, at any time prior to the expiry of 2.
To declare a final dividend of 2.85p per share: such authority, make an offer or enter into an agreement which would or might require relevant 3.
To re-elect Sir Angus Grossart as a director: securities to be allotted after the expiry of such authority and the directors may allot relevant 4.
To re-elect James Ferguson as a director: securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if such authority had not expired.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors: Special resolutions 6.
To authorise the directors to determine the 10.
That the directors be and are hereby empowered auditors remuneration.
pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to allot equity securities SPECIAL BUSINESS within the meaning of Section 94 2 of the Act To consider and, if thought fit, to pass Resolutions 7 for cash at a price not below the net asset value to 9 as Ordinary Resolutions and Resolutions 10 to per share, pursuant to the authority under 12 as Special Resolutions.
Section 80 of the Act conferred on the directors on the passing of resolution 9 as if Section 89 1 Ordinary resolutions of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, 7.
That the board of directors be released from the up to an aggregate nominal amount of obligation in Article 152 of the companys 7,365,097, provided that this power shall be Articles of Association to convene an limited: Extraordinary General Meeting of the company to be held on 31 July 2002 at which an ordinary i to the allotment of equity securities in resolution will be proposed pursuant to Section connection with any rights issue in favour of 84 of the Insolvency Act 1986 requiring the the holders of ordinary shares on the register company to be wound up voluntarily.
on a date fixed by the directors where the equity securities respectively attributable to 8.
That the authorised share capital of the company the interests of all the holders of ordinary be and is hereby increased from 23,942,482.50 shares are proportionate as nearly as to 30,000,000 by the creation of an additional practicable to the respective numbers of 24,230,070 ordinary shares of 25p each in the ordinary shares held by them on that date, share capital of the company ranking pari passu provided that the directors may make such in all respects with the existing ordinary shares exclusions or other arrangements as they may of 25p each in the share capital of the company.
deem necessary or expedient in relation to PAGE 30 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Notice of Meeting fractional entitlements or legal or practical derived from the Daily Official List of the problems under the laws in any territory or London Stock Exchange for the ordinary the requirements of any relevant regulatory shares for the five business days immediately body or stock exchange: and preceding the date of purchase: and ii to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to d unless previously varied, revoked or paragraph i of this resolution of equity renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall securities up to an aggregate nominal amount expire on 12 November 2003, save that the of 2,209,529 being 10% of the nominal company may, prior to such expiry, enter value of the existing issued share capital of into a contract to purchase ordinary shares the company: under such authority which will or might be executed wholly or partly after the expiration and such power shall expire at the conclusion of of such authority and may make a purchase the next annual general meeting of the company of ordinary shares pursuant to any such after the passing of this resolution or 15 months contract.
from the passing of this resolution, whichever is earlier, unless previously revoked, varied or 12.
That the articles of association of the company extended by the company in general meeting, be and they are hereby amended by inserting the save that the company may, before such expiry, following new article 22A between the existing make an offer or agreement which would or article 22 and the existing article 23:- might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity 22A.
Subject to the provisions of the Statutes and securities pursuant to any such offer or to any special rights previously conferred agreement as if the power conferred hereby had on the holders of any class of shares, the not expired.
Company may purchase, or enter into a contract under which it will or may 11.
That, in substitution for any existing authority, purchase, any of its own shares of any class the company be authorised, in accordance with including any redeemable shares in any Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the manner permitted by, and in accordance Act, to make market purchases within the with, the Statutes.
Neither the Company meaning of Section 163 3 of the Act of nor the Directors shall be required to select ordinary shares of 25p each ordinary shares, the shares to be purchased rateably or in provided that:- any other particular manner as between the holders of shares of the same class or in a the maximum number of ordinary shares accordance with the rights as to dividends hereby authorised to be purchased shall be or capital conferred by any class of shares.
14.99% of the issued share capital of the company as at the date of the passing of this By order of the board, resolution: Edinburgh Fund Managers plc Secretary b the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be 25p: 2 April 2002 c the maximum price exclusive of expenses Registered office: which may be paid for an ordinary share Donaldson House shall be an amount equal to 105% of the 97 Haymarket Terrace average of the middle market quotations as Edinburgh EH12 5HD PAGE 31 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Notice of Meeting Note: 1.
A member who is entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend and, on a poll, vote on his her behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of the company.
A form of proxy for use by shareholders is enclosed with these accounts.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not prevent any shareholder from attending the meeting and voting in person.
To be valid, the form of proxy should be lodged, together with any Power of Attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or an extract from the Books of Council and Session or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority at the address stated thereon, so as to be received not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the company specifies that only those shareholders entered on the register of members of the company as at 6.00pm on 11 May 2002 or, in the event that the meeting is adjourned, on the register of members 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of ordinary shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to the entries on the register of members after 6.00pm on 11 May 2002 or, in the event that the meeting is adjourned, in the register of members 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting, notwithstanding any provisions in any enactment, the articles of association of the company or other instrument to the contrary.
There are special arrangements for holders of shares through InvestIT The Edinburgh Fund Managers Investment Trust Savings Plan and Individual Savings Account Personal Equity Plan and Pension arrangements.
These are explained in the Letter of Direction which such holders will have received with this report.
PAGE PAGE 32 32 Edinburgh US T Edinburgh US Tracker T racker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 rust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 PAGE 33 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Head Office Edinburgh Fund Managers plc Donaldson House 97 Haymarket Terrace Edinburgh EH12 5HD Telephone: 0131-313 1000
