Accounts Statement of Accounting Policies Statement of Accounting Policies Principal Accounting Policies The Accounts have been prepared in accordance with Accounting Standards applicable in the United Kingdom.
Basis of Accounting The Accounts are prepared on the historical cost basis of accounting, modified to include the revaluation of certain assets and in accordance with the Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies the SORP.
Company Profit and Loss Account As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the Companys Profit and Loss Account has not been included in these Financial Statements.
Basis of Consolidation The consolidated Accounts include in full the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
Where subsidiaries are acquired or sold during the year their results are included in the consolidated accounts from the date of acquisition and up to the date of disposal respectively.
The structures through which Electras investments are made mean that for the purposes of consolidation, Electra is deemed not to have significant influence or control over the operating and financial decisions of the investee companies.
Consequently, Limited Partnerships and any significant investment holdings are not consolidated.
Control in all cases vests with parties outside the Electra Group.
Limited Partnership Funds Significant investments made by the Company in limited partnership funds managed by Electra Partners, are accounted for as listed or unlisted investments, dependent on the underlying nature of the investments held within the limited partnership funds.
The Group incorporates its attributable proportion as a limited partner of the assets and liabilities and income and expenditure of these funds.
Investments in other limited partnership funds are treated as unlisted investments and disclosed separately see Note 10.
Listed Investments The listed investment portfolio is held within a limited partnership fund managed by Electra Partners.
The investments comprising the Groups interest in this fund are disclosed as listed investments see Note 10.
Listed investments are stated at mid-market prices at the year end.
Investments in overseas companies listed both abroad and on The London Stock Exchange are classified as investments listed overseas.
Unlisted Investments Unlisted investments and long term leasehold investment properties are held at Directors valuation as fixed asset investments.
These investments are made with the express intention of capital appreciation and receipt of income and may be held through limited partnership funds or directly by the Company or Group.
Current Asset Investments Current asset investments include dealing investments.
These are individually stated at the lower of cost or mid-market value for listed investments and at the lower of cost or Directors valuation for unlisted investments.
46 Electra Investment Trust PLC Accounts Statement of Accounting Policies Foreign Currencies Assets, liabilities and the results of subsidiaries recorded in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at exchange rates at the year end.
Exchange differences arising from the re-translation of the opening net investments in subsidiary undertakings are taken to reserves and are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Total Return.
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate at the year end or the exchange rate of a related forward exchange contract where appropriate.
The resulting differences on investments and borrowings are taken to reserves.
All other foreign exchange differences are taken to the Consolidated Statement of Total Return in the year in which they arise.
Income Dividends receivable from equity shares are brought into account on the ex-dividend date or, where no ex-dividend date is quoted, are brought into account when the Companys right to receive payment is established.
Fixed returns on non-equity shares and debt securities are recognised on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective yield on the shares and debt securities.
Deep discounts on debt securities are recognised on an effective yield basis and recorded as revenue.
Where there is a reasonable doubt that a return, which falls within the accounting period, will actually be received by the Company, the recognition of the return is deferred until the reasonable doubt has been removed.
Where income accruals previously recognised, but not received, are no longer considered to be reasonably expected to be received, either through investee company restructuring or doubt over receipt, then these amounts are reversed through expenses.
Expenses All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Expenses are charged through the revenue account except as follows: expenses in connection with the acquisition of fixed asset investments are included within the cost of the investment: and expenses in connection with the disposal of fixed asset investments are deducted from the disposal proceeds of the investment.
Priority Profit Share The majority of the investments are made by the Company in limited partnership funds managed by Electra Partners.
Under the terms of the limited partnership agreements the general partner is entitled to appropriate, as a first charge on the net income or net capital gains of the limited partnership funds an amount equivalent to its priority profit share.
In periods in which the limited partnership funds have not yet earned sufficient net income or net capital gain to satisfy this priority profit share the entitlement is carried forward to the following period.
In all instances the cash amount paid to the general partner in each period is equivalent to the priority profit share.
Notwithstanding that insufficient net income or net capital gains may have been earned, where the cash amount paid exceeds the net income or net capital gains, an interest free loan is created.
In order to reflect the substance of these transactions, revenue and or capital is included in the Group and Company Accounts to reflect the type of return appropriated by the general partners in satisfaction of their priority profit shares, and expenses or interest free loans are included to reflect the proportion of the Companys net income and or net capital gain in the limited partnership funds that has been paid to the general partners by way of priority profit shares.
The priority profit share is charged wholly to the revenue account.
Taxation The tax effect of different items of income gain and expense loss is allocated between capital and revenue on the same basis as the particular item to which it relates, using the companys effective rate of tax for the accounting period.
Deferred Tax is accounted for in accordance with FRS19 Deferred Tax.
Deferred Tax is provided on all timing differences that have originated but not reversed by the Balance Sheet date.
A Deferred Tax asset is only recognised to the extent that it is regarded as recoverable.
