Explanatory notes to the notice of meeting Item 1: Report and accounts The directors must present to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting the report of the directors and the accounts of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2002.
The report of the directors, the accounts and the report of the Company's auditors on the accounts are contained within the annual report and accounts.
Item 2: Directors remuneration The directors are now required to present the report on directors remuneration, which sets out remuneration policy, to shareholders for approval.
The report on directors remuneration can be found on pages 37 and 46 of the report and accounts.
Item 3: Final dividend Subject to the declaration of the final dividend at the meeting, the dividend will be paid on 23 May 2003 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 25 April 2003.
Items 4, 5 and 6: Re-appointment of directors The Company's Articles of Association require that at every Annual General Meeting one third of the directors who are subject to retirement by rotation shall retire from office.
Malcolm Robert Harris and Mark Patrick Nicholls will retire by rotation and offer themselves for re-appointment.
The Company's Articles of Association also require that any director appointed by the Board since the last Annual General Meeting shall hold office only until the next following Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, David James Ritchie will offer himself for re-appointment.
Brief details of all the directors are to be found on pages 28 and 29 of the report and accounts.
Items 7 and 8: Re-appointment of auditors and auditors remuneration The auditors of a company must be re-appointed at each general meeting at which accounts are presented.
Resolution 7 proposes the re-appointment of the Company's existing auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, for a further year.
Resolution 8 gives authority to the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
Items 9: Authority to allot shares Resolution 9 renews the authority given to your Directors at the last Annual General Meeting to allot relevant securities in accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985, such authority to expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, 15 months from the date of the resolution.
The directors intend to seek renewal of this authority at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
The authority sought is limited to an aggregate nominal amount of 16,530,849.50 being 28.27% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue as at 7 March 2003.
The Board has no specific plans to exercise this authority other than in connection with the employee share schemes.
However, it wishes to obtain the necessary authority from shareholders so that allotments can be made should it be desirable and should suitable market conditions arise at short notice and without the need to convene an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company which would be both costly and time consuming.
Item 10: Disapplication of pre-emption rights Resolution 10 empowers the directors until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting in 2004 to make limited allotments of ordinary shares for cash other than according to the statutory pre-emption rights, which require a company to offer all allotments of ordinary shares for cash proportionately to existing shareholders first.
This power would provide the directors with the flexibility to act in the best interests of shareholders when opportunities arise, so that: i the Company can follow normal practices in the event of a rights issue: and ii ordinary shares may be issued wholly for cash other than proportionately to existing ordinary shareholders up to a maximum of 5% of the Company's total ordinary share capital in issue as at 7 March 2003.
Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 75 Explanatory notes to the notice of meeting continued There are presently no plans to allot ordinary shares wholly for cash other than in connection with the employee share schemes.
Shares allotted under an employee share scheme are not subject to statutory pre-emption rights.
The authority sought by Resolution 10 will last until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting, or, if earlier, 15 months from the date of the resolution.
The directors intend to seek renewal of this power at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
Item 11: Authority to purchase own shares In accordance with Article 45 the directors are seeking authority to enable the Company to make market purchases of up to 11,693,830 of its own shares representing approximately 10% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue as at 7 March 2003.
Before exercising such authority, the directors would ensure that the Company was complying with the current relevant UK Listing Authority and ABI guidelines.
No purchases would be made unless the effect would be to increase the earnings per share of the remaining shareholders and the directors consider the purchases to be in the best interest of shareholders generally.
The directors have no present intention of making such purchases but, in view of the strong balance sheet position, would like to have the flexibility to consider such purchases in the future.
The maximum price per share for any purchase would not be in excess of 5% above the average of the market values for an ordinary share of the Company derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for each of the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary shares are purchased.
The minimum price would be 50 pence being the nominal value of each ordinary share.
The authority will only be valid until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting in 2004.
Page 76 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
