Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the seventy-third PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT Annual General Meeting of The Fleming Continental i the maximum number of ordinary shares European Investment Trust plc will be held at The hereby authorised to be purchased shall Chartered Accountants Hall, Moorgate Place, be 8,956,675 or, if less, that number of London EC2P 2BJ on Tuesday 16th July 2002 at ordinary shares which is equal to 14.99% 12.00 noon for the following purposes.
of the Companys issued share capital as at the date of the passing of this 1 To receive and adopt the Directors report, the resolution: annual accounts and the auditors report for ii the minimum price which may be paid for the year ended 31st March 2002. an ordinary share shall be 25p: 2 To declare a dividend on the ordinary shares.
iii the maximum price which may be paid for 3 To elect Mr Andrew Murison a Director of the an ordinary share shall be an amount Company.
equal to 105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary 4 To re-elect a Director, special notice having share taken from and calculated by been given pursuant to Section 293 and 379 of reference to the London Stock Exchange the Companies Act 1985, of the intention to Daily Official List for the five business days propose the following as an ordinary immediately preceding the day on which resolution: the ordinary share is purchased: THAT Lord Renton of Mount Harry, who attained the age of 70 years on 28th May 2002, be reiv any purchase of ordinary shares will be elected a Director of the Company.
made in the market for cash at prices below the prevailing net asset value per 5 To re-elect Mr Robin Faber a Director of the ordinary share as determined by the Company.
Directors : 6 To re-elect Mr Ferdinand Verdonck a Director of v the authority hereby conferred shall expire the Company.
on 15th January 2004 unless the authority 7 To re-elect Mr Alexander Zagoreos a Director of is renewed at the Companys Annual the Company.
General Meeting in 2003 or at any other 8 To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors to general meeting prior to such time: and the Company and to authorise the Directors to vi the Company may make a contract to fix their remuneration.
purchase ordinary shares under the Special Business authority hereby conferred prior to the 9 To consider the following resolution which will expiry of such authority and may make a be proposed as a special resolution: purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to any such contract notwithstanding such expiry.
THAT the Company be generally and subject as hereinafter appears unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 of the Act of its issued ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company Fleming Continental European 29 Notice of Meeting continued Notes 10 To consider the following resolution which will be proposed as an ordinary resolution: 1 A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the above Meeting is entitled to appoint one or more THAT pursuant to Article 77 of the Articles of proxies to attend and on a poll vote on his behalf.
A Association of the Company, the Directors be proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
The entitled to receive for the year commencing 1st lodging of a form of proxy does not prevent a April 2002 and for each succeeding year until shareholder from attending and voting if he so otherwise resolved, remuneration of 16,000 wishes.
for the Chairman, 12,000 for the Audit 2 Proxy forms must be lodged not less than 48 hours Committee Chairman and 11,000 for each before the time of the meeting at the office of the other Director.
3 To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and By order of the Board for the purpose of the determination by the Company JM Latter, for and on behalf of of the number of votes they may cast, shareholders J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management UK must be entered on the Companys register of Limited, members 48 hours before the time of the meeting Secretary.
If the meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the Specified 14th June 2002 Time applicable to the original meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of shareholders to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned Meeting.
If however the Meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, shareholders must be entered on the Companys register of members at the time which is 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned Meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned Meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
4 Admittance to the above Meeting will be restricted to shareholders.
Guests will only be admitted by prior arrangement.
