Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the fortieth Annual ii the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be 25 pence: General Meeting of The Fleming Claverhouse Investment Trust plc will be held at The Majestic iii the maximum price which may be paid for Hotel, Ripon Road, Harrogate, North Yorkshire an ordinary share shall be an amount equal HG1 2HU on Friday 25th April 2003 at 12.00 noon to 105 per cent of the average of the middle for the following purposes: market quotations for an ordinary share taken from and calculated by reference to 1 To receive the Directors Report, the Annual the London Stock Exchange Daily Official Accounts and the Auditors Report for the year List for the five business days immediately ended 31st December 2002. preceding the day on which the ordinary share is purchased: 2 To receive the Remuneration Report for the year ended 31st December 2002. iv any purchase of ordinary shares will be made in the market for cash at prices below 3 To re-elect John Redwood as a Director.
the prevailing net asset value per ordinary 4 To re-elect Peter Lilley as a Director.
share as determined by the Directors : 5 To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as Auditors to the v the authority hereby conferred shall expire on Company and to authorise the Directors to 24th October 2004 unless the authority is determine their remuneration.
renewed at the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2004 or at any other general Special Business meeting prior to such time: and To consider the following resolutions which will be proposed as Special Resolutions: vi the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under the authority 6 THAT the Company be generally and subject as hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such hereinafter appears unconditionally authorised in authority and may make a purchase of accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act ordinary shares pursuant to any such contract 1985 the Act to make market purchases within notwithstanding such expiry.
the meaning of Section 163 of the Act of its issued ordinary shares of 25 pence each in the 7 THAT subject to the consent of the Registrar of capital of the Company Companies, the name of the Company be changed to JPMorgan Fleming Claverhouse Investment PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT Trust plc.
i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 12,508,239 or if less, that number of By order of the Board ordinary shares which is equal to 14.99% of JM Latter, for and on behalf of the Companys issued share capital as at the J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management UK Limited, date of the passing of this resolution: Secretary.
7th March 2003 Notes 1 A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the above Meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and on a poll vote on his behalf.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
The lodging of a form of proxy does not prevent a shareholder from attending and voting if he so wishes.
2 Proxy forms must be lodged not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting at the office of the Registrar.
3 To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, shareholders must be entered on the Companys register of members 48 hours before the time of the Meeting the Specified Time.
If the Meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the Specified Time applicable to the original meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of shareholders to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned Meeting.
If however the Meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, shareholders must be entered on the Companys register of members at the time which is 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned Meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned Meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
4 Admittance to the above Meeting will be restricted to shareholders.
Guests will only be admitted by prior arrangement.
