Notice of Meeting issued share capital as at the date of the Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and passing of this Resolution: sixteenth Annual General Meeting of The Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc will be held at ii the minimum price which may be paid for a 10 Aldermanbury, London EC2V 7RF at 3.00 p. m. on Share shall be 25p: Thursday 23rd May 2002 for the following iii the maximum price which may be paid for a purposes.
Share shall be an amount equal to 105 per cent.
of the average of the middle market 1 To receive and adopt the Directors report, the quotations for a Share taken from and annual accounts and the Auditors report for the calculated by reference to the London Stock year ended 31st January 2002.
Exchange Daily Official List for the five 2 To elect Lord Rothermere a Director of the Company.
business days immediately preceding the day 3 To re-elect Mr WL Banks a Director of the Company.
on which the Share is purchased: 4 To re-elect Mr NW Berry a Director of the Company.
iv any purchase of Shares will be made in the 5 To re-elect a Director, Special notice having been market for cash at prices below the prevailing given, pursuant to Sections 293 and 379 of the net asset value per Share as determined by Companies Act 1985, of the intention to propose the the Directors : following resolution as an ordinary resolution: v the authority hereby conferred shall expire at THAT The Rt.
Viscount Younger of Leckie, who the earlier of 22nd November 2003 or at the attained the age of 70 years on 22nd September conclusion of the Companys Annual General 2001, be re-elected a Director of the Company.
Meeting in 2003 unless the authority is renewed prior to such time: and 6 To re-appoint  as auditors to the Company and to authorise the Directors to vi the Company may make a contract to purchase determine their remuneration.
Shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority and may Special Business: make a purchase of Shares pursuant to any such To consider the following resolution which will be contract notwithstanding such expiry.
proposed as a special resolution: To consider the following resolution which will be 7 THAT proposed as an ordinary resolution: the Company be generally and subject as hereinafter appears unconditionally authorised in accordance 8 THAT with Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the in accordance with Article 78 of the Articles of Act to make market purchases within the meaning Association, the aggregate Directors fees payable of Section 163 of the Act of its issued Shares of 25p should be increased from 100,000 to 150,000 per each in the capital of the Company.
annum with effect from 1st February 2002.
PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT By order of the Board i the maximum number of Shares hereby J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management UK Limited, authorised to be purchased shall be Secretary.
20,360,413 or if less, that number of shares which is equal to 14.99% of the Companys 12th April 2002 Notes 1 A member entitled to attend and vote at the above meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and on a poll vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
The lodging of a form of proxy does not prevent a member from attending and voting if he so wishes.
2 Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be lodged at the Companys Registrar not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
3 To be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys register of members at 6pm on Tuesday 21st May the specified time.
If the meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned meeting.
If however the meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members at the time which is 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
4 Entry to the above Meeting will be restricted to ordinary shareholders, with guests only by prior agreement.
