Information about the Company FINANCIAL CALENDAR Financial year end 30th September Interim results announced April Final results announced November Annual General Meeting December History Manager, Secretary and Registered Office The Company was formed in 1927 as The Capital & J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management UK Limited, National Trust Limited.
It was a general investment Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, trust until 1982, when its shareholders approved a London EC2Y 9AQ change of name to The Fleming Japanese Telephone number: 020 7742 6000, Investment Trust plc and the adoption of a policy of Please contact Sara Waltham for company secretarial and specialising in investment in Japan.
It is the largest administrative matters.
UK investment trust specialising in Japan.
Registrar Company Numbers Lloyds TSB Registrars, Reference 1090, Company registration number: 223583 The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA London Stock Exchange Sedol number: 0174002 Telephone number: 0870 600 3984 Notifications of changes of address and enquiries regarding Market Information share certificates or dividend cheques should be made in The Companys net asset value NAV is published writing to the Registrar quoting reference 1090. daily, via the London Stock Exchange.
The Companys shares are listed on the London Registered shareholders can obtain further details on their Stock Exchange.
The market price of the shares is holdings on the internet by visiting www.
shown daily in the Financial Times, The Auditors Independent, The Times, The Daily Telegraph, The Begbies Everett Chettle, Cromwell House, Scotsman, The Herald and the Daily Mail.
Fulwood Place, London WC1 6HZ Share Transactions The shares may be dealt in directly through a stockbroker or through a professional adviser acting on an investors behalf.
They may also be purchased and held through the Investment Trust Share Plan, ISA and Pension Account.
Taxation The Company is managed so as to maintain approval as an investment trust by the Inland Revenue and, as such, is exempt from capital gains tax on profits arising from the sale of its investments.
The Company is a member of The Association of Investment Trust Companies Fleming Japanese 37
