Notice of Meeting ii the minimum price which may be paid for an Notice is hereby given that the seventy fifth ordinary share shall be 25p: Annual General Meeting of Fleming Japanese Investment Trust plc will be held at iii the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be an amount equal 10 Aldermanbury, London EC2V 7RF on to 105 per cent of the average of the middle Thursday 19th December 2002 at 2.00pm for market quotations for an ordinary share the following purposes: taken from and calculated by reference to 1 To receive the Directors Report & Accounts and the London Stock Exchange Daily Official the Auditors Report for the year ended 30th List for the five business days immediately September 2002. preceding the day on which the share is purchased: 2 To re-elect Mr Ritchie a Director of the Company.
iv any purchase of ordinary shares will be 3 To re-elect Mr Gifford a Director of the Company.
made in the market for cash at prices below 4 To re-appoint Begbies Everett Chettle as auditors the prevailing net asset value per ordinary to the Company and to authorise the Directors to share as determined by the Directors : determine their remuneration.
v the authority hereby conferred shall expire Special Business on 18th June 2004 unless the authority is renewed at the Companys Annual General To consider the following resolution which will be Meeting in 2003 or at any other general proposed as a Special Resolution: meeting prior to such time: and Authority to Repurchase the Companys Shares vi the Company may make a contract to 5 THAT the Company be generally and, subject as purchase ordinary shares under the hereinafter appears, unconditionally authorised in authority hereby conferred prior to the accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act expiry of such authority and may make a 1985 the Act to make market purchases within purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to any the meaning of Section 163 of the Act of its issued such contract notwithstanding such expiry.
ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company PROVIDED ALWAYSTHAT i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be By order of the Board 28,153,007 or, if less, that number of shares J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management UK Limited, which is equal to 14.99% of the Companys Secretary issued share capital as at the date of the 12th November 2002 passing of this Resolution: Notes 1 A member entitled to attend and vote at the above meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and on a poll vote on their behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
The lodging of a form of proxy does not prevent a member from attending and voting if they so wish.
2 Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be lodged at the office of the Companys Registrar not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
3 To be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys register of members 48 hours before the meeting the specified time.
If the meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned meeting.
If however the meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members at the time which is 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
4 Entry to the above meeting will be restricted to shareholders, with guests admitted only by prior arrangement.
