Investing through JPMorgan Fleming JPMorgan Fleming have a range of wrapper products available which enable investors to purchase shares in our range of investment trusts as follows: Share Plan Personal Equity Plan PEP The Investment Trust Share Plan is a low-cost Although no new subscriptions can be made to a savings plan allowing investments in any of the PEP, existing plans from other managers can be JPMorgan Fleming investment trusts, as shown transferred into the Investment Trust PEP.
The minimum investment is 50 per month annual management charge is a flat fee of 25 plus or a lump sum of 500.
There is a 1% transaction VAT per trust.
charge plus 0.5% Government stamp duty on all purchases, with a minimum charge of 1 and a Pension Account maximum charge of 50 for each transaction in The Investment Trust Pension Account is simple, each trust.
There is no annual account charge and only a 0.3% dealing charge on Individual Savings Account ISA purchases 0.5% Government stamp duty is also All of the JPMorgan Fleming investment trusts are payable, excluding the Cash Fund.
There are no available through either a mini or maxi stocks and complicated investment decisions to make just shares component ISA.
Under current legislation, choose from our menu of four investment choices, investments grow free of income and capital gains Fleming Managed Growth, Fleming Claverhouse, tax.
The minimum investment is 100 per month Fleming Overseas and the Cash Fund.
It also allows per trust or a lump sum of 1,000 per trust, subject you to stop, start, increase or decrease to the overall annual allowances.
Under current regulations, tax relief is available on all contributions and investments grow free of capital gains tax.
The minimum investment is 100 gross per month or 1,000 gross lump sum.
You can visit our web site at www.
com its 38 Fleming Japanese The The inv investment estment trust trust r range ange fr from om JPMor JPMorgan gan Fleming Fleming JPMorgan Fleming American Capital growth from North American investment JPMorgan Fleming Asian Capital growth from Asian investments, excluding Japan JPMorgan Fleming Chinese Capital growth from Greater China investments Fleming Claverhouse Capital and income growth from UK investments Fleming Continental European Capital growth from Continental European investments JPMorgan Fleming Emerging Markets Capital growth from emerging markets worldwide JPMorgan Fleming European Fledgeling Capital growth from smaller Continental European companies JPMorgan Fleming Income & Capital Income and capital growth from UK investments through a splitcapital structure JPMorgan Fleming Income & Growth Income and capital growth from higher-yielding investments through a split-capital structure JPMorgan Fleming Indian Capital growth from investment in India Fleming Japanese Capital growth from Japanese investments JPMorgan Fleming Japanese Smaller Companies Capital growth through investment in small and medium-sized Japanese companies Fleming Managed Growth Long-term capital growth from investing in the range of investment trusts managed by JPMorgan Fleming Fleming Managed Income Growth of income with potential of long-term capital growth from investing in JPMorgan Fleming managed funds and fixed income securities Fleming Mercantile Capital growth from a portfolio of medium and smaller UK companies JPMorgan Fleming Mid Cap Capital growth from medium-sized UK companies Fleming Overseas Capital growth from overseas markets Fleming Smaller Companies Capital and income growth from UK smaller companies JPMorgan Fleming Technology Capital growth from investment in the global technology sector JPMorgan Fleming US Discovery Capital growth from US micro cap companies JPMorgan Fleming Worldwide Income High income with capital growth through a split-capital structure from a portfolio of equities and bonds with international exposure Please remember that the value of shares and the income from them can fall as well as rise and investors may not get back the full amount invested.
Past performance is not necessarily a guide to the future.
For trusts investing in emerging markets the risk to your capital may be greater.
Exchange rate changes may cause the value of overseas investments to rise or fall.
Unquoted investments may be illiquid and difficult to value and may be more volatile.
Issued by J. P. Morgan Fleming Marketing Limited, which is regulated by the Financial Services Authority, and which sells investment, life assurance and pension products offered by the JPMorgan Fleming Asset Management marketing group.
Registered office 10 Aldermanbury, London EC2V 7RF Fleming Japanese 39 Designed by Kino Design Partnership.
Printed in England by Henry Good & Son Limited, London SE14 6QP JPMorgan Fleming Brochureline Freephone 0800 40 30 30 8.30 am to 6.00 pm Monday to Friday, and 9.00 am to 2.00 pm Saturday Please use this service to order ISA, PEP transfer, Pension Account or Share Plan literature and or annual reports of the Fleming investment trusts.
JPMorgan Fleming Helpline Freephone 0500 500 324 or 020 7742 9974 8.30 am to 6.00 pm Monday to Friday, and 9.00 am to 2.00 pm Saturday Please use this service if you have any general queries about the range of JPMorgan Fleming investment trusts and products, including investment performance.
JPMorgan Fleming Pension Helpline Freephone 0800 413 176 or 01722 414 888 9.00 am to 5.00 pm Monday to Friday Please use this service if you have any queries relating to the Pension Account or require a personal illustration.
You can visit our website at www.
