Directors Report continued made in the market and at prices below the the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2003 or prevailing net asset value per share.
Under the until 14.99 per cent of the issued share capital has rules of the London Stock Exchange, the maximum been acquired.
The authority may be renewed by price which may be paid on a purchase by a shareholders at any time at a General Meeting.
company of its shares under a general authority is Change of Company Name 105 per cent of the average of the middle market The Directors recommend that the Companys quotations of the shares for the five business days name be changed to JPMorgan Fleming Overseas immediately before the day on which the purchase Investment Trust plc.
The minimum price that the Company will Details of this recommendation are given in the pay for a share will be 25 pence the nominal value Chairmans Statement on page 2. of each share.
The Company will utilise the authority to purchase shares on an ad hoc basis by By order of the Board either a single purchase or a series of purchases as J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management UK Limited, and when market conditions are appropriate.
Secretary The authority to purchase shares will last until the LE Field earlier of 31st December 2003 or the conclusion of 23rd September 2002 Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Accounts Company law requires the Directors to prepare The Directors are responsible for ensuring that accounts for each financial year which give a true proper accounting records are kept which disclose and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial as at the end of the year and of the revenue for the position of the Company and enable them to year.
In preparing those accounts, the Directors are ensure that the accounts comply with the required to: Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence select suitable accounting policies and then for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and apply them consistently: detection of fraud and other irregularities.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts: 26 Fleming Overseas
