Notice of Annual General Meeting of the Companys issued share capital as Notice is hereby given that the one hundred at the date of the passing of this and fifteenth Annual General Meeting of The Resolution: Fleming Overseas Investment Trust plc will be held at 10 Aldermanbury, London EC2V 7RF ii the minimum price which may be paid at 12.00 noon on Tuesday 26th November for a share will be 25 pence: 2002 for the following purposes: iii the maximum price which may be paid for a share shall be an amount equal to 1 To receive the Directors Report and Accounts 105 per cent of the average of the and the Auditors Report for the year ended middle market quotations for a share 30th June 2002. taken from and calculated by reference to the London Stock Exchange Daily 2 To elect Richard Barfield as a Director of the Official List for the five business days Company.
immediately preceding the day on which 3 To elect John Rennocks as a Director of the the share is purchased: Company.
iv any purchase of shares will be made in 4 To re-elect Simon Davies as a Director of the the market for cash at prices below the Company.
prevailing estimated net asset value per 5 To re-elect Geoffrey Howe as a Director of the share as determined by the Directors : Company.
v the authority hereby conferred shall 6 To declare a final dividend expire on the earlier of 31st December 2003 or the conclusion of the Companys 7 To re-appoint  as Annual General Meeting in 2003 or when Auditors to the Company and to authorise the 14.99 per cent of the Companys issued Directors to determine their remuneration.
share capital has been acquired unless Special Business the authority is renewed prior to such To consider the following resolution which will time: and be proposed as special resolution: vi the Company may make a contract to AUTHORITY TO REPURCHASE THE COMPANYS purchase shares under the authority SHARES hereby conferred prior to the expiry of 8 THAT the Company be generally and, subject as such authority and may make a hereinafter appears, unconditionally purchase of shares pursuant to any such authorised in accordance with Section 166 of contract notwithstanding such expiry.
the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make 9 THAT subject to the consent of the Registrar of market purchases within the meaning of Companies, the name of the Company be Section 163 of the Act of its issued ordinary changed to JPMorgan Fleming Overseas shares of 25 pence each in the capital of the Investment Trust plc: Company PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT By order of the Board i the maximum number of shares hereby J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management UK Limited, authorised to be purchased shall be Secretary.
10,632,716 or if less, that number of 23rd September 2002 shares which is equal to 14.99 per cent Fleming Overseas 27 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes a time not more than 48 hours after the 1 A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at specified time applicable to the original the above Meeting is entitled to appoint one or meeting, that time will also apply for the more proxies to attend and on a poll vote on purpose of determining the entitlement of his behalf.
A proxy need not be a shareholder members to attend and vote and for the of the Company.
The lodging of a form of proxy purpose of determining the number of votes does not prevent a shareholder from attending they may cast at the adjourned meeting.
If and voting if he so wishes.
however the meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must 2 Proxy forms must be lodged not less than 48 be entered on the Companys register of hours before the time of the meeting at the members at the time which is 48 hours before office of the Registrar.
the time fixed for the adjourned meeting or, if 3 To be entitled to attend and vote at the the Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting and for the purpose of the meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
determination by the Company of the number 4 Admittance to the above Meeting will be of votes they may cast, members must be restricted to shareholders, guests will only be entered on the Companys register of members admitted by prior arrangement.
48 hours before the time of the Meeting the specified time.
If the meeting is adjourned to 28 Fleming Overseas
