Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC 2002 Information for Shareholders 35 Net Asset Value and Share Price UK Capital Gains Tax CGT The Companys Net Asset Value NAV is released daily, on An approved investment trust does not pay tax on capital the working day following the calculation date, to the London gains.
UK resident individuals may realise net capital gains of Stock Exchange.
up to 7,500 in the tax year ended 5 April 2003 without The current share price of Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust incurring any tax liability.
PLC is shown in the investment trust section of the stock market Up to April 1998, the cost of investments for CGT page in most leading newspapers, usually under For&Col purposes was adjusted to allow for inflation between the Euro.
month of acquisition and the month of disposal of the investments.
For investments held at 6 April 1998 and Performance Information disposed of after that date, this indexation allowance will be Information on the Companys performance is provided in the computed for the period from the date of acquisition to April interim and annual reports which are sent to shareholders in 1998, with taper relief applying after April 1998.
For assets November and May respectively.
acquired on or after 5 April 1998, only taper relief applies.
More up-to-date performance information is available on The taper reduces the amount of chargeable gain according the Internet at www.
co. uk select Private Investor, to the number of complete years after 5 April 1998 for which Investment Trusts, Eurotrust.
This website provides a monthly the investment has been held.
update on the Companys largest holdings, along with comments from the fund manager.
Income Tax The dividends are payable in December 2002, net of a Report & Accounts notional tax credit of 10%.
Individual UK resident The annual and interim Report & Accounts are also published shareholders who are subject to UK income tax at the lower on the Internet at www.
rate or the basic rate have no further tax liability.
Tax credits on dividends received from shares held within Association of Investment Trust Companies AITC a PEP or ISA are recoverable from the Inland Revenue.
Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC is a member of the AITC, Shareholders not resident in the UK, and any which publishes a monthly statistical information service in shareholders in doubt as to their tax position, should consult respect of member companies.
The publication also has their professional advisers.
details of ISA, PEP and other investment plans available.
For further details, please contact the AITC on 020 7282 5555, or visit the website: www.
