Information for Shareholders Net Asset Value and Share Price UK Capital Gains Tax CGT The Companys Net Asset Value NAV is released daily, on An approved Investment Trust does not pay tax on capital the working day following the calculation date, to the gains.
UK resident individuals may realise net capital gains London Stock Exchange.
of up to 7,700 in the tax year ended 5 April 2003 without The current share price of Foreign & Colonial incurring any tax liability.
Investment Trust is shown in the investment trust section Up to April 1998, the cost of investments for CGT of the stockmarket page in most leading newspapers, purposes was adjusted to allow for inflation between the usually under For & Col. Investors in New Zealand and month of acquisition and the month of disposal of the Germany can obtain share prices from leading investments.
For investments held at 6 April 1998 and newspapers in those countries.
disposed of after that date, this indexation allowance will be computed for the period from the date of acquisition to Performance Information April 1998, with taper relief applying after April 1998.
For Information on the Companys performance is provided in assets acquired on or after 6 April 1998, only taper relief the interim and final reports which are sent to shareholders applies.
The taper reduces the amount of chargeable gain in August and March respectively.
according to the number of complete years after 5 April More up-to-date performance information is available 1998 for which the investment has been held.
com select your language For UK investors who acquired Foreign & Colonial and profile, UK Private Investor, Investment Trusts, followed Investment Trust stock prior to 31 March 1982, the costs by Foreign & Colonial.
This website provides a monthly for CGT purposes, based on the price at that date, update on the Companys geographic spread and largest adjusted for capital changes, are as follows: holdings, along with comments from the fund manager.
Unit of Quotation Market Price Summary Financial Statement Ordinary shares 25p 14.875p 4.25% perpetual debenture stock 100 28.25 An Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement for the year ended 31 December 2002 is obtainable during normal working hours from the Companys Registered Income Tax Office at Exchange House, Primrose Street, London EC2A The proposed final dividend is payable in May 2003, net of 2NY.
This document contains a Summary Report of the a notional tax credit of 10%.
Individual UK resident Directors, Directors Remuneration Report, Summary shareholders who are subject to UK income tax at the Statement of Total Return, Summary Balance Sheet and lower rate or the basic rate have no further tax liability.
It does not contain sufficient information to allow as Tax credits on dividends received from shares held within full an understanding of the results and state of affairs of a PEP or ISA are recoverable from the Inland Revenue.
the company as is provided by the full Report & Acounts.
Shareholders not resident in the UK, and any The full Report & Accounts and Annual Review and shareholders in doubt as to their tax position, should Summary Financial Statement are also published on the consult their professional advisers.
Association of Investment Trust Companies AITC Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust is a member of the AITC, which publishes a monthly statistical information service in respect of member companies.
The publication also has details of ISA, PEP and other investment plans available.
For further details, please contact the AITC on 020 7282 5555, or visit the website: www.
Report and Accounts 2002 45 How to invest in Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC How to buy shares in Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Private Investor Plan PIP It only costs 0.2% plus 0.5% Government Stamp Duty to invest in Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust via this simple savings scheme and there are no ongoing charges.
You F&Cs Private Investor Plan F&Cs Pension Savings Plan A simple, The simple, low cost way can invest a lump sum or set up a Direct Debit to make cost effective savings plan.
to save for your retirement.
regular monthly payments from just 50 per month.
THOSE IN THE KNOW CHOOSE US.
Pension Savings Plan PSP You can maximise your tax benefits and save for your retirement using this low cost Plan, which includes a Personal Pension and Free Standing AVC.
Contributions can be made via a lump sum or by Direct Debit.
Now that personal pensions are no longer restricted to those with earnings of their own, almost everyone under the age of 75 is eligible.
This means that you can invest on behalf of nonF&Cs Investment Trust ISA F&Cs Investment Trust PEP Choose a tax-efficient How to transfer working spouses or partners and children.
Individual Savings Account ISA THOSE IN THE KNOW CHOOSE US.
You can invest up to 7,000 tax-free in F&Cs Maxi ISA, or 3,000 in the Mini ISA either by completing an application If you have trouble reading smaller print, please let us know.
You can make regular monthly We can provide literature in alternative formats, for example, payments by Direct Debit, invest a lump sum or use the large print or on audiotape.
Please call 0845 600 3030 for newly introduced phasing option.
Phased Investing If you are concerned about market volatility, you can For further details and application forms, please contact: choose to phase your investment over three or six months.
Investor Services on 0845 600 30 30 or This is especially useful near the end of the tax year when Broker Support on 0845 600 1868 the option for monthly investment is no longer viable.
UK calls charged at the local rate Fax 020 7825 2108 Personal Equity Plan PEP You can also visit us on our website: Although PEPs are no longer available for new subscriptions www.
com under Investment Trusts you can transfer investments from one manager to another, subject to Inland Revenue requirements.
If you wish to write to us, the address is: Investor Services Team, F&C Management Limited, F&Cs fixed rate charging structure provides excellent value for Exchange House, Primrose Street, London EC2A 2NY money as you pay one fixed annual management fee no matter how many Investment Trust PEPs or ISAs you hold with F&C.
Or contact your Independent Financial Adviser The information on this page has been issued and approved by F&C Management Limited, authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Potential investors are reminded that the value of investments and the income from them may go down as well as up and investors may not receive back the full amount invested.
Tax benefits may vary as a result of statutory changes and their value will depend on individual circumstances.
Free of capital gains tax: income received has been taxed at source.
46 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Notes Report and Accounts 2002 47 Notes 48 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Registered Office: Exchange House, Primrose Street, London EC2A 2NY Tel: 020 7628 8000 Fax: 020 7628 8188 Website: www.
com @ Registrars: Computershare Investor Services PLC, PO Box 435, Owen House, 8 Bankhead Crossway North, Edinburgh EH11 4BR Tel: 0870 702 0130 Fax: 0870 703 6141 Website: www.
