FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FP013 p46 100 26 3 03 2:46 pm Page 47 ACCOUNTING POLICIES 47 return.
Other than long-term business investment income and unrealised gains Introduction and losses are recorded in the non-technical account.
The financial statements of Friends Provident plc the Company and the Friends Provident Group the Group conform to applicable accounting standards d. Claims and surrenders and have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modified by the All claims and surrenders due or notified are charged against revenue.
Claims revaluation of certain assets as required by the Companies Act 1985. payable include claims handling costs.
Reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same period as the related claim.
The Groups financial statements have been prepared in compliance with Section 255A of, and Schedule 9A to, the Companies Act 1985. e. Bonuses Bonuses charged to the long-term business technical account in a given period These financial statements conform with the Association of British Insurers ABI comprise reversionary bonuses declared in respect of that period, which are Statement of Recommended Practice on Accounting for Insurance Business provided within the calculation of the long-term business provision, and terminal SORP issued in December 1998. bonuses paid, which are included within claims paid.
The Companys financial statements have been prepared in compliance f. Deferred acquisition costs with Section 226 of, and Schedule 4 to, the Companies Act 1985 adopting Acquisition costs comprise all direct and indirect costs arising from the writing the exemption of omitting the profit and loss account conferred by Section of insurance contracts.
Deferred acquisition costs comprise the costs of acquiring 230 of that Act.
new insurance contracts, which are incurred during a financial period and are deferred to the extent that they are recoverable out of future revenue margins.
All accounting policies have been reviewed for appropriateness in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 18 Accounting Policies.
The rate of amortisation of deferred acquisition costs is proportional to the future margins emerging in respect of the related policies, over the full lifetime of the policies.
Basis of consolidation The Groups financial statements incorporate the results and balance sheets of g. Pension costs the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
The results of subsidiary undertakings Pension schemes are in operation for employees of certain subsidiary undertakings.
acquired or sold during the period are included in the consolidated results from The principal schemes, to which the majority of employees belong, are of the the date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
On acquisition of a subsidiary funded defined benefit type with assets managed by ISIS Asset Management plc, undertaking, except where the nature of the acquisition is one of group a subsidiary undertaking.
The schemes provide benefits based on final pensionable reconstruction as defined in Financial Reporting Standard 6 Acquisitions and pay.
The assets of the schemes are held in separate trustee administered funds.
Mergers, all of the assets and liabilities at the date of acquisition are recorded The pension costs relating to the principal schemes are assessed annually by an at their fair values reflecting their condition at that date.
Premiums The pension asset liability recognised in the balance sheet is the amount Premium income in respect of single premium business and pensions business recoverable by obligation to the employer, being the value of the assets in the not subject to contractual regular premiums is accounted for on a cash basis.
For all schemes less the present value of the schemes liabilities.
The resulting other classes of business, premium income is accounted for in the year in which it asset liability is stated net of a provision credit for deferred taxation.
Reinsurance premiums are accounted for when due for payment.
Further details relating to the classification of new business premiums are included in note 2.
The pension costs for the schemes are analysed into i current service cost, ii past service cost, iii settlements or curtailments and iv net expected return c. Investment return on pension asset.
Current service cost is the actuarially calculated present value Investment return includes dividends, interest, rents, gains and losses on the of the benefits earned by the active employees in each period.
Past service costs, realisation of investments and unrealised gains and losses.
Such income includes relating to employee service in prior periods arising in the current period as a any withholding tax but excludes other taxes such as attributable tax credits.
Income result of the introduction of, or improvement to, retirement benefits, are recognised from fixed interest securities together with interest, rents and associated expenses in the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the period in which the are accounted for in the period in which they accrue.
Dividends are included in the increase in benefits vest.
Settlements or curtailments are recognised in the profit profit and loss account when the securities are listed as ex-dividend.
Realised gains and loss account to the extent that they are not allowed for in the actuarial and losses on investments are calculated as the difference between the net sales assumptions.
Losses on settlements or curtailments are measured at the date on proceeds and original cost.
Unrealised gains and losses on investments represent which the employer becomes demonstrably committed to the transaction.
Gains the difference between the valuation of investments at the balance sheet date and on settlements or curtailments are measured at the date on which all parties whose their original cost, or if they have been previously revalued, the valuation at the last consent is required are irrevocably committed.
Net expected return on the pension balance sheet date.
The movement in unrealised gains and losses recognised in asset comprises the expected return on the pension scheme assets less interest the period also includes the reversal of unrealised gains and losses recognised in on scheme liabilities.
earlier accounting periods in respect of investment disposals in the current period.
The actuarial gains and losses which arise from any new valuation and from Investment return relating to investments which are directly connected with the updating the latest actuarial valuation to reflect conditions at the balance sheet carrying on of long-term business is initially recorded in the long-term business date are taken to the statement of total recognised gains and losses for the period.
technical account and, where applicable, a transfer is made to or from the The attributable deferred taxation is shown separately in the statement of total non-technical account to ensure that the return remaining in the long-term business recognised gains and losses.
technical account attributable to shareholders reflects the longer-term investment FRIENDS PROVIDENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FP013 p46 100 26 3 03 2:46 pm Page 48 48 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED The costs of defined contribution schemes are charged to the profit and loss held solely for investment purposes and the directors consider that systematic account in the period in which they are payable.
annual depreciation would be inappropriate.
Depreciation or amortisation is only one of the factors reflected in the annual valuations of properties, and h. Taxation the amounts which might otherwise have been shown cannot reasonably be Taxation in the non-technical account and long-term business technical account is separately identified or quantified.
The accounting policy adopted is therefore based on profits and income for the period as determined in accordance with the necessary for the financial statements to give a true and fair view.
relevant tax legislation, together with adjustments to provisions for prior periods.
ii Interests in associated undertakings and other participating interests, which Provision is made for deferred taxation liabilities, using the liability method, on all are held as part of the Groups investment portfolios within the long-term material timing differences, including revaluation gains and losses on investments funds, are accounted for as other financial investments.
Other associated recognised in the profit and loss account, as the investments are revalued.
Deferred undertakings are accounted for on the equity basis.
taxation is calculated at the rates at which it is expected that the tax will arise and discounted to take into account the likely timing of payments and pattern of iii Participations in investment pools, which are unlisted, are stated at the Groups expected realisation of investments.
Deferred tax liabilities are discounted using the share of the net assets of the investment pool.
gilt yield rates appropriate to the estimated year in which the timing difference is expected to reverse.
Deferred taxation is recognised in the profit and loss account iv Other unlisted investments are valued by the directors, having regard to their for the period, except to the extent that it is attributable to a gain or loss that is likely realisable value.
recognised directly in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
In this case the attributable deferred taxation is shown separately in the statement of total v Listed and other quoted investments, including those in participating interests, recognised gains and losses.
are carried at mid-market value at the balance sheet date, with the exception of those held to cover linked liabilities which are stated at market prices consistent Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable.
with the pricing basis within those funds.
Investment return allocated from or to the long-term business technical account vi OEICs are carried at the market value at the balance sheet date.
to or from the non-technical account in order to reflect the longer-term rate of return, is stated gross of attributable tax.
The transfer of the balance on the vii Unit trusts are stated at the published bid prices at the balance sheet long-term business technical account to the non-technical account is grossed up date, with the exception of those held to cover linked liabilities which are stated by attributable tax, using the full rate of corporation tax applicable for the period.
at market prices consistent with the pricing basis within those linked funds.
i. Intangible assets viii Derivatives and financial instruments are included at market value under Goodwill arising on consolidation is capitalised in the balance sheet at cost and the category of investment to which the contract relates.
No adjustment is amortised through the profit and loss account over its expected useful economic made to the classification of existing investments to reflect the effect of the life.
The gain or loss on subsequent disposal of a subsidiary or associated future settlement of these transactions.
undertaking will take account of any attributable unamortised goodwill.
Any amortisation or impairment charge is recorded within Other technical charges or ix All other investments have been valued at their likely realisable value at Other charges, including value adjustments.
Prior to 1998, purchased goodwill of the balance sheet date.
the Friends Provident Life Office Group the FPLO Group was eliminated against reserves as a matter of accounting policy.
Amounts previously written off to reserves x In the Company balance sheet, shares in and loans to group undertakings have not been reinstated as an asset but will be charged to the profit and loss are stated at current value.
account on disposal of the business to which they relate.
k. Present value of acquired in-force business PVIF Licences acquired are capitalised in the balance sheet at cost and amortised On acquisition of a portfolio of long-term insurance contracts, either directly or through the profit and loss account over their expected useful economic life.
through the acquisition of a subsidiary undertaking, the net present value of the Charges for amortisation and any changes for impairment are recorded within Groups interest in the expected after tax cash flows of the in-force business Other technical charges.
is capitalised in the balance sheet as an asset.
That part of the Groups interest, which will be recognised as profit over the lifetime of the in-force policies, is j. Valuation of investments amortised and the discount unwound on a systematic basis over the anticipated Investments are shown in the balance sheet as follows: lives of the related contracts.
i Land and buildings are valued each year on an open market basis by qualified The carrying value of the asset is assessed annually using current assumptions in Chartered Surveyors.
Properties are valued by an external valuer at least once order to determine whether any impairment has arisen compared to the amortised every 5 years.
Those properties occupied by the Group are valued on an acquired value based on assumptions made at the time of the acquisition.
Any existing use basis and with vacant possession.
amortisation or impairment charge is recorded in the long-term business technical account within Other technical charges.
In accordance with Statement of Standard Accounting Practice19 Investment Properties, no depreciation is provided in respect of freehold investment l. Long-term reassurance contracts properties or amortisation in respect of leasehold properties with over 20 years Long-term business is ceded to reassurers under contracts to transfer risk.
This is a departure from the requirements of the Companies Act 1985, Such contracts are accounted for in the balance sheet as reinsurers share which requires all properties to be depreciated.
However, these properties are of technical provisions.
FRIENDS PROVIDENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FP013 p46 100 26 3 03 2:46 pm Page 49 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 49 m. Tangible assets Assets and liabilities held in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are expressed Tangible assets are capitalised and depreciated on a straight line basis over their in sterling at rates ruling on that date.
Income and expenditure denominated in foreign estimated useful lives as follows: currencies are translated at rates ruling at the date on which the transaction occurs.
All resulting exchange gains and losses are included within that part of the profit Motor vehicles 3 to 4 years and loss account in which the underlying transaction is reported.
Computer equipment 1 to 4 years Fixtures, fittings and office equipment 3 to 10 years Leased assets over the term of the lease n. Fund for future appropriations The balance on this account represents funds, the allocation of which, to either participating policyholders or to shareholders, has not been determined at the balance sheet date.
Long-term business provision The long-term business provision is determined separately for each life operation by the Appointed Actuary of each relevant subsidiary undertaking following annual investigation of the long-term fund, and is calculated initially on a statutory solvency basis to comply with the reporting requirements under the Interim Prudential Sourcebook for Insurers.
The calculation for conventional business uses the net premium valuation method and, as such, includes explicit provision for vested bonuses including those vesting following the current valuation.
Implicit provision is made for future reversionary bonuses, but not terminal bonuses, by means of a reduction in the valuation rate of interest.
The valuation is then adjusted for certain items, including the adding back of deferred acquisition costs implicit within the valuation method of certain contracts, the removal of certain contingency reserves and the adjustment of certain other reserves.
This adjusted basis is referred to as the modified statutory solvency basis.
The calculation for linked business and for income protection policies, uses the gross premium valuation method and as such includes explicit allowance for future expenses.
p. Loan notes and debenture loans Loan notes are included in the balance sheet at nominal value.
The other debenture loan is included in the balance sheet at its fair value at the date the Friends Provident Life Office Group acquired London and Manchester Group plc.
The resulting premium over the final redemption price is being amortised over the life of the loan.
Convertible bonds Convertible bonds are stated separately from that of other liabilities.
In accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 4 Capital Instruments the finance cost is calculated on the assumption that the debt will never be converted and together with issue costs is charged to the non-technical account over the term of the borrowings and represents a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
r. Leases Assets held under finance leases are capitalised at the fair value of the asset at the inception of the lease with an equivalent liability shown under creditors.
Finance charges are allocated to accounting periods over the life of each lease.
Payments in respect of operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account in the period to which they relate.
s. Foreign currencies The results of foreign enterprises are translated at average exchange rates, while their assets and liabilities are translated at year end rates.
The resulting exchange differences arising within long-term businesses are included within the long-term business technical account, while those arising within other businesses are taken directly to reserves and are reported in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
FRIENDS PROVIDENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002
