62 HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Corporate Governance Statement Standards in Corporate Governance have Directors appointed to the Board undergo consultancy work.
For 2002, this limit was been redefined by Derek Higgs and Sir an induction programme tailored to their 50% of the fees paid to KPMG as auditors Robert Smiths draft Revised Combined Code own specific requirements to ensure that or reporting accountants for that year.
The they are conversant with their obligations external auditors also report regularly to the on Corporate Governance.
The Board of as a Director of a public company operating Committee on the actions that they have HBOS welcomes this review of best practice taken to comply with professional and in the financial services sector.
in the boardroom and its guiding principle of regulatory requirements and current best comply or explain.
The Board has reviewed Board Committees practice in order to maintain their the existing provisions of the Combined The principal Board committees, their independence.
This includes the rotation Code on Corporate Governance the Code composition and outline Terms of of key audit team members.
as issued by the UK Listing Authority.
This Reference are: report explains HBOS plcs governance The Committee reviews the auditors Audit Committee structure and how it applies the principles independence annually and an audit tender Anthony Hobson Chairman set out in the Code.
It also reports on process will be undertaken every five years, John Maclean compliance with the Codes detailed commencing in 2005.
Louis Sherwood provisions during the year.
Remuneration Committee This Committee consists entirely of Applying the Principles of the Code Brian Ivory Chairman Non-executive Directors.
It is supported by The Code sets out principles of good Sir Ronald Garrick Risk Control Committees for each division, governance under four headings and these Coline McConville comprising Non-executive and Executive are reviewed below: Philip Yea Directors.
The Terms of Reference of the Directors Committee include all matters indicated by This Committee also consists solely of The Board meets regularly normally ten the Combined Code.
It considers times per year to determine the strategic remuneration policy for Executive Directors During the past twelve months the direction of the Group and review its and other senior colleagues and decides the Committee met seven times.
It meets with operating and financial performance.
remuneration arrangements for each Executive Directors and management, as well The Board has a formal schedule of matters Executive Director including the operation of as privately with both the external and internal specifically reserved to it, which can only the incentive schemes, service contracts and auditors, to:- be amended by the Board itself.
It also decides the review and advise the Board on the Groups remuneration arrangements for the Chairman.
In addition to the Chairman and prior interim and annual financial statements, its to the retirement of Peter Burt, the Board Nomination Committee accounting policies and on the control of its comprised eight Executive Directors and nine Dennis Stevenson Chairman financial and business risks: Non-executive Directors.
All of the NonJames Crosby executive Directors are considered to be review the nature and scope of the work to Brian Ivory independent of management and free from be performed by the external and internal Sir Bob Reid any business or other relationship which auditors, the results of this audit work and This Committee meets from time to time, and could materially interfere with the exercise of the response of management: at least annually, to review the composition of their independent judgement.
Their make recommendations on the appointment of the Board and considers new appointments, remuneration consists only of fees.
The roles and remuneration of the external auditors making recommendations on suitable of the Chairman and Chief Executive are and to monitor the performance of the separate, and Sir Bob Reid is the Senior candidates to the Board.
It also considers the auditors: and Independent Director.
composition of the committees of the Board and succession planning for the most senior review the non-audit services provided to The Articles of Association provide for all executive positions, within the Group.
the Group by the external auditors to Directors to stand for re-election at intervals monitor the independence of the auditors.
of no more than three years.
Sir Ronald Special Committee Garrick, Anthony Hobson, Andy Hornby, Both the Board and the external auditors have Comprising four Directors of whom one Coline McConville, George Mitchell and safeguards in place to prevent the compromise must be the Chairman, Senior Independent Philip Yea, retire by rotation and resolutions of the auditors independence and objectivity.
Director, or another Non-executive Director, for their re-election will be proposed at Each year the Audit Committee establishes this committee can make decisions on a limit on the fees that can be paid to the the Annual General Meeting to be held matters of urgency which cannot await the external auditors in respect of advisory and on 29 April 2003. next meeting of the Board.
