Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and twelfth 7 THAT, subject to the passing of the previous resolution, Annual General Meeting of Henderson Electric and General the Board be and is hereby empowered pursuant to Investment Trust plc will be held at 4 Broadgate, London EC2M Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity 2DA on Thursday 19 September 2002 at 12.00 noon for the securities within the meaning of Section 94 of the said purpose of transacting the following business: Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by the previous resolution as if sub-section 1 of Section 89 of Ordinary Business the said Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided 1 To receive the Report of the Directors and audited that this power shall be limited: accounts for the year ended 31 May 2002. a to the allotment of equity securities whether by way 2 To declare a final dividend.
of a rights issue, open offer or otherwise to ordinary shareholders and or holders of any other securities 3 To re-elect Mr L C N Bury as a director of the Company.
in accordance with the rights of those securities 4 To re-elect Mr J D W Pocock as a director of the Company.
where the equity securities respectively attributable 5 To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the registered to the interests of all ordinary shareholders and or auditor of the Company and to authorise the directors to such holders are proportionate to the respective determine their remuneration.
numbers of ordinary shares and such securities held by them or are otherwise allotted in accordance Special Business with the rights attaching to such securities subject To consider and, if thought fit, pass resolution 6 as an in either case to such exclusions or other Ordinary Resolution and resolutions 7 and 8 Special arrangements as the Board may deem necessary or Resolutions: expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or 6 THAT, the Board be and is hereby generally and local or practical problems under the laws of, or the unconditionally authorised to exercise all powers of the requirements of, any regulatory body or stock Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning exchange in any territory or otherwise howsoever: of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 up to an b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub aggregate nominal amount of 223,049 being paragraph a above of equity securities up to an 4,460,992 Shares and this authority shall expire at the aggregate nominal value of 223,049 being conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the 4,460,992 Shares : and Company save that the Company may before such expiry c to the allotment of equity securities at a price of not make an offer or agreement which would or might require less than Net Asset Value per share as determined relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the by the Directors from time to time : Board may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby Meeting of the Company save that the Company may before had not expired.
The directors may only use this authority such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or when it would be advantageous to the Companys existing might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry shareholders.
and the Board may allot equity securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
36 Notice of Meeting continued 8 THAT the Company be authorised to make market Notes purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the 1 Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares of 5p each in Regulations 2001, only those shareholders registered in the capital of the Company ordinary shares upon and the Register of Members of Henderson Electric and subject to the following conditions: General Investment Trust plc at 12.00 noon on a the maximum number of ordinary shares which may 17 September 2002 shall be entitled to attend or vote at be purchased is 14.9% of the Companys issued the Annual General Meeting in respect of the number of ordinary share capital at the date of the Annual shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to General Meeting equivalent to 13,293,757 Ordinary entries on the relevant Register of Members after 12.00 Shares at the date of this notice: noon on 17 September 2002 shall be disregarded in b the maximum price exclusive of expenses which determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at may be paid for an ordinary share shall not exceed the meeting.
105% of the average of the middle market 2 An ordinary shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the quotations for the ordinary shares as taken from the meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the on a poll, to vote on his behalf.
Such proxy need not be a five business days preceding the date of purchases: member of the Company.
A form of proxy is enclosed c the minimum price exclusive of expenses which and to be valid must be lodged with the Registrar of the may be paid for an ordinary share shall be 5p being Company not less than forty-eight hours before the time the nominal value per ordinary share: and fixed for the meeting.
If shareholders so wish, the form of d this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the proxy may be returned in an envelope addressed to next Annual General Meeting of the Company or Computershare Investor Services PLC, FREEPOST, SWB within 18 months from the date of passing this 1002, PO Box 1075, Bristol, BS99 3FA.
resolution, whichever shall be the earlier save that the Company may, before such expiry, enter into a 3 The completion of the form of proxy will not preclude contract to purchase ordinary shares under which ordinary shareholders from attending and voting in such purchases will or may be completed or person at the meeting.
executed wholly or partly after the expiration of this 4 This notice is sent for information only to holders of authority and may make a purchase of ordinary debenture stock who are not entitled to attend or vote at shares in pursuance of any such contract.
5 The register of directors interests kept by the Company in accordance with Section 325 of the Companies Act By order of the Board 1985 will be open for inspection at the meeting.
K M Burwood FCIS Registered Office: for and on behalf of 4 Broadgate, Henderson Secretarial Services Limited London EC2M 2DA.
Secretary 11 July 2002 37 Henderson Investment Trust Share Plan The Henderson Investment Trust Share Plan offers a simple and flexible way of investing in Henderson Electric and General Investment Trust plc.
The Share Plan offers the following: Regular savings from 50 per month quarter, or lump sum investments from 500 and additional top-up from 100 An income reinvestment facility.
Alternatively, you can have dividends paid to your bank or building society account All paperwork and documentation is simplified and reduced to a minimum Half yearly valuations with consolidated tax certificate and complimentary newsletters Henderson ISA You can invest in Henderson Electric and General Investment Trust plc through a Henderson ISA.
The ISA offers the following: Tax free income and tax free growth Regular savings from 100 per month or lump sum investments from 2,000 An income reinvestment facility.
Alternatively, you can have dividends paid to your bank or building society account Half yearly valuations, reports and complimentary newsletters Both Mini and Maxi ISAs available for investment by lump sum or regular savings Henderson Transfer PEP Although you cannot subscribe new funds to any PEP, it is possible to transfer existing PEP funds in cash from other managers into a Henderson PEP.
This offers you the opportunity to invest PEP funds in Henderson Electric and General Investment Trust plc.
Further Information Please consult our website http: its.
com or write to Henderson Global Investors, FREEPOST, Newbury RG14 2ZZ.
Alternatively, please contact your professional adviser for further information or call our Investor Services Department on freephone 0800 106 106 quoting the reference REPORT.
Please call 44 20 7452 1315 if you are telephoning from abroad.
We may record telephone calls for our mutual protection and to improve customer service.
Please remember that the value of an investment and the income from it can fall as well as rise as a result of market and currency fluctuations and you may not get back the amount originally invested.
Tax assumptions may change if the law changes and the value of tax relief will depend upon your individual circumstances.
Henderson Global Investors is the name under which Henderson Global Investors Limited, Henderson Investment Funds Limited, Henderson Fund Management plc and Henderson Administration Limited all authorised by the Financial Services Authority, provide investment products and services.
