Disability Note Copies of this Report and Accounts or other documents intermediate operator.
Specially trained operators are issued by the Company are available from the Company available during normal business hours to answer queries via Secretary.
If needed, copies can be made available in a variety of formats, Alternatively, if you prefer to go through a typetalk operator either Braille or on audio tape or larger type as appropriate.
provided by the Royal National Institute for the Deaf the number is 0800 959 598.
You can contact our Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, which have installed textphones to allow For investors through the Henderson Share Plan, ISA or PEP speech and hearing impaired people who have their own a minicom telephone service is available on 020 7850 5406. textphone to contact them directly without the need for an This service is available during normal business hours.
Capital Gains Tax Information In 1998 considerable changes were made to the way that For disposals on or after 6 April 1998 indexation is still chargeable gains are calculated for non-corporate allowed but only up to April 1998.
This has been replaced by shareholders in respect of disposals made on or after 6 April taper relief which reduces the amount of the chargeable gain 1998.
From that date pooling no longer applies and disposals on these disposals the longer the shares are held.
The taper are matched against shares acquired in the following order: is 5% for each complete year of ownership after the first two complete years, with a maximum reduction of 40% after ten same date acquisitions: complete years.
acquisitions within the following 30 days: In calculating the tapering relief, assets held before 17 March previous acquisitions on or after 5 April 1998 1998 qualify for an extra year.
using the last in first out basis : The calculation of the tax on chargeable gains will any shares held in the pool as at 5 April 1998: depend on personal circumstances.
The above any shares held in the pool as at 5 April 1982: information is of a general nature and is not exhaustive.
If you are in any doubt about your personal tax position, any shares acquired before 6 April 1965: and you are recommended to contact your professional any shares acquired subsequent to the disposal.
