Taxation of Shares and Dividends Taxation Taxation of capital gains The computation of the capital gains tax liability Taxation of dividends arising on disposals of shares in HSBC Holdings by shareholders subject to UK capital gains tax can be No tax is currently withheld from dividends paid by complex, partly dependent on whether, for example, HSBC Holdings.
However, dividends are paid with an the shares were purchased since April 1991, acquired associated tax credit which is available for set-off in 1991 in exchange for shares in The Hongkong and against any liability a shareholder may have to UK Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, or acquired in income tax.
Currently, the associated tax credit is 1992 in exchange for shares in Midland Bank plc, now equivalent to 10 per cent of the combined cash HSBC Bank plc.
dividend and tax credit, i. e. one-ninth of the cash dividend.
For capital gains tax purposes, the acquisition cost for ordinary shares is adjusted to take account of For individual shareholders who are resident in subsequent rights and capitalisation issues.
Further the United Kingdom for taxation purposes and liable adjustments apply where an individual shareholder has to UK income tax at the basic rate, no further UK chosen to receive shares instead of cash dividends, income tax liability arises on the receipt of a dividend subject to scrip issues made since 6 April 1998 being from HSBC Holdings.
Individual shareholders who treated for tax as separate holdings.
Any capital gain are liable to UK income tax at the higher rate on UK arising on a disposal will also be adjusted to take dividend income currently 32.5 per cent are taxed on account of indexation allowance and, in the case of the combined amount of the dividend and the tax individuals, tapering relief.
The tax credit is available for set-off against the higher rate liability, leaving net higher rate tax to pay If in doubt, shareholders are recommended to equal to 25 per cent of the cash dividend.
From 6 consult their professional advisers.
April 1999, individual UK resident shareholders have not been entitled to any tax credit repayment, unless Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax the dividend income arises in a Personal Equity Plan Transfers of Shares generally will be subject to UK PEP or Individual Savings Account ISA, and then stamp duty at the rate of 0.5 per cent of the only for a five-year period to 5 April 2004. consideration paid for the transfer, and such stamp Although non-UK-resident shareholders are duty is generally payable by the transferee.
generally not entitled to any repayment of the tax An agreement to transfer Shares, or any interest credit in respect of any UK dividend received, some therein, normally will give rise to a charge to stamp such shareholders may be so entitled under the duty reserve tax at the rate of 0.5 per cent of the provisions of a double taxation agreement between consideration.
However, provided an instrument of their country of residence and the United Kingdom.
transfer of the Shares is executed pursuant to the However, in most cases no amount of the tax credit is agreement and duly stamped before the date on which in practice repayable.
the stamp duty reserve tax becomes payable, under Dividends paid by HSBC Holdings are generally current UK Inland Revenue practice it will not be not subject to tax in Hong Kong.
necessary to pay the stamp duty reserve tax, nor to apply for such tax to be cancelled.
Stamp duty reserve Information on the taxation consequences of the tax generally is payable by the transferee.
HSBC Holdings scrip dividends offered in lieu of the 2001 second interim dividend and the 2002 first Paperless transfers of Shares within CREST, the interim dividend was set out in the Secretarys letters United Kingdoms paperless share transfer system, are to shareholders of 3 April 2002 and 5 September 2002 liable to stamp duty reserve tax at the rate of 0.5 per respectively.
In both cases, the market value of the cent of the consideration.
In CREST transactions, the scrip dividend was not substantially different from the tax is calculated and payment made automatically.
dividend forgone and, accordingly, the price of HSBC Deposits of Shares into CREST generally will not be Holdings US$0.50 ordinary shares the Shares for subject to stamp duty reserve tax, unless the transfer UK tax purposes for both dividends was the cash into CREST is itself for consideration.
314 or in the hands of its partners or beneficiaries: and ii Taxation US residents not also resident in the United Kingdom for UK tax purposes.
Special rules, including a limitation of The following is a summary of the US Federal tax benefits provision, may apply in limited circumstances considerations that are likely to be material to the to certain investment or holding companies and taxownership and disposition of Shares or ADSs by a exempt entities.
The Treaty benefits discussed below holder that is a resident of the United States for the generally are not available to US holders that hold purposes of the income tax convention between the Shares or ADSs in connection with the conduct of a United States and the United Kingdom the Treaty, business through a permanent establishment, or the and is fully eligible for benefits under the Treaty an performance of personal services through a fixed base, eligible US holder.
The summary does not purport in the United Kingdom.
to be a comprehensive description of all of the tax considerations that may be relevant to a holder of Taxation of dividends Shares or ADSs.
In particular, the summary deals only The Treaty contains provisions that are intended to with eligible US holders that hold Shares or ADSs as extend the benefits of the UK integrated tax system to capital assets, and does not address the tax treatment eligible US holders.
The UK tax credit available to of holders that are subject to special tax rules, such as persons who are resident for tax purposes in the banks, tax-exempt entities, insurance companies, United Kingdom in respect of dividends is currently dealers in securities or currencies, persons that hold equal to one-ninth of the cash dividend, or the Shares or ADSs as part of an integrated investment equivalent of 10 per cent of the sum of the dividend including a straddle comprised of a Share or ADS and the UK tax credit.
The Treaty provides that an and one or more other positions, and persons that own, eligible US holder is entitled to receive a payment directly or indirectly, 10 per cent or more of the voting from the UK Inland Revenue equal to the amount of stock of HSBC Holdings.
This discussion is based on the tax credit, reduced by any deduction withheld laws, treaties, judicial decisions and regulatory from the payment.
The UK withholding tax which, interpretations in effect on the date hereof, all of under UK law, may not exceed the UK tax credit which are subject to change.
Representatives of the fully offsets the UK tax credit, and eligible US holders United Kingdom and United States signed a new are no longer entitled to receive a cash payment from income tax treaty on 24 July 2001 and a protocol to the UK Inland Revenue.
the new convention on 19 July 2002.
As of the date hereof, the new treaty has not yet been ratified by the To claim foreign tax credit benefits under the United States Senate or the government of the United Treaty, eligible US holders must report an election on Kingdom, and there can be no assurance that it will IRS Form 8833 to include in their income, as an enter into force.
If the New Treaty is ratified and additional dividend, an amount equal to the tax credit enters into force, eligible US holders will no longer be that is available to UK resident investors, currently entitled to claim a special foreign tax credit in respect one-ninth of the amount of the dividend that is of dividends that is available under the terms of the received by such a holder in cash.
Treaty, except for a limited period of time during If an eligible US holder makes this election, the which such holders may elect to apply the Treaty in its holder will be treated for US tax purposes as if a UK entirety in preference to the New Treaty.
tax equal to the amount of the credit had been Holders and prospective purchasers should withheld from the dividend.
The holder will not be consult their own advisers regarding the tax entitled to receive an additional cash payment from consequences of an investment in Shares or ADSs in HSBC or from the UK Inland Revenue.
For example, light of their particular circumstances, including the if HSBC pays such a holder a dividend of 90, the effect of any national, state or local laws.
holder may elect to include 100 in its income.
By making this election, the holder will be treated as In general, the beneficial owner of a Share or having income of 100 that is subject to a UK ADS will be entitled to benefits under the Treaty and, withholding tax of 10.
Subject to generally applicable therefore, will be an eligible US holder if it is i an limitations, this tax may be claimed as a credit against individual resident of the United States, a US the holder's US tax liability.
Foreign tax credits are corporation, or a partnership, estate or trust to the not allowed for withholding taxes imposed in respect extent its income is subject to taxation in the United of certain short-term or hedged positions in securities States as the income of a resident, either in its hands 315 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Taxation of Shares and Dividends continued or in certain other situations.
If the New Treaty enters into force, eligible US US backup withholding tax and information holders will no longer be entitled to elect to receive reporting the benefits discussed above and will not be able to Distributions made on Shares and proceeds from the claim a foreign tax credit in respect of any dividends sale of Shares or ADSs that are paid within the United paid by HSBC.
For this purpose, the New Treaty will States, or through certain financial intermediaries to generally be effective for amounts credited on or after US holders, are subject to information reporting and the first day of the second month next following the may be subject to a US backup withholding tax date on which instruments of ratifications are unless, in general, the US holder complies with certain exchanged by the United Kingdom and the United certification procedures or is a corporation or other States, except that such holders may elect to continue person exempt from such withholding.
Holders that to receive the special foreign tax credit benefits are not US persons generally are not subject to described above for a 12-month period from the date information reporting or backup withholding tax, but on which the New Treaty will otherwise enter into may be required to comply with applicable effect if they elect to apply the Treaty in its entirety certification procedures to establish that they are not for that period.
US persons in order to avoid the application of such information reporting requirements or backup Taxation of capital gains withholding tax to payments received within the Gains realised by an eligible US holder on the sale or United States or through certain financial other disposition of Shares or ADSs normally will not intermediaries.
be subject to UK taxation.
Such gains will be included in income for US tax purposes, and will be long-term capital gains if the Shares or ADSs were held for more than one year.
A long-term capital gain realised by an individual holder generally is subject to US tax at a maximum rate of 20 per cent.
Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax ADSs If Shares are transferred into a clearance service or depositary receipt arrangement which will include a transfer of Shares to the Depositary UK stamp duty and or stamp duty reserve tax will be payable.
The stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax is generally payable on the consideration for the transfer and is payable at the aggregate rate of 1.5 per cent.
No stamp duty will be payable on the transfer of, or agreement to transfer, an ADS, provided that the ADR and any separate instrument of transfer or written agreement to transfer remain at all times outside the United Kingdom, and provided further that any such transfer or written agreement to transfer is not executed in the United Kingdom.
No stamp duty reserve tax will be payable on a transfer of, or agreement to transfer, an ADS effected by the transfer of an ADR.
On a transfer of Shares from the Depositary to a registered holder of an ADS upon cancellation of the ADS, a fixed stamp duty of 5 per instrument of transfer will be payable by the registered holder of the 316
