HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Organisational Structure The HSBC Group Structure of Principal Operating Companies at January 2003 HSBC Holdings plc Grupo Financiero HSBC HSBC HSBC HSBC Latin HSBC Bank Bital, S. A. fide Finance Investment Insurance America plc C. V. Netherlands Bank Holdings Holdings UK 99.76% Holdings plc Limited Limited 99.55% 51% HSBC Asset HSBC Seguros Bital, The Banco HSBC Asset HSBC Life Management HSBC HSBC Bank HSBC Latin Trinkaus & S. A. fide C. V. Cyprus CCF SA Internacional HSBC HSBC Bank Finance UK Limited Taiwan Insurance Brasil S. A. America BV Burkhardt Grupo FinancPopular Bank 99.99% S. A.
Holdings BV A. S. UK Limited Brokers Banco KGaA iero Bital Limited 99.31% Limited 99.46% Limited Multiplo 73.47% 50.87% 21.39% 99.99%.
Pensiones HSBC HSBC 23.61% Bital S. A. Seguros Argentina 50.86% Brasil S. A.
Holdings S. A 97.96% 76.31% 97.51% 21% HSBC The HSBC The Saudi HSBC La Framlington Erisa Hongkong Chacabuco Investment HSBC Bank HSBC Bank HSBC Bank HSBC USA British Buenos Aires Group Limited 49.99% and Shanghai HSBC Bank Inversiones Bank Malaysia Egypt SAE Argentina S. A. Seguros SA Inc. Banking Bank 51% Middle East S. A.
Holdings Berhad 94.53% 99.92% Corporation 40% 99.24% 60% BV Limited 79% 16.99% 9.99% HSBC HSBC World Finance 14.30% Wells Fargo British Arab HSBC Hang Seng Insurance HSBC Bank Maxima SA Guyerzeller HSBC Bank International HSBC Trade Commercial 45.01% Securities, Bank Limited Asia-Pacific Australia AFJP Holdings BV USA Limited Bank, N. A.
Bank Limited USA Inc. 62.14% Holdings Limited 55.74% 94.43% 50% 20% 46.51% Limited 24.64% HSBC HSBC Republic Barrowgate HSBC Life Holdings Insurance Limited International Luxembourg Asia 15.31% Limited S. A.
Limited 99.99% 2.49% HSBC HSBC Bank Europe BV Canada 99.99% 85.70% HSBC Private HSBC Bank Banking Malta p. l. c. Holdings 70.03% Suisse SA 94.5% 5.5% HSBC HSBC HSBC HSBC Republic Investment Republic Bank Republic Bank Bank Asia UK Limited Bank Suisse Guernsey Limited S. A.
Limited NOTES 66.7% 1 This chart is a simplified ownership diagram only: not all intermediate holding companies are shown 2 A percentage figure in brackets inside a company name box indicates the ultimate percentage owned of that company within the HSBC Group HSBC 3 Where no figure appears the company is wholly owned.
Guyerzeller 4 Places of incorporation are shown in Notes 21, 22 and 26 of the 'Notes on the Financial Statements'.
8% 25.3% Bank AG 96.64% HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Incorporated in 1959 in England with limited liability under the UK Companies Act 1985.
Registered in England: number 617987 REGISTERED OFFICE AND GROUP HEAD OFFICE 8 Canada Square London E14 5HQ United Kingdom Telephone: 44 020 7991 8888 facsimilie: 44 020 7992 4880 Web: www.
com REGISTRARS Principal Register Computershare Investor Services PLC PO Box 435, Owen House 8 Bankhead Crossway North Edinburgh EH11 4BR United Kingdom Telephone: 44 0870 02 0010 Hong Kong Overseas Branch Register Central Registration Hong Kong Limited Rooms 1901-1905, Hopewell Centre 183 Queens Road East Hong Kong Telephone: 852 2862 8628 ADR Depositary The Bank of New York Floor 6 620 Avenue of the Americas New York, NY 10011 Telephone: 1 888 269 2377 Paying Agent France CCF 103 avenue des Champs Elyses 75008 Paris Telephone: 33 1 40 70 22 56 STOCKBROKERS Cazenove & Co. Ltd 12 Tokenhouse Yard London EC2R 7AN United Kingdom HSBC Bank plc 8 Canada Square London E14 5HQ United Kingdom HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report 8 Canada Square HSBC Holdings plc London E14 5HQ and Accounts United Kingdom Telephone: 44 020 7991 8888 Facsimile: 44 020 7992 4880 Web: www.
com 697653 Covers 3 3 03 7:40 AM Page 1 HSBC Illustrative Theme Headquartered in London, HSBC Holdings plc is one New HSBC Group Head Ofce of the largest banking and financial services HSBC reached a milestone in 2002 when it began to move organisations in the world.
HSBCs international into a state-of-the-art, purpose-built new headquarters network comprises over 8,000 ofces in 80 countries and building the sixth in its 138-year history.
The cover territories in Europe, the Asia-Pacic region, the photograph captures 8 Canada Square early in the morning a sleek steel and glass structure rising 210 metres or 45 Americas, the Middle East and Africa.
storeys from the ground, making it one of the tallest buildings in the United Kingdom.
The building brings With listings on the London, Hong Kong, New York together some 8,000 members of staff previously working in and Paris stock exchanges, shares in HSBC Holdings plc different buildings across the City of London under one roof are held by around 190,000 shareholders in some 100 in Canary Wharf, the new and vibrant financial and business district centred around the River Thames in east London.
The shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American The objective was clear in creating the largest single-occupier Depositary Receipts.
building in the UK: to improve communications between business units, to enhance service for customers, and to Through an international network linked by advanced increase synergy benets for the Group as a whole.
The building encourages teamwork one of HSBCs great technology, including a rapidly growing e-commerce strengths.
capability, HSBC provides a comprehensive range of financial services: personal financial services: commercial The main photographs in this Annual Review reveal the many interesting features of 8 Canada Square, as well as an banking: corporate, investment banking and markets: impressive range of facilities to enhance the working private banking: and other activities.
environment and staff amenities that are second to none.
Accompanying these photos are small comparative shots in monochrome of similar scenes taken at various stages since the buildings construction began in January 1999.
Together, the pictures showcase the rise of a landmark in HSBCs history.
Contents 1 Financial Highlights 2 Overview of Results 3 Five-Year Comparison This Summary Financial Statement is only a summary of information in the HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002.
It is not 4 Group Chairmans Statement the Groups statutory accounts and it does not contain sufficient information to allow as full an understanding of the results and state 11 The Implementation of HSBCs Strategy: of affairs of the Group as would be provided by the full Annual a Review by the Group Chief Executive Report and Accounts.
The Directors Remuneration Report in this Summary Financial Statement is the complete Report contained in 23 Financial Review the Annual Report and Accounts.
29 Board of Directors and Senior Management Members may obtain, free of charge, a copy of the Annual Report and Accounts 2002 from Group Corporate Affairs, HSBC Holdings plc, 34 Summary Directors Report 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ, United Kingdom: Group Public Affairs, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, 35 Directors Remuneration Report 1 Queens Road Central, Hong Kong: Group Public Affairs, HSBC Bank USA, 452 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10018, USA: or from 47 Summary Consolidated profit and Loss Account CCF S. A.
Direction fide la Communication, 103 avenue des Champs Elyses, 75419 Paris Cedex 08, France.
A Chinese translation of the 48 Consolidated Balance Sheet Annual Report and Accounts may be obtained from Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited, Rooms 1901-1905, Hopewell 49 Notes on the Summary Financial Statement Centre, 183 Queens Road East, Hong Kong.
Members may elect in writing to receive the full Annual Report and Accounts for all future 52 Statement of the Independent Auditors financial years by applying to the appropriate Registrars, the addresses of which are shown on the inside back cover.
53 Shareholder Information The Annual Report and Accounts 2002 may be viewed on our web site: 56 HSBC International Network www.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Annual Review 2002 Financial Highlights 5 2001 Year ended 31 December 2002 2002 2002 US$m For the year US$m m HK$m 1 Cash basis 8,807 profit before tax 10,513 7,002 81,991 5,799 profit attributable 7,102 4,730 55,388 After goodwill amortisation reported earnings 8,000 profit before tax 9,650 6,427 75,261 4,992 profit attributable 6,239 4,155 48,658 4,467 Dividends 5,001 3,331 39,003 At year-end 46,388 Shareholders funds 52,406 32,492 408,662 50,854 Capital resources 57,430 35,607 447,839 503,631 Customer accounts and deposits by banks 548,371 339,991 4,276,196 696,245 Total assets 759,246 470,733 5,920,600 391,478 Risk-weighted assets 430,551 266,942 3,357,437 US$ Per share US$ HK$ 1 0.63 Cash earnings 0.76 0.51 5.93 0.54 Basic earnings 0.67 0.45 5.23 0.53 Diluted earnings 0.66 0.44 5.15 Dividends 0.19 first interim 0.205 0.13 1.60 2 0.29 second interim 0.325 0.20 2.53 4.96 Net asset value 5.53 3.43 43.12 Share information 9,355m US$0.50 ordinary shares in issue 9,481m US$109b Market capitalisation US$105b 8.06 Closing market price per share 6.87 3 Total shareholder return against peer index HSBC Benchmark over 1 year 89 76 since 1 January 1999 155 95 % Ratios % 10.4 Return on average shareholders funds 12.3 0.86 Post-tax return on average assets 0.97 1.55 Post-tax return on average risk-weighted assets 1.74 1 Ratios cash basis 4 17.4 Return on net tangible equity 19.8 1.00 Post-tax return on average tangible assets 1.11 1.76 Post-tax return on average risk-weighted assets 1.95 Capital ratios 9.0 tier 1 capital 9.0 13.0 total capital 13.3 56.4 Cost:income ratio excluding goodwill amortisation 56.2 1 Cash-based measurements are after excluding the impact of goodwill amortisation.
2 The second interim dividend of US$0.325 per share is translated at the closing rate on 31 December 2002.
Where required, this dividend will be converted into sterling or Hong Kong dollars at the exchange rates on 28 April 2003.
3 Total shareholder return TSR is dened as the growth in share value and declared dividend income during the relevant period.
In calculating TSR, dividend income is assumed to be reinvested in the underlying shares.
The peer index is the TSR of our dened peer group of financial institutions.
4 Cash basis attributable profit divided by average shareholders funds after deduction of average purchased goodwill.
5 Figures for 2001, excluding average risk-weighted assets, have been restated to reect the adoption of UK Financial Reporting Standard 19 Deferred Tax, details of which are set out in Note 1 on the Summary Financial Statement on page 49.
1 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Overview of Results Geographical Distribution of Results Year ended Year ended Figures in US$m 31 December 2002 31 December 2001 profit loss before tax cash basis % % Europe 4,160 39.5 4,182 47.5 Hong Kong 3,710 35.3 3,883 44.1 Rest of Asia-Pacic 1,293 12.3 1,096 12.4 North America 1,384 13.2 648 7.4 South America 34 0.3 1,002 11.4 10,513 100.0 8,807 100.0 Goodwill amortisation 863 807 Group profit before tax 9,650 8,000 Tax on profit on ordinary activities 2,534 1,988 profit on ordinary activities after tax 7,116 6,012 Minority interests 877 1,020 profit attributable 6,239 4,992 profit attributable cash basis 7,102 5,799 Distribution of Results by Line of Business Year ended Year ended Figures in US$m 31 December 2002 31 December 2001 profit loss before tax cash basis %% Personal Financial Services 3,543 33.7 3,457 39.3 Commercial Banking 3,034 28.8 2,385 27.1 Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets 3,717 35.4 4,033 45.8 Private Banking 420 4.0 456 5.2 Other 201 1.9 1,524 17.4 Group profit before tax cash basis 10,513 100.0 8,807 100.0 Goodwill amortisation 863 807 Group profit before tax 9,650 8,000 Formerly described as Latin America, which included Group entities in Panama and Mexico, which are now included in North America.
Figures for 2001 have been restated to reect this change.
Figures for 2001 have been restated to reect the adoption of UK Financial Reporting Standard 19 Deferred Tax, details of which are set out in Note 1 on the Summary Financial Statement on page 49.
The gures for 2001 have been restated to reect a reclassication of US domestic private banking business, previously included within the Personal Financial Services segment.
2 Per share amounts reported here and throughout the document reect the share capital reorganisation on 2 July 1999.
3 Dividends per share expressed as a percentage of cash earnings per share.
4 The gures for 2001 and 2000 have been restated to reect the adoption of UK Financial Reporting Standard 19 Deferred Tax.
Apart from shareholders funds at 1999 year-end, the 1999 and 1997 comparatives have not been restated as it is considered that any adjustments made would not signicantly alter the gures.
Therefore, any benefit to be obtained from restatement would be outweighed by the cost of the exercise.
3 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Group Chairmans Statement TSR of the FTSE 100 in the UK stood at 74: the Hang Seng Index in which HSBC makes up almost a third of the index in Hong Kong at 106: and the S&P500 in the USA at 78.
The MSCI World Index, a global measure, stood at 76.
The second measure is of our relative performance against a dened peer group of financial institutions which shows how HSBC performs against its main competitors.
HSBCs TSR of 155 over four years compared to 95 for the benchmark index TSR of our competitors.
I thank my talented colleagues whose hard work and dedication have made this superior performance possible.
The quality of HSBCs staff is the single most important factor in our success.
Every year, I meet many hundreds of my colleagues and it is a Against a background of difficult conditions in most privilege to work with so many outstanding people.
of the worlds economies, HSBC achieved a solid set Their success is recognised by the number of awards of results in 2002.
Our performance reected the HSBC receives around the world, some of which are resilience of our local businesses around the world listed in Keith Whitsons review of strategy.
and our ability to generate reasonable returns in them.
In spite of the global economic downturn, the As well as good progress in our existing business, strength of HSBC enabled us to grow our operating which you can also read about in the review of income and to take opportunities to lay the strategy, HSBC made a number of important foundations for our future.
As we look to the future, we see two particularly exciting areas of Recognising this, the Board approved a second economic potential and of opportunity for HSBC: interim dividend of US$0.325 taking the dividends NAFTA and China.
We were, therefore, very pleased for 2002 to US$0.53, an increase of 10.4 per cent over to acquire and recapitalise Grupo Financiero Bital in 2001.
Additionally, acknowledging the increasing Mexico for a total consideration of US$1.9 billion.
importance of dividend ows to our shareholders, GF Bital is a major and highly respected force in the Board has determined to move to a programme Mexican financial services, with nearly five and a half of quarterly dividends beginning with dividends in million personal customers served by 1,400 branches respect of the second half of 2003.
It is envisaged and 4,000 ATMs, with assets of approximately that the first such quarterly dividend will be paid in US$22 billion.
Further details of these proposals will be announced in due course.
On 31 December 2002, we completed year four of Right: An atmospheric dawn shot of HSBCs new Group Head our five-year strategic plan.
When we announced the Ofce from a neighbouring building at 1 Canada Square.
The plan to shareholders in the 1998 Annual Report, we photo looks east, with the River Thames in the background.
This is HSBCs second Group Head Ofce building in the UK.
For committed to measure our performance.
We set two 128 years following its founding in 1865, the Group had its head targets.
From 1993 to 2002, Group Head Ofce was The first was to double total shareholder returns located in the City of London.
The picture at the bottom left shows the construction site at 8 Canada Square, just months measured by share price with gross dividends after piling work began in 1999. reinvested over the five years of the strategy.
With The Canary Wharf estate, where the building is located, began one year to go, HSBCs TSR stood at 155 starting life as docks serving Britains maritime trade.
In its heyday as a from a baseline of 100.
While the fall in the share trading nation, many of Britains imports came from the Canary price from its peak is disappointing, this should be Islands, hence the name.
The docks are no longer used for seen in the context of the overall performance of maritime trade but, since 1991, Canary Wharf has become a markets during the period.
For the four years, the model of successful urban regeneration.
5 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Group Chairmans Statement continued The main reception on the ground oor is noted for its contemporary and clean, minimalist lines, enhanced by black glass and grey granite ooring above, main picture a contrast to the scene during tting out in early 2002 top left.
Throughout the day, five TV screens show rolling news from Bloomberg, Sky, CNN and CNBC, and the sixth reruns HSBCs latest TV advertising from around the world, providing a point of interest for the 600 visitors to the building every day.
Above the reception desk, a dot-matrix display ashes the latest headlines and world stock-market indices.
The reception area is dominated by the HSBC History Wall an entire wall of 230 square metres chronicling the Groups history from the 18th to the 21st centuries main picture, right and page 10.
HSBCs modern history represented by over 100 items, Similarly, we were delighted to be invited to invest including post-cards from chief executive ofcers, bank US$600 million in Ping An Insurance Company of statements and account opening forms, newspapers and a video China.
This gave us a 10 per cent stake in the secondof the Group is contained in a stainless steel time capsule, largest life insurance operation in China.
Ping An has which was sealed in a secret location in 2001 for the benefit of over 27 million policy holders.
The main entrance of 8 Canada Square is guarded by a pair of Elsewhere in Asia, we agreed to purchase Keppel majestic bronze lions page 7, replicas of those that have stood Insurance Pte Ltd in Singapore and completed the outside HSBCs Hong Kong headquarters since 1935. approximately US$88 million transaction in The most popular entrance to the building, used by over 80 per cent of staff and visitors, is via the basement, which provides February this year, adding life insurance and Islamic direct access to tube and rail transport links bottom.
The insurance to an established business in a country entrance is enhanced by a wall mural, created on the black where we have a long history.
granite surface by line drawing transfers depicting some of the most prominent HSBC buildings around the world in London, The US economy accounts for approximately 33 the Hong Kong SAR, New York, Paris, Geneva, Tokyo, Shanghai, per cent of world GDP and consumer spending, in Singapore, Mumbai, Sydney, Buffalo, Vancouver, Curitiba, Dubai turn, accounts for almost 70 per cent of US GDP.
There is therefore a very strong economic case for HSBC having a significant presence in the US consumer market.
In November, in a major over 50 million customers across the United development for HSBC, we announced that we had States, the UK and Canada.
With 1,400 ofces in agreed to acquire Household International, Inc. 46 states, it delivers national coverage in the US for Household is a US consumer finance company with consumer lending, credit cards and credit insurance.
6 At the time of writing, the acquisition is subject to Just as we carefully match our acquisitions to our approval by shareholders of both HSBC and strategy, so our strategy is informed by the way in Household, and shareholders meetings for both which we see future trends.
Looking forward, we see companies will be held on 28 March 2003.
The two major forces shaping consumer spending around transaction is also subject to other conditions, in the globe.
particular the receipt of certain regulatory and other In developed markets we see demographic approvals which are being sought.
changes, in particular ageing of the population, Assuming that the Household acquisition is shaping and changing the demand for financial successfully completed, we will have roughly 30 per services.
Hence our emphasis on wealth cent of our assets in Asia and the Middle East, 30 per management, particularly insurance products and cent in the Americas and 40 per cent in Europe, giving savings products, whether in the form of investments us a unique geographic balance.
We will also have a or pensions.
broad spread of businesses balanced between OECD In developing countries like China, India, Brazil countries and developing markets, and personal and Mexico, we believe we will see a growing demand financial services will become our largest market.
for all kinds of financial services as these markets We believe this spread is vital to our strategic grow their per capita income and new consumer interests.
The ability to expand our business by markets emerge.
This demand will include consumer acquisition will always depend on the opportunities finance and, in Household, we believe we have found which arise.
A good many proposals are brought to a business model that represents best in class us: very few match our long-term strategy or the technology and is exportable to markets where we see stringent criteria we have set for ourselves.
It is a fact that most acquisitions do not create In the wake of some well-publicised corporate value for shareholders.
One of HSBCs great failures, there has been much discussion about strengths is that we have a long and successful record corporate governance.
HSBC is fortunate to have of integrating businesses into the Group in a way that non-executive Directors of the very highest calibre does benefit our shareholders.
7 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Group Chairmans Statement continued whose breadth of experience is, I believe, the equal of year-end 2002, our employees had an interest in over any board in the world.
4 per cent of our fully diluted capital base.
Minoru Murofushi, Carl Reichardt and Sir During the last 12 months, there has been a Adrian Swire retired on 31 May 2002 after growing understanding in the UK and elsewhere distinguished service on your Board.
We shall miss about the financial risks inherent in the provision of their wise counsel.
We are fortunate that Stewart company pensions.
In part, this has been prompted Newton, Carole Taylor and Sir Brian Williamson by the fall in the equity markets but, more have joined the Board.
Having been appointed since profoundly, by recognition of the effects of greater the last Annual General Meeting, they will retire at longevity.
We welcome the enhanced accounting the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and offer disclosures in FRS 17 which shed more light on the themselves for election.
financial position of company pension schemes.
Sir Keith Whitson is to retire at the Annual HSBC attaches the greatest importance to General Meeting on 30 May 2003 after 42 years providing appropriate and secure pension service with HSBC.
Keith will be succeeded by arrangements for its staff, but also to balancing the Stephen Green, currently Executive Director, burdens which successive generations will have to Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets.
In bear for those who preceded them.
In this regard, in addition to retaining his existing responsibilities, 1996 we closed our largest dened benefit pension Stephen will oversee all other HSBC businesses, scheme to new members, with all new employees including personal financial services, commercial being offered membership of a dened contribution banking and insurance.
In making our decision, we took into Group IT Director, has been appointed to the new account a number of factors, including changing position of Chief Operating officer with effect from demographics which underline the fact that the cost 30 May.
Alan will be responsible for HSBCs to shareholders of dened benefit schemes are worldwide operational functions and for managing unquantifiable but increasing.
Although this issue is critical, there is time to Keith Whitson has devoted his entire working life address the problem.
Even before employers to HSBC.
He is an outstanding colleague with contributions, the investment income generated by exceptional abilities and has made an immense our largest scheme in the UK covered more than contribution to our success.
He has also served the 90 per cent of the pensions payable from it.
banking industry as a whole with great distinction.
Nevertheless, in 2003 we have made a substantial At the same time, one of HSBCs key characteristics incremental contribution of 500 million to that is the strength of its management team.
Stephen is scheme in order to recognise the changing extremely well qualied for his new appointment and demographics and investment returns.
This is a clear I am confident that he will be a highly effective recognition of our responsibilities.
HSBC has the Group Chief Executive.
Similarly, Alans talents have financial strength and the resolve to full all its been apparent to us for many years.
as Chief Operating officer reects the continuing Some 8,000 of my colleagues are now located at evolution of HSBC and the importance we attach to HSBCs new Group Head Ofce building in Canary operational efficiency in serving our customers Wharf which is now operational.
We shall hold an around the world.
ofcial opening ceremony in early April.
We continue to make good progress in increasing We designed the building to enable our people to the number of employees who have a direct interest interact easily and well with each other, thus in the ownership of the Group through our employee encouraging teamwork so important to us.
During 2002, over 41,000 employees in will see that the building itself is the subject of the 51 countries and territories applied for savingsillustrative theme of this Annual Review.
related options, with the greatest interest shown in the UK, the Hong Kong SAR and Malaysia.
HSBC has a long tradition of corporate social Performance-related share options were awarded to responsibility but we recognise the growing need to almost 40,000 employees worldwide at all levels of make public what has long been an ingrained part of the organisation.
Hence our continued inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Group Index, FTSE4Good In 1998, we set the objective of achieving a level of and the UKs Business in the Environment Seventh employee ownership equivalent to 5 per cent of our Index of Corporate Environmental Engagement.
share capital within five years.
We estimate that, at 8 In 2002, we published a report in HSBC in the running small businesses, and Young Enterprise Community on the environmental impact of our own which fulls a similar role in the UK.
Online sites like operations in the UK, together with targets for the GCSE online maths course devised by the improvement.
We have now exported this system to Thomas Telford City Technology College and HSBC operations in Australia, Brazil, Canada, www.
co. uk also promote wider France, the Hong Kong SAR, India, Malaysia, access to curriculum materials.
Singapore and the USA and we will report on their To raise awareness of our educational work, we performance, with targets for improvement, in this decided to develop the HSBC Global Education years edition of HSBC in the Community.
Challenge, an online programme designed solely for Despite what we consider to be an excellent children, as an exciting educational resource open for record, we recognise that we need to pay even more anyone to use.
attention to the non-financial implications of lending The Challenge follows the Around Alone yacht decisions.
We have issued more demanding internal race, which started in September 2002, and the standards on environmental and reputational risk progress of a number of skippers including Graham which reect the developments in international Dalton and his yacht, Hexagon, which we have public opinion and the growing body of knowledge sponsored.
The Global Education Challenge is an awardIndeed, education and the environment remain winning web site, aimed at nine-to-twelve year olds our principal areas of community support.
Broadly, who can follow the race and tackle educational our work in education focuses on access and helping challenges along the way.
So far, the site has been those who are disadvantaged.
This work falls under used by schools in 35 countries.
HSBCs commitment to the environment remains First, providing talented individuals with as strong as ever.
We maintained our support of opportunities.
In 2002 for example, this included Investing in Nature, working with Earthwatch, WWF helping young people with HSBC scholarships and Botanic Gardens Conservation International.
In some 300 in Hong Kong, 100 in the UK, 60 in South 2002, 190 of our employees from 39 countries Africa and many others.
participated in Earthwatch projects in 25 countries.
Whether through As a direct result of our support, in 2002 BGCI Wayfoong volunteers in Hong Kong, Helping Hands listed and conserved 8,000 threatened plant species in Brazil, or dozens of local projects around the our five-year target is 20,000.
And WWF have world, many of my colleagues devoted considerable selected freshwater demonstration sites in Brazil, time to working in their local communities.
Third, we undertake projects where many Turning to 2003, despite the current uncertainties resources are put into one school or institution.
This HSBC remains strong in terms of both capital and can be the Jumpstart project in Buffalo, where we earning power.
The acquisitions announced last year provide job-shadowing and mentoring for students will improve our geographical balance.
They should from Riverside Institute of Technology High School: also reduce risks within our financial framework by it can be sponsoring language colleges in the UK: or increasing the proportion of earnings from the our long-term support of the Glen Taylor School in personal sector which, long term, has more an economically deprived area of Auckland, New predictable revenue and cost characteristics.
remain well positioned to seek growth opportunities Fourth, we support educational and attitudinal worldwide with few geographic or product projects which give children formative and, constraints.
For instance, we supported the Kielder Challenge, a series of outdoor events in the UK, for teams of able-bodied children and those with disabilities.
Finally, we support projects tailored to local needs, often with emphasis on children with learning difficulties or disabilities.
We support Sir John Bond, Group Chairman specic initiatives like Junior Achievement helping young people in US high schools gain experience of 9 Above: When viewed from the back, the History Wall captures the HSBC corporate signature in embossed form.
An original design by Thomas Heatherwick Studio, this contemporary work of art measuring 34.5 metres long and 6.6 metres high marks the history, achievements and values of the Group.
Its 3,743 images, taken from documents, photographs, portraits and illustrations of staff, buildings, events and businesses, are attached to metal rods and suspended like ags from the glass wall detail at right.
The inset shows preparation and tting out work in the wall area prior to the installation of the images in early 2002.
10 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC The Implementation of HSBCs Strategy: a Review by the Group Chief Executive It is always gratifying when the quality of our service or products is recognised in the form of customer commendations in major surveys, or awards from the media and professional organisations.
We received a good many in 2002, including The Banker magazines top accolade of Global bank of the year.
Others are highlighted in various parts of this review.
Personal Financial Services Improving the quality and range of services we provide to our 36 million personal customers worldwide remains a key strategic objective.
With this in mind, we concentrated on developing our Personal Financial Services team in 2002.
By aligning our 2002 was the fourth year of our current five-year plans and initiatives across all our main Personal strategic plan which focuses on Managing for Value.
Financial Services operations, we have established a In spite of the testing economic conditions in many framework within which we can develop our business of our markets, we have made further solid progress.
and become even more customer-driven.
In 2002, the Throughout the year, we have continued to place business made a pre-tax profit on a cash basis of emphasis on managing across geographical US$3,543 million.
This involves harnessing the general managerial skills and local experience of our people HSBC Premier, our internationally uniform in different countries around the world with the service for our most valuable personal customers, is a specialised knowledge of those responsible for our good example of our customer-driven approach.
We refer to this as collective 2002, the service was launched in a further six management and we believe that our success on this countries China, France, Panama, Taiwan, front gives HSBC significant competitive advantage.
Thailand and Turkey bringing the total to 29, the In simple terms, this is teamwork on an international number of Premier customers to 632,000, and the scale.
number of Premier Centres to over 200.
This year will see Premier launched in Greece, and Mexico We have also continued to invest heavily in where we now have almost five and a half million ensuring that we remain customer-driven and able to personal customers.
On average, Premier customers service customer requirements better by introducing buy 2.5 times more products from us than our other superior systems and training support for our staff.
This has included looking at more exible pricing structures, offering new and innovative products, and In a particularly important and exciting providing our customers with real alternatives to development, International Services from Premier for traditional investments.
In fact, a significant internationally mobile customers have been piloted proportion of the more than US$2.5 billion we among Canada, the Hong Kong SAR, Jersey, the invested in technology in 2002 was spent on customer UK and the United States.
These services include relationship management systems, on electronic seamless account opening and credit history transfer delivery channels such as the internet and telephone across borders, and will be extended in 2003 to banking, and on the worldwide roll-out of our Brazil, France and India.
Our customer relationship management systems It was a year of major development for our and skills are now used in varying degrees in more electronic banking services, with a stream of than 30 countries.
For example, following its success innovations and service enhancements increasing in the UK, our Individual Solutions programme satisfaction levels among our customers and was launched in the Hong Kong SAR where 800,000 providing them with greater choice in all our major Individual Solutions were implemented for geographical areas of operation and lines of business.
In 2003, HSBC Bank More details can be found in the following sections.
USA will also adopt the customer relationship 11 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC The Implementation of HSBCs Strategy: a Review by the Group Chief Executive continued management systems and processes first developed in HSBC Insurance Agency USA Inc. increased HSBC Bank plc.
premium volume from US$667 million in 2001 to US$1.4 billion in 2002, mainly from xed annuity Our customer relationship management initiatives and life insurance sales.
Telemarketing of general are being aided by a more standardised approach to insurance products was fully launched in Hang Seng customer segmentation, enabling us to develop Bank, while the joint HSBC Life International services linked to customer life stages, cultural Limited and Hang Seng Life Limited operations diversity and gender.
For instance, new services became the Hong Kong SARs second largest issuers developed for the benefit of children were launched of new insurance to personal customers.
in 2002 by Hang Seng Bank Limited and HSBC Bank Australia Limited, while female executives were In Brazil, pensions growth was among the highest the focus of HSBC Bank Middle Easts new Yasmeen in the market, with 36 per cent more participants and services.
HSBC Bank USA launched an Islamic- 16 per cent more paid in contributions.
In Argentina, compliant home finance package, charge card and we began selling motor and home insurance on the bank account for the Muslim community.
internet and, in spite of the economic crisis, HSBC increased its auto scoring portfolio by 30 per cent.
The provision of insurance products to personal customers is an increasingly important part of our In the UK, where insurance cross-selling is wealth management strategy.
We provide both our benefiting from strong mortgage sales and lending, own and externally sourced life, pensions, HSBC is now the leading provider of individual investment-linked and protection products, as well as income protection, with a market share of 19 per insurance broking and actuarial and consultancy cent.
HSBC Bank plc also became the fifth largest services in 35 countries and territories.
provider of UK pensions, with a six per cent market share for its award-winning stakeholder pension.
12 Main picture: A close-up view of the top oors and the roof of HSBC Group Head Ofce, looking east and taken from the roof of the tallest building in the UK, at 1 Canada Square.
In the panorama behind the building, the runway of London City Airport, which serves mainly business travellers, is visible in the distance on the right, with the Millennium Dome on the far right on the bank of the Thames.
Right: The top picture shows a construction worker looking across the world.
Rotating these meetings among towards the City of London as the HSBC hexagon symbol nears different continents provides our senior executives the final stages of installation in 2001.
A giant hexagon symbol appears on each of the four sides of the building just below the with first-hand experience of what our customers in roof.
Powerful back lights illuminate the brand at night.
The different countries want a real example of double-level space below the brand in the main picture is the collective management at work.
International Boardroom, shown during tting out in the middle picture and business centres in each country ensure that our with the Directors getting ready for the start of their first Board front-line employees can meet our customers crossmeeting to be held in the new building in September 2002.
In addition to providing state-of-the-art audio-visual facilities, the border needs quickly.
Boardroom has a map of the world created from two-tone HSBC Premier customers, for example, reaped the aluminium slats across an entire wall and, from its oor-toceiling window, a panoramic view across London.
benefit of Portfolio Plus, HSBC Republic Investments Limiteds laptop-based discretionary portfolio management service, while our structured It is important, particularly in the current and capital-protected products were extended economic climate, that we continue to innovate and further by our French subsidiary, Sinopia Asset share best practices.
We hold quarterly meetings of Management.
our top Personal Financial Services managers from 13 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC The Implementation of HSBCs Strategy: a Review by the Group Chief Executive continued We recognised our customers desire to invest in acquired ABN AMRO Banks retail mortgage more equity products, underpinned by varying portfolio in the country.
degrees of protection against loss.
Our business in Nothing has had quite the impact on our Personal Hong Kong achieved turnover of HK$28 billion in Financial Services business in recent years as the structured deposits.
HSBC in Canada, Singapore and advent of the e-age, where we made quite dramatic Taiwan also launched various structured deposits, progress in 2002. while Hang Seng Bank introduced 30 capitalprotected funds.
HSBC Bank International Limited Although our e-efforts have focused mainly on in the Channel Islands sold a record US$900 million internet banking, important developments in e-mail of capital secured funds.
and mobile phone applications are now also paying dividends, and all our major business lines are In another important area cards we showing strong e-channel growth.
Personal banking developed our business worldwide, despite strong has developed most rapidly, with more than 4.3 competition.
Sales of card products are important in million customers now registered for our e-banking expanding our customer base, particularly in areas services available through the internet, mobile where our branch network is modest, such as Egypt.
phones, personal digital assistants, digital TV, e-mail There, we used card products to launch a range of and private network connections, and Minitel for Personal Financial Services initiatives in 2002.
Customers in 10 countries can also We continued to increase the number of credit receive short message service alerts from us, which cards in issue, bringing the total to almost 14 million provide information on account balances, payment worldwide, and added 1.3 million store cards through advice and share prices direct to their mobile phones.
our acquisition of the Benkar business in Turkey.
Internet banking, available in 19 countries, HSBC Bank Brasil S. A.
-Banco Mltiplo exceeded recorded over 130 million customer log-ons in 2002 one million cards for the first time.
HSBC Bank when more than 1.2 million new customers Middle East issued 42 per cent more cards, and worldwide joined our online service.
HSBC Bank plc several of our Asia-Pacic operations also saw registered its one-millionth internet banking significant increases in card numbers, with Indonesia customer, while more than half the customers of recording 53 per cent, Malaysia 26 per cent, and First Direct, the UKs first telephone bank, have Hong Kong 14 per cent.
First Direct achieved impressive Card security, of course, remains paramount and levels of customer satisfaction, with a recent survey we continually strive to nd new ways of beating reporting that more than 95 per cent of its internet fraud.
We are at the forefront of moves to introduce banking customers were satisfied with the bank so-called smart cards with microchips for overall.
Internet customers buy approximately 45 per heightened protection, and we have increased our cent more products from us than average customers.
investment in sophisticated fraud detection systems.
Our e-innovations in 2002 included online credit Home loans were another major business scoring, through which customers can apply for opportunity in 2002 as consumers renanced their credit and get an instant reply.
Personal details can be mortgages to take advantage of lower interest rates amended online in a number of our markets and, and, in the process, withdrawing equity to finance with our partner Yahoo!, we have rolled out the household spending.
HSBC Bank plc sold more than person-to-person e-mail payment system, PayDirect, 130,000 mortgages in 2002, increasing its share of the in the United States, the UK and the Hong UKs net new mortgage lending market to 6 per cent Kong SAR.
and earning several awards from What Mortgage?
As important as our e-channels are, it was and Your Mortgage magazines.
HSBC Bank Canada essential that we continue to improve our other launched its Prime Minus mortgage based on delivery channels.
As a result, we now have almost innovations made in the UK, and CCF teamed up 2,000 branches congured to a uniform, customerwith HSBC Bank plc and HSBC Bank International friendly, Group standard design.
HSBC in the Hong Limited in the Channel Islands to launch a new home Kong SAR introduced 21 self-service Easi-Banking loans service for customers buying second properties centres.
HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad gave a further boost to its home loans business when it In the UK, improved automation in HSBC Bank plcs telephone banking service helped boost the 14 number of product sales to 750,000, an increase of Commercial Banking more than 50 per cent.
In the Middle East, HSBC launched in-store customer service units based on Commercial Banking serves a wide range of HSBC Bank plcs initiative with the UK supermarket companies, from sole proprietors, partnerships, clubs Morrisons and, in Saudi Arabia, The Saudi British and associations to incorporated businesses and Bank became the first bank in the kingdom to publicly quoted companies.
It has traditionally been introduce cash deposit machines.
an area of strength for HSBC.
Indeed, with more than 1.8 million small and medium-size businesses In Brazil, self-service banking was expanded, with buying financial products and services from us, we the result that 70 per cent of HSBC Bank Brasils believe we have the largest international commercial branch transactions were processed by ATMs in banking franchise of any bank.
HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad won the us a pre-tax profit on a cash basis of US$3,034 Malaysia IT premier award the first bank to do million in 2002. so in the private sector category for the introduction of ChequeScan, a machine that enables We continued to improve and extend our range of customers to deposit cheques and benefit from products and services in 2002, placing special straight-through processing.
emphasis on international collaboration between our teams in various lines of business.
For instance, we Examples of HSBCs collective management were drew on our experience in Personal Financial to be found in various parts of the world.
HSBC Services to improve our banking, insurance and Bank International Limited opened an ofce within investment products for our commercial banking HSBCs main Hong Kong building to serve customers and their employees.
expatriates and launched an internet-based Global Tax Navigator to help HSBC customers and In the UK, and indeed in other markets, we employees worldwide.
increased the number of business financial planning managers to provide a total wealth management HSBC Bank Argentina S. A. and HSBC Bank package for our customers.
Elsewhere in Europe, USA jointly established an offshore service mainly France completed the launch of an innovative aimed at Argentine customers and, as part of our product, Elys Homme Cl which, as the name North American alignment initiative, HSBC Bank suggests, insures a company against the loss of a USA and HSBC Bank Canada set up an internal key man.
hotline to ensure that customers with needs in both countries receive seamless service from us.
Last but Commercial Banking in Hong Kong teamed up not least, HSBC Bank plc linked up with HSBC in with HSBC Asset Management and Treasury to India to open two new UK ofces to serve noncross-sell investment funds.
These focused on capitalresident Indians.
guaranteed funds and high-yield deposits and resulted in a 158 per cent increase in fee income.
Our international ATM network now exceeds Factoring and Business Banking also co-operated to 15,400 terminals in more than 40 countries and launch two account receivable finance programmes territories.
During 2002, the acquisition of Grupo for small and medium-size enterprises SMEs.
Financiero Bital S. A. fide C. V. in Mexico added 4,020 machines to the network while HSBC Bank A. S. We now have 20 Service and Sales outlets in prime contributed a further 340 in Turkey.
We also branches in the Hong Kong SAR where specialist introduced standards for emergency encashments at staff look after the trade services requirements of all our cash-handling ofces for customers whose SMEs.
In addition, our dedicated business banking plastic is lost or stolen.
call centre handles more than 40,000 calls a month.
Hang Seng Bank now has more than 100 business Surveys of HSBC Bank plcs customers show that account managers in 11 Business Banking Centres over 90 per cent of them were very satisfied or looking after its SME customers.
satisfied with our service in 2002.
HSBC in Hong Kong was named Bank of the year by The Banker China is an increasingly important market for magazine.
For the third year running, an independent many of our customers.
In 2002, we witnessed strong survey ranked HSBC Bank Canada as the countrys growth in commercial lending, in investment banking number one bank for overall customer satisfaction.
advisory work, and in serving our commercial 15 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC The Implementation of HSBCs Strategy: a Review by the Group Chief Executive continued 16 Left: Its name may be understated but the Central Equipment Room is the nerve centre of the building.
Occupying an entire oor, the room contains the complete information technology equipment required to run the building, as well as the main local computers and networking equipment that support data, voice and video services.
Two telephone exchanges that operate the buildings 10,000 telephone extensions are also located here.
In addition, this is the telecommunications hub that supports the UK domestic branch network and HSBCs overseas operations in continental Europe, the Middle East, Asia-Pacic and the United The Competition Commission inquiry in the UK States.
The main picture and the sh-eye view show just some occupied a good deal of our attention in 2002: we of the 700-odd cabinets housing equipment that required the responded with a package of initiatives worth 80 laying of some two million metres of cable far left, top.
million a year to our small business customers from Right: The ofce oors were designed to create a functional and 2003 onwards.
These initiatives include payment of spacious working environment where employees can interact easily with each other and where the latest facilities and interest on current accounts, a new instant access equipment ensure maximum efficiency.
Energy-efficient savings account, and improved terms for start-up systems, recyclable furniture and equipment, and electronic businesses.
ling help to make it an environmentally friendly building.
I am pleased to note that the Competition Commission rated HSBC ahead of our UK high street competitors.
Their survey showed that HSBC customers personal banking needs.
We also launched customers are the most satisfied with both pricing factoring operations in both China and Taiwan.
and their bank overall, and that HSBC is top ranked In Malaysia, we began several initiatives to ensure for both business account services and relationship that HSBC captures the trade business generated by management.
the local business communitys growing interest in Indeed, our own evidence backs this up.
HSBC China and India and, in neighbouring Singapore, the Bank plc increased its share of the business start-up launch of Business Vantage, a packaged account market in 2002, helping more than 80,000 new service and delivery product, drew an enthusiastic businesses get off the ground, and reported a strong response.
increase in customers switching to HSBC.
More India saw the launch of Business Insurance established businesses moved their accounts to Services with tailored products, including policies HSBC too, helping to swell the customer base by 7 covering re, burglary, money-in-safe and public per cent.
liability, and introduced a Cash Plus Sweep facility In February, we launched our Trustee Investment which automatically sweeps idle or surplus funds into Plan in the UK to accept investment from SME a higher yielding money market mutual fund.
In the occupational pension schemes, and business referrals Middle East, new products included Prime Trade and from HSBC Bank plc generated premiums of Amanah Import Trade Finance, an Islamicapproximately 200 million for HSBC Insurance compliant letter of credit with a nancing option.
In South America, we improved our commercial Of course, the e-age has also had a big impact on banking service in Brazil by locating 850 business our Commercial Banking operations.
HSBCs banking relationship managers close to customers in business internet banking is now live in Canada, the the branch network.
Hong Kong SAR, India, Argentina, the UK and the Our North American alignment initiative United States, with over 200,000 registered users.
We introduced collective management structures offer our e-customers a range of services embracing between Canada and the United States.
It produced trade services, document tracking, stakeholder encouraging results in our efforts to provide pensions for the UK, web-based forms and so on.
commercial banking customers with seamless crossSome of our other e-services include business border services between the two countries.
Credit insurance and, in the UK, we have developed facilities grew signicantly and cross-border deposit DriverQuote which enables our business customers and investment management activities increased.
17 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC The Implementation of HSBCs Strategy: a Review by the Group Chief Executive continued to put the selecting and budgeting of eet cars into custody exceeded US$1.1 trillion and we settled over the hands of the drivers.
1.3 million securities trades for clients.
Our investment administration and performance Among the many awards received by our consultancy business, launched three years ago in the Commercial Banking operations in 2002, UK, is now expanding into continental Europe.
DriverQuote won the Fleet innovation gold award by the leading eet and business car magazine, Fleet Among the corporate origination deals we Week.
We were voted Best internet bank and Best completed were the largest European initial public trade finance bank in Asia by readers of Global offering, for Autoroutes du Sud fide la France: a euroFinance magazine: and Best high street bank for denominated corporate bond for Petronas, the largest small businesses by the Forum of Private Businesses in Asia outside Japan: the first Asian currency issue in the UK.
for Deutsche Bahn: and the first global Islamic bond issue for the Malaysian Government.
Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets We also continued to develop new nancing structures tailored for individual clients.
For instance, Our business with corporate and institutional clients a 570 million convertible for Accor contained a around the world is large and profitable, focusing on feature, used for the first time in Europe, that spread long-term relationships with major international the potential dilution and renancing risk over the corporations and institutions.
This business realised last three years of a five-year transaction.
pre-tax profits on a cash basis of US$3,717 million Our Project and Export Finance division had a in 2002 when we completed the integration of our record year, signing export credits from eight OECD Corporate and Institutional Banking, and countries totalling more than US$1.5 billion.
Project Investment Banking and Markets businesses.
business developed strongly and, in the UK, we acted The integration, during which HSBC Investment as adviser to the Tubelines consortium which Bank plc became a division of HSBC Bank plc, has completed the first public-private partnership for helped to create a streamlined, client-focused London Underground, covering the Jubilee, structure that will enable us to harness the Groups Northern and Piccadilly lines.
geographical strength, unlock the potential of our products and services, and deploy our capital resources as efficiently as possible.
Key to our continuing success is the further development of our client services teams, each of which focuses on a specic industry sector.
These teams bring together relationship and product managers from across the world.
September was an important month for our Payments and Cash Management business.
Together with several other shareholder banks, we launched Continuous Linked Settlement for proprietary trades in seven eligible currencies to eliminate settlement risk for foreign exchange market participants.
This was followed by the December launch of HSBCs third-party Continuous Linked Settlement service for clients for whom we act as settlement member.
We expanded our trade services business in 2002 with the acquisition of selected portfolios from State Street Bank and Trust Companys Global Trade Banking Australia, while our specialised Trade Solutions product generated increased turnover.
In global custody, we remain a market leader.
Despite depressed equity markets, funds under 18 In foreign exchange, we remain a market leader across a wide range of currencies.
In 2002, we continued to roll out a low-cost, internet execution service for our priority customers through our own online trading web site, markets@hsbc.
com, and through our partnership in FXall.
We also continued to strengthen our debt capital markets business, ranking first in bond issuance in all currencies for UK and French corporations, and for Occupying the whole of level 4, the Treasury and Capital Markets operation has one of the largest trading oors in the world, accommodating nearly 600 dealing staff and 1,750 at panel screens over an area of 4,500 square metres.
HSBC is acknowledged as a leading player on international foreign exchange markets offering a 24-hour capability, with London linking up with the Groups other key dealing operations in New York and the Hong Kong SAR.
It offers one of the broadest ranges of products and services available anywhere, including money market products, futures and options, precious metals, capital markets debt issuance, securitisation and syndication, bond trading and derivatives.
Plasma screens hanging from the ceiling provide continuous market news.
Equities trading and research take place on a separate oor, with settlements occupying the third large oor in the podium.
Top: The special IT requirements of the Treasury and Capital Markets business needed to be taken into account during tting out in early 2002, including the laying of some 800,000 metres of cable.
19 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC The Implementation of HSBCs Strategy: a Review by the Group Chief Executive continued all Asian issuers excluding Japan.
We are the largest Private Banking underwriter of sterling corporate bonds, have a top three position in euro corporate bonds, and occupy a Private Bankings funds under management grew by dominant position in all significant Asian markets 11 per cent to US$144 billion after adjusting for outside Japan.
business transfers from other parts of HSBC, including the US domestic private banking business.
We restructured our equity business to focus on This was a strong performance, given the decline in core sectors of relevance to our clients.
At the same world stock markets and slow growth in personal time, we integrated our highly rated economics and wealth creation.
However, profit before tax on a cash strategy, credit and equity research to provide a basis declined by 8 per cent to US$419.5 million.
In Asia, we completed the reorganisation of our Despite falls in the major markets, our asset private banking business under HSBC Republic management business increased funds under Bank Suisse SA.
We extended operations in Japan, management from US$138 billion at year-end 2001 where we now have US$500 million in assets under to US$141 billion at year-end 2002 US$152 billion management, and developed our business with with afliates, achieved through net sales of US$8.8 China.
By streamlining our operations and billion for the year.
In the Hong Kong SAR, segmenting our clients according to their needs and the business continued to deliver innovative capitalportfolio size, we reduced our cost:income ratio in guaranteed products, achieving net sales of the region by 6 per cent.
In the Americas, following our acquisition of We also continued to expand our cash and money parts of the US private tax business of Arthur market product range, with funds under management Andersen, we launched our unique HSBC Wealth for our total liquidity product of over US$24 billion and Tax Advisory Services, Inc. which advised 6 per at the year-end.
This included the Global Liquidity cent of the Forbes 400 list of Americas wealthiest range whose funds under management totalled families.
We plan to extend the service to other areas US$5.8 billion double the amount for 2001. in 2003.
Our Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets As part of our plans to align our onshore and division received numerous awards and offshore private banking operations, we unied the commendations in 2002.
Euromoney rated HSBC Groups domestic and international private banking among the top three global providers in its operations in the UK and began the alignment international cash management poll.
Our corporate process in the United States.
origination activities earned us a number of awards for transactions on behalf of clients.
These included Lending to clients increased by 33 per cent.
We the Euroweek award for Best European equity initial expanded our trust business in the United States, public offering, Credit magazines Deal of the year Asia and the Channel Islands, and Private Banking award for sterling high grade bonds, International worked closely with Group Insurance to launch new Financing Reviews award for Financial bond senior tax-efficient insurance wrapper products.
Our range debt, and Corporate Finance magazines Best of investment funds continued to grow, especially in securitisation award.
the alternative and hedge fund sector where we are a leading player with US$11 billion in assets under We retained our leading position for treasury and management.
Our Hermitage Fund, the largest capital markets services in Asia and Europe and, for public equity fund dedicated to Russia, was rated the fifth consecutive year, we were Best at treasury as one of the best-performing equity funds in and risk management in Asia in the Euromoney emerging markets.
We were also voted Best single bank internet trading site for foreign exchange in the Excellent teamwork with HSBCs personal FX Week best banks survey of 2002.
Investment banking operations led to a significant increase in performance earned our asset management business client referrals from the UK, the Hong Kong SAR, awards for a number of funds, particularly in Singapore, the United Arab Emirates and Brazil, and European equities.
to the introduction of significant business to other areas of the Group, notably HSBC Premier.
20 Right: Considerable thought was given to the welfare of staff who would be spending a large part of their lives working in the building.
The under one roof concept includes setting aside all of level 5 some 2,150 square metres for a gymnasium, which has been tted out to a very high standard, and which offers the latest in exercise equipment such as cardiovascular machines, weight resistance stations and cycling machines.
Three group exercise rooms offer classes in step aerobics, Pilates, yoga, tai chi and circuit training.
The large 850-seater staff restaurant offers top-quality hot and cold meals prepared from clay ovens, teppanyaki plates and a rotisserie, in addition to more conventional methods.
The menus and prices are displayed electronically on 12 plasma screens.
HSBCs smaller private banks suffered from the decline in the worlds stock markets.
HSBC Guyerzeller Bank AG was adversely affected by a significant write-down in private equity investments, although its merger with Handelsnanz-CCF Bank S. A. and Crdit Commercial fide France Suisse S. A. strengthened its market share.
HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt KGaAs private banking division continued to develop its family ofce capabilities and gained several significant new clients, while CCFs private banking operations, Banque Euron and Banque du Louvre, concentrated on their French client base with successful new product launches.
The Brand Our new slogan, The worlds local bank, was launched in March and was well received in all our markets.
Advertisements headlined Never underestimate the importance of local knowledge appeared in publications such as The Economist, Time, Business Week, Financial Times, The Wall Street Journal and National Geographic.
TV commercials appeared on BBC Newsworld, CNBC, CNN and other global and regional networks.
Local campaigns also featured the theme.
The campaign differentiates HSBC from its competitors by emphasising our unique strengths in local markets and the opportunities for customers created by our worldwide network and sharing of best practices.
An important sub-theme is our belief that the world is a rich and diverse place where cultural differences need to be respected in order to profit from new ideas, regardless of their origin.
Research shows that these attributes strike a chord with consumers and our new brand proposition is also consistent with HSBCs heritage and values.
21 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC The Implementation of HSBCs Strategy: a Review by the Group Chief Executive continued Economic profit including insurance and investments.
We shall continue to position HSBC as a preferred provider of Economic profit expresses our profitability after a full range of financial products for all our accounting for the cost of capital.
It helps us to customersnancial needs.
determine where to allocate resources and remains a Although we will continue to invest adequately in key inuence on our investment decisions.
We technology and training, a rigorous approach to cost proceed with business opportunities only if control will be required given the uncertain economic projections of economic profit meet our criteria.
Our historic record of discipline in this In the current low interest rate environment, we respect will serve us well.
believe that HSBCs true cost of capital is around I thank our committed and skilled staff 10 per cent.
We continue, however, to calculate throughout the world for their contribution during economic profit using our benchmark rate of 12.5 per the year.
I know that we can depend on them to cent as this allows us to compare performance continue to deliver the level of service and results that consistently with previous years.
our customers and shareholders expect.
I look Our economic profit increased by US$845 million, forward to a successful year for HSBC in 2003. from an economic loss of US$696 million in 2001 to an economic profit of US$149 million in 2002.
The loss in 2001 reected exceptional provisioning on Argentine risk of US$1.12 billion and the US$323 million settlement of the Princeton Note Matter.
Excluding the exceptional provisions, economic profit decreased by US$598 million, or 80 per cent, in Sir Keith Whitson, Group Chief Executive 2002 as a result of a US$3,679 million increase in capital and a US$138 million fall in the return on invested capital.
We continue to believe that our strong capital base gives us a strategic advantage in the current economic climate.
Strategic Outlook As we look ahead, we face some uncertain economic and political conditions.
However, HSBCs position in relation to most of our competitors has never been stronger.
We have invested for the long term in many areas of our business and will continue to do so where opportunities exist.
Meanwhile, we look forward to a year in which we will benefit from our world-class customer relationship management systems and our internet delivery capabilities, particularly in personal and commercial banking.
We are also confident that the achievements we have made in aligning and restructuring our large corporate and investment banking business will provide new opportunities.
Our aim to provide unparalleled customer service will see further development of our marketing capabilities, especially with regard to client segmentation, to allow us to identify customer needs accurately and to offer a wider range of appropriately targeted products and services, 22 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review Net Interest Income United Kingdom, Taiwan, India, Korea, mainland Net interest income US$m China and the Middle East, together with personal 18000 lending growth in the UK, France, the United States, 15,460 14,725 15000 13,723 Canada, Singapore, Malaysia, Korea, Taiwan and 12000 India.
The increase in average interest-earning assests 9000 from acquisitions was US$4 billion.
6000 HSBC was able to maintain its net interest margin at 3000 2.54 per cent, unchanged from that for 2001, as an 18 0 basis point widening in interest spread was offset by a 2002 2001 2000 similar reduction in the contribution from net free funds.
Interest spreads benefited from a change in asset Net interest income in 2002 was US$735 million, or mix away from low yielding short-term funds towards 5 per cent, higher than in 2001 at US$15,460 million.
At higher yielding investment grade corporate debt constant exchange rates, net interest income was 6 per securities.
In addition, the fall in interest rates benefited cent higher than 2001 reecting growth in the HSBCs the margins in our treasury activities as the effects of the operations in Europe, North America and the rest of steepening yield curve reduced the related funding costs.
A reduced benefit from a higher level of net free funds as cost of funds fell impacted the net interest margin.
In Europe, net interest income was US$780 million, or 14 per cent, higher than in 2001 mainly reecting the In the United Kingdom net interest margins fell as growth in average interest-earning assets and the the widening in spreads, primarily due to benets benets of lower funding costs.
In North America net derived from the improved contribution from treasury interest income increased by US$282 million, or 12 per activities and higher levels of average personal customer cent, due to a combination of the increased level of lending was offset by the reduced value of free funds.
In average interest-earning assets, primarily residential Hong Kong the margin in The Hongkong and Shanghai mortgages, and wider margins on treasury activities as Banking Corporation was largely unchanged as an the steeper yield curve reduced funding costs.
In improved treasury performance, higher net recoveries of addition, GF Bital contributed US$85 million of net suspended interest and increased proportion of higher interest income to the North American region.
In Hong yielding credit card advances offset the impact of Kong, net interest was largely maintained as a strong reduced spreads on savings deposits, contribution from treasury performance, growth in credit card lending and net free funds and narrower spreads in the competitive in low cost deposits offset continuing margin mortgage market.
In Hang Seng Bank, the fall in net compression in the mortgage business and the lower interest margin resulted primarily from a combination contribution from net free funds.
of a lower benefit from net free funds, as interest rates fell and the narrower spreads on mortgages.
In the In South America the impact of the unsettled United States, the third of our large domestic economic environment caused net interest income to fall operations, there was an improvement in net interest by US$420 million to US$645 million.
In Brazil, net margin driven by the combination of wider margins on interest income fell as the benets from higher levels of treasury activities as funding costs reduced from a customer lending was more than offset by the impact of steeper yield curve and the growth in average mortgage HSBCs decision to reduce the level of local debt balances.
securities and move to a more conservative positioning of the balance sheet.
In Argentina, the combination of HSBC is moving increasingly to differentiated narrower spreads and the high costs of the local funding product pricing.
This competitive approach reects the of non-performing loan portfolio resulted in net interest value to HSBC of our most loyal customers and has expense in 2002. resulted in narrower spreads on a numbers of products, particularly mortgages and savings products.
The Average interest-earning assets at US$608.7 billion benefit of this strategy is seen in the mix and volume of increased by US$29 billion, or 5 per cent.
Adjusting for HSBCs core current account and savings products, the impact of foreign exchange translation and particularly in the United Kingdom, Hong Kong and acquisitions, underlying growth was 3 per cent, driven the United States.
principally by the placement of customer deposits in the 23 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued Other Operating Income sold through the tied salesforce, 4 per cent in sales of life Other operating income US$m protection products and 29 per cent in creditor 12000 278 186 197 protection insurance.
10000 1,720 1,822 1,716 In North America, excluding the US$47 million 8000 1,313 1,685 1,626 increase relating to the acquisition of GF Bital in 7,824 7,470 6000 7,311 Mexico, fee income was US$24 million higher than in 4000 2001.
Growth in fee income from the sales of annuities, 2000 mutual funds and across a range of banking services 0 more than offset the lower level of broking income.
2002 2001 2000 In Hong Kong, fee income was US$92 million higher Fees and commissions net Other than in 2001 primarily due to strong growth in fees from Dealing profits Dividend income the sale of unit trusts, including the sale of US$2.8 billion of HSBCs capital guaranteed funds, fees from Other operating income in 2002 of US$11,135 million, credit cards, insurance and underwriting business.
In was in line with that for 2001 and included other addition, higher levels of fee income were earned from operating income of US$1,720 million.
Growth in complex structured finance transactions.
wealth management income was offset by the falls in revenues from investment banking, broking income, The operations in the rest of Asia-Pacic grew fee corporate finance activities and other securities-related income by US$43 million with strong growth in fee activities.
income from credit cards in Taiwan, Malaysia, Indonesia, the Middle East, Thailand and India.
In Net fees and commissions at US$7,824 million South America, fee income fell by US$170 million, or represented 29 per cent of total operating income US$27 million at constant exchange rates, as, following against 29 per cent in 2001 and were US$354 million, or legislation by the Brazilian Government to prohibit the 5 per cent, higher than 2001.
At constant exchange rates, charging of fees against certain accounts, fees earned net fees and commissions were 4 per cent higher than in from account services fell.
Dealing profits at US$1,313 million were US$372 In Europe, fee income increased by US$318 million, million, or 22 per cent, lower than in 2001.
Within this or 8 per cent, as growth in wealth management income category debt securities earnings were US$236 million reecting growth in general and life insurance, private lower as credit spreads on corporate bonds widened client, pensions and investment advisory business more sharply as market confidence was undermined by low than offset the lower levels of equity-related fees.
UK earnings growth and negative news of corporate Banking in 2002 reported growth of 17 per cent in scandals in the United States.
HSBC branded life, pensions and investment products 24 Operating Expenses Operating expenses US$m headquarters in Canary Wharf, together with increases in vacant space provisioning consequential to that move, 18000 added US$76 million.
Costs in the UK-based 15000 2,044 1,933 investment banking operations were lower as headcount 1,591 12000 3,331 3,279 was adjusted to reect market conditions.
A fall in staff costs 3000 following the transfer of back ofce processing 0 functions to group service centres in India and China, 2002 2001 2000 and the non-recurrence of pension top-up fees relating Staff costs Other to Hang Seng Bank offset increases in costs associated Premises and equipment Depreciation with business expansion.
Staff numbers full-time equivalent In the rest of Asia-Pacic, costs in 2002, excluding As at 31 December goodwill amortisation, increased by US$131 million, or 2002 2001 2000 9 per cent compared with 2001.
The growth in costs Europe 72,260 73,326 69,629 primarily reected higher staff complement in HSBCs Hong Kong 23,786 24,654 24,204 service centres in India and Mainland China and the Rest of Asia-Pacic 28,630 26,259 22,919 North America 34,207 19,291 18,965 expansion of business in several countries in the region, South America 25,522 27,519 25,907 in particular China, Taiwan and the Middle East.
Total staff numbers 184,405 171,049 161,624 During the year The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation opened eight new branches in the AsiaOperating expenses were US$404 million, or 3 per cent, Pacic region.
The increase was due to a Operating expenses, excluding goodwill combination of the impact of the acquisitions made amortisation, in North America increased by US$135 during 2002 and in the latter part of 2001, expansion of million, or 5 per cent, in 2002.
This increase was largely business activities, in particular Asia Pacic and North driven by the impact of the acquisition of GF Bital and America and the costs associated with the restructuring the costs associated with the establishment of the and consolidation of business processes.
The increase in Wealth and Tax Advisory Services business in the the goodwill amortisation charge included the United States.
A reduction in the costs associated with amortisation of goodwill arising on GF Bital and the ongoing development of hsbc.
com offset the costs write-off of the balance of the purchase goodwill on the relating to the closure of the institutional equity insurance activities in Argentina.
business in Canada and the restructuring of the In Europe, costs in 2002, excluding goodwill merchant banking business in the United States.
amortisation, increased by US$590 million compared In South America, operating expenses, excluding with 2001.
At constant exchange rates, costs in 2002, goodwill amortisation, fell by US$437 million, or 29 per excluding goodwill amortisation, were US$265 million, cent lower, during 2002.
At constant exchange rates or 3 per cent higher than in 2001.
The increase in costs operating expenses, excluding goodwill amortisation, was primarily due to the impact on the cost base were 4 per cent higher than in 2001.
The increase related following the acquisition of our joint venture partners to industry-wide union agreed salary adjustments and share of Merrill Lynch HSBC US$45 million, costs of severance as headcount reductions were made Demirbank and Benkar card business in Turkey in the recessionary environment.
The move to the Groupsnew 25 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued Provisions for Bad and Doubtful Debts Year ended 31 December 2002 2001 2000 US$m % US$m % US$m % By geographical segment: Europe 569 43.1 441 21.6 348 37.3 Hong Kong 246 18.6 197 9.7 248 26.6 Rest of Asia-Pacic normal 89 6.7 172 8.4 159 17.1 release of special general provision 174 18.7 North America 300 22.7 300 14.7 157 16.9 South America normal 313 23.7 327 16.1 194 20.8 additional general provision against Argentine exposures 196 14.8 600 29.5 1,321 100.0 2,037 100.0 932 100.0 The charge for bad and doubtful debts was US$1,321 lending and higher credit card provisioning in Hong million in 2002, which was US$716 million lower than in Kong.
The substantial decrease reected the US$600 2001.
The charge principally reected credit costs within million general provision against Argentine exposure the personal sector which amounted to US$857 million, charged in 2001. a rise of US$90 million, largely as a result of growth in Gains on Disposal of Investments During 2002, HSBC made 23 business acquisitions and In the United States, gains were taken in the first half completed 20 business disposals.
of the year on the sales of a number of mortgage-backed and other debt securities as long-term portfolios were HSBCs European results included US$213 million adjusted to respond to exposures to interest rates and profits on the sales of securities from investment sovereign credit.
portfolios principally as HSBC adjusted its exposure to interest rates.
CCF disposal of its 50 per cent stake in HSBCs South American results included the gain of Lixxbail to its joint venture partner generating a profit US$38 million on the sale of HSBCs 6.99 per cent stake of US$39 million.
26 Taxation Year ended 31 December Other overseas taxation was provided for in the Figures in US$m 2002 2001 2000 countries of operation at the appropriate rates of UK corporation tax charge 684 416 856 taxation.
Overseas taxation 1,217 1,570 1,468 Joint ventures 6 13 7 HSBCs effective tax rate of 26.3% in 2002 was Associates 17 26 1 higher than that for 2001 24.9% mainly as a result of Current taxation 1,912 1,999 2,316 profit mix and certain non recurring items which Origination and reversal of timing differences 615 176 89 occurred in 2001 and resulted in a reduction in the 2001 Effect of decreased tax rate rate.
on opening asset 34 Effect of decreased tax rate profits arising in North America represented a on opening liability 7 162 higher percentage of HSBCs profits in 2002 compared Deferred taxation 622 11 93 to 2001 because the profits in the US were suppressed in Total charge for taxation 2,534 1,988 2,409 2001 by the provision relating to the Princeton Note Effective taxation per cent 26.3 24.9 24.6 settlement.
Because these profits are taxed at a higher Standard UK corporation tax rate per cent 30.0 30.0 30.0 rate than the average for the rest of the Group this raised the overall tax rate of the Group.
Analysis of overall tax charge Year ended 31 December One off tax free gains arising in 2002 were less than Figures in US$m 2002 2001 2000 those arising in 2001.
Taxation at UK corporate tax rate of 30.0% No tax relief has been assumed for the bad debt 2001: 30.0% 2000: 30% 2,895 2,400 2,932 provision and other losses relating to Argentina.
These Impact of differently taxed losses and provisions were lower in 2002 compared to overseas profits in principal locations 472 616 498 2001.
This therefore had the effect of increasing the tax Tax free gains 19 102 15 charge in both 2002 and 2001 but by a greater degree in Argentine losses 87 336 2001.
Goodwill amortisation 261 263 172 Prior period adjustments 90 167 48 In 2002 certain prior year adjustments mainly Other items 128 126 134 relating to audit settlements resulted in a reduction in Overall tax charge 2,534 1,988 2,409 the tax rate.
There were similar adjustments in 2001 Figures for 2001 have been restated to reect the adoption of UK which resulted in a greater reduction in the tax rate.
Financial Reporting Standard 19 Deferred Tax, details of which are set out in Note 1 of the Summary Financial Statement on page 49.
At 31 December 2002 there were potential future tax HSBC Holdings and its subsidiary undertakings in the benets of US$885 million 2001: US$906 million in United Kingdom provided for UK corporation tax at respect of trading losses, allowable expenditure charged 30%, the rate for the calendar year 2002 2001: 30%.
to the profit and loss account but not yet allowable for tax and capital losses which have not yet been Overseas tax included Hong Kong profits tax of recognised because realisation of the benets is not US$408m 2001: US$450m provided at a rate of 16% considered certain.
2001: 16% on the profits assessable in Hong Kong.
27 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued Assets Assets 2002 excluding Hong Kong Government and limited credit demand in some countries.
certificates of indebtedness Approximately 47 per cent of the balance sheet was % US$b deployed in customer loans and advances which was Treasury and other 2 per cent higher than at 31 December 2001. eligible bills 2.4 18.1 At constant exchange rates, gross loans and Debt securities 23.4 175.7 advances to customers excluding loans to the financial Loans and advances to banks 12.7 95.5 sector at 31 December 2002 were US$32 billion, or Loans and advances 11 per cent, higher than at 31 December 2001.
Personal to customers 47.1 352.3 lending grew by 17 per cent and constituted 42 per cent of gross customer lending at 31 December 2002, Other 14.4 108.2 compared with 39 per cent at 31 December 2001.
This Total 100.0 749.8 reected the acquisition of Bital as well as strong Assets 2001 excluding Hong Kong Government organic growth in the UK, United States, Malaysia, certificates of indebtedness Taiwan, Korea, Singapore and India.
Loans and advances to the commercial and corporate customer % US$b Treasury and other base excluding Governments grew by 3 per cent eligible bills 2.6 18.0 reecting muted loan demand from this sector.
Debt securities 23.4 160.6 At 31 December 2002, assets held by the Group as Loans and advances custodian amounted to US$1,350 billion.
Custody is the to banks 15.2 104.6 safe-keeping and administration of securities and Loans and advances to customers 44.9 308.6 financial instruments on behalf of others.
Funds under management amounted to US$306 billion at Other 13.9 95.4 31 December 2002.
Total 100.0 687.2 Figures for 2001 have been restated to reect the adoption of UK Funds under management Financial Reporting Standard 19 Deferred Tax, details of which are set Funds under management of US$306 billion were out in Note 1 of the Summary Financial Statement on page 49.
US$22 billion, or 8 per cent, higher than at HSBCs total assets at 31 December 2002 were US$759 31 December 2001. billion, an increase of US$63 billion, or 9 per cent, since During the year, both HSBCs asset management 31 December 2001: at constant exchange rates, the and private banking businesses attracted net funds increase was US$29 billion, or 4 per cent.
The weakening of the US dollar on our sterling attributable to acquisitions was US$23 billion of which and Euro denominated funds also lead to increases in US$22 billion related to the acquisition of GF Bital.
the value of funds under management.
These more than HSBCs balance sheet remained highly liquid, offset the impact of the fall in global equity markets.
reecting further strong growth in customer deposits 28 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Board of Directors and Senior Management Directors Sir John Bond, Group Chairman Sir Keith Whitson Age 61.
An executive Director since 1990: Group Chief Age 59.
An executive Director Executive from 1993 to 1998.
A Director of HSBC Bank plc since 1992, executive Director of The Hongkong and Shanghai Chief Executive from 1994 to 1998 and Deputy Banking Corporation Limited from 1988 to 1992.
Chairman Chairman of HSBC Bank plc, HSBC USA Inc. HSBC of HSBC Bank A. S. and Deputy Chairman of the Bank USA and HSBC Bank Middle East and a Supervisory Board of HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt Director of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking KGaA.
A Director of The Hongkong and Shanghai Corporation Limited and HSBC Bank Canada.
Banking Corporation Limited, HSBC USA Inc. HSBC Chairman of The Institute of International Finance, Bank Canada and Grupo Financiero Bital, S. A. fide C. V. Inc. and a Director of Ford Motor Company.
A A non-executive Director of the Financial Services member of the Court of the Bank of England.
The Baroness Dunn, DBE, Deputy Chairman and senior The Lord Butler, GCB, CVO non-executive Director Age 65.
Master, University College, Oxford and a nonAge 63.
Executive Director of John Swire & Sons executive Director of Imperial Chemical Industries plc.
Limited and a Director of Swire Pacic Limited.
Responsible for executive Director since 1990 and a non-executive the policy overview of HSBC in the Community and Deputy Chairman since 1992.
A non-executive Director Chairman of HSBC Education Trust.
Secretary of the of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Cabinet and Head of the Home Civil Service in the Limited from 1981 to 1996.
Former Senior Member of United Kingdom from 1988 to 1998. the Hong Kong Executive Council and Legislative Council.
Executive Chairman of chinadotcom corporaSir Brian Moffat, OBE, Deputy Chairman and senior tion and Chairman of its subsidiary, hongkong.
com independent non-executive Director corporation.
Chairman of Corus Group plc.
A non-executive Chairman of HSBC Private Equity Asia Limited and Director since 1998.
A member of the Court of the a Director of MTR Corporation Limited, Inchcape plc, Bank of England.
Inmarsat Ventures Plc, Convenience Retail Asia Limited, VTech Holdings Ltd. and The Wharf Holdings Limited.
Chairman of the Hong Kong Japan Business Co-operation Committee and the Advisory Committee on Corruption of the Independent Commission Against Corruption.
A non-executive Director of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited since 1997.
Sir Brian Moffat Sir John Bond The Lord Butler R K F Chien Sir Keith Whitson The Baroness Dunn 29 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Board of Directors and Senior Management continued C F W fide Croisset D J Flint Age 59.
An executive Director and Chief Executive officer of CCF S. A.
A Director of HSBC Bank Malaysia S. A. in 1980 having previously held senior appointments Berhad, HSBC USA Inc. and HSBC Bank USA.
A in the French civil service.
A Director of HSBC Bank member of The Accounting Standards Board and the plc.
Standards Advisory Council of the International Accounting Standards Committee Foundation.
A W R P Dalton former partner in KPMG.
Director and Chief Executive of HSBC Bank plc since 1998.
Joined W K L Fung, OBE HSBC in 1980.
President and Chief Executive officer, Age 54.
Group Managing Director and Chief Executive HSBC Bank Canada from 1992 to 1997.
A Director of officer of Li & Fung Limited.
A non-executive Director CCF S. A. HSBC Investment Bank Holdings plc and since 1998.
Past Chairman of the Hong Kong General HSBC Private Banking Holdings Suisse S. A. ViceChamber of Commerce, the Hong Kong Exporters President of the Chartered Institute of Bankers.
A nonAssociation and the Hong Kong Committee for the executive Director of MasterCard International Inc. Pacic Economic Co-operation Council.
A nonand a non-executive Director and Chairman of Young executive Director of The Hongkong and Shanghai Enterprise.
Executive Director, Corporate, Investment in 1968.
Appointed an executive Director and Chief Banking and Markets.
Executive officer of The Hongkong and Shanghai Joined HSBC in 1982.
Group Treasurer from 1992 to Banking Corporation Limited in 1996: Chairman since 1998.
Chairman of HSBC Investment Bank Holdings 1999.
Non-executive Chairman of Hang Seng Bank plc and a Director of HSBC Bank plc, CCF S. A. HSBC Limited and a non-executive Director of Swire Pacic Guyerzeller Bank AG, HSBC USA Inc. HSBC Bank Limited and MTR Corporation Limited.
USA, HSBC Private Banking Holdings Suisse S. A. and HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt KGaA.
D G Eldon S K Green C F W fide Croisset D J Flint W K L Fung W R P Dalton 30 S Hintze Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, KCMG Age 58.
Former Chief Operating officer of Barilla Age 62.
Chairman of Anglo American plc.
Director and S. P. A. and former Senior Vice President of Nestl S. A. former Chairman of The Shell Transport and Trading With Mars Incorporated from 1972 to 1993, latterly as Company, plc and former Chairman of the Committee Executive Vice President of M&M Mars in New Jersey.
of Managing Directors of the Royal Dutch Shell Group A non-executive Director since 2001.
A Director of Accenture Limited, a Director of Safeway plc.
Governor of Nufeld Hospitals and President of the Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine.
A W Jebson Member of the UN Secretary Generals Advisory Age 53.
An executive Director since Council for the Global Compact.
Chairman of CLS Group Holdings AG.
S W Newton Sir John Kemp-Welch Age 61.
Founder of Newton Investment Management, Age 66.
Former Joint Senior Partner of Cazenove & Co from which he retired in April 2002.
A non-executive and former Chairman of the London Stock Exchange.
A Member of the A non-executive Director since 2000.
Advisory Board of the East Asia Institute at Cambridge University.
Chairman of British Airways Plc and Invensys plc.
A nonexecutive Director of HSBC Bank plc from 1989 to 1994.
Sir John Kemp-Welch S Hintze Sir Mark Moody-Stuart The Lord Marshall S W Newton A W Jebson 31 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Board of Directors and Senior Management continued Adviser to the Board H Sohmen, OBE Age 63.
Chairman of World-Wide Shipping Agency Limited, World-Wide Shipping Group Limited, World D J Shaw Maritime Limited, World Shipping and Investment Age 56.
An Adviser to the Board since 1998.
A Company Limited and World Finance International partner of Norton Rose from 1973 to 1998.
A nonof HSBC Investment Bank Holdings plc and HSBC executive Director of The Hongkong and Shanghai Private Banking Holdings Suisse S. A.
Banking Corporation Limited since 1984 and Deputy Chairman since 1996.
Chair of Canadian Broadcasting Corporation.
Joined Chair of Vancouver Board of Trade from 2001 to 2002.
HSBC in 1980: Corporation Secretary of The A Director of Canfor Corporation, Fairmont Hotels Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited and Resorts, HSBC USA Inc. HSBC North America from 1986 to 1992.
Company Secretary of HSBC Bank Inc. and HSBC Bank USA.
Sir Brian Williamson, CBE Age 58.
Chairman of London International Financial Futures and Options Exchange.
Chairman of Electra Investment Trust plc.
A Director of Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
A former Chairman of Gerrard Group plc and a former Director of the Financial Services Authority and of the Court of The Bank of Ireland.
Non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director Sir Brian Williamson H Sohmen D J Shaw C S Taylor R G Barber 32 Senior Management M B McPhee Age 61.
Group General Manager, Credit and Risk.
Appointed a Group General Manager in 1997.
Group General Manager, Global e-business.
Appointed a Group General Manager in 2000.
Chief Executive officer, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited.
Appointed C C R Bannister a Group General Manager in 1991.
Chief Executive officer, Group Private Banking.
Appointed a Group General Manager in 2001.
President and Chief Executive officer, HSBC USA Inc. R E T Bennett and HSBC Bank USA.
Group General Manager, Legal and Compliance.
Joined Group General Manager in 1998.
Appointed a Group General Manager in 1998.
Group General Manager, Strategic Development.
Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive officer, HSBC HSBC in 1969.
Appointed a Group General Manager in 1992.
General Manager, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking V H C Cheng, OBE Corporation Limited.
Executive Director, The Hongkong and Shanghai General Manager in 2000.
Banking Corporation Limited and Chief Executive officer, Hang Seng Bank Limited.
Appointed a Group K Patel General Manager in 1995.
Chairman, Global Investment Banking Division, HSBC Bank plc.
Appointed a Group General A Dixon, OBE Manager in 2000.
Deputy Chairman, HSBC Bank Middle East.
Appointed a Group General Manager in 1995.
Group Chief Accounting officer C-H Filippi since 1995.
Group General Manager and Global Head of Corporate and Institutional Banking.
Appointed a A F Rademeyer Group General Manager in 2001.
Group General Manager and Head of Corporate Investment Banking and Markets, Asia-Pacic.
Appointed a Group General Manager in March 2003.
Group General Manager and Chief Executive officer, Mexico.
Appointed a Group General J C S Rankin Manager in October 2002.
Group General Manager, Human Resources.
Appointed a Group General Manager in 1990.
President and Chief Executive officer, HSBC Bank B Robertson Brasil S. A.
Group General Manager and Head of Corporate Group General Manager in 1997.
Investment Banking and Markets North America, HSBC Bank USA.
Appointed a Group General M J G Glynn Manager in March 2003.
President and Chief Executive officer, HSBC Bank Canada.
Appointed a Group General Dr S Rometsch Manager in 2001.
Chairman of the Managing Partners, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt KGaA.
Appointed a Group S T Gulliver General Manager in 2001.
Group General Manager and Head of Global Markets.
Appointed a Group General Manager in M R P Smith, OBE 2000.
Appointed a Group General Manager in 1996.
Group General Manager and Head of Investment Banking and Markets, Americas.
D D J John Appointed a Group General Manager in 2000.
Chief Operating officer and Director, HSBC Bank plc.
Appointed a Group General Manager in P E Stringham 2000.
Group General Manager, Internal Audit.
Appointed a Group General Manager in June 2002.
33 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Summary Directors Report Summary Financial Statement Results for 2002 HSBC reported operating profit before provisions of US$10,787 million.
profit attributable to shareholders of HSBC Holdings was US$6,239 million, a 12.3 per cent return on shareholders funds.
The retained profit to be transferred to reserves was US$1,238 million.
Principal Activities and Business Review Through its subsidiary and associated undertakings, the Group provides a comprehensive range of banking and related financial services through an international network of over 8,000 ofces in 80 countries and territories in Europe, the Asia-Pacic region, the Americas, the Middle East and Africa.
A review of the development of the business of Group undertakings during the year and an indication of likely future developments are given on pages 4 to 22. Dividend A first interim dividend of US$0.205 per ordinary share was paid on 9 October 2002.
The Directors have declared a second interim dividend of US$0.325 per ordinary share in lieu of a final dividend, making a total distribution for the year of US$5,001 million.
The second interim dividend will be payable on 6 May 2003 in cash in United States dollars, sterling or Hong Kong dollars, or a combination of these currencies, at exchange rates to be determined on 28 April 2003, with a scrip dividend alternative.
A financial calendar, including the key dates for payment of the second interim dividend for 2002, is on page 53.
Directors The Directors who served during the year were Sir John Bond, Baroness Dunn, Sir Brian Moffat, Sir Keith Whitson, Lord Butler, RKFChien, C F W fide Croisset, W R P Dalton, D G Eldon, D J Flint, W K L Fung, SKGreen, S Hintze, A W Jebson, Sir John Kemp-Welch, Lord Marshall, Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, M Murofushi, S W Newton, C E Reichardt, H Sohmen, Sir Adrian Swire, C S Taylor and Sir Brian Williamson.
M Murofushi, C E Reichardt and Sir Adrian Swire retired on 31 May 2002.
S W Newton, C S Taylor and Sir Brian Williamson were appointed Directors on 27 September 2002.
Having been appointed since the last Annual General Meeting, they will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and offer themselves for election.
On 14 November 2002 it was announced that W F Aldinger will be invited to join the Board subject to the completion of the acquisition of Household.
R K F Chien, S K Green, A W Jebson, Sir Brian Moffat, H Sohmen and Sir Keith Whitson will retire by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
With the exception of Sir Keith Whitson, who is to retire, they will offer themselves for re-election.
S K Green will succeed Sir Keith Whitson as Group Chief Executive and A W Jebson will take up the new position of Group Chief Operating officer following the Annual General Meeting.
Donations During the year, HSBC made charitable donations totalling US$34,500,000.
Of this amount, US$16,700,000 was given for charitable purposes in the United Kingdom.
No political donations were made during the year.
At the Annual General Meeting in 2002 shareholders gave authority for HSBC Holdings and HSBC Bank plc to make political donations and incur political expenditure up to a maximum aggregate sum of 250,000 and 50,000 respectively as a precautionary measure in light of the wide denitions in the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
These authorities have not been used and it is not proposed that HSBCs longstanding policy of not making contributions to any political party be changed.
However, as a precautionary measure a resolution will again be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
On this occasion it is intended that these precautionary authorities should cover a period of four years.
At the Annual General Meeting in 2002 shareholders gave authority in these amounts for one year.
Auditors Report The auditors report on the full accounts for the year ended 31 December 2002 was unqualied and did not include a statement under sections 237 2 inadequate accounting records or returns or accounts not agreeing with records and returns or 237 3 failure to obtain necessary information and explanations of the Companies Act 1985.
On behalf of the Board 3 March 2003 R G Barber, Secretary 34 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors Remuneration Report Summary Financial Statement Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee meets regularly to consider human resource issues, particularly terms and conditions of employment, remuneration, retirement benets, development of high potential employees and key succession planning.
During 2002, the members of the Remuneration Committee were W K L Fung, Sir John Kemp-Welch, Lord Marshall and Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, all of whom were independent non-executive Directors.
Sir Mark Moody-Stuart succeeded Lord Marshall, who retired as a member of the Committee, as Chairman of the Committee on 1 January 2003.
The Remuneration Committee retains the services of Towers Perrin, a specialist remuneration consulting rm, who provide advice on executive pay issues.
The Remuneration Committee also receives advice from the Group General Manager, Group Human Resources and the Senior Executive, Group Reward Management.
Towers Perrin also provide other remuneration, actuarial and retirement consulting services to various parts of the HSBC Group.
Other consultants are used from time to time to validate their findings.
Policy In common with most businesses, HSBCs performance depends on the quality and commitment of its people.
Accordingly, the Boards stated strategy is to attract, retain and motivate the very best people.
In a business that is based on trust and relationships, HSBCs broad policy is to look for people who want to make a long-term career with the organisation because trust and relationships are built over time.
Remuneration is an important component in peoples decisions on which company to join, but it is not the only one: it is HSBCs experience that people are attracted to an organisation with good values, fairness, the potential for success and the scope to develop a broad, interesting career.
Within the authority delegated by the Board of Directors, the Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the remuneration policy of HSBC including the terms of bonus plans, share option plans and other longterm incentive plans, and for agreeing the individual remuneration packages of executive Directors and other senior Group employees.
No Directors are involved in deciding their own remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee applies the following key principles: to pay against a market of comparative organisations to offer fair and realistic salaries with an important element of variable pay based on relative performance to have as many top-performers as possible at all levels within HSBC participating in some form of long-term share plan since 1996, to follow a policy of moving progressively from dened benefit to dened contribution Group pension schemes for new employees only.
Basic salary and benets Salaries are reviewed annually in the context of individual and business performance, market practice, internal relativities and competitive market pressures.
Allowances and benets are largely determined by local market practice.
Annual performance-related payments The level of performance-related variable pay depends upon the performance of HSBC Holdings, constituent businesses and the individual concerned.
Key measures of success include achievement of financial goals, concerning both revenue generation and expense control: customer relationships: full utilisation of professional skills: and adherence to HSBCs ethical standards.
HSBC has a long history of paying close attention to its customers in order to provide value for shareholders.
This has been achieved by ensuring that the interests of HSBC and its staff are aligned with those of its shareholders and that HSBCs approach to risk management serves the interests of all.
Closer alignment with the interests of shareholders continues to be achieved through the promotion and extension of employee participation in the existing share plans.
Bonus ranges are reviewed in the context of prevailing market practice and overall remuneration.
Long-term share plans In order to align the interests of staff with those of shareholders, share options are awarded to employees under the 35 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued Summary Financial Statement HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan and the HSBC Holdings savings-related share option plans.
When share options are granted, which are to be satisfied by the issue of new shares, the impact on existing equity is shown in diluted earnings per share on the face of the consolidated profit and loss account, with further details being disclosed in Note 11 of the Notes on the Financial Statements in the Annual Report and Accounts.
The dilutive effect of exercising all outstanding share options would be 0.5 per cent of basic earnings per share.
For the majority of employees, the vesting of share awards under the HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan is subject to the attainment of total shareholder return TSR targets full details are set out on pages 39 and 40.
Separate transitional arrangements are currently in place for those employed by CCF.
The Remuneration Committee seeks to respond to the variety of environments and circumstances which are faced by different businesses in different markets at different times.
The HSBC Holdings Restricted Share Plan 2000 is intended to align the interests of executives with those of shareholders by linking executive awards to the creation of superior shareholder value.
This is achieved by focusing on predetermined targets.
The shares awarded are normally held under restrictions for five years and are transferred to the individuals only after attainment of a performance condition which demonstrates the sustained and above average financial performance of HSBC.
Executive Directors and Group General Managers have been eligible to receive conditional awards of Performance Shares under the HSBC Holdings Restricted Share Plan and the HSBC Holdings Restricted Share Plan 2000 since 1997.
The award of Performance Shares under these plans was extended to other senior executives from 1999.
In appropriate circumstances, employees may receive awards under the HSBC Holdings Restricted Share Plan 2000 and the HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan.
Participants, including executive Directors and Senior Management, in these Plans are also eligible to participate in the HSBC Holdings savings-related share option plans on the same terms as other eligible employees.
As part of HSBCs strategy, the use of the existing share plans has been extended so that more employees participate in the success they help to create.
In the UK, the HSBC Holdings UK Share Ownership Plan enables employees to purchase HSBC Holdings shares from pre-tax salary.
In addition, employees in France may participate in a Plan dEpargne Entreprise through which they may subscribe for HSBC Holdings shares.
Directors and Senior Management HSBC Holdings Board is currently composed of 13 non-executive Directors and eight executive Directors.
With businesses in 80 countries and territories, HSBC aims to attract Directors with a variety of different experience, both in its key markets and internationally.
The Board currently includes nationals of seven different countries.
The eight executive Directors and 27 Group General Managers have in total more than 800 years of service with HSBC.
The aggregate remuneration of Directors and Senior Management for the year ended 31 December 2002 was US$70,886,000.
The aggregate amount set aside or accrued to provide pension, retirement or similar benets for Directors and Senior Management for the year ended 31 December 2002 was US$3,864,000.
At 31 December 2002, executive Directors and Senior Management held, in aggregate, options to subscribe for 2,036,492 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each in HSBC Holdings under the HSBC Holdings Executive Share Option Scheme, HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan and HSBC Holdings savings-related share option plans.
These options are exercisable between 2003 and 2012 at prices ranging from 2.1727 to 8.712.
Directors fees Directors fees are regularly reviewed and compared with other large international companies.
The current basic fee is 35,000 per annum.
In addition, non-executive Directors receive with effect from 1 January 2003 the following fees: Chairman, Audit Committee 15,000 p. a.
During 2002 six Audit Committee meetings were held.
A Directors commitment to each meeting can be as much as 15 hours.
During 2002, seven meetings of the Remuneration Committee were held.
Non-executive Director responsible for policy overview of HSBC in the Community 10,000 p. a.
Executive Directors are normally permitted to retain only one Directors fee from HSBC.
Executive Directors who are also Directors of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited may elect to receive a fee from either HSBC Holdings or The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited.
Executive Directors remuneration HSBCs operations are large, diverse and international: for example, more than 60 per cent of net income is derived from outside the United Kingdom.
The executive Directors are experienced executives with detailed knowledge of the financial services business in various countries.
In most cases there has been a need to attract them from abroad to work in the United Kingdom.
It became clear to the Board over three years ago that executive Directors total remuneration had fallen steadily behind the competition.
This became apparent from league tables in the press, surveys from remuneration consultants, comparisons with top executives in acquired companies such as Republic Bank of New York and CCF and, perhaps above all, from the fact that some of the next generation of top management, due to the need to retain market competitiveness in certain overseas locations, were already being paid more than the current executive Directors.
The market survey conducted in 2000 confirmed the need to make major changes in order to bring total th remuneration to the chosen competitive position for this group of executives, i. e. the 75 percentile of market comparators.
Recent information shows that, even with the action taken, total remuneration for this group remains below th the 75 percentile in 2003.
There are four key components of executive Directors remuneration: i Salary Base salaries with effect from April 2003 will be: Sir John Bond 970,000 D J Flint 440,500 C F W fide Croisset 541,660 S K Green 470,500 W R P Dalton 496,500 A W Jebson 440,000 D G Eldon US$286,752 Sir Keith Whitson 790,000 D G Eldons base salary, as an International Manager, shown above, is calculated on a net basis and will be subject to a separate review in April 2003.
This represents an average increase from 2002 of 4.3 per cent.
ii Annual cash bonus Cash bonuses for executive Directors and members of Senior Management are based on two key factors: individual performance taking account of, as appropriate, results against plan of the business unit or performance of the support function for which the individual has responsibility: and Group performance measured by operating profit before tax against plan.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion to eliminate extraordinary items when assessing bonuses, if the main cause did not arise during the current bonus year.
From 2002, combining these two key performance factors may result in cash bonuses ranging from 35 per cent to 250 per cent of basic salary against Group performance ranging from within 10 per cent of plan to 50 per cent above plan.
Actual awards have ranged from 40 per cent to 195 per cent with only three awards being greater than 100 per cent.
iii Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Executive Directors and members of Senior Management have been eligible to receive conditional awards of Performance Shares under the HSBC Holdings Restricted Share Plan and the HSBC Holdings Restricted Share Plan 2000 since 1997.
37 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued Summary Financial Statement Full details of the 2003 conditional awards to executive Directors, together with vesting arrangements, are set out on pages 38 to 40.
It is the Remuneration Committees current intention that the annual value of awards to executive Directors and members of Senior Management will not as a general rule exceed 100 per cent of earnings dened as base salary and bonus in respect of the previous performance year.
In appropriate circumstances, executive Directors and members of Senior Management may receive awards under the HSBC Holdings Restricted Share Plan 2000 and the HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan.
In line with prevailing practice in France and arrangements made at the time of the acquisition of CCF, C F W fide Croisset will receive an award of options to acquire shares under the HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan, instead of an award under the HSBC Holdings Restricted Share Plan 2000: particulars are set out below.
iv Pension arrangements The pension entitlements earned by the executive Directors during the year are set out on pages 43 and 44.
Only basic salary is pensionable.
No other Director participated in any Group pension schemes and none of the Directors participating in Group approved pension schemes is subject to the earnings cap introduced by the 1989 Finance Act.
The increase in accrued pension benets during 2002 were: Transfer value Increase in accrued pension less personal contributions at during 2002, excluding 31 December 2002 relating to increase any increase for ination in accrued pensions during 2002 1 000 000 Sir John Bond 15 272 C F W fide Croisset 774 2 W R P Dalton 5 74 D G Eldon 17 325 S K Green 16 196 A W Jebson 15 171 Sir Keith Whitson 26 462 1 The transfer value represents a liability of HSBCs pension funds and not a sum paid or due to the individual: it cannot therefore meaningfully be added to annual remuneration.
2 While the accrued pension has increased marginally, after excluding the impact of ination in Canada and movements in exchange rates, the transfer value has decreased.
Restricted Share Plan The Remuneration Committee has proposed to the Trustee of the HSBC Holdings Restricted Share Plan 2000 that conditional awards of Performance Shares under the Plan should be made in 2003 as set out below.
The Trustee to the Plan will be provided with funds to acquire ordinary shares of US$0.50 each at an appropriate time after the announcement of the annual results.
The 2003 awards proposed for executive Directors and members of Senior Management in respect of 2002 will have an aggregate value at the date of award of 11.4 million including awards to the following values to executive Directors: 000 Sir John Bond 1,100 W R P Dalton 750 D G Eldon 500 D J Flint 750 S K Green 750 A W Jebson 750 Total 4,600 No share options will be granted under the HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan in respect of 2002 to the executive Directors listed above: they have not received share option awards since the HSBC Holdings Restricted Share Plan was introduced in 1997.
No award under the HSBC Holdings Restricted Share Plan 2000 will be made to C F W fide Croisset in respect of 2002.
Mr fide Croisset will instead receive an award of options to acquire 206,000 ordinary shares of US$0.50 each under 38 the HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan.
Taking account of market practice in France, transitional arrangements will gradually align share options awards in CCF more closely with those elsewhere in HSBC.
In this respect only 50 per cent of the above-mentioned award will be subject to the same TSR performance conditions set out below for the HSBC Holdings Restricted Share Plan 2000.
Any future share option awards he may receive will be wholly subject to these performance conditions.
In accordance with the arrangements agreed at the acquisition of CCF in 2000, the HSBC Group Share Option Plan awards made to Mr fide Croisset in 2001 and 2002 were not subject to performance conditions.
The 1998 Restricted Share Plan awards were subject to performance conditions of earnings per share, to be achieved in whole or in part, as follows: earnings per share in the year 2001 the fourth year of the performance period to be greater than earnings per share in 1997 the base year for the calculation by a factor equivalent to the composite rate of ination a weighted average of ination in the UK, USA and Hong Kong plus 2 per cent, compounded over each year of the performance period: earnings per share to increase relative to the previous year in not less than three of the four years of the performance period: and cumulative earnings per share over the four years of the performance period, 1998 to 2001 inclusive, must exceed an aggregate gure calculated by compounding 1997 earnings per share by a factor equivalent to the annual composite rate of ination plus 2 per cent for each year of the performance period.
On meeting all of these three primary tests, 50 per cent of the conditional awards would be released to each eligible participant.
A secondary test would apply such that, if the cumulative earnings per share over the performance period exceeded an aggregate gure calculated by compounding 1997 earnings per share by a factor equivalent to the same annual composite rate of ination as described above, plus 5 per cent or more, or 8 per cent or more, for each year of the performance period, 75 per cent or 100 per cent respectively of the conditional awards would be released.
In accordance with the rules of the plan, as these tests were not satisfied over the years 1998 to 2001, the same tests are to be applied over the years 1999 to 2002.
If the tests are not satisfied, the conditional share awards will be forfeited.
From 1999, the vesting of awards has been linked to the attainment of predetermined TSR targets as set out below.
Particulars of executive Directors interests in shares held in the Restricted Share Plan are set out on page 46.
The HSBC Holdings Restricted Share Plan 2000 Purpose The HSBC Holdings Restricted Share Plan 2000 is intended to reward the delivery of sustained financial growth of HSBC Holdings.
So as to align the interests of the Directors and senior employees more closely with those of shareholders, the HSBC Holdings Restricted Share Plan 2000 links the vesting of 2003 awards to the attainment of predetermined TSR targets.
Total Shareholder Return TSR is dened as the growth in share value and declared dividend income during the relevant period.
Vesting schedule Having regard to HSBC Holdings size and status within the financial sector, a benchmark has been established which takes account of: 1. a peer group of nine banks ABN AMRO Holding N. V. Citigroup Inc. Deutsche Bank A. G. J. P. Morgan Chase & Co. Lloyds TSB Group plc, Oversea-Chinese Banking Corporation Limited, Mitsubishi Tokyo Financial Group Inc. Standard Chartered PLC, The Bank of East Asia, Limited weighted by market capitalisation: 2. the five largest banks from each of the United States, the United Kingdom, continental Europe and the Far East, other than any within 1 above, weighted by market capitalisation: and 3. the banking sector of the Morgan Stanley Capital International World Index, excluding any within 1 and 2 above, weighted by market capitalisation.
39 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued Summary Financial Statement By combining the above three elements and weighting the average so that 50 per cent is applied to 1, 25 per cent is applied to 2 and 25 per cent is applied to 3, an appropriate market comparator benchmark is determined.
The extent to which awards will vest will be determined by reference to HSBC Holdings TSR measured against the benchmark TSR.
The calculation of the share price component within HSBC Holdings TSR will be the average market price over the 20 trading days commencing on the day when the annual results are announced, which in 2003 is 3 March.
The starting point will be, therefore, the average over the period 3 to 28 March inclusive.
TSR for the benchmark constituents will be based on their published share prices for 28 March 2003.
If HSBC Holdings TSR over the performance period exceeds the mean of the benchmark TSR, awards with a value, at the date of grant, of up to 100 per cent of earnings, will vest.
For higher value awards, the greater of 50 per cent of the award or the number of shares, equating at the date of grant to 100 per cent of earnings, will vest at this level of performance.
If HSBC Holdings TSR over the performance period places it within the upper quartile in the ranked list against the benchmark, these higher value awards will vest in full.
For performance between the median and the upper quartile, vesting will be on a straight line basis.
The initial performance period will be three years.
If the upper quartile performance target is achieved at the third anniversary of the date of grant, but not if it is achieved later, an additional award equal to 20 per cent of the initial performance share award will be made and will vest at the same time as the original award to which it relates.
However, regardless of whether the upper quartile target is achieved on the third, fourth or fifth anniversary, full vesting and transfer of the shares will not generally occur until the fifth anniversary.
As a secondary condition, options and awards will only vest if the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that HSBC Holdingsnancial performance has shown a sustained improvement in the period since the date of grant.
Awards will vest immediately in cases of death.
The Remuneration Committee retains discretion to recommend early release of the shares to the Trustee in certain instances e. g. in the event of redundancy, retirement on grounds of injury or ill health, early retirement, retirement on or after contractual retirement or if the business is no longer part of HSBC Holdings.
Awards will normally be forfeited if the participant is dismissed or resigns from HSBC.
Where events occur which cause the Remuneration Committee to consider that the performance condition has become unfair or impractical, the right is reserved to the Remuneration Committee to make such adjustments as in its absolute discretion it deems appropriate to make.
Total shareholder return The first graph shows HSBC Holdings TSR performance against the benchmark TSR.
Pursuant to the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, the remaining graphs show HSBC Holdings TSR performance against the Financial Times Stock Exchange FTSE 100 Index, the Morgan Stanley Capital International MSCI World Index and Morgan Stanley Capital International MSCI Financials index.
Total shareholder return CHART 1 Total shareholder return CHART 2 220% 220% 200% 200% 180% 180% 160% 160% 140% 140% 120% 120% 100% 100% 80% 80% HSBC TSR TSR benchmark HSBC TSR FTSE 100 Index 40 31 Dec 97 31 Dec 98 31 Dec 99 31 Dec 00 31 Dec 01 31 Dec 02 31 Dec 97 31 Dec 98 31 Dec 99 31 Dec 00 31 Dec 01 31 Dec 02 Total shareholder return CHART 3 Total shareholder return CHART 4 220% 220% 200% 200% 180% 180% 160% 160% 140% 140% 120% 120% 100% 100% 80% 80% HSBC TSR MSCI World Index HSBC TSR MSCI Financials Index Source: Datastream Employees Emoluments The basic salaries of Group General Managers are within the following bands: Number of Group General Managers 150,001 250,000 15 250,001 350,000 10 350,001 450,000 1 450,001 550,000 1 Set out below is information in respect of the five individuals, who are not Directors of HSBC Holdings, whose emoluments excluding commissions or bonuses related to the revenue or profits generated by employees individually or collectively with others engaged in similar activities were the highest in HSBC for the year ended 31 December 2002.
000 Basic salaries, allowances and benets in kind 1,286 Pension contributions 98 Bonuses paid or receivable 26,237 Compensation for loss of ofce contractual other Total 27,621 Total US$ 41,446 Their emoluments are within the following bands: Number of Employees 4,100,001 4,200,000 1 4,500,001 4,600,000 1 5,300,001 5,400,000 1 6,000,001 6,100,000 1 7,400,001 7,500,000 1 41 31 Dec 97 31 Dec 98 31 Dec 99 31 Dec 00 31 Dec 01 31 Dec 02 31 Dec 97 31 Dec 98 31 Dec 99 31 Dec 00 31 Dec 01 31 Dec 02 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued Summary Financial Statement Service Contracts and Terms of Appointment HSBCs policy is to employ executive Directors on one-year rolling contracts, although on recruitment longer initial terms may be approved by the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee will, consistent with the best interests of the Company, seek to minimise termination payments.
No executive Director has a service contract with HSBC Holdings or any of its subsidiaries with a notice period in excess of one year or with provisions for predetermined compensation on termination which exceeds one years salary and benets in kind save as referred to below.
There are no provisions for compensation upon early termination of executive Directors service contracts save for C F W fide Croisset, details of which are set out below.
Sir John Bond is employed on a rolling contract dated 1 January 1993 which requires 12 months notice to be given by either party.
C F W fide Croisset has a contract of employment dated 7 January 1980 that was in force before he joined the Board of CCF.
The contract has no set term but provides for three months notice to be given by either party.
Under the terms of the contract Mr fide Croisset would be entitled to receive one months salary for each year of service with CCF on termination of his employment with CCF.
However, in accordance with French legal requirements and practice, this contract is suspended while he serves as an executive Director of CCF.
W R P Dalton is employed on a rolling contract dated 5 January 1998 which requires 12 months notice to be given by either party.
D G Eldon is employed on a rolling contract dated 1 January 1968 which requires three months notice to be given by either party.
D J Flint is employed on a rolling contract dated 29 September 1995 which requires 12 months notice to be given by the Company and nine months notice to be given by Mr Flint.
S K Green, who is to stand for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, is employed on a rolling contract dated 9 March 1998 which requires 12 months notice to be given by either party.
A W Jebson, who is to stand for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, is employed on a rolling contract dated 14 January 2000 which requires 12 months notice to be given by either party.
Sir Keith Whitson is employed on a rolling contract dated 1 August 1992 which requires 12 months notice to be given by either party.
Members of Senior Management are employed on service contracts which generally provide for a term of service expiring at the end of a period of up to two years, or the individuals sixtieth birthday, whichever is earlier.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for xed terms not exceeding three years, subject to their re-election by shareholders at the subsequent Annual General Meeting.
Non-executive Directors have no service contract and are not eligible to participate in HSBCs share plans.
Non-executive Directors terms of appointment will expire in 2004 Lord Butler, R K F Chien, W K L Fung, S Hintze, Sir John Kemp-Welch, Lord Marshall, Sir Brian Moffat and Sir Mark Moody-Stuart: and 2006 Baroness Dunn, S W Newton, H Sohmen, C S Taylor and Sir Brian Williamson.
Other Directorships Executive Directors, if so authorised by the Board, may accept appointments as non-executive Directors of suitable companies which are not part of HSBC.
Executive Directors normally would be permitted to take on no more than one such appointment.
Any remuneration receivable in respect of this appointment is paid to the HSBC company by which the executive Director is employed, unless otherwise approved by the Remuneration Committee.
In October 2000, the Remuneration Committee granted an exemption for Sir John Bond to retain his non-executive Directors fees from the Ford Motor Company, which are provided partly in the form of deferred shares, to vest after five years.
2 In return for the prior waiver of bonus, the employer contribution into the pension scheme has been increased by the amount of 400,000 2001: 300,000 which would otherwise have been paid.
3 The emoluments of D G Eldon include housing and other expatriate benets in kind that are normal within the location in which he is employed.
4 In return for a partial prior waiver of bonus, the employer contribution into the pension scheme has been increased by the amount of 175,000 2001: nil which would otherwise have been paid.
5 Includes fees as non-executive Chairman of HSBC Private Equity Asia Limited and as a non-executive Director of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited.
6 Includes fee as non-executive Director of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited.
9 H Sohmen has elected to waive any fees payable to him by HSBC Holdings 2002: 35,000 2001: 35,000.
10 Includes fee as a non-executive Director of HSBC Bank USA.
H Sohmen has elected to waive any fees payable to him by HSBC Holdings.
A fee of 25,000 2001: 25,000 was paid to Sir Wilfrid Newton, a former Director, in respect of his role as Chairman of the HSBC Bank plc committee overseeing the construction and occupation of the new HSBC headquarters.
Following the dissolution of this committee, payment of the fee ceased, with effect from 31 December 2002.
Pensions There are separate schemes for UK-based and overseas-based employees: the UK scheme has a normal retirement age of 60: retirement ages for overseas schemes vary in accordance with local legislation and practice.
With three exceptions see paragraphs below on C F W fide Croisset, D J Flint and W R P Dalton, the executive Directors are members of dened benefit pension schemes, having joined HSBC at a time when these were the norm.
The pension arrangements for Sir John Bond, S K Green, A W Jebson and Sir Keith Whitson to contractual retirement age of 60 are provided under the HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme.
The pensions accrue at a rate of onethirtieth of pensionable salary per year of pensionable service in the UK.
In addition, until 2001, supplementary provision was made for S K Green, via an employer contribution to a personal pension plan, with 1,123 having been made during 2001.
43 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued Summary Financial Statement C F W fide Croisset is eligible for pension benets which are supplementary to those accrued under the French State and Compulsory arrangements.
The amount of this supplementary pension, payable from age 60, currently accrues at the rate of 6,098 per annum for each year of service maximum 18 years as an executive Director of CCF.
The whole cost of this benefit is met by CCF.
The pension arrangements for W R P Dalton to contractual retirement age of 60 are provided on a dened benefit basis details of which are set out in the table below under the HSBC Canada Pension Plan A, at an accrual rate of onethirtieth of pensionable salary per year of pensionable service until his transfer to the UK in 1998.
Since taking up his appointment in the UK, he has joined the HSBC Holdings Overseas No.
1 Pension Plan on a dened contribution basis, with an employer contribution in respect of 2002 including a bonus waiver of 400,000 2001: 300,000 of 529,000 2001: 429,000.
The pension arrangements for D J Flint to contractual retirement age of 60 are provided through an executive allowance paid to fund personal pension arrangements set at 30 per cent of basic salary.
This is supplemented through the HSBC Holdings plc Funded Unapproved Retirement Benets Scheme on a dened contribution basis with an employer contribution during 2002 of 80,092 2001: 78,150.
The intention of these arrangements is to provide benets broadly comparable to an accrual rate of one-thirtieth of pensionable salary for each year of pensionable service.
The pension arrangements for D G Eldon are provided under the HSBC International Staff Retirement Benets Scheme.
Pension accrues at a rate of one twenty-seventh of pensionable salary per year of pensionable service.
Increase of transfer value of accrued pension less personal Accrued annual Increase in Transfer value of Transfer value of contributions pension at accrued pension accrued pension at accrued pension at 1 January 31 December 2002 during 2002 1 January 2002 31 December 2002 31 December 2002 1 1 1 000 000 000 000 000 2 Sir John Bond 308 20 5,046 5,504 458 C F W fide Croisset 56 7 516 626 110 W R P Dalton 257 6 3,028 3,680 652 3 4 D G Eldon 234 21 4,218 4,703 471 S K Green 159 19 1,833 1,901 68 5 A W Jebson 123 17 1,334 1,384 50 6 6 Sir Keith Whitson 251 29 5,181 4,514 676 1 The transfer value represents a liability of HSBCs pension funds and not a sum paid or due to the individual: it cannot therefore meaningfully be added to annual remuneration.
2 On attaining age 60, Sir John Bond has been able, under the terms of the scheme, to retire at any time with an immediate pension equal to his accrued pension which, at 31 December 2002, is shown above.
3 On attaining age 53, D G Eldon has been able, under the terms of the scheme, to retire at any time with an immediate pension equal to his accrued pension which, at 31 December 2002, is shown above.
4 D G Eldon made personal contributions towards his pension of 14,000 in respect of 2002.
5 A W Jebsons entitlement will be supplemented by an employer contribution of 175,000 in return for the prior waiver of part of his bonus in respect of 2002.
6 In addition, Sir Keith Whitson had a deferred pension entitlement under the HSBC International Staff Retirement Benets Scheme in respect of his Group service up to 1992 prior to his transfer to the UK.
This deferred pension entitlement was increased in accordance with the Rules of the Scheme during the deferred period.
This gave a pension entitlement at 1 January 2002 of 78,859 per annum and a pension entitlement of 84,678 per annum as at 31 October 2002.
With the agreement of the Trustee, Sir Keith Whitson exercised his option under the Rules of the Scheme to fully commute this accrued pension for a lump sum payment amounting to 1,100,390, which was paid in November 2002.
Sir John Bond, S K Green and A W Jebson were also members of the HSBC International Staff Retirement Benets Scheme but fully commuted their entitlement in 1993, 1992 and 1994 respectively.
The following unfunded pension payments, in respect of which provision has been made, were made during 2002 to four former Directors of HSBC Holdings: 2002 2001 B H Asher 81,564 80,277 R Delbridge 117,313 115,595 Sir Brian Pearse 48,918 48,147 Sir William Purves 86,343 84,981 334,138 329,000 The payments in respect of R Delbridge and Sir Brian Pearse were made by HSBC Bank plc as former Directors of the bank.
44 Share options At 31 December 2002, the undernamed Directors held options to acquire the number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of US$0.50 each set against their respective names.
The options were awarded for nil consideration at exercise prices equivalent to the market value at the date of award, except that options awarded under the HSBC Holdings savings-related share option plans since 2001 are exercisable at a 20 per cent discount to the market value at the date of award and those awarded before 2001 at a 15 per cent discount.
There are no remaining performance criteria conditional upon which the outstanding options are exercisable.
No options held by the Directors lapsed during the year.
The market value of the ordinary shares at 31 December 2002 was 6.865.
The highest and lowest market values during the period were 8.66 and 6.43.
Market value is the mid-market price derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List on the relevant date.
2 The exercise of these options was conditional upon the growth in earnings per share over a three-year period being equal to or greater than a composite rate of ination comprising 50 per cent of the Hong Kong Composite Consumer Price Index, 35 per cent of the UK Retail Price Index and 15 per cent of the USA All Urban Consumer Price Index plus 2 per cent per annum.
This condition has been satisfied.
3 Options awarded under the HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Option Plan.
4 Options awarded under the HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan.
In accordance with agreements made at the time of the acquisition of CCF there are no performance criteria conditional upon which the outstanding options are exercisable.
5 At the date of exercise, 8 August 2002, the market value per share was 7.45.
6 At the date of exercise, 13 March 2002, the market value per share was 8.34.
7 At the date of exercise, 22 March 2002, the market value per share was 8.045.
At 31 December 2002, C F W fide Croisset held the following options to acquire CCF shares of 5 each.
On exercise of these options each CCF share will be exchanged for 13 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of US$0.50 each.
The options were granted by CCF for nil consideration at a 5 per cent discount to the market value at the date of award.
Save as stated above, none of the Directors, or members of their immediate families, was awarded or exercised any right to subscribe for any shares or debentures during the year.
1 Includes additional shares arising from scrip dividends.
2 In accordance with the performance conditions over the three-year period to 31 December 2001 set out in the Annual Report and Accounts 1998, an additional award of 20 per cent of the initial performance share award was made on 7 May 2002.
The market value per share on 7 May 2002 was 8.405.
The shares acquired by the Trustee of the Plan were purchased at an average price of 8.13.
3 The market value per share on 8 March 2002 was 8.34.
The shares acquired by the Trustee of the Plan were purchased at an average price of 8.28.
4 50 per cent of D G Eldons discretionary bonus in respect of 1999, 2000 and 2001 respectively was awarded in Restricted Shares with a three-year restricted.
On behalf of the Board Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, Chairman of Remuneration Committee 3 March 2003 46 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Summary Consolidated profit and Loss Account Summary Financial Statement 2001 Year ended 31 December 2002 2002 2002 US$m US$m m HK$m 35,261 Interest receivable 28,595 19,044 223,012 20,536 Interest payable 13,135 8,748 102,440 14,725 Net interest income 15,460 10,296 120,572 11,163 Other operating income 11,135 7,416 86,842 25,888 Operating income 26,595 17,712 207,414 14,605 Operating expenses 14,954 9,959 116,626 799 Goodwill amortisation 854 569 6,660 10,484 Operating profit before provisions 10,787 7,184 84,128 2,037 Provisions for bad and doubtful debts 1,321 880 10,303 649 Provisions for contingent liabilities and commitments 39 26 304 520 Foreign currency redenomination in Argentina 68 45 530 125 Amounts written off xed asset investments 324 216 2,527 7,153 Operating profit 9,035 6,017 70,464 91 Share of losses from joint ventures 28 18 218 164 Income from associated undertakings 135 90 1,053 Gains on disposal of: 754 investments 532 354 4,149 20 tangible xed assets 24 16 187 8,000 profit on ordinary activities before tax 9,650 6,427 75,261 1,988 Tax on profit on ordinary activities 2,534 1,688 19, 763 6,012 profit on ordinary activities after tax 7,116 4,739 55,498 Minority interests: 579 equity 505 336 3,939 441 non-equity 372 248 2,901 4,992 profit attributable to shareholders 6,239 4,155 48,658 4,467 Dividends 5,001 3,331 39,003 525 Retained profit for the period 1,238 824 9,655 US$ US$ HK$ 0.63 Cash earnings per ordinary share 0.76 0.51 5.93 0.54 Basic earnings per ordinary share 0.67 0.45 5.23 0.53 Diluted earnings per ordinary share 0.66 0.44 5.15 Cash earnings per share comprise basic earnings per share after excluding the impact of goodwill amortisation.
48 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Summary Financial Statement Summary Financial Statement 1 Basis of preparation The Summary Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modied by the revaluation of certain investments and land and buildings and in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those described in the Annual Report and Accounts 2001 except as noted below.
HSBC has adopted the provisions of the UK Financial Reporting Standard FRS 19 Deferred Tax with effect from 1 January 2002.
This has required a change in the method of accounting for deferred tax.
Deferred tax is now recognised in full, subject to recoverability of deferred tax assets.
Previously, deferred tax assets and liabilities were recognised only to the extent they were expected to crystallise.
As deferred tax liabilities have generally been fully provided, the main impact of the change in method for HSBC has been the recognition of deferred tax assets previously not recognised.
The change in accounting policy has been reected by way of a prior period adjustment.
The comparative gures have been restated as follows: Consolidated profit and loss account tax on profit on ordinary activities Year ended 31 December Figures in US$m 2001 2000 Under previous policy 1,574 2,238 Adoption of FRS 19 414 171 Under new policy 1,988 2,409 The effect on the results for the current period of the adoption of FRS 19 is immaterial.
Provisions for liabilities and Minority Intangible charges interests Figures in US$m xed assets Other assets deferred tax equity Reserves At 31 December 2001 Under previous policy 14,581 38,247 1,109 2,199 41,301 Adoption of FRS 19 17 385 52 11 409 Under new policy 14,564 38,632 1,057 2,210 41,710 At 31 December 2000 Under previous policy 15,089 35,562 1,251 2,138 40,936 Adoption of FRS 19 17 468 383 11 823 Under new policy 15,072 36,030 868 2,149 41,759 The increase in HSBCs tax charge for 2001 and 2000 as restated can be explained as follows: reversal of a benefit taken in 2001 under SSAP 15 in respect of deferred tax assets attributable under FRS 19 to prior periods: reversal of a benefit taken in 2001 under SSAP 15 in respect of the utilisation and release of a provision for additional UK tax on remittances from overseas, such provision not being permissible under FRS 19: and establishment of a provision required under FRS 19 in respect of a possible claw-back of capital allowances.
49 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Notes on the Summary Financial Statement continued Summary Financial Statement 2 Directors emoluments The aggregate emoluments of the Directors of HSBC Holdings, computed in accordance with Part I of Schedule 6 of the UK Companies Act 1985, were US$14,579,000 2001: US$12,718,000: 2000: US$11,741,000.
There were annual commitments under retirement benefit agreements with former Directors of US$501,000 2001: US$472,000: 2000: US$483,000.
The provision as at 31 December 2002 in respect of unfunded pension obligations to former Directors amounted to US$6,942,000 2001: US$6,281,000: 2000: US$6,535,000.
During the year, aggregate contributions to pension schemes in respect of Directors were US$1,592,024 2001: US$1,462,000: 2000: US$798,000.
3 Related party transactions Transactions, arrangements and agreements involving Directors and others Particulars of transactions, arrangements and agreements entered into by subsidiary undertakings of HSBC Holdings with Directors and connected persons and companies controlled by them and with ofcers of HSBC Holdings disclosed pursuant to section 232 of the Companies Act 1985 are as follows: 2002 2001 Number US$m Number US$m Directors and connected persons and companies controlled by them: Loans and credit card transactions including US$367,665 in credit card transactions 2001: US$259,172 and US$14,538,793 in guarantees 2001: US$34,541,955 145 931 150 716 Ofcers: Loans and credit card transactions including US$169,025 in credit card transactions 2001: US$149,753 and US$nil in guarantees 2001: US$nil 28 18 27 13 Particulars of Directors transactions are recorded in a register held at the Registered Ofce of HSBC Holdings which is available for inspection by members for 15 days prior to the HSBC Holdings Annual General Meeting and at the Annual General Meeting itself.
The transactions were made in the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with persons of a similar standing or, where applicable, with other employees.
The transactions did not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavourable features.
50 4 Called up share capital Authorised: The authorised ordinary share capital of HSBC Holdings at 31 December 2002 was US$7,500 million, 2001: US$7,500 million: 2000: US$5,250 million divided into 15,000 million 2001: 15,000 million: 2000: 10,500 million ordinary shares of US$0.50 each, and 301,500 divided into 301,500 non-voting deferred shares of 1 each.
Number of US$0.50 shares US$m Issued: At 1 January 2002 9,354,627,521 4,678 Shares issued to QUEST 6,147,311 3 Shares issued under employee share plans 30,460,369 15 Shares issued in lieu of dividends 89,585,595 45 At 31 December 2002 9,480,820,796 4,741 5 Foreign currency amounts The Hong Kong dollar and sterling gures shown in the consolidated profit and loss account and the balance sheet are for information only.
They are translated from US dollars at the average rate of exchange for the year ended 31 December 2002 and the closing rate at that date respectively.
These were as follows: Average rate Closing rate US$1.00 HK$ 7.799 7.798 US$1.00 0.666 0.620 6 Other information This Summary Financial Statement is only a summary of information in the HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002.
It is not the Groups statutory accounts and it does not contain sufficient information to allow as full an understanding of the results and state of affairs of the Group as would be provided by the full Annual Report and Accounts.
The Directors Remuneration Report in this Summary Financial Statement is the complete Report contained in the Annual Report and Accounts.
Members may obtain, free of charge, a copy of the Annual Report and Accounts 2002 from Group Corporate Affairs, HSBC Holdings plc, 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ, United Kingdom: Group Public Affairs, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, 1 Queens Road Central, Hong Kong: Group Public Affairs, HSBC Bank USA, 452 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10018, USA: or from CCF S. A.
A Chinese translation of the Annual Report and Accounts may be obtained from Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited, Rooms 1901-1905, Hopewell Centre, 183 Queens Road East, Hong Kong.
Members may elect in writing to receive the full Annual Report and Accounts for all future financial years by applying to the appropriate Registrars, the addresses of which are shown on the inside back cover.
The Annual Report and Accounts 2002 may be viewed on our web site: www.
7 Approval of the Summary Financial Statement The Summary Financial Statement was approved by the Board of Directors on 3 March 2003.
51 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Statement of the Independent Auditors to the Members of HSBC Holdings plc Pursuant to Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 We have examined the Summary Financial Statement set out on pages 34 to 51.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review in accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the Summary Financial Statement within the Annual Review with the full annual accounts, the Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration Report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Summary Financial Statement.
Basis of opinion We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 The auditors statement on the Summary Financial Statement issued by the Auditing Board.
Our unqualied report on the Groups full annual accounts describes the basis of our audit opinion on those accounts.
Opinion In our opinion the Summary Financial Statement is consistent with the full annual accounts, the Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration Report of HSBC Holdings plc for the year ended 31 December 2002 and complies with the applicable requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
KPMG Audit Plc 3 March 2003 Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor London 52 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information Financial Calendar 2003 Publication of Annual Review and Annual Report and Accounts online 3 March Shares quoted ex-dividend in London and Hong Kong and American Depositary Shares ADSs quoted ex-dividend in New York 19 March Record date for the second interim dividend for 2002 21 March Shares quoted ex-dividend in Paris 24 March Mailing of Annual Review and or Annual Report and Accounts, Notice of Annual General Meeting and dividend documentation 1 April Final date for receipt by registrars of forms of election and revocations of standing instructions for scrip dividends 24 April Exchange rate determined for payment of dividends in sterling and Hong Kong dollars 28 April Payment date: dividend warrants, new share certicates and notional tax vouchers mailed and shares credited to stock accounts in CREST 6 May Annual General Meeting 30 May Announcement of 2003 interim results 4 August Proposed dates for first interim dividend for 2003: Shares quoted ex-dividend in London and Hong Kong and ADSs quoted ex-dividend in New York 20 August Record date 22 August Shares quoted ex-dividend in Paris 25 August Payment date 7 October Annual General Meeting The 2003 Annual General Meeting will be held at the Barbican Hall, Barbican Centre, London EC2 on Friday, 30 May 2003 at 11.00 a. m. Dividends The Directors have declared a second interim dividend of US$0.325 per ordinary share which, together with the first interim dividend of US$0.205 already paid, will make a total distribution for the year of US$0.53 per share, an increase of 10 per cent on 2001.
Information on the scrip dividend scheme and currencies in which the cash dividend may be paid will be sent to shareholders on or about 1 April 2003.
Postal Share-Dealing Service For shareholders on the UK Register, a low-cost postal share-dealing service for buying and selling HSBC Holdings shares is available from HSBC Bank plc Stockbrokers.
Details are available from: HSBC Bank plc Stockbrokers Mariner House, Pepys Street London EC3N 4DA Telephone: 020 7260 0906 Facsimile: 020 7260 7556 53 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Shareholder Information continued Shareholder Enquiries Any matters relating to your shareholding, e. g. transfer of shares, change of name or address, lost share certicates and dividend cheques, should be sent in writing to: UK Principal Register Hong Kong Hong Kong Overseas Branch Register Computershare Investor Services PLC Computershare Hong Kong Investor PO Box 435, Owen House Services Limited 8 Bankhead Crossway North Rooms 1901-1905, Hopewell Centre Edinburgh EH11 4BR 183 Queens Road East USA ADR Depositary France Paying Agent The Bank of New York CCF 101 Barclay Street, 22 West 103 avenue des Champs Elyses New York, NY 10286 75008 Paris Investor Relations Enquiries may be directed to: Senior Manager Investor Relations HSBC Holdings plc 8 Canada Square London E14 5HQ UK Telephone: 44 020 7992 1939 Facsimile: 44 020 7991 4663 E-mail: shareholder@hsbc.
com Annual Review 2002 Further copies of this Annual Review, and additional information about HSBC, may be obtained by writing to any of the following departments.
For those in Europe, the Middle East and Africa: Group Corporate Affairs HSBC Holdings plc 8 Canada Square London E14 5HQ UK For those in Asia-Pacic: Group Public Affairs The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited 1 Queens Road Central Hong Kong 54 For those in the Americas: Group Public Affairs HSBC Bank USA 452 Fifth Avenue New York, NY 10018 USA Electronic Communications Shareholders may, at any time, choose to receive corporate communications in printed form or electronically.
To register online to receive electronic communications, or revoke or amend an instruction to receive electronic communications, go to www.
com and select Investor Centre and then Electronic Communications.
If you received this document electronically and would like to receive future shareholder communications in printed form, please write to the appropriate Registrars listed under Shareholder Enquiries.
Printed copies will be provided without charge.
Chinese translation A Chinese translation of this Annual Review and future documents is available on request from the Registrars listed under Shareholder Enquiries.
Please also contact the Registrars if you have received a Chinese translation of this document and do not wish to receive such translations in future.
French translation A French translation of this Annual Review is available on request from: La traduction franaise du bilan dactivit est disponible sur demande: Direction fide la Communication CCF 103 avenue des Champs Elyses 75419 Paris Cedex 08 France Web Site This Annual Review, and other information on the HSBC Group, may be viewed on our web site: www.
55 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC HSBC International Network 56 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Incorporated in England with limited liability Registered in England: number 617987 REGISTERED OFFICE AND GROUP HEAD OFFICE 8 Canada Square London E14 5HQ United Kingdom Telephone: 44 020 7991 8888 Facsimile: 44 020 7992 4880 Web: www.
com REGISTRARS Principal Register Computershare Investor Services PLC PO Box 435, Owen House 8 Bankhead Crossway North Edinburgh EH11 4BR United Kingdom Telephone: 44 0870 702 0137 Hong Kong Overseas Branch Register Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited Rooms 1901-1905, Hopewell Centre Copyright HSBC Holdings plc 2003 183 Queens Road East All rights reserved Hong Kong No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval Telephone: 852 2862 8628 system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without the prior ADR Depositary written permission of HSBC Holdings plc.
The Bank of New York 101 Barclay Street, 22 West Published by Group Corporate Affairs, HSBC Holdings plc, London New York, NY 10286 Designed by Group Public Affairs, The Hongkong and Shanghai USA Banking Corporation Limited, Hong Kong Telephone: 1 888 269 2377 Printed by St Ives Westerham Press, Edenbridge, United Kingdom, on Paying Agent France environmentally friendly paper manufactured from totally chlorine-free CCF pulp and recycled bres 103 avenue des Champs Elyses 75008 Paris France Telephone: 33 1 40 70 22 56 Photography credits Cover, pages 4 top, 5, 6 main picture and bottom, 7, 10 main STOCKBROKERS picture and bottom, 12-13 main picture, 13 inset, 16 main Cazenove & Co. Ltd picture and inset, 17, 18-19 all except top, 21: 12 Tokenhouse Yard www.
net London EC2R 7AN United Kingdom Pages 6 top left and right, 10 top, 13 right middle, 19 top : James Morgan Photographic Consultancy HSBC Bank plc Page 11: NewsCast 8 Canada Square London E14 5HQ Pages 29-32: all photos by Phil Sayer except D G Eldon United Kingdom by C K Wong Stock number 96179-3 697653 Covers 3 3 03 7:39 AM Page 1
