ICAP plc Annual Report 2002 62 Information for Shareholders Shareholders Balance Analysis Summary % of issued share Balance at capital at 31 March 31 March Range No.
Dividend payment It is intended that the final dividend will be paid on Friday 30 August 2002 to shareholders on the register on Friday 2 August 2002.
Shares will trade ex-dividend on the London Stock Exchange from Wednesday 31 July 2002.
Future dividends will normally be paid as follows: Interim Declared in November and paid in February Final Approved by shareholders at the AGM in July and paid in August Results The unaudited results of the Company in respect of the six months to 30 September 2002 are expected to be published in late November 2002.
Capital gains tax base cost of ICAP Shares at Demerger from United Shares in the Company acquired on the Demerger on 17 November 1998 will be treated as having a base cost for capital gains tax purposes ascertained by reference to the mid-market values of the Company and United shares on that date.
The relevant prices on The London Stock Exchange on 17 November 1998 were ICAP 217p: United 638p.
To take into account the consolidation of the Companys shares on a one for ten basis i. e. one ICAP share for every ten United shares held, the first part of the calculation is to be made, as follows: 21.7 x 100 3.29% 21.7 638 ICAP plc Annual Report 2002 63 Next, the figure of 3.29% should be applied to the base cost of United shares.
The resultant amount should then be multiplied by ten to reflect the consolidation of the Companys shares.
Therefore, the base cost for one Company share received on Demerger following consolidation will be equivalent to 32.9% of the original base cost of one United share.
The new base cost for United shares held will be 96.71% of their original base cost.
Capital gains tax base cost of ICAP shares received by Intercapital shareholders at the time of the Merger For the purposes of UK capital gains tax, former Intercapital shareholders who acquired shares in the Company by means of the Merger, 9 September 1999, will be treated as having acquired those shares for the same consideration and at the same time as their Intercapital shares.
When an original Intercapital shareholder has to account for UK capital gains tax upon a subsequent disposal of the Companys shares acquired by means of the Merger, then the base cost of each ICAP share will be 8.12 times the consideration attributable to one original Intercapital share.
Frequent shareholder enquiries Notifying the Company of a change of address Shareholders should notify the Companys registrar, Lloyds TSB Registrars, in writing.
If shares are held in joint names, the notification must be signed by the first named shareholder.
Notifying the Company of a change of name To ensure the details of a shareholding are correct, notification of a change of name should be made in writing to Lloyds TSB Registrars.
A copy of any marriage certificate or change of name deed should be provided as evidence of the name change.
Dividend payments directly into bank building society accounts Dividends for shareholders are paid through BACS and can be paid directly into a UK bank or building society account with the tax voucher sent direct to the shareholders registered address.
A dividend mandate form is available from Lloyds TSB Registrars or from its website: www.
co. uk under the Frequently Asked Questions section.
Transferring ICAP shares Transferring shares to someone else requires the completion of a stock transfer form.
These forms are available by calling the ICAP shareholder helpline, 0870 600 3970.
Stamp duty is not normally payable if there is no money or other consideration changing hands in exchange for the shares.
Lost ICAP share certificate s Shareholders who lose their share certificate s or have their certificate s stolen should inform Lloyds TSB Registrars immediately by calling the ICAP shareholder helpline, 0870 600 3970.
Share certificates in the names of Garban plc, Garban-Intercapital plc and ICAP plc all remain valid.
ShareGift Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which makes it uneconomic to sell them, may wish to consider donating them to charity through ShareGift, a registered charity administered by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation.
The relevant share transfer form can be obtained from Lloyds TSB Registrars.
Further information about ShareGift is available at www.
Registrar Lloyds TSB Registrars The Causeway Worthing West Sussex BN99 6DA Telephone: 0870 600 3970 Information about Lloyds TSB Registrars is available at www.
co. uk and up to date information about current holdings on the Register is also available at www.
Shareholders will need their reference number account number and postcode, to view information on their own holding.
Disability Helpline For shareholders with hearing difficulties a special text phone number is available: 0870 600 3950
