ICAP plc Annual Report 2002 68 Definitions In this Annual Report the following words shall have the meanings set out below: Blackbird Blackbird Holdings Inc Combined Code the Principles of Good Corporate Governance and Code of Best Practice published by the Committee on Corporate Governance in June 1998 Companies Act Companies Act 1985 as amended Company ICAP plc formerly named Garban-Intercapital plc and Garban plc Demerger the demerger of Garban from United on 17 November 1998 $ or Dollars unless otherwise specified all references to Dollars or $ sign are to the currency of the USA Down spread bet A down spread bet and a short contract for differences are each arrangements whereby on closure the participant and short contract will be entitled to receive a payment calculated as the amount of the bet multiplied by the number of pence by for differences which the price of an ICAP share is less than the price stipulated in the bet.
Equally the participant will be obliged to pay the amount of the bet for every 1p by which the price of ICAP shares is above the price stipulated in the bet.
"ETC means the Electronic Trading Community, the Companys interactive trading platform EPS Earnings per share EU European Union Exco Exco plc, which changed its name to Intercapital plc on 26 October 1998 Exco Intercapital merger the acquisition of the Intercapital companies by Exco on 26 October 1998 First Brokers First Brokers Securities Inc FRS Financial Reporting Standard FSA the Financial Services Authority FTSE 350 The FTSE 350 is calculated by FTSE International Limited and is an index which combines both FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 companies that constitute the largest 350 UK companies by full market capitalisation Garban Garban plc, which changed its name to Garban-Intercapital plc on 9 September 1999 and then to ICAP plc on 25 July 2001 Group the Company and its subsidiary undertakings ""ICAP shares"" ICAP plc ordinary shares INHBV Incap Netherlands Holdings B. V. Intercapital Intercapital plc Intercapital companies those companies acquired from IPGL at the time of their merger with Exco in October 1998 IPGL Intercapital Private Group Limited MAI MAI plc Merger the merger of Garban and Intercapital on 9 September 1999 MoneyLine MoneyLine Telerate OTC Over the counter TFS Tradition Financial Services United United Business Media plc formerly United News & Media plc Zions Zions Bancorporation of Salt Lake City, Utah, USA Additionally, references to the Groups business in Europe should be construed so as to include the Groups business in South Africa."
Designed and produced by Best & Co. London.
Printed by Park Communications Limited.
This Annual Report is printed on Zanders Mega Matt.
This paper is sourced from sustainable forests, is totally chlorine free TCF, has recycled fibre 50%, is suitable for archival storage and qualifies for the Nordic Swan environmental label.
ICAP plc Park House 16 Finsbury Circus London EC2M 7UR United Kingdom Telephone 44 20 7638 7592 Facsimile 44 20 7374 6743 e-mail investors@icap.
