ICAP plc Annual Report 2002 64 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the fourth Annual General Meeting of ICAP plc the Company will be held at the offices of Ashurst Morris Crisp, Broadwalk House, 5 Appold Street, London EC2A 2HA at 10.30am on Wednesday, 17 July 2002.
Ordinary business 1 To receive the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2002, together with the reports of the directors and auditors thereon.
2 To receive the Remuneration Committee Report.
3 To declare a final dividend of 18 pence per ordinary share, payable to shareholders on the register at 2 August 2002.
4 To re-elect Charles Gregson as a director of the Company.
5 To re-elect Stephen McDermott as a director of the Company.
6 To re-elect William Nabarro as a director of the Company.
7 To re-elect Jim Pettigrew as a director of the Company.
8 To re-elect Paul Zuckerman as a director of the Company.
9 To reappoint  as auditors of the Company and to authorise the directors to set their remuneration.
Special business To consider, and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions of which numbers 10, 13 and 14 will be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions and numbers 11 and 12 will be proposed as Special Resolutions: Ordinary Resolution 10 That the directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 and in accordance with Article 10.2 of the Companys Articles of Association from time to time, to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of section 80 2 of the said Act of up to an aggregate nominal amount of 16,744,015, this authority to expire on the fifth anniversary of the passing of this resolution, save that the Company may before such expiry make any offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of any offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
This authority shall be in substitution for and shall replace any existing authority pursuant to the said section 80, to the extent not utilised at the date this resolution is passed.
Special Resolutions 11 That subject to the passing of resolution 10 above and in accordance with Article 10.3 of the Companys Articles of Association from time to time, the directors be and are hereby empowered to allot equity securities as defined in section 94 2 of the Companies Act 1985 for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 10 above as if section 89 1 of the said Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities: a in connection with a rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders and holders of any other class of equity securities where the equity securities are proportionate as nearly as practicable to the respective number of ordinary shares or other equity securities held by such holders but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or desirable in relation to fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems arising in, or pursuant to, the laws of any territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange in any territory: and b otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,510,352: and this power shall expire on the fifth anniversary of the passing of this resolution, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
12 That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to and in accordance with section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of such Act of its own ordinary shares on such terms and in such manner as the directors may from time to time determine subject to the following: a the maximum number of such ordinary shares in the Company hereby authorised to be acquired is 10,046,409: b the minimum price, exclusive of expenses, which may be paid for each such ordinary share is an amount equal to the nominal value of each such ordinary share: ICAP plc Annual Report 2002 65 c the maximum price, exclusive of expenses, which may be paid for any such ordinary share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the ordinary shares in the Company taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which such ordinary share is contracted to be purchased: d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting: and e the Company may enter into a contract for the purchase of such ordinary shares before the expiry of this authority which would or might be completed wholly or partly after its expiry.
Ordinary Resolutions 13 That the Company and its directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make Donations to EU political organisations and to incur EU political expenditure up to an aggregate amount of 100,000 for the Group, this authority to expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2003.
For the purposes of this resolution, Donation, EU political organisations and EU political expenditure have the meanings ascribed in section 347A of the Companies Act 1985.
14 That Garban-Intercapital Management Services Limited and its directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make Donations to EU political organisations and to incur EU political expenditure up to an aggregate amount of 100,000 for the Group, this authority to expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2003.
By order of the board E. C. Pank Registered Office Company Secretary Park House 16 Finsbury Circus 28 May 2002 London EC2M 7UR Notes 1 Transfer If you have sold or transferred all of your shares, you should pass this documentation and the form of proxy to the person through whom the sale or transfer was effected for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
2 Proxies Only holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and vote at this meeting.
A member entitled to attend and vote may appoint a proxy or proxies who need not be a member of the Company to attend and on a poll, to vote instead of him or her.
Forms of proxy must be returned so as to be received by the Companys registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6AZ, not later than 10.30am on Monday, 15 July 2002, being 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
Completion of a form of proxy will not preclude a member attending and voting in person at the meeting.
3 Right to attend and vote Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company specifies that in order to have the right to attend and vote at the meeting and also for the purpose of calculating how many votes a person entitled to attend and vote may cast a person must be entered on the register of holders of the ordinary shares of the Company by not later than 6pm on 15 July 2002 being two business days before the time fixed for the meeting.
Changes to entries on the register after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting and the number of shares on which they can vote.
4 Directors Information concerning the directors to be re-elected can be found on page 14 of the Annual Report.
5 Documents on display The Register of directors interests in the share capital and debentures of the Company, together with copies of the service agreements under which directors of the Company are employed, are available for inspection at all times at the Companys registered office during normal business hours, and will be available for inspection at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
