Directors Responsibilities Accounts, including adoption of going Other matters concern basis The Directors are responsible for keeping proper United Kingdom company law requires the Directors accounting records which disclose with reasonable to prepare accounts for each financial year which accuracy at any time the financial position of the give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and Group and enable them to ensure that Company and Group and of the profit or loss of the the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for the system of internal control, safeguarding the assets of the Company After making enquiries, the Directors have a and Group and hence for taking reasonable steps reasonable expectation that the Company and the for the prevention and detection of fraud and other Group have adequate resources to continue in irregularities.
operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
In preparing the accounts, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts.
Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the Members the information and explanations we require for and judgements made by the Directors in the of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc our audit, or if information specified by law or the preparation of the financial statements and of We have audited the financial statements of British Listing Rules regarding Directors remuneration and whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Sky Broadcasting Group plc for the year ended transactions with the Company and other members the circumstances of the Company and the Group, 30 June 2002, which comprise the profit and of the Group is not disclosed.
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Loss Account, the Balance Sheets, the Cash Flow Statement, the Statement of Total Recognised We review whether the corporate governance We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain Gains and Losses and the related notes 1 to 30. statement reects the Companys compliance with all the information and explanations which we These financial statements have been prepared the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified considered necessary in order to provide us with under the accounting policies set out therein.
for our review by the Listing Rules and we report if sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance it does not.
We are not required to consider whether that the financial statements are free from material Respective responsibilities of Directors the Boards statements on internal control cover misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other and Auditors all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also As described in the statement of Directors effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation Responsibilities, the Companys Directors are procedures or its risk and control procedures.
of information in the financial statements.
responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with applicable United We read the Directors Report and the other Opinion Kingdom law and accounting standards.
Our information contained in the annual report for the In our opinion the financial statements give a true and responsibility is to audit the financial statements in above year as described in the contents section and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and consider the implications for our report if we become the Group as at 30 June 2002 and of the loss of the regulatory requirements, auditing standards, and the aware of any apparent misstatements or material Group for the year then ended and have been properly Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
inconsistencies with the financial statements.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Basis of audit opinion Deloitte & Touche financial statements give a true and fair view and We conducted our audit in accordance with United Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors are properly prepared in accordance with the Kingdom auditing standards issued by the Auditing Hill House Companies Act 1985.
We also report if, in our Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, 1 Little New Street opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts London EC4A 3TR the financial statements, if the Company has not kept and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also proper accounting records, if we have not received all includes an assessment of the significant estimates 30 July 2002 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the British Sky Broadcasting Group plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
