Accounting policies Basis of preparation The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, modied to include the revaluation of insurance assets attributable to unit-linked policyholders, and in accordance with applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom.
The financial statements comply with Schedule 4 to the Companies Act 1985, with the exception of the treatment of Limited Partnerships.
The directors have invoked the true and fair override provisions of the Companies Act 1985, as described in Basis of consolidation below and note 31.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated balance sheet includes the financial statements of subsidiary undertakings and the consolidated profit and loss account includes the results of subsidiary undertakings, except for private equity limited partnerships in which the group is a general partner see note 31.
In accordance with Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 a separate profit and loss account for the company is not shown.
Turnover Turnover represents income from investment management services and the net profit derived from selling or buying open-ended investment products.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisitions made after 17 February 1998 is capitalised and in accordance with FRS 10: Goodwill and Intangible Assets is amortised over its useful economic life up to a maximum of 20 years.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 17 February 1998 has been written off against reserves in the accounting period in which it arises.
Goodwill is reviewed where it is believed that impairment may have occurred.
Any impairment arising from such a review would be charged to profit and loss in the period in which it arose.
Where goodwill previously written off to reserves has been permanently impaired an appropriate amount is charged to profit and loss in the period in which the impairment is recognised.
In the event of subsequent disposal of the business to which it related, goodwill would be charged or credited to the profit and loss account.
Tangible xed assets All tangible xed assets are shown at cost less aggregate depreciation.
Depreciation is calculated to write off assets over their expected useful lives by equal annual instalments, as follows: Leasehold improvements over 10 years Motor vehicles over 3 years Ofce furniture & equipment over 3-5 years Computer equipment over 3 years 74 ISIS ASSET MANAGEMENT plc REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 The carrying value of tangible xed assets is reviewed where it is believed that impairment may have occurred.
Any impairment arising from such a review would be charged as depreciation in the period in which it arose.
Investments Listed investments are carried at the lower of cost and market value.
Unlisted investments are carried at the lower of cost and directors valuation.
The insurance assets attributable to unit-linked policyholders are valued at market value.
Stock of units and shares The stock of units and shares held is valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay less or receive more tax, with the following exceptions:.
Provision is made for tax on gains arising from the revaluation and similar fair value adjustments of xed assets, or gains on disposal of xed assets that have been rolled over into replacement assets, only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, there is a commitment to dispose of the assets concerned.
However, no provision is made where, on the basis of all available evidence at the balance sheet date, it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over into replacement assets and charged to tax only where the replacement assets are sold..
Provision is made for deferred tax that would arise on remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable..
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Insurance activities The insurance assets attributable to unit-linked policyholders are held to meet the liabilities to policyholders invested in unit-linked insurance products.
Other assets and liabilities attributable to the insurance business are consolidated on a line by line basis within the balance sheet.
The results attributable to this insurance activity are accounted for as other operating income.
ISIS ASSET MANAGEMENT plc REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 75 Accounting policies Leasing Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Lease incentives are recognised by the group as a reduction of the rental expense, allocated on a straight line basis, over the shorter of the lease term and a period ending on a date from which it is expected the prevailing market rental will be payable.
Business development costs Costs incurred to develop additional sources of revenue and to secure continuing revenues from existing clients are charged as incurred and included in selling expenses.
Pension costs In accordance with best accounting practice, ISIS adopted the Financial Reporting Standard FRS17: Retirement Benets in 2001, as detailed in the Report & Accounts for that year.
The company operates a pension scheme providing benets on final pensionable salary The ISIS Asset Management plc Pension Fund, formerly The Ivory & Sime plc Retirement and Death Benets Plan.
The pension scheme assets are measured using market value.
Pension scheme liabilities are measured using a projected unit method and discounted at the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liability.
Past service costs arise when ISIS makes a commitment to provide a higher level of benefit than previously promised.
Past service costs are recognised in the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the period in which the increases in benefit vest.
The surplus deficit in a dened benefit scheme is the excess shortfall of the value of the assets in the scheme compared against the present value of the scheme liabilities and is recognised as an asset liability of the company and group.
Any scheme asset reects the amount that can be recovered through reduced contributions in the future, being the present value of the liability expected to arise from future service by current scheme members less the present value of future employee contributions.
The present value of the reduction in future contributions is determined using the discount rate applied to measure the dened benefit liability.
The deferred tax relating to the dened benefit asset or liability is offset against the dened benefit asset or liability and not included with other deferred tax assets or liabilities.
The increase in the present value of the liabilities of the companys dened benefit pension scheme expected to arise from employee service in the period is charged to operating profit.
The expected return on the scheme assets and the increase during the period in the present value of the scheme liabilities arising from the passage of time are included in other finance income.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
76 ISIS ASSET MANAGEMENT plc REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 The final salary pension scheme was closed to new entrants on 31 December 1995 and a Group Personal Pension Plan has been established.
The group has created a dened contribution scheme, with greater certainty in relation to future cost to the company.
Contributions made to this scheme are charged to the profit and loss account as they become payable in accordance with the rules of the scheme.
Certain employees of the group were members of the Friends Provident Staff Pension Scheme.
On 31 December 2001 the ISIS Asset Management members of the Friends Provident Staff Pension Scheme transferred to ISIS Asset Management plc Pension Fund and are now treated on a dened benets basis.
Prior to this the groups obligation and commitment in respect of this scheme was similar to that of a dened contribution scheme and has been treated as a multi-employer scheme until the transfer of the members to the ISIS Asset Management plc Pension Fund.
Joint ventures Joint ventures are accounted for under the gross equity method.
The share of the results and net assets of the joint ventures are shown in the consolidated results of the group.
Foreign currencies Fees are translated at rates of exchange ruling when payment is received.
Monetary assets and liabilities are translated at year-end exchange rates and exchange differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
The accounts of foreign registered subsidiary undertakings have been translated at year-end exchange rates and exchange differences are taken directly to reserves.
31 December 31 December Rates of exchange to sterling 2002 2001 US Dollars 1.61 1.46 Japanese Yen 191.05 190.74 Hong Kong Dollars 12.55 11.35 Euro 1.53 1.63 Canadian Dollars 2.54 2.32 Australian Dollars 2.86 2.84 Irish Punts 1.21 1.29 ISIS ASSET MANAGEMENT plc REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 77
