Information about the Company FINANCIAL CALENDAR Financial year end 31st December Interim results announced July August Final results announced March Dividend on ordinary shares paid May Annual General Meeting April May History Share Transactions JPMorgan Fleming American Investment Trust has The shares may be dealt in directly through a its origins in the Alabama, New Orleans, Texas and stockbroker or through a professional adviser Pacific Junction Railways Company, Limited which acting on an investors behalf.
They may also be was formed in 1881 to acquire interests in, and to purchased and held through the Investment Trust undertake the completion of, three American Share Plan, Individual Savings Account ISA, railroads the Vicksburg and Meridian: the Personal Equity Plan PEP and the Pension Vicksburg, Shreveport and Pacific: and the New Account.
In 1917 the Company Manager, Secretary and Companys was reorganised, a proportion of the railroad Registered Office interests were sold, and the investment powers J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management UK were widened enabling its assets to be invested in Limited, Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, several countries including the United Kingdom.
To London EC2Y 9AQ reflect the new objectives the name was changed Telephone number: 020 7742 6000, to The Sterling Trust.
The Companys investment Please contact Fraser Easton for company secretarial and policy reverted to North American securities in administrative matters.
1982 when the name was changed to The Fleming American Investment Trust plc.
The name was Registrars changed to its present form in April 2002.
Lloyds TSB Registrars, Reference 1077, JPMorgan Fleming has been the Companys The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA manager and secretary since 1966.
Telephone number: 01903 502 541 Notifications of changes of address and enquiries regarding Company Numbers share certificates or dividend cheques should be made in Company registration number: 15543 writing to the Registrar quoting reference 1077.
Stock Exchange Sedol Number: 0846505 Auditors Market Information , Southwark Towers, The Companys shares are listed on the London 32 London Bridge Street, London SE1 9SY Stock Exchange.
The market price of the ordinary shares is shown daily in the Financial Times, The Guardian, The Times, The Daily Telegraph, and The Scotsman and on the JPMorgan Fleming Internet site.
The Company is a member of The Association of Investment Trust Companies JPMorgan Fleming American 45
