Notice of Annual General Meeting PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT Notice is hereby given that the eighty-seventh i the maximum number of Shares hereby Annual General Meeting of JPMorgan Fleming authorised to be purchased shall be American Investment Trust plc will be held at 8,731,549 or if less, that number of shares 60 Victoria Embankment, London EC4Y 0JP at which is equal to 14.99% of the 4.00 p. m. on Wednesday 23rd April 2003 for Companys issued share capital as at the the following purposes.
date of the passing of this Resolution: 1 To receive and adopt the Directors report, the ii the minimum price which may be paid for annual accounts and the Auditors report for a Share shall be 25p: the year ended 31st December 2002. iii the maximum price which may be paid for 2 To receive the Remuneration Report for the a Share shall be an amount equal to 105 year ended 31st December 2002. per cent.
of the average of the middle 3 To declare the final dividend on the ordinary market quotations for a Share taken from shares.
and calculated by reference to the London 4 To re-elect Mr H Buchan a Director of the Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the Company.
five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Share is purchased: 5 To consider the following resolution, special notice having been received of the intention to iv any purchase of Shares will be made in propose the resolution as an ordinary the market for cash at prices below the resolution: prevailing net asset value per Share as determined by the Directors : THAT  LLP be reappointed auditors of the Company having v the authority hereby conferred shall previously been appointed by the Board to fill expire at the earlier of 22nd October 2004 the casual vacancy arising by reason of the or at the conclusion of the Companys resignation of , to Annual General Meeting in 2004 unless hold office until the conclusion of the next the authority is renewed prior to such General Meeting at which accounts are laid time: and before the Company and that their vi the Company may make a contract to remuneration be fixed by the Directors.
purchase Shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of Special Business: such authority and may make a purchase To consider the following resolution which will be of Shares pursuant to any such contract proposed as a special resolution: notwithstanding such expiry.
6 THAT the Company be generally and subject as hereinafter appears unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 166 of the By order of the Board Companies Act 1985 the Act to make J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management UK Limited, market purchases within the meaning of Secretary.
Section 163 of the Act of its issued Shares of 12th March 2003 25p each in the capital of the Company.
JPMorgan Fleming American 27 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes 1 A member entitled to attend and vote at the above Meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and on a poll vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
The lodging of a form of proxy does not prevent a member from attending and voting if he so wishes.
2 Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be lodged at the Companys Registrar not less than 48 hours before the time of the Meeting.
3 To be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys register of members 48 hours before the time of the Meeting the specified time.
If the Meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned Meeting.
If however the Meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members at the time which is 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned Meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned Meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
4 Entry to the above Meeting will be restricted to shareholders, with guests only by prior agreement.
