36 Bunzl plc Designed and produced by Sheppard Day BUNZL PLC 110 PARK STREET LONDON W1K 6NX T 020 7495 4950 F 020 7495 4953 W www.
com ANNUAL REVIEW AND SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2002 OUTSOURCING SERVICES Sales m Operating across North America, Europe and Australasia, Bunzl is the leading supplier of a range of products including outsourced 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 food packaging, disposable supplies and cleaning and safety products for Operating profit m supermarkets, redistributors, caterers, food processors, hotels, contract cleaners and other users.
Sales 2,231.2m Operating profit 169.3m 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 Profit margin 7.6% Below: 73% of Group operating profit Our extensive range of plastic and paper disposable supplies 7,100 employees includes decorated tableware for special occasions.
169.3 2,231.2 Above: FILTRONA Western cigarette brands continued to expand in the Far East, particularly Korea, benefiting our sales of special filters.
Filtrona is a world leading supplier Sales m of outsourced cigarette filters, ink reservoirs and other bonded fibre products, protective caps and plugs, self-adhesive tear tapes and certain security products.
It is also a leading extruder of custom plastic profiles.
93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 Operating profit m Sales 442.4m Operating profit 54.2m Profit margin 12.3% 24% of Group operating profit 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 4,700 employees 442.4 54.2 BUNZL Bunzl operates in two business areas: Outsourcing Services and Filtrona.
From 260 locations in 24 countries our 12,000 employees provide an efficient service to our business customers.
As an international company Bunzl has developed sound partnerships with both suppliers and customers by providing outsourcing solutions and customer service oriented distribution and light manufacture, primarily of plastic and paper based products.
400m spent on acquisitions over four years.
Adjusted earnings per share p Profit margin % 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 The Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement does not contain sufficient information to allow a full understanding of the results of the Group and state of affairs of the Company or the Group.
For further information the Directors Report 1 Financial highlights and Accounts which includes the full Directors 2 Management Remuneration Report should be consulted.
Copies 4 Chairmans statement of the Directors Report and Accounts may be 8 Operating review obtained, free of charge, from the Secretary, 8 Outsourcing Services Bunzl plc, 110 Park Street, London W1K 6NX or from the Companys website www.
14 Filtrona Shareholders may elect in writing to receive the 18 Directors Directors Report and Accounts in addition to the 20 Financial review Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 22 Social responsibilty for all future years.
The full accounts for 2001 23 Summary financial statement have been filed at Companies House and the full 28 Summary five year review accounts for 2002 will be filed after they have 29 Shareholder information been approved at the Annual General Meeting.
8.2 11.8 15.6 16.0 17.4 19.0 20.8 25.1 28.3 30.0 4.2 5.4 6.2 6.4 7.3 7.2 7.6 7.6 7.5 7.6 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS Sales of continuing operations 8% at constant exchange rates Operating profit of continuing operations 9% at constant exchange rates Adjusted earnings per share 10% at constant exchange rates Sales by business area Sales by geography The markets we serve Grocery foodservice 58% Health & hygiene 11% Outsourcing Services 79% North America 62% FMCG 8% Filtrona 15% Europe 34% Printing & publishing 6% Retail non-food 4% Discontinued 6% Rest of the world 4% Other 13% Growth 2002 2001 Actual Constant Restated exchange rates exchange rates Sales m 2,835.3 2,876.5 -1% 2% Sales of continuing operations m 2,673.6 2,558.3 5% 8% Operating profit m 215.4 214.6 0% 4% Operating profit of continuing operations m 207.6 199.1 4% 9% Profit before tax m 196.0 187.7 4% 9% Profit before tax and exceptionals m 209.6 200.5 5% 9% Basic earnings per share p 27.1 25.5 6% 11% Adjusted earnings per share p 30.0 28.3 6% 10% Dividends per share p 11.2 10.35 8% Gearing % 19.5 51.4 Before goodwill amortisation.
Restated on adoption of FRS19 Deferred Tax.
In this Annual Review, profits for each of the business areas have been stated before total goodwill amortisation of 16.1m 2001: 12.8m and references to changes in the level of sales and profits at constant exchange rates have been calculated by retranslating the relevant results for the year ended 31 December 2001 at the average exchange rates used for the year ended 31 December 2002.
Bunzl plc 1 MANAGEMENT working together to grow our business... Six times a year key managers from around the world meet to review performance and seek further opportunities for growth and competitive advantage.
2 Bunzl plc 1 Christoph Sander 5 Mark Harper Managing Director, Managing Director, Outsourcing Services Filtrona Europe and Australasia 6 Arnold Wagner 2 David Williams Director of Finance Director Group Personnel 3 Nancy Lester 7 Anthony Habgood Director of Chairman Corporate Development 8 Pat Oliverio 4 Paul Lorenzini Chief Operating Officer, Managing Director, Outsourcing Services Outsourcing Services North America With the disposal of our Paper Distribution business, Martin Fothergill left the Group in July with our thanks and best wishes for the future.
Following the reorganisation of Filtrona in August, Paul Twigden stepped down as Managing Director of Plastics.
We thank him for his 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 service to that business over many years and wish him every success.
CHAIRMANS STATEMENT focusing resources on areas of competitive advantage...
Excellent operating performance has enabled the Group once again to produce good results against the background of persistent difficult economic conditions around the world.
8% increase in sales of continuing Results of 111 million, net debt decreased by operations at constant As difficult economic conditions persisted 128.5 million to 106.0 million as the exchange rates.
around the world, the Group has continued underlying businesses again generated cash to produce good results due to strong operating from operations.
Gearing fell to 19.5% performance and underlying organic volume from 51.4%.
growth combined with acquisition activity.
Currency movements were unfavourable in Dividend translation terms reducing growth rates by The Board has decided to increase the about 4 percentage points.
Price deflation also final dividend to 7.55p 2001: 6.95p.
had a negative impact on the growth of both This brings the total dividend for the year sales and profits.
Sales of continuing operations to 11.2p 2001: 10.35p, an increase of 8%.
rose by 5%, or 8% at constant exchange rates, Shareholders will again have the opportunity to 2,673.6 million while operating profit to participate in our dividend reinvestment plan.
before goodwill amortisation rose by 4%, or 9% at constant exchange rates, to 207.6 million.
Board Total sales, including discontinued operations, Bunzls strong independent Board was further fell 1% but rose 2% at constant exchange enhanced with the appointment of Charles rates while total operating profit before goodwill Banks as a non-executive director in June.
amortisation rose marginally, or 4% at constant Charles is Chief Executive of Wolseley plc.
With an interest charge of He brings valuable and relevant experience 5.8 million, profit before tax, exceptionals of running a major international distribution and goodwill amortisation rose 5%, or 9% business and we welcome him to the Board.
at constant exchange rates, to 209.6 million.
Profit before tax was up 4%, or 9% at constant Lawrence McQuade will be retiring as a exchange rates, to 196.0 million.
Earnings per non-executive director at the Annual General share rose 6%, or 11% at constant exchange Meeting in May.
We are very grateful for his rates, to 27.1p while adjusted earnings per sound independent advice and his wise counsel share, after eliminating exceptionals and will be much missed.
goodwill amortisation, rose 6%, or 10% at constant exchange rates, to 30.0p.
The Board has appointed Jeff Harris, Chairman of Alliance Unichem Plc, as senior independent After a cash outflow for acquisitions of non-executive while Pat Dyer continues his 77 million and a cash inflow from disposals invaluable service to the Group as Deputy 4 Bunzl plc Chairman.
Jeff has been a non-executive Filtrona fit with our focus on providing business processors there.
In the UK we bought Darenas, director since 2000. to business consumables and are becoming a national distributor of cleaning and hygiene increasingly service oriented.
supplies which is an excellent fit with our existing Strategy and structure operations.
In the US, we acquired Saxton, The strategy of focusing the Groups resources on Our strategy has enabled the Group to create a redistribution business based in Phoenix with areas where it has or can develop real competitive value for its shareholders.
Our total shareholder locations also in Kansas City and Denver, which advantage, usually on an international scale, return has consistently outperformed our will strengthen our position both in cleaning and was further enhanced during 2002.
The disposal sector for a decade, firstly as a Paper and hygiene and in the relevant regions.
Finally, in late of our Paper Distribution business in July Packaging stock and then, since late 1998, December we purchased Thomas McLaughlin, with its UK focus and strong links to Bunzls in Support Services.
a leading distributor of catering equipment in both nineteenth century roots in paper, marks an Northern Ireland and the Republic.
McLaughlin important stage in this evolutionary approach.
Acquisitions is a logical extension of our existing business It represents the final break with the paper We spent 77 million on acquisitions during in Ireland and complements our acquisition industry and is the last step of a process which 2002.
In an important move in our Outsourcing of Lockhart earlier in the year.
has seen Bunzl reducing its commitment to paper Services business in late May, we bought Lockhart and channelling resources both organically and from Sodexho.
Lockhart is the UKs leading Disposals by acquisition into higher return, higher growth supplier of catering equipment to the foodservice We raised 111 million in cash from disposals businesses, particularly outsourcing.
industry including hotels, caterers, restaurants, in 2002.
The principal disposal was the sale of retailers and the licensed trade and strengthens our Paper Distribution business area for which we Following this disposal the Group was our one stop shop offering to our customers.
will receive a further 18 million deferred cash reorganised in August into two business In late June we acquired Kenco in Seattle.
We also exited our small machine areas: Outsourcing Services and an enlarged is a redistribution business which strengthens building activity at Jarrow following the disposal Filtrona.
This enlargement was made feasible the position of our Outsourcing Services business of the Filtrona instruments business in 2000. by the simplification of both Plastics and in the Pacific North West of the US.
Filtrona over the past few years and the Operating performance increasing internationalisation of their In the last two months of the year we Margin on continuing operations was constant remaining businesses.
Operating as Filtrona, announced four acquisitions which added to at 7.8% while the Group margin rose from 7.5% the new entity constitutes a small number our Outsourcing Services business in different to 7.6% as a result of the disposal of the lower of international niche businesses in supply parts of the world.
In early November we bought margin Paper Distribution business area in July.
and light manufacture with a number of Lesnies, an important distributor of supplies Group return on capital rose to 40.7%.
Sales technical and market overlaps.
It is being to food processors and retailers based in Sydney.
of continuing operations at constant exchange managed by a single more cost effective This significantly expands our position in rates grew a healthy 8% while operating profit structure.
Both Outsourcing Services and Australasia and extends our coverage of food rose by 9%.
Outsourcing Services produced another them in newly acquired companies.
These We remain committed to the recruitment excellent result with sales and operating systems remain critical to our ability to serve of new graduates.
In 2002 we extended the profit up 5%, or 8% at constant exchange our customers in the most efficient and initial training programme for newly recruited rates.
Good underlying volume growth appropriate way.
We believe that up-to-date graduates so that it now runs over two years.
supplemented by tight cost control and assets are an important source of our In addition we have brought together our UK targeted acquisitions around the world competitive advantage and maintaining and US graduates on this programme thereby reinforced our international position in this them remains a priority.
enhancing the development opportunity business area.
Underlying volume growth it provides.
continued to reflect our customers wishing Providing opportunities for employees to buy their requirements from us, often on Bunzl is committed, wherever possible, Our European Information and Consultation a totally outsourced basis.
The results were to giving genuine responsibility and authority Forums continue to meet to provide information negatively affected by deflation, particularly to employees at all levels, whether this be to, and to consult with, elected employee in North America, but we continued to win a warehouse manager with profit responsibility, representatives on Group and business new customers and expand our offering a machine operator who takes control of area policies, strategy and performance.
all aspects of a production process, or a Company based consultation, as well as regular senior manager responsible for a business.
communications, continue to build on the Filtrona also produced excellent results with This approach has served the Group well.
positive process of employee involvement.
It operating profit up 4%, or 9% at constant For it to work effectively, employees need was through these meetings that the proposal exchange rates, on sales up 3%, or 7% at to be supported with training and development to introduce a Sharesave Scheme during the year constant exchange rates.
This organic growth activities not only to perform their job but also for Bunzl employees in Holland and Germany of sales was achieved in most parts of the to prepare them for additional responsibilities comparable to the popular Sharesave Scheme business area as demand for our specialised as they develop their career with us.
Our in the UK was developed.
Since 2000, we products and service continued to increase development activities now include Introduction have also operated a Stock Purchase Plan and we gained market share.
to Management, Middle Management and for US employees.
The Board welcomes these Senior Management programmes that are opportunities for employees to participate Investment available to managers around the world.
We continued to invest substantial amounts These focus on key skills and development in the capital base of the Group.
New equipment appropriate to different stages of a managers Our employees are a source of competitive has been purchased to maintain the quality of career.
The resulting individual development differentiation and strength as we strive to our assets and warehouses have been expanded and internal promotion is a source of continue winning and retaining the confidence and upgraded as volumes have continued to competitive strength.
A number of our UK and support of our customers and suppliers.
Once again we have invested in computer operations continue to enjoy Investors in success is achieved through their individual and systems both to improve them and to install People accreditation.
collective efforts and they are greatly appreciated.
From 1994 to 1998 we greatly outperformed the Paper Total shareholder return Total shareholder return and Packaging Sector.
In December 1998, we were moved 400 400 to Support Services and from 1999 to 2002 we also greatly outperformed that Sector.
to be paid for out of free cash flow and, given The Group has continued to reinforce its efforts In 2002, Bunzl sponsored a project to develop the disposals we have made, our balance sheet in the field of social responsibility.
Our policies curriculum materials designed to raise awareness ended the year particularly strong.
on business standards, environmental matters of safety risks amongst UK school students about and health and safety have been in force for a to enter the workforce.
Group companies and After a period of deflation in Outsourcing number of years.
The business standards policy individual employees continue to be supported Services many product prices are now at was reviewed and updated in 2001 and a new in local charitable initiatives.
While some price rises Group environment policy was approved in have been announced, the pricing environment January 2003, committing Bunzl, amongst other Our risk profile in the areas of environment remains uncertain with the weak global economy things, to a programme of continual improvement and health and safety is not high but we and higher input prices providing opposing in environmental performance.
The Group believe that our long standing commitment pressures particularly on supplies of plastic Environment Committee has overseen further to programmes of continual improvement products.
The volatility and weakness of the progress in ISO 14001 certification and has will not only help to contain any such risks dollar, particularly in comparison to early 2002, sponsored the development of a software-based and be of benefit to the Group, but also is influencing the sterling translation of our tool to assist in the implementation of an represents a positive and meaningful approach results.
Nevertheless, the combination of good environmental management system.
Our focus to matters of social responsibility.
volume growth, our strong positions in the is on driving improvements in waste disposal, markets in which we operate and our continuing energy and fuel consumption, water usage, Prospects pipeline of potential acquisitions within our effluent discharge, use of raw materials and Our businesses have again shown their areas of focus gives us confidence that the the recording of any environmental incidents, resilience in difficult economic conditions underlying prospects of the Group are good of which there have been very few and none with results of continuing operations well and that, at constant exchange rates, we will of significance.
The Group Health and Safety ahead in 2002 at constant exchange rates.
continue to develop the business satisfactorily.
Committee has begun to roll out the Bunzl Even after the impact of the translation effects Health and Safety Manual with a safety software of the weakening US dollar, we still made programme to assist in identifying and effectively good progress.
Sustained volume growth offset managing risks in the workplace.
As part of the deflationary pressures and our successful Groups commitment to continuous improvement acquisition programme continued with both in health and safety performance, reporting is the integration of past purchases and the now integrated on a worldwide basis.
completion of further additions in 2002.
Anthony Habgood Our support for charities continued across the Our strong internal cash generation enabled Chairman Group with the emphasis maintained in the fields substantial acquisition activity once again 24 February 2003 Bunzl plc 7 17.0 22.7 27.2 28.1 30.5 32.6 36.7 38.1 37.9 40.7 OUTSOURCING SERVICES packaged for performance... Operating across North America, Europe and Australasia, Bunzl is the leading supplier of a range of products including outsourced food packaging, disposable supplies and cleaning and safety products for supermarkets, redistributors, caterers, food processors, hotels, contract cleaners and other users.
8% profit increase in Outsourcing Services at constant exchange rates.
60,000 products are on offer in our business Good volume growth and the successful the imbalance in the demand and supply in the US.
integration of acquisitions saw Outsourcing relationship in our supplier base remained Services progressing well with sales increasing through the end of the year.
by 8% at constant exchange rates despite price deflation.
Operating profits also rose by 8% In North America we serve our end user at constant exchange rates assisted by our focus customers both directly through the distribution Above: on greater efficiencies and control of operating of goods not for resale primarily to supermarkets We provide nearly all the supplies a supermarket costs, with the margin remaining at 7.6%.
and to certain foodservice operators and needs to operate but does not actually sell, packaging and plant supplies to the food such as plastic and paper packaging, signage With the general economic background in processor industry and indirectly through our and labels.
North America and Europe remaining difficult, redistribution business.
We also provide janitorial Left: trading conditions continued to be challenging.
supplies and packaging products, often Our disposable supplies including plastic However in this environment our specialist food-related, to non-food retail, cleaning jan packaging, cutlery and paper napkins are used knowledge and experience in providing cost san, healthcare and other customers, largely by supermarkets for ready to eat meal solutions.
effective outsourced solutions to our customers through our redistribution business.
and our ability to integrate selective acquisitions have enabled us to extend the scope of our We are the largest distributor of many of these operations and continue to offer innovative products, serving all 50 states, all of Canada, supply programmes to add value for new and Mexico and the Caribbean from 65 locations existing customers.
These items include plastic and paper packaging and bags, In North America the business performed cups and janitorial supplies, with a particular well again in 2002.
We have won some focus on satisfying the increasing demand of significant new contracts including one our customers for specialist food packaging of the worlds leading beef processors and a for ready to eat meals and fresh and freshly strong regional airline and gained a number prepared food and drinks.
We did more business with our existing customers and renewed In the US we are the largest distributor of some important long term contracts which supermarket supplies, serving supermarkets was reflected in good volume growth, and grocery chains both nationally and regionally.
although the drag on dollar sales from With our knowledge of the market, strong the year on year price deflation arising from relationships with our suppliers and sourcing Bunzl plc 9 65 warehouse facilities serve the US, expertise we are well positioned to fulfil our Our redistribution business which operates Canada, Mexico customers requirements for these products.
across the US and in Canada distributes and the Caribbean.
Our ability to service national grocery chains disposable products and janitorial supplies in Canada benefited from the integration of to subdistributors who then sell them on to the acquisitions of Godin and Eastern Paper smaller operations.
This business also supplies made in 2001.
Notwithstanding the general both these and more specialised products Above: economic conditions, our expertise in offering to other customers such as non-food retailers, Foodservice customers that supply locations outsourced supply solutions enhanced by our healthcare providers and airlines.
The acquisition such as office cafeterias often require a product import and own label programmes, of Kenco based in Seattle in June and of complete outsourcing solution for their plastic and paper disposable supplies.
largely under the Prime Source label, and Saxton based in Phoenix in December has our ability to fulfil the increasing requirement enhanced our ability to serve our customers Right: for more specialist packaging continue to drive in those regions and contributed to the growth Our specialised packaging is used by food the organic growth of this business.
processors to supply case-ready pre-cut meat to stores.
In our food processor supplies business In these more difficult economic conditions Bunzl has further developed the base we we continue to concentrate on improving had established organically and enhanced operational efficiency particularly through with the key acquisitions of Koch and Packers.
technological improvements and the refining We are now well placed to exploit the trend of operational practices.
We have an ongoing towards supermarkets and foodservice operators programme to upgrade the facilities of our purchasing case-ready meats, produce, bakery EDI systems and our electronic customer and other food types.
Our processor customers catalog to reduce further our operating increasingly require specialist packaging to costs and enhance the scope and quality enhance the presentation of their products, of the services we offer to our customers.
provide more variety and satisfy the increasingly stringent hygiene regulations.
The development In Europe our specialist distribution of outsourced solutions tailored for our processor and procurement capabilities and market customers including the extension of our knowledge put us in a position to provide product offering, the successful integration of our customers with one stop shop solutions acquisitions and our ability to import has led principally in the UK, Ireland, Germany, to the successful development of this business.
This business 10 Bunzl plc OUTSOURCING SERVICES CONTINUED one stop shop solutions... 24 hours a day, seven days a week our online network is available to our customers.
OUTSOURCING SERVICES CONTINUED one order, one delivery, one invoice... 100,000 customers are served by us across Europe and Australasia.
Here: Our growing hotel and catering supplies business continues to provide an efficient service to customers in the UK and Ireland.
Right: We are a leading UK supplier of cleaning and safety supplies to customers such as offices, schools and restaurants.
has shown a robust increase in sales despite despite the more difficult market conditions in customers projects, such as the building of a deteriorating economic backdrop, particularly 2002.
Operating in the UK, Holland, Germany, Heathrow Terminal 5, coming on line during the in mainland Europe.
This growth has come from Ireland and Scandinavia, this business, often in year.
In November we completed the acquisition substantial new contract wins, the expansion conjunction with our vending supplies business, of Darenas, a cleaning and hygiene supplies of our product range and the impact of the serves many of the leading catering and hotel business with national coverage, which will acquisitions we made during 2001 and 2002. groups.
Its expertise in delivering cost effective enhance the position of our business in this In particular the acquisition in May of Lockhart, outsourced solutions to its customers for a wide area.
Meanwhile the assimilation of Greenham the leading supplier of catering equipment in range of consumables has been fundamental to and Blyth into the Group has continued to yield the UK, has augmented our ability to provide winning and renewing contracts.
The acquisition benefits, as has the integration of our businesses one stop shop solutions to our foodservice, of both Lockhart in May and of McLaughlin, in Ireland.
We are developing our business with food and non-food retail customers across the leading supplier of catering equipment the food processor industry, building on the a range of markets.
We are also well placed in Ireland, at the end of the year, has added acquisitions we made in the UK, Denmark and to benefit from the trend among our suppliers a wide range of items to the Bunzl product Ireland in 2001.
Thus we are in a good position to consolidate and rationalise their direct to offering, thereby extending our businesses to win further business with the larger food customer distribution operations.
capacity to provide one stop shop supplies producers and processors and cleaning and programmes to customers.
Our retail supplies business serves both food and non-food retail customers, particularly The performance of our Outsourcing Services Bunzl Vending Services has strengthened its supermarkets and other high street retailers in the business in Australia continued to strengthen position as the leading independent vending UK and Western Europe.
Its expertise in tailoring over the year.
In November we acquired Lesnies, operator in the UK with strong organic growth, its supply programmes to meet the requirements the leading distributor of packaging and related serving the retail and catering sectors and of its customers and its international sourcing consumables and equipment supplies to the facilities management and financial services capabilities have seen it implementing full food processor industry in Australasia.
Significant new contract wins include goods not for resale consolidation programmes complements our processor supplies businesses a global financial services business and the for major UK supermarkets and other non-food in North America and Europe and is a significant servicing and maintenance of all vending retailers.
In the healthcare sector our specialist addition to our business in Australia.
It also, machines in the UK for one of the worlds healthcare supply business Shermond again for the first time, provides us with a base to principal contract catering groups.
We have performed well, adding a number of new develop customer and supplier relationships also strengthened our presence in the North products to its core range.
East of the UK to enhance our service to our customers there.
Sales of our hotel and catering supplies Our cleaning and safety supplies business business in Northern Europe progressed well performed strongly with a number of our Bunzl plc 13 120,000 metre lengths of tear tape allow longer At constant exchange rates, sales in Filtrona awareness and stricter legislative requirements.
production runs for rose by 7% and profits increased by 9% despite While it is the current practice of cigarette our customers.
the continuing general weakness of the manufacturers to outsource the supply of many manufacturing environment which primarily of these filters, self-manufacture of some affected our North American businesses.
simpler carbon filters is becoming more viable as certain types have become standard on Above: Filtrona as currently configured was formed more popular brands.
Notwithstanding this, P P Paynes printed tear tape has been in August following the merger of two former cigarette manufacturers are constantly working applied to a variety of consumer products business areas.
It now constitutes a small on more complex innovations to meet the more providing easy opening and the ability to incorporate multi-coloured text and images.
number of international businesses engaged in challenging requirements of the market and service oriented supply and light manufacture we are well placed to assist them with our Right: for niche markets.
These include outsourced range of filter, fibre and plastic technologies, We continue to respond to the demand filters, ink reservoirs and other bonded fibre experience and know how.
for low tar special filters with products, many products, protective caps and plugs, tear tape of which incorporate a carbon segment.
and certain security products, extruded plastics Our fibres business, based in our new facility and our South American packaging business.
in Richmond, Virginia and in Reinbek, The reorganisation has progressed smoothly Germany, sells reservoirs made using bonded and the business area is beginning to realise fibre technology for products including pens a number of intangible benefits arising from and printers, medical device components and bringing together skills in overlapping technologies household items.
The successful development and markets which will strengthen the business of reservoirs for a new generation of inkjet area.
It is also providing modest cost savings.
printers and the inkjet printer aftermarket has contributed to the growth of the business Growth was particularly robust in our filter this year.
businesses in the Americas and Europe, driven in part by increasing demand for Western brands The tear tape business had another good year with special filters, often including charcoal, as demand for both standard self-adhesive tear in Russia and the Far East, particularly Korea, tape and tear tape with added value features and growth in South America.
The use of tear tape as a medium for low tar and other special filters continues for brand promotion and security purposes to expand, boosted by consumer fashion, through the use of multi-coloured text and 14 Bunzl plc FILTRONA delivering solutions through innovation... Filtrona is a world leading supplier of outsourced cigarette filters, ink reservoirs and other bonded fibre products, protective caps and plugs, self-adhesive tear tapes and certain security products.
9% profit increase in Filtrona at constant exchange rates.
FILTRONA CONTINUED broadening our product offering... 450 million plastic parts are in stock at Moss for delivery within 24 hours.
167 extrusion lines process over 38 million images has become increasingly attractive proprietary products.
However the difficult kilograms of to our customers.
As we make advances in conditions in some other markets in the material annually.
printing and application technology we are able US held the extrusion business back overall.
to offer our customers increasingly specialised A significant contract for specialised products products and services.
We continue to invest with a new customer, a leading national in this business to enhance our ability to serve manufacturer of building supplies, was won Above: our international customers and to support the towards the year end.
We also grew the We manufacture and supply extruded development of new and more sophisticated business in Mexico where there are some plastic scanning profiles for customers tear tape and other security products.
such as supermarkets to display point-of-sale information.
Although the weakness of many of its industrial Globalpack, our operation in Brazil which Left: and manufacturing markets continued through provides packaging for the South American We continue to expand our catalogue the second half of 2002, the caps and plugs toiletries and cosmetics industries, had an of plastic caps and plugs both in Europe business continued to show resilience in excellent year, with sales and profits well up and the US.
North America, with the European business on 2001 in local currency but diminished moving ahead.
This good overall performance significantly on translation into sterling.
overcame the softness of sales to the oil sector, which affected North America in particular.
The business continued to grow its distribution operations, adding a further 1,000 product lines and strengthening the network in Europe particularly in France and Germany.
Again, despite the continuing weakness in the manufacturing environment, the sales of our European extrusion business continued to progress satisfactorily, particularly to its export markets including the UK.
The US business saw growth with its customers in the fence panel, highway control, medical and recreational sectors, particularly where it sells Bunzl plc 17 DIRECTORS focused on creating shareholder value... Our strong independent Board has evolved with best practice while maintaining its focus on overseeing the implementation of a consistent strategy which has created value for our shareholders by successfully building the business.
Five non-executives, who control the relevant Committees, are independent as defined by the Higgs report.
18 Bunzl plc 1 Anthony Habgood# Age 56 4 Stephen Williams # Age 55 7 Alexander Pat Dyer # Age 70 Chairman since 1996, having joined as Chief Non-executive director since 1994.
Deputy Chairman since 1996, having been Executive in 1991.
A director of The Boston After training as a lawyer and a period Chairman from 1993, and Chairman of the Consulting Group from 1977 to 1986, he was with Slaughter and May, he joined the legal Nomination Committee.
Previously a director then appointed a director of Tootal Group PLC, department at Imperial Chemical Industries plc.
of Air Products and Chemicals Inc, he joined subsequently becoming Chief Executive.
He is In 1986 he joined Unilever as Joint Secretary The BOC Group plc in 1989 and subsequently a non-executive director of Schroder Ventures and was also appointed General Counsel became Chief Executive and Deputy Chairman International Investment Trust plc.
in 1993. until his retirement in 1996.
2 Charles Banks Age 62 5 Paul Heiden Age 46 8 David Williams Age 57 Non-executive director since June 2002 and Non-executive director since 1998.
Finance Director, having joined the Group Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Previously with Hanson plc, he joined in 1991 in that role.
He was previously with Previously Chief Executive of Ferguson Enterprises, Rolls-Royce plc in 1992, becoming a director Tootal Group PLC where he held a number the largest North American subsidiary of responsible for their Industrial Businesses of financial and operating positions including Wolseley plc, he joined the Board of Wolseley in 1997 and Finance Director in 1999.
He is a non-executive in 1992 and was appointed Group Chief He was appointed Chief Executive of FKI plc director of George Wimpey PLC where he Executive in 2001. in January 2003. chairs the Audit Committee.
3 Jeff Harris Age 54 6 Paul Lorenzini Age 63 9 Lawrence McQuade Age 75 Non-executive director since 2000, senior Managing Director, Outsourcing Services Non-executive director since 1991, retiring independent director and Chairman of the having joined Bunzl in 1983 with the in May 2003.
He was formerly Vice Chairman Audit Committee.
Appointed Finance Director acquisition of PCI Mac-Pak.
He was of Prudential Mutual Fund Management Inc. of UniChem Plc in 1986 and Chief Executive appointed President of Bunzl Distribution He is a non-executive director of Oxford in 1992, he became Chief Executive of the USA in 1986 and joined the Board Analytica Inc, Quixote Corporation, Solar enlarged Alliance Unichem Plc in 1997 and in 1999 with continuing responsibility Lighting Inc, Laredo National Bancorp Chairman in 2001.
He is a non-executive for the Groups largest and most and a founding partner of River Capital director of Anzag AG.
Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee # Member of the Nomination Committee 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Independent director Bunzl plc 19 FINANCIAL REVIEW strong cash generation... Group performance due to the weakening of the US dollar and cash and short term deposits and lower short Sales of continuing operations increased Brazilian real against sterling.
Group return on capital by 5%, or 8% at constant exchange rates, effect is the major way that currency impacts the employed before goodwill amortisation to 2,673.6 million with businesses acquired Group although there is also a small transaction increased to 40.7% from 37.9% in 2001. during the year contributing 2% of this increase.
effect on certain parts of the business.
Net debt decreased by 128.5 million to Sales of existing businesses rose by 3%, or 6% 106.0 million due to strong operating at constant exchange rates, to 2,625.0 million Tax cash flow and disposal proceeds exceeding reflecting an excellent operating performance The tax charge of 70.3 million represents acquisition spend.
Shareholders funds and underlying organic growth partly offset an effective rate of 33.6% 2001: 35.1% increased by 87.5 million to 544.0 million by price deflation and unfavourable currency on the profit on underlying operations and and gearing fell from 51.4% to 19.5%.
Group sales, including a 0.2 million credit on the exceptional item.
discontinued operations, decreased by 1% to Including the impact of the exceptional item Goodwill 2,835.3 million, representing a 2% increase in 2002 and goodwill amortisation, the overall This increased by 30.7 million to at constant exchange rates.
The effective 289.5 million reflecting goodwill arising rate is higher than the nominal UK rate of in the year on acquisitions net of disposals, Operating profit of continuing operations before 30.0% principally because most of the Groups exchange movements and an amortisation goodwill amortisation increased by 4%, or 9% operations are in countries with higher tax rates.
at constant exchange rates, to 207.6 million with businesses acquired during the year On 1 January 2002, the Group adopted Cash flow contributing 2% of this increase.
As a result, deferred Net cash flow from operating activities was performance by both Outsourcing Services taxation liabilities at 31 December 2001 have 216.4 million, a 19.7 million reduction and Filtrona was partly offset by unfavourable been increased by 10.0 million.
Accordingly, compared to 2001 principally due to a special exchange rates.
Group operating profit before the opening consolidated profit and loss pension contribution of 20.0 million.
Gross goodwill amortisation increased marginally reserve at 1 January 2002 has been reduced capital expenditure was 33.4 million which to 215.4 million but rose by 4% at constant by 10.0 million to 271.6 million.
The was used to expand and upgrade facilities and exchange rates.
corresponding impact on the consolidated systems and enhance the quality and capacity profit and loss account for the year ended of the asset base.
Sales of fixed assets generated The exceptional item of 2.5 million represents 31 December 2001 was 0.8 million.
a cash inflow of 2.4 million resulting in a a profit on the disposal of Paper Distribution net capital expenditure of 31.0 million.
An partly offset by the costs of exiting Filtronas Earnings and dividends acquisition spend of 77.0 million, net disposal small machine building business.
There were Earnings increased by 7%, or 12% at proceeds of 111.3 million and other related no exceptional items in 2001.
Including a constant exchange rates, to 125.2 million.
cash outflows of 0.7 million resulted in a net 8.3 million lower interest charge, profit before The weighted average number of shares in cash inflow of 33.6 million on acquisitions tax rose 4%, or 9% at constant exchange rates, issue rose to 461.4 million from 458.6 million and disposals.
Net cash inflow before financing to 196.0 million.
in 2001 due to the exercise of employee share of 97.7 million combined with cash from options.
Earnings per share increased by 6%, share issues of 7.9 million and an exchange The net interest charge fell to 5.8 million or 11% at constant exchange rates, to 27.1p.
movement of 22.9 million resulted in a from 14.1 million as a result of lower average After adjusting for the exceptional item and 128.5 million decrease in net debt.
borrowings due to strong cash generation from goodwill amortisation, earnings per share operations, disposal proceeds exceeding increased by 6%, or 10% at constant Pensions acquisition spend and lower interest rates.
The Group has accounted for pensions under Interest cover was 35 times.
Profit before tax SSAP24 Accounting for Pension Costs and excluding the exceptional item and goodwill An interim dividend of 3.65p per share and has included disclosure in the Notes as amortisation rose by 5%, or 9% at constant a final proposed dividend of 7.55p will deliver required by the transitional rules of FRS17 exchange rates, to 209.6 million.
an increase of 8% for the year at a total cost Retirement Benefits.
of 52.3 million, with dividend cover, based Continuing operations margin excluding on adjusted earnings per share, at 2.7 times.
SSAP24 accounting has been based on the goodwill amortisation was constant at 7.8%.
72.9 million is to be transferred to reserves.
most recent formal actuarial valuations, which Outsourcing Services margin was constant at for the main UK and US defined benefit pension 7.6% and Filtronas margin improved to 12.3% Balance sheet schemes were performed at April 2000 and from 12.2% in 2001.
Group margin, including Total assets less current liabilities increased January 2002 respectively, resulting in funding discontinued operations, rose to 7.6% from by 90.1 million to 865.9 million.
This levels of 101% and 86% respectively.
Currency had a net adverse was largely accounted for by an increase in to continuing unfavourable market conditions, impact in the year through translation primarily goodwill, higher long term debtors, increased informal reviews were performed at October 2002 20 Bunzl plc Exchange rates Return on capital employed % 02 01 02 01 Average US$ : 1.51 1.44 Outsourcing Services 66.8 66.4 : 1.59 1.61 Filtrona 25.5 24.0 Year end US$ : 1.61 1.46 : 1.53 1.63 which identified lower funding levels.
These The Group is funded by a US dollar Bond financial statements and will fully adopt this were, however, still comfortably in excess of and multi-currency credit facilities from the Standard in the 2003 financial statements.
relevant minimum funding requirements that Groups bankers.
The US dollar Bond was would necessitate short term funding action.
issued in 2001 in three tranches: five years, FRS19 has been adopted in the 2002 Nevertheless, in addition to the regular cash seven years and ten years for a total of financial statements.
With the exception contribution of 12.1 million paid into the $225 million at fixed rates of interest.
The of FRS19 there have been no changes to Groups defined benefit pension schemes, the bank facilities have tenures ranging from one the accounting policies of the Group from Group made a 20.0 million special contribution year to seven years and mature between 2003 the previous year.
in December 2002, broadly representing and 2007.
At 31 December 2002 available the present value of all contribution holidays bank facilities totalled 313.7 million of which previously taken by the Group.
In addition the Group maintains uncommitted and overdraft The FRS17 disclosure in the Notes shows facilities to maintain short term flexibility.
a deficit net of deferred tax of 43.7 million which has increased from 17.5 million Foreign currency risk in 2001 due to poor equity returns and The majority of the Groups net assets are falling bond yields.
The Group has reviewed in currencies other than sterling.
The Groups its pension arrangements including benefits policy is to limit the translation exposure and and contribution rates.
The defined benefit resulting impact on shareholders funds by schemes have now been closed to new members borrowing in those currencies in which the and new employees will in future be invited Group has significant non-sterling net assets to participate in defined contribution schemes.
and by using forward foreign exchange contracts.
The profit and loss impact of contributions to At 31 December 2002 there were no material the Groups pension schemes in 2002 was at currency exposures after accounting for the a similar level to that in 2001 and is expected effect of the hedging transactions.
As the to remain at around that level in 2003. majority of non-sterling net assets are in US dollars, borrowings are primarily held Treasury policies and controls in US dollars.
The Group does not hedge Bunzl has a centralised treasury department the translation effect of foreign currency to control external borrowings and manage movements on the profit and loss account.
exchange rate risk and interest rate risk.
Treasury policies are approved by the Board The majority of the Groups transactions are and cover the nature of the exposure to be carried out in the functional currency of the hedged, the types of financial instruments that Groups operations and so transaction exposures may be employed and the criteria for investing are limited.
However where they do occur the and borrowing cash.
The Group uses derivatives Groups policy is to hedge exposures as soon only to manage its foreign currency and interest as they are committed using forward foreign rate risks arising from underlying business exchange contracts.
No transactions of a speculative nature are undertaken.
The department is Interest rate risk subject to periodic independent reviews by The Groups strategy is to ensure with a the internal audit department.
Underlying reasonable amount of certainty that the policy assumptions and activities are reviewed overall Group interest charge is protected by the executive directors.
Controls over exposure against material adverse movements in interest changes and transaction authenticity are in place rates.
The majority of the US dollar Bond and dealings are restricted to those banks with was swapped to floating rates when the Bond the relevant combination of geographic presence was issued in 2001.
Interest rate caps are and suitable credit rating.
The Group continually in place to reduce the Groups floating rate monitors the credit ratings of its counterparties exposure to movements in US dollar LIBOR.
and credit exposure to each counterparty.
Financial reporting standards and Liquidity risk accounting policies The Groups objective is to maintain a balance The Group has continued to apply the between continuity of funding and flexibility.
transitional rules of FRS17 in the 2002 Bunzl plc 21 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY a continuing priority...
The Board takes the area of social responsibility during 2003.
Outsourcing Services is working Health and safety seriously and has for many years had policies with external consultants to implement an The Group is committed to a programme with respect to business standards, the Environmental Management System EMS of activities to achieve continual improvement environment and health and safety.
While we that is compatible with ISO 14001 and some in health and safety performance.
We seek do not believe that we have a high risk profile of the companies have already applied for to identify and share best practice across with regard to the environment and health and certification.
Over one half of our employees our businesses.
The Group Health and Safety safety we believe that positive actions with worldwide will be working in ISO 14001 Committee comprises representatives from each respect to social responsibility are not only certified locations by the middle of 2003. business area and is responsible to the Board desirable in their own right but are also of for reviewing the Groups health and safety potential economic and commercial benefit The Group Environment Committee has retained policy and agreeing standards and objectives to the Group.
consultants to develop a software based EMS for the Group worldwide as well as auditing implementation tool that provides an approach health and safety performance against those Business standards that is consistent with ISO 14001.
At the beginning of 2002, the The Group has a business standards policy permits integration of EMS implementation Committee reviewed the Groups health and that was established in 1994 and updated with reporting to the Committee and provides safety objectives to take account of the UK in 2001.
The policy sets out the standards a framework within which newly acquired governments health and safety strategy of behaviour expected of each Bunzl employee companies can rapidly develop their own EMS.
statement, the recommendations of the Road and covers the areas of service to customers, Data collection is focused on waste disposal, Transport Task Force and statements by the personal integrity and mutual respect, sound energy and fuel consumption, water usage, Occupational Safety and Health Administration management and efficient use of resources, effluent discharge, use of raw materials and in the USA on what it saw as the main health equal employment opportunity, commitment the recording of any environmental incidents.
The Technical to a safe working environment and responsibility Sub-Committee comprises in-house health to the community and society.
In addition to the external audits required to and safety experts who review a range of maintain ISO 14001 certification, responsible detailed safety issues and implement the Environment persons have been appointed within each health and safety programmes worldwide.
The Group has continued its focus on the business area to monitor progress against environmental aspects of its operations and defined objectives.
The Bunzl Health and Safety Manual provides has been working with environmental consultants a safety management system based on risk in a number of areas.
A number of specific environmental assessment and improvement.
It is being rolled initiatives have been undertaken which will out across the Group and has already been The original Group environmental policy has have a positive environmental benefit.
For implemented in Filtrona worldwide and in been reviewed and updated.
In the revised example, throughout Outsourcing Services Outsourcing Services businesses in the UK.
policy, Bunzl has: there is a greater focus on route planning A safety software programme has been and transport management as well as other developed based on the risk assessment committed itself to a programme of continual measures to reduce fuel consumption and process contained in the Manual.
improvement in environmental performance: emissions to the air.
Additionally, a number of energy management and best practice This is beginning to help simplify the restated its commitment to ensuring that teams have been established with responsibility recording and updating of risk assessments, each business area identifies and controls for monitoring energy use and its reduction.
thereby enabling more effort to be devoted significant environmental risks associated A number of initiatives have already been to understanding and reducing the risks with its activities, products and services: and implemented and, where appropriate, have been associated with each task.
Steps have been shared with other teams.
Wherever possible taken to include measures within the existing confirmed that the Group Environment re-usable packaging is purchased.
The amount health and safety management system that Committee is responsible to the Board for of packaging is reviewed on an ongoing basis will assist in managing road safety at work.
reviewing progress against the policy and and reduced, wherever feasible, to the minimum agreeing standards and objectives for the necessary consistent with adequate product There is a comprehensive audit process Group worldwide.
In the UK, the Group is a member covering safety management and risk control.
of Valpak who discharge the relevant obligations The audit report and associated programmes Within Filtrona, all manufacturing facilities under the Producer Responsibility Packaging of action are powerful tools in bringing about have obtained, or are working towards Waste Regulations.
In Germany, the Group is improvements in risk management.
Those a member of Duales System Deutschland who facilities that have not yet attained certification operate the Green Dot recycling system.
Bunzl The Group has implemented a number have programmes in place to achieve this is also a member of the FTSE4Good index.
of initiatives to reinforce each employees 22 Bunzl plc understanding of their health and safety measures to enable trends to be monitored to support some specific projects in the fields responsibilities.
These include posters, a web across the Group on a consistent basis in of education, disability and child sickness.
In based safety programme for new employees and order to permit better measurement of health 2002, Bunzl sponsored a project in connection health and safety bulletins covering a variety and safety performance.
These measures cover with HTI Heads, Teachers and Industry to help of topics.
Across the Group, health and safety the total number of accidents or incidents develop resource materials for use by educators training is provided, focusing in particular on involving lost time and the number of days in raising health and safety awareness amongst manual handling and fork lift truck operation.
lost or restricted as a result of accidents.
UK school students about to enter the world It is hoped that by the end of 2003 it will of work.
It is hoped that the output from this Individual businesses have been reporting be possible to observe meaningful trends project will draw wider support to enable encouraging reductions in accidents and from these measures.
it to be rolled out across all UK secondary incidents, often from an already low level.
Group companies Our health and safety reporting is now Support for charitable causes and individual employees worldwide continue integrated worldwide and the Group Health The Group is a member of Business in the to support local charitable initiatives often and Safety Committee has developed two Community.
We have continued at Group level with support from Bunzl.
SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT SUMMARY DIRECTORS REPORT Principal activities and developments or any of its subsidiary undertakings during In addition, the Groups operations are devolved The principal activities of the Group are set or at the end of 2002. and the Group benefits from the presence out on the inside front cover.
The Chairmans of strong senior line management in those Statement, the Operating Review and the Dividends operations.
The Deputy Chairman, Mr A P Dyer, Financial Review on pages 4 to 17 and 20 An interim dividend of 3.65p was paid in respect is a former non-executive Chairman of the to 21 give details of the Groups activities, of the year and the directors recommend a final Company.
The Boards firm view is that the Group developments and performance for the year and dividend of 7.55p, making a total for the year does not suffer from a damaging concentration an indication of likely future developments.
This compares with 10.35p for the of power and is well protected from such a year ended 31 December 2001. possibility.
Furthermore, it believes that the Directors current arrangements are in the best interests Mr C A Banks was appointed to the Board Corporate governance of the business and of shareholders.
on 1 June 2002 and, being eligible, offers The Company complied throughout the period himself for re-election at the forthcoming under review in relation to all provisions of Annual General Meeting Annual General Meeting in accordance with the combined code on corporate governance.
The Annual General Meeting will be held the Articles of Association.
All of the other The Chairman, Mr A J Habgood, continues at the Thistle Marble Arch, Bryanston Street, directors, who are named on pages 18 and to act in the capacity of Chief Executive.
London W1H 7EH on Wednesday 14 May 2003 19, served throughout the year.
The Board recognises the concerns, expressed at 11.00 am.
The notice convening the Meeting in a general context, about the possible negative is set out in a separate letter from the Chairman Mr L C McQuade will retire from the effects of a concentration of power through a to shareholders which explains the items Board immediately after the conclusion of combined Chairman and Chief Executive role, of special business.
Mr A J Habgood, but believes these do not presently apply to the Mr P G Lorenzini and Mr S G Williams retire Company for a variety of reasons.
The Board Auditors by rotation at the Annual General Meeting in has a majority of independent non-executive A resolution is to be proposed at the Annual accordance with the Articles of Association and, directors, who chair the relevant Board General Meeting for the re-appointment of being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Committees, constitute the entire membership KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company of the Audit and Remuneration Committees at a rate of remuneration to be determined Directors interests in ordinary shares are and represent a majority of the Nomination by the directors.
shown in Note 21 to the financial statements Committee.
None of the Companys in the Directors Report and Accounts.
None non-executive directors had any previous P N Hussey of the directors was materially interested in connection with the Company or its executive Secretary any contract of significance with the Company directors on appointment to the Board.
24 February 2003 Bunzl plc 23 SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT CONTINUED SUMMARY REMUNERATION POLICY The Companys current remuneration policy or two key measures of short to medium term Mr A J Habgood and Mr D M Williams each have for 2003 and beyond is designed to help ensure achievement.
For the UK executive directors, half service contracts that provide for these notice the recruitment, retention and motivation of of this annual bonus is normally paid in cash and periods.
Mr P G Lorenzini has a fixed term service the executive directors by providing fair reward half is deferred under the rules of the DASBS.
contract which runs to 31 December 2003. for the responsibilities they undertake and The non-executive directors do not have the performance they achieve on behalf of Under the DASBS, eligible executives, including service contracts.
In this context, the Remuneration the UK executive directors, receive the deferred Committees policy is to set the overall element of their annual bonus as an award Directors emoluments for 2002 remuneration package at a competitive level of ordinary shares.
The ordinary shares are The directors aggregate emoluments for 2002 and in a form that permits significant additional transferred to the executive on 1 March in the were 3.4 million, the aggregate amount of remuneration to be earned for high performance third year after the year in which the award gains made by directors on the exercise of share over a sustained period.
This is normally to be is made, provided normally the executive has options during the year was 0.7 million, the achieved by benchmarking base pay against remained in the employment of the Group.
aggregate market value of awards exercised by comparator companies and a range of factors, directors under long term incentive schemes including performance, and by providing, Share based incentives during the year was 0.3 million and the in addition, short term and long term incentives The Remuneration Committee believes that aggregate amount of contributions paid by the geared to performance.
the long term performance of the Group is Company to money purchase pension schemes an important consideration for shareholders in respect of the directors was 34,000.
Two In assessing the balance of performance and that share based incentives are an directors participate in defined benefit pension related and non-performance related elements important part of helping to align the interests schemes, one of whom also participates in a of remuneration, base pay and benefits are of shareholders and those employed by the Group.
A further treated as non-performance related, whereas The Remuneration Committee welcomes the fact director participates in a personal money annual bonus including awards under the that each of the executive directors currently has purchase pension scheme to which the Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme a meaningful holding of Bunzl shares.
DASBS and long term incentives are treated as performance related.
For this purpose, share The Group operates an Executive Share Option Total shareholder return options are valued at one third of their face Scheme under which the executive directors value on grant.
On this basis, the Remuneration and other senior executives in the Group may be 250 Committee sets the remuneration package such granted options over Bunzl shares.
The grant of that at least half the total target remuneration executive share options is made on a discretionary 200 Bunzl package is derived from the performance basis, taking account of each executives related elements.
In normal 150 circumstances options granted are exercisable, Base pay subject to satisfaction of a performance condition, 100 The base pay of each executive director is set not earlier than three years and not later than FTSE Support Services Sector to reflect the size and scope of that directors 10 years after the date of grant.
responsibilities undertaken on behalf of the 50 Board, the level of overall performance achieved Retirement benefits 98 00 01 02 99 and experience in the post.
It is benchmarked The Group utilises both defined benefit against comparator companies and the actual pay and defined contribution pension schemes Source: Thomson Datastream level is set after taking account of performance, throughout the world.
The executive directors relevant external survey data and the general are eligible to participate in the relevant The Companys total shareholder return over movement of base pay within the Group.
pension scheme or may choose to participate the last five years compared to that of the in a private pension scheme.
FTSE Support Services Sector is shown above Annual bonus plan although the Company has only been a The executive directors participate in an annual Service contracts constituent of this Sector since December 1998. bonus plan intended to support the Companys It is the Companys policy that executive A fuller representation of the Companys total overall remuneration policy.
The bonus plan directors are normally employed on contracts that shareholder return relative to relevant Sectors for each executive director contains meaningful provide for 12 months notice from the Company can be found in the Chairmans Statement targets that seek to focus attention on one and six months notice from the executive.
24 Bunzl plc CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET for the year ended 31 December 2002 at 31 December 2002 2001 2001 2002 Restated 2002 Restated m m m m Sales Intangible assets goodwill 289.5 258.8 Existing businesses 2,625.0 2,558.3 Tangible assets 233.9 255.6 Acquisitions 48.6 Fixed assets 523.4 514.4 Continuing operations 2,673.6 2,558.3 Current assets 813.9 775.7 Discontinued operations 161.7 318.2 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 471.4 514.3 Total sales 2,835.3 2,876.5 Net current assets 342.5 261.4 Total assets less current liabilities 865.9 775.8 Operating profit Creditors: amounts falling due Existing businesses 189.1 186.9 after more than one year 265.3 255.1 Acquisitions 2.7 Provisions for liabilities and charges 54.3 62.1 Continuing operations 191.8 186.9 Net assets 546.3 458.6 Discontinued operations 7.5 14.9 Total operating profit 199.3 201.8 Capital and reserves Profit on sale of discontinued operations 2.5 Called up share capital 116.8 116.0 Profit on ordinary activities before interest 201.8 201.8 Share premium and other reserves 427.2 340.5 Net interest payable 5.8 14.1 Shareholders funds: equity interests 544.0 456.5 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 196.0 187.7 Minority equity interests 2.3 2.1 Profit before taxation, goodwill amortisation 546.3 458.6 and exceptional items 209.6 200.5 Taxation on profit on ordinary activities 70.3 70.4 Approved by the Board of Directors of Bunzl plc on 24 February 2003 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 125.7 117.3 and signed on its behalf by A J Habgood, Chairman and D M Williams, Profit attributable to minorities 0.5 0.4 Finance Director.
Profit for the financial year 125.2 116.9 Dividends paid and proposed 52.3 48.0 Retained profit for the financial year 72.9 68.9 Basic earnings per share 27.1p 25.5p Adjusted earnings per share 30.0p 28.3p Dividends per share 11.2p 10.35p Restated on adoption of FRS19 Deferred Tax.
Bunzl plc 25 SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT CONTINUED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF TOTAL ANALYSIS OF SALES AND OPERATING PROFIT RECOGNISED GAINS AND LOSSES for the year ended 31 December 2002 for the year ended 31 December 2002 Sales Operating profit 2001 2002 2001 2002 2001 2002 Restated m m m m m m Continuing operations Profit for the financial year 125.2 116.9 Outsourcing Services 2,231.2 2,129.1 169.3 161.9 Currency translation differences Filtrona 442.4 429.2 54.2 52.3 on foreign currency net investments 12.7 5.4 Goodwill 15.8 12.2 Corporate activities 15.9 15.1 Total recognised gains and losses for the year 112.5 111.5 Prior year adjustment 10.0 2,673.6 2,558.3 191.8 186.9 Discontinued operations 161.7 318.2 7.8 15.5 Total recognised gains and losses since Goodwill 0.3 0.6 last directors report and accounts 102.5 111.5 Total 2,835.3 2,876.5 199.3 201.8 SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED SUMMARY US GAAP INFORMATION CASH FLOW STATEMENT for the year ended 31 December 2002 for the year ended 31 December 2002 2001 2002 2001 2002 Restated m m Profit for the financial year m Operating profit 199.3 201.8 UK GAAP 125.2 116.9 Adjustment for non-cash items 45.2 43.9 US GAAP 147.8 102.4 Working capital movements 0.8 1.0 Earnings per share p Special pension contribution 20.0 UK GAAP 27.1 25.5 Other cash movements 8.9 8.6 US GAAP 32.0 22.3 Net cash inflow from operating activities 216.4 236.1 Shareholders funds: equity interests m Net cash outflow for returns on UK GAAP 544.0 456.5 investments and servicing of finance 9.0 13.9 US GAAP 741.8 714.1 Tax paid 64.3 54.9 Net cash outflow for capital expenditure 31.0 37.7 Acquisitions and disposals 33.6 79.5 Equity dividends paid 48.0 43.0 Net cash inflow before use of liquid resources and financing 97.7 7.1 Net cash outflow from management of liquid resources 128.7 6.4 Net cash inflow from financing 8.0 19.9 Decrease increase in cash in the financial year 23.0 20.6 Restated on adoption of FRS19 Deferred Tax.
26 Bunzl plc STATEMENT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS TO THE MEMBERS OF BUNZL PLC pursuant to Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 We have examined the Summary Financial Opinion Statement on pages 23 to 26.
In our opinion the Summary Financial Statement is consistent with the full financial This statement is made solely to the Companys statements, the Directors Report and the members, as a body, in accordance with Section Directors Remuneration Report of Bunzl plc 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our work for the year ended 31 December 2002 and has been undertaken so that we might state to complies with the applicable requirements the Companys members those matters we are of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 required to state to them in such a statement and the regulations made thereunder.
To the fullest extent KPMG Audit Plc permitted by the law, we do not accept or Chartered Accountants assume responsibility to anyone other than Registered Auditor the Company and the Companys members London as a body, for our work, for this statement 24 February 2003 or for the opinions we have formed.
The auditors have issued an unqualified report on the full financial statements containing no statement under Respective responsibilities of directors Sections 237 2 or 237 3 of the Companies Act 1985. and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the Summary Financial Statement in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the Summary Financial Statement within the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement with the full financial statements, the Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration Report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Summary Financial Statement.
Basis of opinion We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6, The Auditors Statement on the Summary Financial Statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Our report on the Groups full financial statements describes the basis of our audit opinion on those financial statements.
28 Bunzl plc SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Financial calendar 2003 Registered office 110 Park Street, London W1K 6NX Annual General Meeting 14 May Telephone 020 7495 4950, Fax 020 7495 4953 Results for the half year to 30 June 2003 26 August Website www.
com Registered in England No 358948 2004 Results for the year to 31 December 2003 February Secretary P N Hussey Annual Report circulated March Registrar Dividend payments are normally made on these dates: Computershare Investor Services PLC Ordinary shares final 1 July PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH Ordinary shares interim 2 January Telephone 0870 702 0001, Fax 0870 703 6116 Website www.
com Analysis of ordinary shareholders Auditors As at 31 December 2002 the Company had 6,199 2001: 5,573 KPMG Audit Plc shareholders who held 467.0 million 2001: 463.9 million ordinary shares between them, analysed as follows: Stockbrokers Cazenove Size of holding Number of shareholders % of issued share capital Schroder Salomon Smith Barney 0 10,000 5,285 2 10,001 100,000 525 4 Merchant bankers UBS 100,001 500,000 237 12 500,001 1,000,000 68 10 1,000,001 and over 84 72 6,199 100 Bunzl plc 29 Designed and produced by Sheppard Day Front cover top: Our range of disposable products includes specialised items such as hot beverage paper cups that feature a unique heat barrier providing a cost effective alternative to coffee sleeves.
Front cover bottom: Reservoirs for inkjet printing systems are one of a number of growing applications for our specialised bonded fibres.
