US GAAP INFORMATION for the year ended 31 December 2002 The Groups financial statements are prepared relate which may be earlier than the date derivatives qualify for hedge accounting under in accordance with United Kingdom Generally of declaration.
Under US GAAP ordinary US GAAP thereby reducing the effect on the Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP dividends are accounted for in the period profit and loss account from gains and losses which differ in certain significant respects from in which they are declared.
arising from changes in their fair values.
United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles US GAAP.
Set out below is d Property revaluation h Deferred taxation a summary of the significant differences, Under UK GAAP until 31 December 1999, The adoption of FRS19 Deferred Tax on a reconciliation of profit from UK GAAP land and buildings were revalued periodically 1 January 2002 has eliminated the significant to US GAAP, a statement of comprehensive and depreciation based on such revalued amounts.
differences between accounting for deferred income, earnings per share, a reconciliation As permitted under FRS15 Tangible Fixed taxation under UK GAAP and US GAAP.
of the effect on earnings of adopting SFAS 142, Assets, the valuations of land and buildings As a result, the adjustments for taxation a reconciliation of equity shareholders funds have not been and will not be updated.
Under now primarily relate to the effect of other from UK GAAP to US GAAP and a consolidated US GAAP revaluations of fixed assets are not US GAAP adjustments.
cash flow statement on a US GAAP basis.
permitted and depreciation is calculated based on historic cost.
i Discontinued operations a Goodwill and other intangible assets UK GAAP and US GAAP have different criteria Under UK GAAP goodwill arising on acquisitions e Pension costs for determining discontinued operations.
Under made after 31 December 1997 is capitalised and Under UK GAAP the expected cost of pensions US GAAP discontinued operations would exclude is amortised through the profit and loss account is charged to the Groups profit and loss account the exiting of the small machine building over a period of up to 20 years.
Goodwill arising so as to spread the cost of pensions over the activity at Jarrow.
on acquisitions made prior to 1 January 1998 expected service lives of employees.
Surpluses remains eliminated against equity reserves.
arising from actuarial valuations are similarly j Cash flows spread.
Under US GAAP costs and surpluses are The principal difference between UK GAAP Under US GAAP the excess of the fair value also spread over the expected service lives but and US GAAP is in respect of classification.
of the consideration paid over the fair value based on prescribed actuarial assumptions, Under UK GAAP the Group presents its cash of the net assets acquired including identifiable allocation of costs and valuation methods which flows from operating activities, returns on intangible assets is assigned to goodwill.
differ from those used for UK GAAP.
Furthermore, investments and servicing of finance, tax paid, Under US GAAP the Group ceased amortising US GAAP requires the recognition of an additional capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals, all goodwill from 1 January 2002 upon full minimum pension liability which is recorded equity dividends paid, management of liquid adoption of SFAS 142 Goodwill and Other through the statement of comprehensive income.
US GAAP requires only Intangible Assets.
Goodwill is capitalised and This reflects the extent to which the funding three categories of cash flow activities which is now subject to an annual impairment test status of any scheme does not cover the unfunded are operating, investing and financing.
Cash flows to identify any impairment loss.
SFAS 141 accumulated benefit obligation for that scheme.
arising from tax paid and returns on investments Business Combinations was adopted by and servicing of finance under UK GAAP are, the Group from 1 July 2001.
Accordingly, f Share schemes with the exception of dividends paid to minority identifiable intangible assets are capitalised Under UK GAAP the Group recognises a shareholders, included as operating activities and amortised over their useful economic life.
compensation cost for only the cost of its own under US GAAP.
Dividend payments are shares acquired to satisfy the requirements included as a financing activity under US GAAP.
Under UK GAAP the profit or loss on disposal of the Long Term Incentive Plan and the Deferred In addition capital expenditure and acquisitions of a business acquired prior to 1 January 1998 Annual Share Bonus Scheme.
Under US GAAP and disposals under UK GAAP are presented is calculated after taking account of any goodwill APB Opinion 25 requires a compensation cost as investing activities under US GAAP.
Under US GAAP an to be recorded for all of the Groups performance adjustment to the UK GAAP profit or loss is based executive share schemes and for the Under UK GAAP cash comprises cash in hand, made in respect of goodwill previously amortised.
discount provided to employees in respect deposits repayable on demand and overdrafts.
Under US GAAP cash and cash equivalents b Own shares include short term, highly liquid investments Under UK GAAP the Company recognises as g Derivative instruments with original maturities of less than three months an asset the cost of acquiring its own shares Under UK GAAP changes in the fair value and excludes overdrafts.
to satisfy the requirements of the Long Term of interest rate derivatives are not recognised Incentive Plan and the Deferred Annual Share in the financial statements but are disclosed k Exceptional items Bonus Scheme and to satisfy options granted in Note 15.
Furthermore, gains and losses on Under UK GAAP profit on sale of discontinued under the 1994 Executive Share Option Scheme foreign exchange contracts used for hedging operations is disclosed as an exceptional item in respect of market purchased shares.
Under net investments have been taken to reserves.
Under US GAAP this US GAAP this is presented as a reduction Under US GAAP derivative financial instruments profit is not treated as exceptional.
of equity shareholders funds, as these shares are required to be recorded in the balance sheet are treated as treasury shares.
as either an asset or liability at fair value.
l Statement of comprehensive income Changes in the fair value of these derivative Under UK GAAP the statement of total c Ordinary dividends instruments are recognised in the profit and recognised gains and losses is similar to the Under UK GAAP ordinary dividends are loss account unless specific hedge accounting statement of comprehensive income under accounted for in the period to which they criteria are met.
Certain of the Groups US GAAP.
34 Bunzl plc 2002 2001 m m Profit for the financial year in accordance with UK GAAP 125.2 116.9 US GAAP adjustments: Amortisation of goodwill and other intangibles 13.4 8.9 Disposal of business 9.6 Pension costs 1.3 0.4 Share option expense 0.5 5.0 Capital instruments and derivatives 1.2 1.0 Taxation on above adjustments 1.2 Net income for the financial year in accordance with US GAAP 147.8 102.4 Statement of comprehensive income m m Net income for the financial year in accordance with US GAAP 147.8 102.4 Additional minimum pension liability net of income tax 53.4 Currency translation net of income tax 23.6 4.1 Comprehensive income in accordance with US GAAP 70.8 98.3 Earnings per share in accordance with US GAAP 32.0p 22.3p Diluted earnings per share in accordance with US GAAP 31.6p 22.0p Goodwill and other intangible assets adoption of SFAS 142 m m Net income for the financial year in accordance with US GAAP 147.8 102.4 Goodwill amortisation 21.7 Adjusted net income for the financial year in accordance with US GAAP 147.8 124.1 Earnings per share in accordance with US GAAP 32.0p 22.3p Goodwill amortisation 4.7p Adjusted earnings per share in accordance with US GAAP 32.0p 27.0p m m Equity shareholders funds in accordance with UK GAAP 544.0 456.5 US GAAP adjustments: Goodwill and other intangibles 226.1 236.7 Own shares 19.2 13.2 Ordinary dividend 35.3 32.4 Disposal of business 9.6 Property revaluations 1.5 1.6 Pensions 80.8 0.3 Capital instruments and derivatives 0.2 Deferred taxation 1.6 1.8 Taxation on above adjustments 26.7 2.0 Equity shareholders funds in accordance with US GAAP 741.8 714.1 Consolidated cash flow statement m m Net cash inflow from operating activities 153.3 168.1 Net cash inflow outflow from investing activities 2.6 117.2 Net cash outflow from financing activities 30.2 30.9 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents per US GAAP 125.7 20.0 Exchange adjustments 4.0 0.2 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year per US GAAP 70.5 50.7 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year per US GAAP 192.2 70.5 Restated on adoption of FRS19 Deferred Tax.
