ACCOUNTING POLICIES a Basis of preparation is transferred to the profit and loss reserve i Leases The financial statements have been through the profit and loss account.
Where the Group has substantially all the risks prepared under the historical cost convention and rewards of ownership of an asset subject to as modified by the revaluation of certain fixed e Investments in subsidiary undertakings a lease, the lease is treated as a finance lease.
assets and have been prepared in accordance Where the merger relief provisions of the Future instalments payable under finance leases, with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable Companies Act 1985 apply, investments of net of finance charges, are included in creditors UK accounting standards.
The following the Company are accounted for on the basis with the corresponding asset value treated as accounting policies have been applied of the nominal value of shares issued as a tangible fixed asset and depreciated over consistently in dealing with items which purchase consideration.
the shorter of the estimated useful life and the are considered material in relation to the term of the lease.
All other leases are treated Groups financial statements, except as f Foreign currencies as operating leases and the rentals are charged noted in paragraph c below.
The results of overseas subsidiary undertakings to the profit and loss account on a straight have been translated into sterling at average line basis.
b Basis of consolidation exchange rates.
Assets and liabilities The consolidated financial statements denominated in foreign currencies have been j Sales incorporate the assets and liabilities of the translated at year end exchange rates, except Sales are net sales invoiced to third parties Company and its subsidiary undertakings at where a forward foreign exchange contract has for services provided and goods sold, excluding 31 December 2002 and their results for the been arranged when the contracted rate is used.
inter company transactions and sales taxes.
periods during 2002 in which they were part of the Group.
The acquisition method of Exchange differences on the retranslation k Stocks accounting has been adopted.
of opening net worth in overseas subsidiary Stocks are valued at the lower of cost on a undertakings, net of related foreign currency first in, first out basis and net realisable value.
c Change of accounting policy borrowings and foreign currency hedging contracts For work-in-progress and finished goods, cost On 1 January 2002 the Group adopted together with differences arising from the use of includes an appropriate proportion of labour FRS19 Deferred Tax which requires full average and year end exchange rates, have been and overheads.
provision to be made for deferred taxation taken to reserves.
Other exchange differences arising from the different treatment of certain are taken to the profit and loss account.
l Pension benefits items for accounting and taxation purposes.
The Group operates both defined benefit Deferred taxation is not recognised on the Forward foreign exchange contracts hedging and defined contribution pension schemes unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiary transaction exposures are revalued at year throughout the world.
The funds of the principal undertakings where there is no commitment end exchange rates with net unrealised gains schemes are administered by trustees, are to remit these earnings and deferred taxation and losses being taken to the profit and held independently from the Group and are not assets are recognised to the extent that they loss reserve.
included in the financial statements.
Pension are regarded as more likely than not to be costs are charged to the profit and loss account recovered.
Deferred taxation is not discounted.
g Tangible fixed assets on a systematic basis over the expected As a result of adopting FRS19, deferred Until 31 December 1999, land and buildings remaining service lives of participating taxation liabilities at 31 December 2001 were revalued periodically.
Differences between the amounts have been increased by 10.0m.
Accordingly, FRS15, the valuations of land and buildings charged and the contributions are treated as the opening consolidated profit and loss have not been and will not be updated.
Independent actuarial reserve at 1 January 2002 has been reduced other assets are included at historical cost, valuations of defined benefit schemes are made by 10.0m to 271.6m.
Furthermore taxation less accumulated depreciation.
The profit or loss approximately every three years.
Contributions on profit before goodwill amortisation and on sale of tangible fixed assets is calculated paid to defined contribution schemes are exceptional items has been increased by by reference to the carrying values of the assets.
charged to the profit and loss account in 0.1m 2001: 0.8m.
The impact on the The carrying values of tangible fixed assets the period in which they arise.
During 2002 opening profit and loss reserve of the are periodically reviewed for impairment when the Group continued to adopt the transitional Company was less than 0.05m.
events or changes in circumstances indicate disclosure requirements of FRS17 Retirement that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
Benefits which will be fully adopted in the d Goodwill 2003 financial statements.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions made after h Depreciation 31 December 1997 is capitalised and is Tangible fixed assets are depreciated over amortised through the profit and loss account their estimated remaining useful lives at the over its estimated useful life, a period of following annual rates applied to book value up to 20 years, on a straight line basis.
less estimated residual value: Goodwill arising on acquisitions made prior to 1 January 1998 remains eliminated against Buildings 2% or life of lease if shorter reserves.
In determining the profit or loss Plant and machinery 10 20% on disposal of a business, any goodwill on Fixtures, fittings and equipment 10 25% acquisition, net of goodwill eliminated through the profit and loss account as a result of any impairment in value or by amortisation, Depreciation is not provided on freehold land.
