Subsidiaries i Operating subsidiaries The principal operating subsidiaries consolidated in these financial statements are listed below.
The Company holds, directly or indirectly, all of the ordinary share capital and voting rights of these companies except for Gresham Insurance Company Limited, in which the Group holds 90% of the ordinary share capital.
Country of Company name Nature of business incorporation Legal & General Finance Plc Treasury operations Great Britain Legal & General Resources Limited Provision of services Great Britain Legal & General Assurance Society Limited Long term and general insurance Great Britain Legal & General Insurance Limited General insurance Great Britain Legal & General Investment Management Limited Investment management Great Britain Legal & General Assurance Pensions Management Limited Long term insurance Great Britain Legal & General Portfolio Management Services Limited Investment management Great Britain Legal & General Property Limited Property management Great Britain Legal & General Unit Trust Managers Limited Unit trust management Great Britain Legal & General Estate Agencies Limited Estate agency Great Britain Legal & General Ventures Limited Venture capital management Great Britain 60 Alliance & Leicester Life Assurance Company Ltd Long term insurance Great Britain Gresham Insurance Company Limited General insurance Great Britain Legal & General France SA Long term insurance France Legal & General Bank France SA Financial services France Legal & General Nederland Levensverzekering Maatschappij NV Long term insurance Netherlands Banner Life Insurance Company Inc Long term insurance USA William Penn Life Insurance Company of New York Inc Long term insurance USA Directly held by Legal & General Group Plc.
All other subsidiaries are held through intermediate holding companies.
The acquisition of Alliance & Leicester Life Assurance Company Ltd from Alliance & Leicester plc was completed on 3 September 2002.
The acquisition cost of 89m represents 22m for the value of the in-force business and 67m for the net assets of the company.
The main area of operation of subsidiaries incorporated in Great Britain is the UK.
For overseas subsidiaries the principal country of operation is the same as the country of incorporation.
The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries are: Long term insurance Ordinary life and pensions business covers individual life and annuity policies, including capital redemption and permanent health insurance, individual pension arrangements and employers schemes including group life and permanent health insurance benets and pension fund management business.
Investment management Provision of a fund management service for clients funds as well as the Groups insurance and shareholders funds through managed and segregated funds, unit trusts, personal equity plans and individual savings accounts.
General insurance Household, mortgage indemnity, motor, healthcare and accident sickness and unemployment insurance.
