BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Team 1 Rob Margetts CBE Stockbrokers Ltd and Barclays Bank Trust 10 Barrie Morgans 23 Chairman.
He is also Chairman of Company Ltd. She has an MBA from Craneld Independent non-executive director and BOC Group PLC, a director of Anglo American Plc School of Management.
She is a member of the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Aged 61. and Chairman of the Natural Environment Research Governments Advisory Committee on Business He is Chairman of Azlan Group Plc and was Council.
Also, a member of the Council of Science Standards and the Environment.
formerly Chairman and Chief Executive of and Technology, a Trustee of the Council for IBM UK Holdings Limited.
Industry and Higher Education and a Governor 6 Tim Breedon of the Imperial College of Science, Technology Group Director Investments.
Joined 11 Tim Parker and Medicine.
He was formerly a director and Legal & General in 1987 and became Director Independent non-executive director.
Vice Chairman of Imperial Chemical Industries Index Funds in 1994.
Promoted to Managing Currently Chief Executive of Kwik-Fit Holdings Plc.
Director Index Funds on 1 January 2000, he and non-executive director of CDC Group Plc, was appointed Group Director Investments he was previously Chief Executive of C. & J. Clark 2 David Prosser with effect from 1 January 2002.
He holds Ltd. Chief Executive of Kenwood Appliances Plc Group Chief Executive.
Joined a degree from Oxford University, and initially joined and a member of the South West Regional Legal & General in 1988 as Group Director Standard Chartered Bank before moving to the Development Agency.
Appointed Group Chief Executive London Business School where he took an he is a member of the Audit Committee.
Previously, MSc in Business Administration.
he held positions at British Coal, where he was 12 Robin Phipps Chief Executive of CIN the pensions investment 7 Frances Heaton Group Director UK Operations.
Aged 52. management company, at Sun Alliance the Independent non-executive director.
Joined Legal & General in 1982 from British Gas insurance company and at Hoare Govett the She is Deputy Chairman of WS Atkins plc and and was appointed IT Director in 1985.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of a non-executive director of AWG plc.
She is also appointed to the Board as Group Director Sales Actuaries and holds a degree from the University a member of the Committee on Standards in Public & Marketing on 1 January 1996 and became College of Wales, Aberystwyth.
She was formerly an executive director of Group Director Retail Business on 1 July 1999.
Lazard Brothers & Co. Limited and a non-executive Appointed Group Director UK Operations with 3 Andrew Palmer director of the Bank of England.
Appointed in July effect from 1 January 2001.
He was 2001, she is a member of the Audit Committee.
appointed to the Board as Group Director Services 13 Dr Ronaldo Schmitz on 1 January 1996 and became Group Director 8 Beverley Hodson OBE Independent non-executive director.
Non-executive director of GlaxoSmithKline Plc, Group Director Finance with effect from 1 January She is Managing Director of UK Retail, WH Smith Rohm & Haas Co. and the Cabot Corporation.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Group Plc.
She was formerly Managing Director of He was formerly a director of Deutsche Bank AG.
Accountants in England and Wales.
Childrens World, which was part of Boots Company Appointed in October 2000.
Plc, and Managing Director of Dolcis Limited and 4 Bernard Asher Cable & Co. which were part of Sears Plc.
She 14 Sir David Walker Vice Chairman, Senior Independent Non-Executive was previously a non-executive director of M&G Independent non-executive director.
Aged 63. director and Chairman of the Remuneration Prudential and a member of the North Yorkshire Senior adviser to Morgan Stanley International Committee.
Chairman of Lonrho Africa &Humberside Regional Development Agency.
Limited, of which he was formerly Executive Plc.
Vice Chairman of the Court of Governors of Appointed in December 2000.
Chairman, and Chairman of the London the London School of Economics and Political Investment Banking Association.
9 Gareth Hoskin previously an Executive Director of the Bank Group Director Product and Corporate.
Aged 42. of England, Chairman of the Securities & 5 Kate Avery Joined Legal & General in 1994 as Finance Investments Board and a Deputy Chairman Group Director Retail Distribution.
Appointed in March 2002, Joined Legal & General in 1996 as Director Sales Director Housing in 1998 and Retail Marketing he is a member of the Audit Committee.
She became Director Group Director in 1999.
Appointed to the Group Marketing and Direct in 1997 and Retail Board on 1 January 2001.
He previously held Customer Director in 1999.
Appointed to the positions in Sears Plc and Price Waterhouse.
She was A chartered accountant, he holds a degree from previously Managing Director of Barclays Salford University.
Corporate Governance The Group has complied throughout the year with the provisions of the Nominations Committee Combined Code of the Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice The Nominations Committee is chaired by Rob Margetts and composed the Combined Code, as annexed to the listing rules of the UK Listing Authority, of all directors.
It must have a majority of non-executive directors when the Financial Services Authority FSA, except in respect of the publication of it meets.
It is responsible for proposing the appointment of new Board proxy votes at the Annual General Meeting AGM, which is referred to below.
In doing so, it considers the composition of the Board, the demands made on the Board and its committees and the requirements The Board of good corporate governance.
The Board determines the strategic direction of the Group and reviews its operating and financial position.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters Group Risk Committee specically reserved to it, which can only be amended by the Board itself and The Group Risk Committee is chaired by the Group Director Finance which is reviewed annually.
The Board meets at least 11 times during the year.
and comprises senior managers drawn from across the Group.
It monitors the process by which critical risks in the UK and overseas are identied Directors and managed.
It reports regularly to the main operating board and to the Appointments to the Board are the responsibility of the full Board, on the Audit Committee.
recommendation of the Nominations Committee.
New directors have a formal induction programme.
The Board and its directors are subject to periodic Audit Committee external appraisal.
The aim is to improve both individual contributions and The Audit Committee is chaired by Barrie Morgans and comprises group achievement.
The review is based on wide consultations by an external non-executive directors.
It met four times during the year to: consultant over a period, culminating in a full review of the results and consequent action.
The last appraisal was conducted in 2001 and the next review and advise the Board on the Groups interim and annual financial is planned for 2003.
All directors submit themselves for re-election at AGMs statements: its accounting policies: and on the control of its financial and 24 at least once every three years.
business risks: There is a continuing training programme for directors and senior managers review the nature and scope of the work to be performed by the external and which, in 2002, included educational and business awareness programmes.
internal auditors, the results of that work and managements response: and The majority of the Board are independent, non-executive directors with a wide make recommendations on the appointment and remuneration of the external business experience and whose remuneration consists only of fees.
They have auditors and review the non-audit services provided to the Group by the access to all information relating to the Group: the advice and services of the external auditors.
Group Secretary: and, as required, external advice at the expense of the Group.
At the end of 2002 there were eight non-executive directors.
The Audit Committee meets with executive directors and management, as well as privately with both external and internal auditors.
The chairman reports the There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and the Group outcome of meetings to the Board and the Board receives the minutes of all Chief Executive.
The roles of the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and directors Committee meetings.
are clearly dened, so as to give no individual unfettered powers of decision.
The Chairman, the Vice Chairman the Senior Independent non-executive The terms of reference of the Audit Committee include all matters indicated by director and the other non-executive directors are independent.
the Combined Code, except overseeing the compliance risks which, as explained below, is the direct responsibility of the Board.
Relations with shareholders The Board attaches high importance to maintaining good relationships with Internal Control shareholders.
There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders.
However, The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups internal control systems care is exercised to ensure that any price-sensitive information is released at and for monitoring their effectiveness.
Implementation and maintenance of the the same time to all shareholders, institutional and private, in accordance with internal control systems are the responsibility of the executive directors and the requirements of both the FSA and the London Stock Exchange.
The performance of internal control systems is reviewed regularly by the Audit Committee and boards of subsidiary companies.
The Board regards the AGM as an important opportunity to communicate directly with private investors.
Board members, including the chairmen of the The Board regularly reviews actual and forecast performance of the businesses Remuneration, Nominations and Audit Committees, attend the meeting and compared with its one year plan as well as other key performance indicators.
are available to answer questions.
Lines of responsibility and delegated authorities are clearly dened.
The Groups In order that shareholders present are aware of the other shareholders voting control policies and procedures are set out in an operating manual, which intentions, the details of proxy votes are distributed immediately prior to the AGM.
is regularly updated and distributed throughout the Group.
Executive directors are required to confirm compliance with these policies throughout the year.
Board Committees The results of this conrmation process are reported to the Audit Committee.
The Remuneration Committee, the Nominations Committee, the Group Risk Committee and the Audit Committee are standing committees of the Board.
The arrangements for establishing investment, treasury and underwriting The role and operation of the Remuneration Committee is set out in the policies, together with the related internal control systems, are described Directors Report on Remuneration on pages 26 to 31. in the Operating and Financial Review.
LEGAL & GENERAL ANNUAL REPORT 2002 The Chairman and Group Chief Executive oversee the policies for employee in a plan which is approved by the Audit Committee.
The Group Chief Internal selection, assessment and development and have direct involvement in senior Auditor reports regularly to the Group Chief Executive and Audit Committee.
Succession planning and contingency arrangements are in place for senior management and have been reviewed by the Board.
Compliance The Group seeks to conduct business in accordance with ethical principles Each UK subsidiary which is subject to product and sales regulation has and there is guidance for employees on the standards required.
a compliance committee, comprising executive directors, senior managers and compliance ofcers.
These committees receive regular compliance reports Review of internal control relating to these regulations which are summarised and reported by the Head The Combined Code requires directors to review and report to shareholders of Compliance to the Group Chief Executive and the Board.
For international on the Groups internal control systems, which include financial, operational subsidiaries, compliance matters are considered at subsidiary board level.
and compliance controls, and risk management.
Financial risk management Established procedures, including those already described, are in place The Group has mechanisms for monitoring underwriting, pricing, credit, liquidity, to comply with the Combined Code.
The Board assesses the effectiveness interest rate and foreign exchange risks.
Risk management policies and of internal control systems on the basis of: procedures, as described in the Operating and Financial Review, are regularly reviewed by the executive directors and senior management.
regular reports by management to the main operating board and the Audit Committee on the adequacy and effectiveness of internal control systems During 2002 the Group established an independent Group Risk function.
This and significant control issues: function is responsible for advising the Group Risk Committee and the Board on the effectiveness of the Groups risk management framework.
the Group Risk Committees review of the continuous group-wide process 25 for formally identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks to the Prudential regulation and the Appointed Actuary achievement of the Groups objectives: Most of the activities of the Group relate to businesses which are subject to prudential regulation and require management to operate in a sound compliance reports and presentations from the Head of Compliance on, and prudent manner.
In the UK, the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 at least, a quarterly basis: and the Act has established the FSA as the regulator for most Group operations.
The Act, in particular, requires long term insurance business to be written presentations of the results of internal audits to the Audit Committee by within long term insurance funds, for which the actuaries appointed under the Group Chief Internal Auditor.
the Act have certain legal accountabilities.
Appointed actuaries are subject to the disciplines of professional conduct and guidance and have a reporting The Board takes regular account of the signicance of social, environmental and relationship to the directors of the relevant insurance company and to the FSA.
ethical matters to the businesses of the Group.
The Group Risk Committees They have access to the Board and must report fully and impartially on the review of the significant risks to the Group includes these matters.
The work financial condition of the funds, annually quantifying and conrming each funds of the Environment Committee, which is chaired by the Group Director Retail liabilities and solvency position.
The FSA receives a copy of these reports.
Distribution, is set out on pages 20 to 21.
The report of the appointed actuary for the UK long term fund is subject to a peer review by an external actuary.
The Groups internal control systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to meet business objectives, and can only provide Going concern reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The directors have prepared the financial statements on the going concern In assessing what constitutes reasonable assurance, the Board has regard basis consistent with their view, formed after making appropriate enquiries, to materiality and to the relationship between the cost of, and benefit from, that the Group is operationally and nancially robust.
The results of the ongoing monitoring of financial, operational and compliance controls, and the risk management process, are reported to the Board.
The Board was able to conclude, with reasonable assurance, that appropriate internal control systems had been maintained throughout the year.
Internal Audit Internal Audit advises management on the extent to which systems of internal control are effective: are adequate to manage business risk: safeguard the Groups resources: and ensure compliance with legal and regulatory requirements.
It provides objective assurance on risk and control to senior management and the Board.
Internal Audits work is focused on areas of greatest risk to the Group as determined by a structured risk assessment process involving executive directors and senior managers.
The output from this process is summarised LEGAL & GENERAL ANNUAL REPORT 2002
