Directors Report on Remuneration Remuneration Committee Salary The Committee is chaired by Bernard Asher and comprises all the non-executive The practice is to pay salaries at the mid-market level for the individual directors, except the Groups Chairman.
The meetings are also attended by the performance within the context of the relevant market for the job.
This is Group Chief Executive, except when his own remuneration is being considered, the only pensionable remuneration.
Salaries are reviewed annually with and the Groups Chairman.
The Communications & Resources Director, effect from January.
Mark Gregory, attends as the executive responsible for remuneration policy.
Variable cash bonus The remuneration strategy, policy and approach for all staff is reviewed annually The immediate annual cash bonus is based on the mid-market bonus for the by the Committee.
The Committee also makes recommendations to the Board job in comparator companies.
The amount varies according to the performance each year in respect of executive directors remuneration.
In February 2003, the of the business and the individual, measured against pre-determined objectives, recommendations were all accepted without amendment.
All share schemes are with bonus rather than salary being the reward for high performance.
These established and monitored by the Committee.
objectives are outlined in the table below.
Compliance with regulations is a major determinant of bonuses.
There is a maximum cash bonus which has been Hewitt, Bacon & Woodrow were appointed by the Remuneration Committee in increased to 60% of salary in line with market practice.
It will only exceed the April 2002 to verify that the 2002 remuneration practice for executive directors cap in exceptional circumstances where market practice, together with business follows the policy set out in the 2001 Report on Remuneration.
Their statement and individual performance, makes it appropriate.
is at the end of this report.
Executives each have five or six objectives for 2003, one of which is a Group In November 2002, the Committee considered whether it should appoint its own Achieved profit target applicable to all executives.
The other objectives are external consultants independent of management to advise upon remuneration.
specic measures of achievement by business or individual.
The bonus which The Committee currently feels it is adequately advised but will review this decision results from the delivery of these objectives will be reviewed by the Committee 26 periodically.
The Head of Remuneration, Geoff Tucker, provides information drawn based on its view of the executives overall performance.
from a variety of sources and he provides analysis to the Committee.
Deferred bonus Remuneration Policy The deferred bonus scheme used in 2003 for 2002 performance was the The Groups remuneration policy is designed to support the recruitment, motivation Share Bonus Plan.
The plan grants conditional shares which are held in a trust and retention of employees.
Remuneration is considered within the overall context for three years.
It is a deferred bonus scheme based on annual performance, of both the sector of which the Group is a part and the Groups individual not a long term incentive plan.
Thus there are no performance conditions for businesses.
The objective continues to be to pay at the relevant mid-market release.
No dividends are paid and shares are not normally released if the level with a package designed to align the interests of the employees with the executive leaves the Groups employment.
The Restricted Share Plan, used shareholders and with a significant proportion of total remuneration dependent upon until 2002, was closed in December 2002.
The value of the shares awarded performance.
This policy is described in more detail below for executive directors.
to directors has been reported.
Remuneration Policy for Non-executive Directors Long term incentives Fees for the non-executive directors are determined by the Group Board, based The Groups Long Term Incentive Plans have been developed to reect on a range of external information and set within the aggregate limits contained market practice and to provide long term management focus and motivation.
in the Articles of Association.
20,000 of the fees 50,000 for the Chairman The Committee believes that a significant element of executives remuneration is paid as a lump sum with the expectation that the amount after UK tax is should be linked to the delivery of above average long term returns for used to buy Legal & General shares, which will be retained for the remaining shareholders.
Executives interests in both relative and absolute share price period of ofce.
There is no other remuneration performance are important.
This is facilitated by the use of share schemes and except where the Company meets authorised expenses of non-executive the encouragement to grow a significant personal shareholding in the business.
directors incurred on Legal & General activities and any associated tax liability.
The Group Chief Executive is expected to have a holding of shares valued at twice salary while the other executive directors will be expected to build towards Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors a holding valued at one times their salary.
The Committee will decide whether The remuneration of the Groups executive directors comprises salary, individual holdings are sufficient to allow future grants.
the possibility of an annual cash bonus based upon performance, deferred bonus, participation in long term incentive plans with returns based on share There are two long term Plans, the Executive Share Option Scheme and the performance, together with pensions and other benets.
Share and bonus Performance Share Plan.
Only one of these is used for an individual in any schemes are structured to provide a strong alignment of interest between one year.
The Committee intends that grants of share options should be the individual and the shareholders.
No fees are paid to executive directors.
based on the companys performance in increasing the comparative value of the business.
Share options will only vest if the Groups Total Shareholder In order to encourage and reward performance, there is a significant proportion Return TSR exceeds the median TSR for the FTSE 100 companies for a period of reward dependent on company and individual performance.
Around one half of at least three years, commencing on the date of grant.
The FTSE 100 is of directors total remuneration is dependent on target performance with considered the most appropriate comparator group as there is no reasonable a maximum at grant of up to three quarters.
Remuneration reects individual experience and responsibility.
It is based on The Committee reviews the quantum of share options granted each year to relevant individual market comparators, related to job size, function and sector, ensure that it is in line with the market.
The maximum annual grant is currently and individual and company performance.
Judgements are based on a range 2 times base salary.
of external information, mainly from major remuneration consultants including Towers Perrin: Watson Wyatt: New Bridge Street: Monks and MacLagans.
The Performance Share Plan grants conditional shares, based upon The practice is to use at least two independent sources of information for each performance.
The Plan was used to offer these performance shares in individual decision.
The executive director comparator market is considered to 2003 in respect of 2002 performance.
Where the executive was given the be mainly the FTSE 100 companies, with special reference to major companies alternative of share options, it was on the basis of one performance share in the UK financial services sector.
LEGAL & GENERAL ANNUAL REPORT 2002 Executive directors 2003 objectives: Executive Objective 1 Objective 2 Objective 3 Objective 4 Objective 5 Objective 6 Kate Avery Group operating profit UK operations new business Partnership targets Direct targets General Insurance n a targets Tim Breedon Group operating profit Investment Mgmt profit Investment Mgmt Active Funds Strategic projects n a new business performance Gareth Hoskin Group operating profit UK operations new business Pensions targets Unit trust targets Products Cost control development Andrew Palmer Group operating profit Financial reporting Management Group capital Strategy Risk and control information Robin Phipps Group operating profit UK operations new business Distribution strategy Service and cost Market share Training and competency David Prosser Group operating profit Business value New business Group capital Strategy Distribution mix Non compliance with regulations would lead to a reduction in bonus.
Under the Performance Share Plan, the number of performance shares transferred Committee is planning to introduce a new package based on salary, immediate to the individual is dependent on the Legal & Generals TSR compared with that cash bonus, deferred cash bonus on a similar basis to the Share Bonus of the other FTSE 100 companies at the date of award, measured over a three Plan and a deferred cash bonus payable on meeting performance conditions 27 year period.
The minimum number of performance shares is transferred if the similar in character to those currently used for the Performance Share Plan.
Total Shareholder Return is above median.
The number increases proportionately This approach will align the Group Chief Executives pay with that of the to a maximum of four times the performance shares for performance at or above other directors.
Any shares arising from 2000, 2001 and 2002 grants will be released in 2003, 2004 and 2005 respectively provided the performance Other Share Schemes targets are met.
There are share schemes for all UK employees.
Executive directors participate on the same terms as all UK employees in the Inland Revenue approved Save A chart is shown below which gives Legal & Generals TSR compared with As You Earn share option scheme, the employee profit sharing scheme the last the FTSE 100 TSR over the last 5 years.
Total Shareholder Return is the change awards under which were made in April 2000, the Company Share Option Plan in the share price plus dividends re-invested in Legal & General shares.
and the Employee Share Plan.
Group Chief Executive Benets Following the deferral of the Group Chief Executives retirement from his Other benets provided by the Group are: Normal Retirement Date in 2004, the Committee wish to ensure that he a car allowance: continues to be rewarded appropriately.
As he is no longer eligible for share medical insurance: and options or performance shares, the Committee has decided for 2002 to match staff discounts.
Legal & General products can be acquired by executive his cash bonus with Share Bonus Plan shares.
For 2003 performance, the directors on the terms applicable to other members of staff.
