71 Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc Shareholder Information The share price is obtainable from the following: US Depositary Financial Times, Daily Telegraph, The Independent, The Bank of New York Cambridge Evening News, The Guardian, Daily Express.
Investor Relations PO Box 11258 London Stock Exchange Church Street Station mnemonic CAT New York, NY10286-1258, US NASDAQ Investor relations Information on CAT is available online via the internet at mnemonic CATG www.
com Announcements Security analysts and investment professionals should direct their First quarter mid February enquiries in the first instance to: Interim mid May UK Europe Third quarter early September Final mid November Corporate Communications Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc Shareholders Milstein Building There are approximately 2,300 registered shareholders.
Granta Park Cambridge CB1 6GH, UK Company Secretary and registered office US Diane Mellett LLB JD Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc The Trout Group LLC Milstein Building 740 Broadway, Suite 903 Granta Park New York, NY10003, US Cambridge CB1 6GH, UK Registered number 3234033 Registrars Computershare Investor Services PLC PO Box 82 The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 7NH, UK Tel 0870 702 0000 PFIC Annual Information Statement Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc The following information applies to United States shareholders only.
For the year ended 30 September 2002, we believe that the Company was not a Passive Foreign Investment Corporation PFIC as defined by Section 1297 of the United States Code.
This conclusion is a factual determination that is made annually and therefore may be subject to change in the future.
As the Company was at one time a PFIC we provide the following information.
Fiscal year ended 30 September 2002 1 This information is being provided pursuant to Section 1.1295-1T of the United States Treasury Regulations.
2 This PFIC Annual Information Statement applies to the financial year of the Company beginning 1 October 2001 and ending 30 September 2002.
3 The Company had negative ordinary earnings and no net capital gain for the taxable year indicated above.
4 During the year no actual or deemed distributions were made.
5 The Company has given the information set forth in paragraphs 14 above to enable the shareholder to establish that the Companys ordinary earnings and net capital gain are computed in accordance with US income tax principles and to determine the shareholders pro rata share thereof.
72 Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc Glossary Please use this glossary of terms to give you a better understanding of our business.
Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome ARDS A severe form of acute failure Nasal patency The openness of airways in the nose.
of lung function which can occur after trauma, sepsis or inhalation of a toxic substance.
Ocular Of, or relating to, the eye.
A negotiable US certificate representing ownership Orphan Drug status Denotes a drug for a rare disease less than 5 per 10,000 of shares in a non-US corporation, ADRs are quoted and traded in US dollars on US population in Europe.
Orphan designation brings commercial benefits to the company securities markets.
CATs ADRs are quoted on the NASDAQ National Market and one developing the drug.
CAT ADR represents one ordinary share in CAT.
Phakotrabeclectomy Combined surgery to simultaneously treat glaucoma Agonistic A positive response induced by the binding of a target molecule to a cell and a cataract.
Phage Abbreviation for bacteriophage, a filamentous virus that infects bacteria.
Allergic disease disorder Conditions caused by an overreaction of the immune system to foreign substances which are usually considered to be harmless.
Phage display CATs proprietary technology in which antibodies are displayed on the tip of a phage virus.
Pharmacokinetics The study of the time course of a drug in the body following Antibody A protein produced by B-lymphocytes white blood cells of the immune administration.
system, which specifically recognises a target molecule known as an antigen.
Phase I clinical trial A first in man study conducted to determine the biological Antigen A molecule recognised by an antibody.
effects of a drug, especially its safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics.
Autoimmune disease disorder Conditions which occur when the human immune Phase I II clinical trial Early study in patients with the disease for which the product system reacts against a component of the human body.
candidate is being developed to determine safety and preliminary efficacy.
B-Lymphocyte stimulator BLyS A protein which stimulates B-lymphocytes to Phase III clinical trial Trials with larger patient numbers to confirm a drugs efficacy produce antibodies.
This is the last phase of trials prior to filing for market approval.
Cirrhosis A condition of chronic scarring of the liver, characterised by the presence Pulmonary Relating to the lung.
of fibrous tissue, which destroys the liver architecture and interferes with normal liver function.
Rheumatoid arthritis A condition characterised by chronic inflammation and gradual destruction of the joints.
Crohns disease A chronic inflammatory disorder of the bowels.
Scleroderma An autoimmune disease of the connective tissues which affects blood Cytokines Small protein molecules that are released by cells which affect the vessels and is characterised by thickening of the skin and fibrosis of the internal organs behaviour of other cells and regulate biological processes.
TM D2E7 Original codename for Humira adalimumab.
Systemic lupus erythematosus SLE Often known as lupus, one of a group of Diabetic nephropathy Chronic kidney disease, characterised by the leaking of severe autoimmune diseases characterised by the production of auto antibodies which protein into the urine, which occurs as a result of long-standing diabetes.
can damage internal organs such as the kidney.
Efficacy The measure of the effectiveness of a drug in treating a particular condition.
TGF Transforming growth factor beta TGF is a family of multifunctional biological molecules, excess production of which is associated with fibrosis and scarring.
Eosinophil A type of white blood cell, containing eosinophilic granules, which are particularly involved in allergic disorders.
TGF The form of TGF that is strongly linked to fibrosis and scarring of the skin as 1 well as most internal organs.
Eotaxin A protein that attracts eosinophils into tissues, where they can degranulate and cause tissue damage.
TGF The form of TGF that is strongly associated with scarring in and around 2 the eye.
Fibrosis A pathological process characterised by the proliferation of fibrous connective tissue, the main component of scar tissue, which may occur as a result of repeated TNF Tumour necrosis factor alpha TNF belongs to the cytokine family of injury to a tissue.
It has pro-inflammatory effects and when produced excessively is responsible for increasing tissue damage in disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis.
Glaucoma A group of eye conditions in which the optic nerve is permanently damaged at the point where it leaves the eye, resulting in significant loss of vision or blindness.
Topical medication Medication applied to the surface as opposed to injection The major cause of the damage is thought to be raised pressure inside the eye.
Glioma A type of malignant brain tumour.
Trabeculectomy The commonest type of surgical operation performed on patients with glaucoma to lower intraocular pressure.
Haematopoietic Relating to stem cells from which all blood cells are derived.
TRAIL-R1 R2 Proteins expressed on the surface of a number of cancer cells which, TM Humira D2E7 A human monoclonal anti-TNF antibody developed for the when triggered, induce programmed cell death apoptosis.
Lymphocyte A type of white blood cell.
A sub-class known as B-lymphocytes produce antibodies.
Mast cells Tissue based cells important in allergic and inflammatory reactions.
Microarray A flat, solid support with a large number of ordered, densely packed molecules, usually protein or DNA, arranged on its surface.
Monoclonal antibody An antibody derived from clones of a single cell: all molecules have identical antigen binding sites.
Highlights of the Year Chairmans Statement 02 Abbott made regulatory submissions in the US and Europe for marketing approval of Clinical and Pre-Clinical Pipeline 04 Introduction from the Chief Executive Officer 05 Humira D2E7, a human monoclonal antibody anti-TNF therapy for rheumatoid Review of the Year 06 arthritis, isolated and optimised by CAT in collaboration with Abbott.
Financial Review 18 Board of Directors 26 CAT-152, a human monoclonal antibody against TGF used as an anti-scarring agent after 2 Senior Executives 28 surgery to treat glaucoma, produced encouraging Phase II clinical trial results and Scientific Advisory Board 28 commenced pivotal International Phase III clinical trials.
Financial Statements 29 Directors Report 30 Orphan Drug status awarded for CAT-192, the human anti-TGF monoclonal antibody 1 Remuneration Report 32 being developed with Genzyme as a potential drug to treat scleroderma.
Corporate Governance 36 Independent Auditors Report 39 CAT-213, a human anti-eotaxin monoclonal antibody shows encouraging results in a 1 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 40 Phase I II trial as a potential treatment for allergic disorders.
Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses 40 TRAIL-R1 mAb, a potential anti-cancer treatment, entered a Phase I clinical trial conducted Consolidated Balance Sheet 41 Company Balance Sheet 42 by CATs partner, HGSI.
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 43 Five exclusive therapeutic licences granted: to HGSI three, Amgen and Wyeth Research for Notes to the Financial Statements 44 Selected Financial Data 69 developing CAT-derived antibodies against a range of disease-associated molecular targets.
Corporate Advisors 70 Shareholder Information 71 Co-development collaboration signed with Amrad.
Glossary 72 Research alliance signed with Chugai, a leading Japanese pharmaceutical company and, since year end, a second agreement with Merck & Co. Inc. Royalty obligations to Drug Royalty Corporation bought back.
Peter Chambr appointed as new CEO.
Design and produced by Radley Yeldar Photography by George Brooks and John Edwards Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc Annual Report 2002 Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc Milstein Building, Granta Park, Cambridge, CB1 6GH, UK Annual Report Telephone: 44 0 1223 471 471 Fax: 44 0 1223 471 472 E-mail: info@cambridgeantibody.
