1491 Paragon R&A a w 13 1 03 12:55 pm Page 57 notice of annual general meeting To all shareholders b THAT the directors of the Company be authorised to make any modifications as they consider necessary or NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the fourteenth Annual General expedient for the purposes of implementing and giving Meeting of The Paragon Group of Companies PLC will be held effect to this resolution.
at Butchers Hall, 87 Bartholomew Close, London EC1A 7EB on 11 February 2003 at 10.30 a. m. for the following purposes: Special resolutions As ordinary business 7.
THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 5, the Board be and it is hereby empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the 1.
To receive and consider the Companys Accounts for the year Companies Act 1985 to allot equity securities within the ended 30 September 2002 and the Reports of the Directors meaning of Section 94 of the said Act for cash pursuant to and the Auditors the authority conferred by resolution 5 as if sub-section 1 of Section 89 of the said Act did not apply to any such allotment, 2.
To declare a dividend PROVIDED THAT this power shall be limited to: 3.
To re-appoint as directors a Professor A D Chambers b Mr a the allotment of equity securities in connection with a M J R Kelly and c Mr G A F Lickley.
rights issue, open offer or any other pre-emptive offer in 4.
To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche as Auditors and to authorise favour of ordinary shareholders and in favour of all holders the directors to fix their remuneration.
of any other class of equity security in accordance with the rights attached to such class where the equity securities As special business respectively attributable to the interests of all such persons To consider and, if thought fit, to pass resolutions 5 and on a fixed record date are proportionate as nearly as may 6 as ordinary resolutions and resolutions 7 and 8 as be to the respective numbers of equity securities held by special resolutions: them or are otherwise allotted in accordance with the rights attaching to such equity securities subject in either case to Ordinary resolutions such exclusions or other arrangements as the Board may 5.
THAT the Board be and it is hereby generally and deem necessary or expedient to deal with fractional unconditionally authorised in substitution for all subsisting entitlements or legal or practical problems arising in any authorities to the extent unused to exercise all powers of overseas territory, the requirements of any regulatory body the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning or any stock exchange in any territory or any other matter of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 up to an whatsoever : and aggregate nominal amount of 4,333,100 PROVIDED THAT b the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next a above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of value of 590,500: this resolution unless previously revoked or varied by the Company in general meeting save that the Company may and shall expire upon the renewal of this power or, if earlier, before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such Company after the passing of this resolution, save that the expiry and the Board may allot relevant securities in Company may before such expiry make an offer or pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority agreement which would or might require equity securities to conferred hereby had not expired.
be allotted after such expiry and the Board may allot equity securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if 57 6. a THAT the rules of the Paragon Performance Share Plan the power conferred hereby had not expired.
in the form presented to the meeting be approved and adopted in the form produced to the meeting and signed by the Chairman for the purposes of identification: and the paragon group of companies plc 1491 Paragon R&A a w 13 1 03 12:55 pm Page 58 notice of annual general meeting 8.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and A member entitled to attend and vote at this meeting may unconditionally authorised for the purposes of Section 166 appoint a proxy to attend on his behalf and, on a poll, to vote of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make one or more instead of such member.
A proxy need not also be a member of market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Company.
A proxy form is enclosed for use in connection the Act on the London Stock Exchange PLC of ordinary with the meeting.
Proxy forms and any power of attorney or shares of 10p each in the share capital of the Company other written authority under which they are executed or an Ordinary Shares provided that:- office or notarially certified copy thereof should be lodged with the Registrar of the Company at the address shown on the a the maximum aggregate number of Ordinary Shares reverse of the proxy form not less than forty-eight hours before hereby authorised to be purchased is 11,800,000 the time appointed for the holding of the meeting.
representing approximately 10 per cent of the Companys The appointment of a proxy will not preclude a shareholder issued ordinary share capital : from attending and voting at the meeting.
b the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is 10p: The register of directors interests and copies of directors service contracts will be available for inspection during normal c the maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary business hours on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays Share is an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average of excepted at the Registered Office of the Company from the the middle market price shown in the quotations for an date of this notice until the date of the meeting and at the Ordinary Share as derived from the London Stock Exchange place of the meeting from 10.00 a. m. on the date of such Daily Official List for the five business days immediately meeting until the conclusion thereof.
The Report and preceding the day on which the Ordinary Share is contracted Accounts have been sent to the Companys shareholders.
to be purchased: Biographical details of all directors are provided on d unless previously renewed, varied or revoked, the pages 12 and 13. authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company: and e the Company may make a contract or contracts to purchase Ordinary Shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may make a purchase of Ordinary Shares in pursuance of any such contract or contracts.
By order of the Board John G Gemmell Company Secretary Registered and Head Office: St Catherines Court 58 Herbert Road Solihull West Midlands B91 3QE 16 December 2002 Registered in England No.
2336032 the paragon group of companies plc 1491 Paragon R&A a w 13 1 03 12:55 pm Page 59 registered and head office St Catherines Court Herbert Road Solihull West Midlands B91 3QE Telephone: 0121 712 2323 london office Third Floor 30-34 Moorgate London EC2R 6PQ Telephone: 020 7786 8474 internet www.
co. uk auditors Deloitte & Touche Chartered Accountants Four Brindleyplace Birmingham B1 2HZ solicitors Slaughter and May One Bunhill Row London EC1Y 8YY registrars and transfer office Computershare Investor Services PLC PO Box 82 The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 7NH brokers HSBC Investment Bank plc Thames Exchange 10 Queen Street Place London EC4R 1BL 1491 Paragon R&A a w 13 1 03 12:55 pm Page 60
