Principal accounting policies Accounting convention The accounts have been prepared in compliance with the Companies Act 1985 and in accordance with applicable Accounting Standards.
They have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified to include the valuation of land and buildings at 31 December 1994.
FRS 19 Deferred Taxation has been adopted in the current year, but this did not result in a material impact on the result for the year.
The additional disclosures required by FRS 19 are set out in note 4 to the accounts.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated profit and loss account and balance sheet include the accounts of the company and its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to the end of the financial year.
The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired and sold during the year are included in the consolidated profit and loss account from the dates of acquisition or to the dates of disposal.
Inter-company sales and profits are eliminated on consolidation and all sales and profit figures relate to external transactions only.
Turnover Turnover, which excludes value added tax and intra-group transactions, comprises revenue earned for the home credit businesses, premiums written net of reinsurance costs for underwriting, commission fees earned in respect of broking and revenue earned by Yes Car Credit on the sale of motor vehicles and associated finance and insurance contracts.
Revenue recognition In the home credit businesses the fixed charge payable by the customer on the amount of credit advanced is included in the customers account balance at the inception of the instalment credit agreement and is credited as revenue earned to the profit and loss account as follows: i at the inception of the agreement, the profit and loss account is credited with a proportion of revenues to cover the cost of initial expenses.
ii the balance of revenue remaining is carried forward in the balance sheet as deferred revenue, to be credited to the profit and loss account in future periods.
A proportion of this deferred revenue, equating to the cost of financing the amount advanced is credited to the profit and loss account in future periods on the sum of the digits method and the balance is credited proportionately to collections received.
In respect of the motor insurance business, credit is taken to the profit and loss account for premium income, net of commissions paid to intermediaries, over the life of the policy.
In the car finance business of Yes Car Credit revenue from the sale of the motor vehicle is recognised in the profit and loss account when the vehicle is sold.
Finance income is recognised as revenue earned in the profit and loss account over the life of the contract to which it relates so as to give a constant rate of return and deferred revenue is included in car finance receivables.
A portion of the net commissions from arranging insurance between customers and third party insurers is recognised as revenue immediately on the inception of the related car finance contract, with the balance being spread over the life of the associated contract on a straight line basis.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisition, being the excess of the purchase consideration over the fair value of the assets acquired, is capitalised and amortised over its useful economic life which, for all acquisitions, has been estimated to be 20 years.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to the introduction of FRS 10 Goodwill and Intangible Assets is eliminated against reserves.
On the subsequent disposal or closure of a business, goodwill previously eliminated against reserves is charged to the profit and loss account.
Tangible fixed assets and depreciation Tangible fixed assets are stated at invoiced cost or valuation.
On adoption of FRS 15 Tangible Fixed Assets, the group followed the transitional provisions to retain the book value of land and buildings at 31 December 1999 which were revalued in 1994 but not to adopt a policy of revaluation in the future.
Costs that are directly attributable to the development of new business application software are capitalised.
Depreciation is calculated to write down the assets to their estimated realisable value over their useful lives.
The following are the principal bases used: % Method Land Nil 1 Freehold and long leasehold buildings 2 2 Straight line Short leasehold buildings Over the lease period Straight line Fixtures and fittings 10 Straight line 1 Equipment including computers and capitalised software 20 to 33 3 Straight line Motor vehicles 25 Reducing balance 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2002|Provident Financial Principal accounting policies continued Investment in own shares Shares in the company held by the QUEST are shown at their estimated recoverable amount, being the option price of the shares payable by employees.
The amount contributed to the QUEST in excess of the option price is charged against reserves.
Own shares held which are deemed to have suffered a permanent diminution in value are immediately written down to their realisable amount.
The company has taken advantage of the exemption in UITF Abstract 17 Employee Share Schemes Revised 2000 in respect of accounting for its employee savings related share option schemes which states that the requirements of the Abstract need not be applied to such schemes.
Impairment of fixed assets and goodwill Fixed assets and goodwill are subject to review for impairment in accordance with FRS 11 Impairment of Fixed Assets and Goodwill.
Any impairment is recognised in the profit and loss account, or revaluation reserve as appropriate, in the year in which it occurs.
Stock Stock comprises motor vehicles held for resale and is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes transport and handling costs.
Provision for bad and doubtful debts In the home credit businesses, provision is made for all doubtful debts based on formulae which reflect the historical performance of the various categories of delinquent debtors or on the expected performance where there is insufficient historical experience.
The relevant proportion is appropriated from deferred revenue and the balance from the profit and loss account.
Full provision is made for any outstanding customer balance for which no payment has been received in the preceding 12 weeks.
Debts are written off when all reasonable steps to recover them have been taken without success.
In Yes Car Credit, provision is made for doubtful debts to reflect the directors best estimate of the number of live contracts that are likely to go bad over the full term of each contract normally 4 years and the expected average loss on each contract.
This bad debt provision is built up by ten equal charges to the profit and loss account over the course of the first ten months of a contract.
Investments Deposits with financial institutions are stated at the lower of cost and estimated realisable value.
Fixed interest securities which are generally held to maturity are valued at amortised cost.
The amortisation is calculated so as to write off the difference between the purchase price and the maturity value over the life of the security.
Gains and losses on disposals of investments are dealt with in the profit and loss account when realised.
Provision for unpaid insurance claims Provision is made at the year end for the estimated gross cost of claims incurred but not settled at the balance sheet date, including the gross cost of claims expected to be incurred but not yet reported to the company.
The estimated cost of claims comprises expenses to be incurred in settling claims and a deduction for the expected value of salvage and other recoveries.
Provisions are calculated gross of any reinsurance recoveries.
The company takes all reasonable steps to ensure that it has appropriate information regarding its claims exposures.
However, given the uncertainty in establishing claims provisions, it is likely that the outcome will prove to be different from the original liability established.
The estimated cost of claims is calculated by reference to the projected number of claims, based on statistics showing how the number of notified claims has developed over time, and the anticipated average cost per claim, based on historical levels adjusted to allow for changes in such variables as legislation, inflation rates, the mix of business and industry benchmarks.
The provision for estimated insurance claims is reviewed annually by an external actuary.
Amounts recoverable from reinsurers An asset is recognised in respect of amounts recoverable from reinsurers to reflect expected recoveries from reinsurers relating to insurance claims made and estimated claims incurred but not reported at the balance sheet date.
An assessment of the recoverability of reinsurance debtors is made having regard to market data on the financial strength of each of the reinsurance companies and provision is made for amounts deemed to be irrecoverable.
Deferred taxation Deferred taxation is provided in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date and is determined using the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that they are expected to be recoverable.
Deferred taxation is not recognised on revalued assets unless there is a binding agreement at the balance sheet date to sell the revalued asset and the related gain has been recognised in the accounts.
Deferred taxation balances are not discounted.
Operating leases Costs in respect of operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Provident Financial | Annual Report and Accounts 2002 23 Principal accounting policies continued Pension scheme arrangements Contributions to separately administered pension funds are charged to the profit and loss account to spread the costs of pensions over the employees working lives.
The regular pension costs are attributed to individual years using the projected unit method.
Variations in pension costs, which are identified as a result of actuarial valuations, are amortised over the average remaining service lives of employees.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Profits and losses of subsidiary undertakings and branches which have currencies of operation other than sterling are translated into sterling at average rates of exchange.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the year end exchange rates or the contracted rate to the extent hedged.
Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of the opening net assets of subsidiary undertakings and branches, which have currencies of operation other than sterling, net of any matching exchange difference on related foreign currency loans taken out to hedge overseas investments, are taken to reserves, together with the differences arising when the profit and loss accounts are translated at average rates and compared with rates ruling at the year end.
Other exchange differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
Financial instruments The group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge exposures to fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates.
Instruments accounted for as hedges are structured so as to reduce the market risk associated with the underlying transaction being hedged and are designated as a hedge at the inception of the contract.
Interest rate swap and cap agreements are used to manage interest rate exposures.
Amounts payable or receivable in respect of these financial instruments are recognised as adjustments to interest payable or receivable over the periods of the contracts.
Foreign exchange contracts which hedge balance sheet assets and liabilities are revalued at closing rates and exchange differences arising are taken to reserves.
Gains and losses on contracts hedging forecast transactional cash flows are recognised in the hedged periods.
Cash flows associated with derivative financial instruments are classified in the cash flow statement in the same way as the transactions being hedged.
24 Annual Report and Accounts 2002|Provident Financial
