52 Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting Resolution 7 of RIT Capital Partners plc will be held at The Royal THAT the power conferred upon the Directors by Automobile Club, 89 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5HS Article 11 B of the Companys Articles of Association on 4 July 2002 at 11.00 a. m. Gentlemen attending are power to allot, or make offers or agreements to allot, requested to wear a jacket and tie in order to comply with equity securities as if Section 89 1 of the Companies Act the rules of The Royal Automobile Club.
The Meeting 1985 did not apply to such allotment be hereby renewed will be held for the following purposes: for the period ending on whichever is the earlier of the date of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2003 and 30 September 2003.
ORDINARY BUSINESS Resolution 1 Resolution 8 To receive the Directors Report and Accounts for the THAT the Company be authorised to purchase up to an year ended 31 March 2002. aggregate of 23,511,540 ordinary shares of 1 each of the Company or such a number of ordinary shares as Resolution 2 represents 14.99% of the Companys issued capital at the To declare a final dividend.
date of the Meeting, whichever is less at a price exclusive of expenses which is: Resolution 3 a not less than 1 per share: and To re-elect as Directors the following: b not more than 5% above the arithmetical average of i Duncan Budge the middle-market quotations as derived from the ii Andrew Knight Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for iii Michael Sofaer the five business days preceding any such purchase: Resolution 4 AND THAT the authority conferred by this Resolution To re-appoint  as the auditors shall expire on 30 September 2003 except in relation to of the Company.
the purchase of shares the contract for which was concluded before such date and which might be executed Resolution 5 wholly or partly after such date.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration By order of the Board of the auditors.
J. Rothschild Capital Management Limited SPECIAL BUSINESS Secretary As special business, to consider and, if thought fit, pass 27 St Jamess Place the following resolutions which will be proposed as London SW1A 1NR Special Resolutions: 27 May 2002 Resolution 6 Notes THAT the authority conferred upon the Directors by Any member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting Article 11 A of the Companys Articles of Association may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, authority to allot, and to make offers or agreements to vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of to allot, relevant securities be hereby extended for the the Company.
Appointment of a proxy will not preclude period ending on whichever is the earlier of the date of a member from attending the meeting and voting in the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2003 and person.
30 September 2003: AND THAT such authority shall for that period relate to relevant securities up to an aggregate Copies of the Companys Memorandum and Articles of nominal amount of 52,282,722 or such nominal amount Association will be available for inspection at the that represents less than a third of the issued equity share registered office of the Company and at the offices of capital at the date of the Meeting, whichever is less.
Linklaters, One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays and Bank Holidays excepted until 4 July 2002 and at the place of the meeting from 10.45 a. m. until its conclusion.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
