ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 95 Shareholder Information Cautionary statements Registrar This document contains forward looking statements as dened Lloyds TSB Registrars, PO Box 3679, 54 Pershore Road South, in the U. S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
It Birmingham B22 1AH contains forward looking statements and information relating to Shareholder Helpline Telephone: 44 0 870 600 3988 the Companys financial condition, results of operations, business, strategy and plans, based on currently available information.
Shareholders with a text phone facility should use: These statements are often, but not always, made through the 44 0 870 600 3950 use of words or phrases such as expects, should continue, believes, anticipates, estimated and intends.
The specic Internet address: www.
co. uk forward looking statements cover, among other matters: industry outlook, the timing of our disposal programme specically the There is now a range of shareholder information on line at IPO, the appropriateness of the level of our claims provisions, www.
Shareholders can check holdings and regulatory approval of the release of surplus solvency capital, nd practical help on transferring shares or updating details and reduction in expenses in the UK Life operations and the prospect register their email address to receive shareholder information for improving results.
Such statements are inherently subject to and Annual Report & Accounts electronically.
Actual future results and trends could differ materially from those set forth in such statements Royal & SunAlliance has appointed Lloyds TSB Registrars as its due to various factors.
Such factors include general economic registrar to manage the shareholder register, ensuring that all conditions, including in particular economic conditions in the information held about the Groups shareholders is kept up to United Kingdom: the frequency, severity and development of date, and to pay dividends.
insured loss events arising out of catastrophes: as well as man made disasters: the availability, pricing and ability to collect As a shareholder of the Group, you will be sent information about reinsurance: the ability to exclude and to reinsure the risk of loss Royal & SunAlliance.
It is important to ensure that Lloyds TSB from terrorism: mortality and morbidity experience and trends: Registrars are kept up to date about any changes to your personal policy renewal and lapse rates: fluctuations in interest rates: details, such as your name and home address.
Further details are returns on and fluctuations in the value of fixed income given in the Frequently Asked Questions section.
investments, equity investments and properties: uctuations in Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP foreign currency exchange rates: rating agency actions: changes We operate a dividend reinvestment plan that enables in laws and regulations: judicial decisions and rulings and general shareholders, if they wish, to use the whole of their cash competitive factors, and other risks and uncertainties, including dividends to buy additional shares in the Company.
those detailed in the Companys lings with the U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the UK Listing Authority.
The The DRIP is operated on a mandate basis.
If a DRIP mandate has Company does not assume any obligation to update any forward been completed, future dividends will be invested automatically looking statements, whether as a result of new information, in the Companys shares purchased in the market.
Past performance cannot be relied on as a guide to future performance.
Shareholders who do not currently participate in the DRIP but wish to do so can obtain further details and a mandate form from Lloyds TSB Registrars.
Shareholders need take no action if they have not completed a DRIP mandate and wish to continue to receive their dividends in cash in the normal way.
Personal Equity Plans PEPs New investments in PEPs have not been permitted since 5 April 1999 when the Government replaced PEPs with Individual Saving Accounts ISAs.
Investors who hold shares in an existing Royal & SunAlliance Corporate PEP or Royal & SunAlliance Single Company PEP managed by Halifax Investment Services Limited Halifax can obtain full details of their investment from: Halifax Investment Services, Mellon House, Ingrave Road, Brentwood, Essex CM15 8TA Telephone: 44 0 870 606 6418 Share dealing service We have established an execution only share dealing service, through Cazenove & Co. for private investors who wish to buy or sell Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc shares.
Further details can be obtained from: Royal & Sun Alliance Share Dealing Service, Cazenove & Co. 12 Tokenhouse Yard, London EC2R 7AN Telephone: 44 0 20 7606 1768 Previous Contents Next I I ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 96 Shareholder Information continued Capital gains tax ADS voting The market value at 31 March 1982 of each post consolidation Holders of ADSs as at 25 March 2003 will receive a voting ordinary share of 27.5p in the Company, for capital gains tax instruction form from Citibank NA the ADR Depositary and purposes after relevant adjustments, was 146.41p 25p shares details of the business of the Company to be raised at the 133.1p for former Royal Insurance shareholders and 57.97p 25p forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
ADS holders who wish shares 52.7p for former Sun Alliance shareholders.
For former to instruct the ADR Depositary to vote their ADSs at the Annual Royal Insurance shareholders an adjustment to tax cost is required General Meeting should return their completed voting instruction to take account of the 1993 rights issue according to whether the form to Citibank NA no later than 10.00am New York time rights were taken up or sold.
Internet Shareholder information The Annual Report & Accounts, interim statements and other For further information about Royal & SunAlliance, please useful information on the Company are available through the contact our Group Communications team at: Internet at www.
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc, 30 Berkeley Square, Annual General Meeting London W1J 6EW.
We welcome the views of shareholders and hope that you will be Telephone: 44 0 20 7569 6136 able to attend the Companys Annual General Meeting, which will be held in the Grand Ballroom, Hotel Inter-Continental London, Internet address: www.
com One Hamilton Place, Hyde Park Corner, London W1V 0QY at 11.30am on 14 May 2003.
The Notice of the Meeting and the The Groups share price is shown on Ceefax BBC2 page 223.
Proxy Card accompany this document.
If you are unable to attend the Annual General Meeting to ask a question in person, you may Registered Ofce and Worldwide Group Ofce write to us at 30 Berkeley Square, London W1J 6EW or contact us 30 Berkeley Square, London W1J 6EW.
through our Group website at www.
Telephone: 44 0 20 7636 3450 Disabled shareholders Royal & SunAlliance are committed to providing a quality service Registered in England No 2339826. to all its shareholders.
Please let us know if you would like documentation to be provided to you in a special format and we will do our best to meet your request.
American Depositary Shares ADSs Each ADS represents five ordinary shares.
The Group is subject to the information requirements of the US securities laws applicable to foreign companies and les an annual report on Form 20-F and other information with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
Any enquiry relating to ADS holdings should be addressed to: Citibank NA, Shareholder Services, PO Box 2502, Jersey City, NJ 07303.
com adr ADS holders receive the annual and interim reports issued by the Group.
ADS dividends ADS holders are eligible for all stock dividends or other entitlements accruing on the underlying Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc shares and receive all cash dividends in US dollars.
These are usually paid twice a year.
Dividend cheques are mailed directly to the ADS holder on the payment date if ADSs are registered with the Companys US depositary Citibank NA.
Dividends on ADSs that are registered with brokers are sent to the brokers, who forward them onto ADS holders.
Previous Contents Next I I Commercial, one of the leading UK insurers Commercial, covering a broad range of needs USA, focus on specialty and differentiated lines in We write general and life business in Australia KEY AREAS OF BUSINESS writing all major classes of commercial insurance from the small and medium business segment both business and personal insurance, one of the and New Zealand to large risk managed businesses top 25 property and casualty insurance groups MORE TH N, our direct personal business We write general insurance in Japan, China, and top 15 largest commercial insurers Frequently Financial offering a broad range of personal finance Personal, comprising mainly household and Hong Kong, Singapore, India, Pakistan, Korea, the products and services motor covers Canada, provides a range of commercial and Philippines, Malaysia, Thailand and Brunei through personal insurance products and services, fourth owned operations and equity investments Personal intermediated, a leading provider of largest general insurance group by market share Asked Questions Calendar personal insurance through brokers, afnity Products include general insurance, life risk, partnerships and corporate partners Latin America, a leading provider of life, pensions superannuation and asset management, marketed and general insurance, with a significant market through a wide range of insurance and financial Life, closed to new business but continuing to presence in Argentina, Brazil, Chile and Mexico service distribution channels service the needs of our existing customers QI have recently moved house.
QI have lost my dividend tax February September Who should I tell?
5 February 2003 3 September 2003 AYou need to notify Lloyds TSB AIf you require a replacement Announcement of first Ex dividend date for second 2003 preference dividend 2003 preference dividend Three active business areas, Commercial, Operations in a number of European and Middle In addition to the Royal & SunAlliance brand: USA: In addition to the Royal & SunAlliance brand: KEY OPERATIONS Registrars in writing at the dividend tax voucher you SM MORE TH N and Personal intermediated Eastern markets, including leading brands such as OrionAuto, Viking Insurance and Grocers Insurance others include AAMI, Australian Pensioners address on page 95, remembering need to contact Lloyds TSB 5 September 2003 March together with our closed Life operation supported Codan in Denmark and Trygg-Hansa in Sweden Company: Canada: Western Assurance Company, Insurance Agency, Connelly Temple, AA Record date for second to clearly state your old address.
A fee may be 2003 preference dividend by UK wide business services functions Johnson Corporation, Agilon Financial, Ascentus Insurance, AXIOM, IMIA and Mariner 5 March 2003 If you hold shares in joint names, payable for this service.
Insurance, Noraxis Capital and Agilerus Investment Ex dividend date for first the shares will be registered in 2003 preference dividend October Management: Latin America: La Construccin the name of the person who QI would like to receive future 6 March 2003 1 October 2003 appears first on your share communications electronically.
Announcement of results for Payment of second 2003 certificate and the letter 2002 and of recommended preference dividend How can I arrange this?
final ordinary dividend ATo receive shareholder To focus on Commercial, MORE TH N and To maintain strong controls in the core activities of To achieve profitable growth and deliver exceptional To achieve the IPO Initial Public Offering of KEY STRATEGIES 22 October 2003 profitable Personal intermediated lines, exiting underwriting, claims and expense management value to our stakeholders through a tighter strategic businesses in Australia and New Zealand information electronically 7 March 2003 Ex dividend date for interim Record date for first 2003 ordinary dividend for 2003 unprofitable business focus and absolute rigour in achieving operational Q What do I do if I change you will need to register at To exploit the synergies of our Nordic and Middle To continue to improve the quality of the business preference dividend excellence across all areas of business my name?
co. uk and 24 October 2003 To reduce costs by 95m and achieve claims Eastern business models underwritten elsewhere in Asia through a disciplined Record date for interim ATo ensure the shares are registered create your own portfolio.
and underwriting improvements of 105m To manage a portfolio of businesses that excel approach to underwriting and pricing April ordinary dividend for 2003 in your new name, you will need You will need your shareholder in their chosen customer segments by offering To run off Life business in the most cost 1 April 2003 to notify Lloyds TSB Registrars account number in order differentiated insurance products and services effective way Payment of first 2003 November in writing.
You will also need to to access this service.
preference dividend 6 November 2003 enclose evidence of the change, 30 April 2003 Announcement of results for example, a marriage certicate QI receive multiple sets of Ex dividend date for final for nine months ending UK Commercial signicantly exceeding Further significant disposals in Benelux, Germany USA, implemented restructuring plan streamlining Excellent financial performance from HIGHLIGHTS 2002 or change of name deed please ordinary dividend for 2002 30 September 2003 information whenever you 10% net real ROC targets and the Isle of Man, largely completing the operations to two divisions focussed on core major operations do not send the original, together send anything to me, how 28 November 2003 Regions restructuring programme businesses.
Achieved strong rate increases May with your share certificates and Payment of interim ordinary MORE TH N delivering well against its Strong growth from the Australian direct can I make sure that in future dividend for 2003 ambitious launch targets already achieved Consolidation of the regional hub models in the Canada, undertook major initiatives to restore underwriter, AAMI any uncashed dividend cheques.
Record date for final 32% prompted brand recognition Nordic and Middle Eastern regions profitability and exploit hardening markets.
Focussed on New documents can then be A If you have acquired shares on New Zealand awarded Underwriter of the Year ordinary dividend for 2002 March building a strong position in niche markets and products issued in the correct name.
significant efficiency improvements already by Independent Insurance Brokers Association more than one occasion, your 8 May 2003 March 2004 underway in general businesses and closed LA&C, achieved significant rate increases, successfully and Insurance Company of the Year by holding may have been recorded Announcement of results Announcement of results for Life company and profitably integrated new operations in Brazil Corporate Insurance Brokers of New Zealand QMy share certicate has been on the share register with slightly for three months ending 2003 and of recommended and Mexico lost stolen.
What should I do different details.
As a result, two 31 March 2003 final ordinary dividend to obtain a replacement?
or more accounts may have been 14 May 2003 Provisional date.
AYou should inform Lloyds TSB set up for you.
Sometimes we Annual General Meeting Registrars immediately.
They need to maintain more than one 30 May 2003 2000 1000 2000 600 PREMIUM INCOME BY will require you to pay an account, for example, if you hold Payment of final ordinary dividend for 2002 BUSINESS SEGMENT M administration charge, and they shares in your own name and also 500 800 will send you a form of indemnity.
in joint names with your partner.
1500 1500 August The indemnity is required to However, sometimes multiple 400 600 protect Royal & SunAlliance accounts can be amalgamated.
7 August 2003 Announcement of results 1000 1000 300 from the potential misuse of for six months ending the missing share certicate and 400 Please notify Lloyds TSB Registrars 30 June 2003 and of interim 200 must be returned before a new ordinary dividend and second Personal of any accounts you believe should 500 500 preference dividend for 2003 certicate can be issued.
They will do so if 200 100 Commercial it is possible.
The General Enquiries Life QI would like to transfer form on the website can be used 0 0 0 0 shares to someone I know.
AAs these transactions do QHaving dividends paid directly not involve a stockbroker, into my bank sounds like a good UK EMEA AMERICAS ASIA PACIFIC you can use a stock transfer idea.
What do I need to do to form.
You can obtain a form arrange this?
AYou need to supply Lloyds TSB Registrars with details of the Royal & SunAlliance is one of the worlds leading insurance QMy partner relative has died.
bank or building society account What should I do about into which you would like all Royal & SunAlliance their shareholding?
future dividends to be paid.
You companies and for almost 300 years we have been AContact Lloyds TSB Registrars will nd a form to do this on the and they will guide you through back of previous dividend advices what you need to do.
and on the website or you can underwriting risks for individuals and business clients.
phone the Lloyds TSB Registrars shareholder helpline and they will post one to you.
With our worldwide network of partner companies we are able to provide cover in over 130 countries.
Designed and published by: This document is printed on Soporset Black Sun Plc 44 0 20 7736 0011 paper stock, which is produced by an ISO 14001 accredited paper mill.
Photography: Julian Calder Printed by: Butler & Tanner Ltd Previous Contents Next Previous Contents Next Previous Contents Next I I I I I I ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 Annual Report & Accounts 2002 All of our actions have one aim: to produce a Group that is disciplined, focussed and well positioned to deliver consistent returns to shareholders.
Click here to enter Contents IFC Group Overview Accounts 57 Consolidated profit and Loss 89 Principal Subsidiary Companies 1Financial Highlights 38 Directors Report Account: Technical Account 91 Principal Associated 2Who We Are 39 Corporate Governance Long Term Business Undertakings and Other Operating Review 43 Remuneration Report 58 Consolidated profit and Loss significant Shareholdings 4Chairmans Statement 46 Directors Emoluments Account: Non-Technical Account 92 Five Year Financial Review 6Industry Overview 48 Directors Shareholdings 59 Statement of Total Recognised 95 Shareholder Information 7 Chief Executives Review 50 Independent Auditors Report Gains and Losses IBC Frequently Asked Questions 14 Board of Directors to the Members of Royal & 59 Movements in IBC Financial Calendar 16 Operating Reviews Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc Shareholders Funds Financial Review 51 Accounting Policies 60 Consolidated Balance Sheet 24 Group Finance Directors Report 54 Estimation Techniques, 62 Parent Company Balance Sheet 32 Sensitivity Analysis Uncertainties and Contingencies 63 Consolidated Shareholders 33 Share and Shareholder Analysis 56 Consolidated profit and Loss Cash Flow Statement 34 Corporate Citizenship Account: Technical Account 64 Notes on the Accounts 36 Environmental & Social Report General Business 87 Segmental Information www.
This Annual Report & Accounts contains forward looking statements as dened in the US Private Securities Reform Act.
For a discussion of factors which could affect future results, reference should be made to cautionary statements on page 95.
