ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 51 Accounting Policies Financial statements entered into and include estimates where the amounts are not The financial statements are prepared in accordance with applicable determined at the balance sheet date.
Premiums written exclude UK accounting standards and the Statement of Recommended taxes and duties levied on premiums.
An allocation of the Practice SORP issued by the Association of British Insurers in investment return has been made to the General Business December 1998.
As noted in the investment accounting policy the Technical Account from the Non-Technical Account on the longer true and fair override has been adopted in respect of the valuation term rate of return basis.
The commission and other acquisition of the Groups investment properties and no depreciation is provided.
costs incurred in writing the business are deferred and amortised over the period in which the related premiums are earned.
Changes in accounting policy During 2002, the Group has adopted the requirements of Financial Claims paid represent all payments made during the period Reporting Standard 19 Deferred Tax.
Under this standard, deferred whether arising from events during that or earlier periods.
tax is provided in full for the estimated taxation or relief from The balance on the General Business Technical Account is arrived taxation, which is expected to arise from material timing differences.
at after taking account of changes in the equalisation provisions.
Under the previous policy, deferred taxation was provided only for those timing differences expected to reverse in the foreseeable Long Term Business Technical Account future.
The new policy recognises a change in UK generally Premiums and annuity considerations are accounted for when accepted accounting principles.
The financial impact of this change due except premiums in respect of linked business which are is considered in note 1 and comparatives have been restated.
accounted for when the policy liabilities are created.
Single premiums are those relating to products issued by the Group Group accounts where there is a contractual obligation for the payment of only The consolidated accounts of the Group include the results one premium.
Annual premiums are those where there is a of all subsidiaries drawn up to 31 December.
contractual obligation for the payment of premium on a regular The Consolidated profit and Loss Account and Consolidated basis.
Claims arising on maturity are recognised when the claim Balance Sheet are drawn up in accordance with the provisions of becomes due for payment.
Death claims are accounted for on Section 255A of, and Schedule 9A to, the Companies Act 1985. notication.
Surrenders are accounted for at the earlier of the The Parent Company Balance Sheet is drawn up in compliance payment date or the date at which the policy ceases to be with the provisions of Section 226 of, and Schedule 4 to, the included in the long term business provision or the technical Companies Act 1985.
As permitted by Section 230 of the provisions for linked liabilities.
Companies Act 1985, the Parent Company profit and Loss Acquisition costs comprise direct and indirect costs of obtaining Account has not been included in these financial statements.
These costs are deferred as an explicit Subsidiaries acquired during the year are consolidated from the deferred acquisition cost asset, gross of tax relief and amortised effective date of acquisition.
over the period in which they are expected to be recovered out of margins in matching revenues from related policies.
At the end of The Consolidated Shareholders Cash Flow Statement has been each accounting period, deferred acquisition costs are reviewed for drawn up in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 1 recoverability by category, against future margins from the related Revised which requires the Cash Flow Statement to exclude policies in force at the balance sheet date.
the cash ows of the long term policyholders funds.
The profits on long term insurance business represent the transfer Principal associated undertakings are accounted for by the equity from the long term funds to shareholders following the actuarial method in the consolidated financial statements.
The gures valuation of liabilities, investment income arising on shareholders included for interests in principal associated undertakings are for funds attributable to the long term business based on the longer the accounting periods indicated in the list of Principal Associated term investment return and the movements in certain reserves Undertakings and Other significant Shareholdings.
attributable to shareholders held within the long term funds.
profits are shown in the Non-Technical Account grossed up for Translation of foreign currencies tax at the effective rate of corporation tax applicable in the Assets and liabilities including dated loan capital and results of period.
For business transacted overseas, results have been both businesses and associates denominated in foreign currencies included in accordance with local generally accepted accounting are translated into sterling at rates ruling at the year end and the principles where they are consistent with UK practice.
resulting differences are taken to reserves or in the case of long term business are included within the Long Term Business Local generally accepted accounting principles changed during 2002 Technical Account.
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies in respect of accounting for the Groups Danish life subsidiary.
Fixed are translated at the prevailing rate at the date of the transaction interest investments are now required to be measured at market and the resulting exchange differences are included within the value and long term business provisions at fair value.
New business premiums are recognised when the policy liability Derivatives is established.
New single premiums include recurrent single Interest rate and currency swaps in relation to the Groups dated premium contracts including DSS rebates and increments under loan capital are treated as hedges.
The underlying hedged dated group pension schemes.
Where products are substituted by the loan capital is carried at cost and accordingly the swaps have not policyholder or pension contracts are vested, these transactions been marked to market.
The interest payable or receivable on are reected as new business only to the extent that they give interest rate swaps is included in interest paid.
Other derivatives rise to incremental premiums.
are included within the category to which the contract relates and are valued at market value.
Reversionary bonuses are recognised when declared: terminal bonuses are recognised when payable.
General Business Technical Account General business is accounted for on an annual basis.
Premiums Shareholders accrued interest for long term business represents written are accounted for in the year in which the contract is the excess of accumulated profit recognised under the modied Previous Contents Next I I ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 52 Accounting Policies continued statutory basis of reporting over the statutory transfers made Deferred tax balances that derive from undiscounted cash ows from the long term funds to shareholders.
The amount of profit and for which the impact of discounting is material have been recognised as shareholders accrued interest is credited to the discounted using appropriate rates.
profit and Loss Account within capital and reserves.
Goodwill Goodwill, being the difference between the cost of an acquisition Investment return and the fair value of the net tangible assets acquired, arising Income from investments is included in the profit and Loss on the acquisition of subsidiary companies and associated Account on an accruals basis.
Dividend income on ordinary shares undertakings, is capitalised in the balance sheet and amortised to is recognised when the related investment goes ex dividend.
the profit and Loss Account on a straight line basis.
The cost of Realised and unrealised gains and losses on investments acquisition is the amount of cash paid and the fair value of other attributable to long term business are dealt with in the Long Term purchase consideration given together with associated expenses.
Realised and unrealised gains and The period of amortisation, which does not exceed 20 years, losses on other investments, including the Groups share of is determined by an assessment of the useful economic life of realised and unrealised gains and losses of associated the goodwill, this being the period over which the value of the undertakings, are dealt with in the Non-Technical Account.
businesses acquired are expected to exceed the value of their Realised gains and losses on investment disposals represent the underlying assets.
Goodwill arising prior to 31 December 1997 difference between net sale proceeds and cost of acquisition.
has been eliminated against reserves in accordance with the Unrealised gains and losses on investments represent the Group accounting policy at the date of acquisition.
difference between the carrying value at the year end and the carrying value at the previous year end or, in the case of In the event of the disposal of a business acquired prior to this investments purchased in the year, the cost of acquisition.
date, the related goodwill is charged to the profit and Loss Account in the year of sale.
Group operating result and profit based on longer term investment return are presented including investment return Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at the end of the first on the longer term rate of return basis.
The longer term rate of full year following an acquisition and when events or changes return basis reects both historical experience and the directors in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not current expectations for investment returns.
The rates of longer be recoverable.
term return are set with the objective of ensuring that, in aggregate over time, the return recognised in operating profit The present value of the shareholders interest in the acquired based on longer term investment return does not exceed or value of in-force long term business is included as part of the fall below the actual returns achieved.
Short term investment fair value of the acquired net tangible assets in the goodwill uctuations represent the difference between the actual calculation and is dealt with as described below.
investment return in the year and that determined on the longer term rate of return basis.
The fair value of general business claims provisions relating to businesses acquired is established after making allowance for Group operating result and profit based on longer term future investment income.
The discount, being the difference investment return between the fair value and the undiscounted value at which they Group operating result based on longer term investment return is are accounted for on consolidation, is capitalised as goodwill in analysed between general business, long term business and other acquired claims provisions and amortised to the profit and Loss activities as an additional disclosure.
Group operating result based Account over the expected run-off period of the related claims.
on longer term investment return excludes interest on dated loan capital, short term investment uctuations, the change in the Investments equalisation provisions, amortisation and impairment of goodwill and Investments and assets held to cover linked liabilities, are shown at of goodwill in acquired claims provisions, and other items including market value, for which purpose unlisted investments, mortgages reorganisation costs.
Group operating profit based on longer term and loans are included at directors valuation and properties at investment return excludes short term investment uctuations.
For listed securities the stock exchange values are used except that xed income securities held for long Taxation term business in certain overseas operations are included on an Taxation in the Non-Technical Account and Long Term Business amortised cost basis.
Properties are valued annually at open Technical Account is based on profits and income for the year market value.
as determined in accordance with the relevant tax legislation, together with adjustments to provisions for prior years.
UK The Companies Act requires properties to be depreciated over tax in respect of overseas subsidiaries and principal associated their expected useful economic lives.
The directors consider undertakings is based on dividends received.
Taxation in the that depreciation of investment properties would not give Non-Technical Account includes the tax by which the balance on a true and fair view.
In accordance with Statement of Standard the Long Term Business Technical Account has been grossed up.
Accounting Practice 19 Accounting for Investment Properties, no depreciation is provided on these properties on the basis that Deferred tax is provided in full and consists of the estimated depreciation is already reected in the annual valuations.
The taxation or relief from taxation which is expected to arise from amounts attributed to this factor by the valuers cannot reasonably material timing differences using rates based on tax rates and be separately identied or quantied.
laws that have been substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Provision is made for taxation which might arise on It is the Groups practice to maintain properties occupied by the distribution of profits retained by overseas subsidiaries or the Group in a continual state of sound repair.
Accordingly associated undertakings only to the extent that dividends have the directors consider that the economic lives of these properties been accrued as receivable.
Credit is taken for relief for trading and their residual values, based on prices prevailing at the time and other losses only to the extent that the directors anticipate of acquisition or subsequent valuation, are such that any that suitable profits will absorb such losses in future periods.
depreciation is insignicant and is thus not provided.
Previous Contents Next I I ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 53 Investments in subsidiaries are included in the Parent Company The provision for claims outstanding, whether reported or not, Balance Sheet at net asset value and unrealised gains and losses comprises the estimated cost of claims incurred but not settled are dealt with in the revaluation reserve.
at the balance sheet date.
It includes related expenses and a deduction for the expected value of salvage and other Value of long term business recoveries.
The provision is determined using the best information This represents the directors assessment of the value of the available of claims settlement patterns, forecast ination and shareholders investment in the long term business funds, not settlement of claims.
already recognised under the modied statutory principles of profit General business provisions for claims outstanding, and related recognition.
It comprises the shareholders share of both the net of reinsurance recoveries, are discounted where there is a particularly tax future cash ows arising from the in-force long term business long period from incident to claims settlement and where there policies and the surplus held within the funds to meet solvency exists a suitable claims payment pattern from which to calculate and future business development requirements.
In dening those claims with a long period from this asset, except those arising on acquisition, are recognised in incident to claims settlement those categories of claims where the Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses.
the average period of settlement is six years or more from the balance sheet date, has been used as a guide.
The present value of in-force long term business existing at acquisition, is amortised in the Long Term Business Technical Claims provisions relating to long term permanent disability Account on a systematic basis over the anticipated periods of the claims in the US, Canada, Scandinavia and Australia are related contracts in the portfolios as the profit on these acquired determined using recognised actuarial methods.
Differences between the estimated cost and subsequent Tangible assets and depreciation settlement of claims are dealt with in the appropriate technical Tangible assets, other than land and buildings in the Parent account for the year in which they are settled or re-estimated.
Company Balance Sheet, comprise xtures, ttings and equipment including computers and motor vehicles which are stated at cost Provision is made, based on information available at the balance and depreciated over periods not exceeding their estimated useful sheet date, for any estimated future underwriting losses relating lives between three and ten years after taking into account to unexpired risks after taking into account future investment residual value.
income on relevant technical provisions.
The unexpired risk provision is assessed in aggregate for business classes which, Own shares in the opinion of the directors, are managed together.
The shares held by the Royal & SunAlliance ESOP Trusts are recognised as assets under the heading Own shares at original The long term business provision is derived from actuarial cost, less provision for diminution in value, in the Consolidated valuation.
For with profits business, the calculation includes Balance Sheet until such time as the shares vest unconditionally explicit allowance for vested bonuses including those vesting with the relevant executive director or employee.
Any profit following valuation at the balance sheet date.
Implicit allowance that may arise in the Trusts upon exercise of the options will is made for future reversionary bonuses through the use of a net be recognised at the exercise date.
premium valuation method employing a reduced valuation rate of interest.
No provision is made for terminal bonuses.
Fund for future appropriations Certain long term funds comprise either participating, or both Equalisation provisions are established in accordance with the participating and non-participating long term business contracts, requirements of legislation in certain countries and are in addition where policyholders have a contingent interest in the excess to the provisions required to meet the anticipated ultimate cost of assets over liabilities in the fund.
Accordingly the excess of of settlement of outstanding claims at the balance sheet date.
assets over liabilities within these funds is not allocated between policyholders and shareholders and is taken to the fund for The technical provisions for linked liabilities are the repurchase future appropriations.
value of units allocated to in-force policies including any liability in respect of deferred tax at the balance sheet date, where the Dated loan capital policy benets are wholly or partly related to investments of any Dated loan capital comprises subordinated bonds and loans.
description or to indices of the value of investments.
Subordinated bonds and loans are stated at the fair value of consideration received after deduction of unamortised issue costs Operating leases and discount.
Issue costs together with discount allowed on issue Payments made under operating leases are charged on a straight of bonds and loans are amortised to investment expenses and line basis over the term of the lease.
charges within the Non-Technical Account on an annual basis Pension costs over the term of the bonds and loans.
The Group operates a number of dened benefit pension schemes for its employees.
Dated loan capital is presented as a component of the Groups capital base as it is in the nature of long term capital nancing.
The cost of providing these pension benets is accounted for As such, the cost of such capital is treated as a nancing item over the employees working lives on a systematic basis as advised and is not deducted in arriving at Group operating result based by qualied actuaries.
The effects of variations from regular cost on longer term investment return.
are spread over the expected remaining service lives of members of the schemes.
Contributions to dened contribution pension Technical provisions plans are charged as they become payable.
The provision for unearned premiums in respect of general business represents the proportion of premiums written relating to periods of insurance subsequent to the balance sheet date, calculated principally on a daily pro-rata basis.
