ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 54 Estimation Techniques, Uncertainties and Contingencies Introduction The projections given by the various methodologies also assist in One of the purposes of insurance is to enable policyholders to setting the range of possible outcomes.
The most appropriate protect themselves against uncertain future events.
Insurance estimation technique is selected taking into account the characteristics of the business class and the extent of the companies accept the transfer of uncertainty from policyholders development of each accident year.
and seek to add value through the aggregation and management of these risks.
Provisions are calculated gross of any reinsurance recoveries.
A separate estimate is made of the amounts that will be The uncertainty inherent in insurance is inevitably reected in the recoverable from reinsurers based upon the gross provisions financial statements of insurance companies.
The uncertainty in and having due regard to collectability.
the financial statements principally arises in respect of the technical provisions of the Company.
The general business claims provisions are subject to annual independent review by external advisors.
In addition, for major The technical provisions include the provision for unearned classes where the risks and uncertainties inherent in the provisions premiums and unexpired risks, the provision for outstanding claims are greatest, regular and ad hoc detailed reviews are undertaken and the long term business provision.
The provisions for unearned by advisors who are able to draw upon their specialist expertise premiums and unexpired risks represent the amount of income set and a broader knowledge of current industry trends in claims aside by the Company to cover the cost of claims that may arise development.
As an example, the Groups exposure to asbestos during the unexpired period of risk of insurance policies in force and environmental pollution is examined at least triennially on at the balance sheet date.
The provision for outstanding claims this basis.
The results of these reviews are considered when represents the Companys estimate of the cost of settlement of establishing the appropriate levels of provisions for outstanding claims that have occurred by the balance sheet date but have not claims and unexpired periods of risk.
The long term business provision covers similar liabilities as the above in respect of long term business.
It should be emphasised that the estimation techniques for the determination of general insurance business liabilities involve In addition to the inherent uncertainty of having to make obtaining corroborative evidence from as wide a range of sources provision for future events, there is also considerable uncertainty as possible and combining these to form the overall estimate.
as regards the eventual outcome of the claims that have occurred This technique means that the estimate is inevitably deterministic by the balance sheet date but remain unsettled.
This includes rather than stochastic.
A stochastic valuation approach, whereby a claims that may have occurred but have not yet been notied to range of possible outcomes is estimated and probabilities assigned the Company and those that are not yet apparent to the insured.
thereto, is only possible in a limited number of situations.
As a consequence of this uncertainty, the insurance company Long term business technical provisions are computed using needs to apply sophisticated estimation techniques to determine statistical or mathematical methods, which are expected to give the appropriate provisions.
approximately the same results as if an individual liability was calculated for each long term contract.
The computations are Estimation techniques made by suitably qualied personnel who are usually employed In general business, claims and unexpired risks provisions are by the Group on the basis of recognised actuarial methods, with determined based upon previous claims experience, knowledge due regard to the actuarial principles laid down in European law of events and the terms and conditions of the relevant policies and by actuarial best practice in the individual territory.
The and on interpretation of circumstances.
Particularly relevant is methodology takes into account the risks and uncertainties of experience with similar cases and historical claims payment trends.
the particular classes of long term business written and the results The approach also includes the consideration of the development are certied by the professionals undertaking the valuations.
of loss payment trends, the levels of unpaid claims, judicial decisions and economic conditions.
The value of long term business includes the shareholders share of the net of tax future cash ows arising from the in-force long The Group employs a variety of statistical techniques and a term business policies and has been calculated in accordance with number of different bases to determine these provisions.
This has been calculated using a projection These include methods based upon the following: technique that is sensitive to the assumed investment returns and discount rate.
The principal assumptions for the UK long term the development of previously settled claims, where payments business are set out in note 19. to date are extrapolated for each prior year The pension asset and pension and post-retirement liabilities estimates based upon a projection of claims numbers and calculated in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 17 average cost FRS 17 are disclosed in note 7.
These assets, liabilities and profit and loss account charge calculated in accordance with FRS 17 notied claims development, where notied claims to date for are sensitive to the assumptions set out in that note.
each year are extrapolated based upon observed development of earlier years The longer term investment return is determined with the objective of ensuring that, in aggregate over time, the return expected loss ratios recognised in operating profit does not exceed or fall below the actual returns achieved, as set out in the accounting policies.
In addition, the Group uses other methods such as the The pre tax returns are applied to an estimation of the value of Bornhuetter-Ferguson method, which combines features of the investments after adjustment to reduce the effect of short term above methods.
The Group also uses bespoke methods for uctuations.
The principal assumptions are disclosed in note 12. specialist classes of business.
Uncertainties and contingencies Large claims impacting each relevant business class are generally The uncertainty arising under insurance contracts may be assessed separately, being measured either at the face value of the characterised under a number of specic headings, such as: loss adjusters estimates or projected separately in order to allow for the future development of large claims.
uncertainty as to whether an event has occurred which would give rise to a policyholder suffering an insured loss Where possible the Group adopts multiple techniques to estimate the required level of provisions.
This assists in giving greater uncertainty as to the amount of insured loss suffered by a policyholder as a result of the event occurring understanding of the trends inherent in the data being projected.
Previous Contents Next I I ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 55 uncertainty over the timing of a settlement to a policyholder regard to companies on the Groups Watch List.
The Watch List for a loss suffered is the list of companies whom the directors believe will not be able to pay amounts due to the Group in full.
The degree of uncertainty will vary by policy class according to the characteristics of the insured risks.
For certain classes of policy Banking facilities e. g. term assurance the value of the settlement of a claim may The Groups banking facilities comprise a series of bilateral be specified under the policy terms while for other classes e. g. arrangements and a syndicated loan facility.
The total amount of motor insurance the cost of a claim will be determined by an credit available under these arrangements amounted to 1.5bn.
actual loss suffered by the policyholder.
At the end of 2002 566m was drawn on these facilities.
There may be significant reporting lags between the occurrence Both facilities expire in 2003 the bilateral agreements in January of the insured event and the time it is actually reported to the and the syndicated facility in October and the Group will seek Group.
Following the identication and notication of an insured to renegotiate replacement arrangements.
It is expected that loss, there may still be uncertainty as to the magnitude and timing a smaller facility will be sought, reecting the Groups reduced of the settlement of the claim.
There are many factors that will requirements for such borrowings.
determine the level of uncertainty such as ination, judicial trends, Potential misselling of life products legislative changes and claims handling procedures.
The Group and its UK insurance subsidiaries continue to be in The establishment of technical provisions is an inherently uncertain discussion with the Financial Services Authority FSA in relation to process and, as a consequence of this uncertainty, the eventual the sale and accounting treatment of regulated life products.
These cost of settlement of outstanding claims and unexpired risks can products include the sale of mortgage backed endowments, the vary substantially from the initial estimates.
The Group seeks to treatment of life guaranteed annuity options and the potential provide appropriate levels of claims provision and provision for effect on holders of policies not subject to such options.
These unexpired risks taking the known facts and experience into discussions have not been concluded and could result in significant account.
However, by their nature the quantication of the financial consequences for the Group including the provision of provisions must remain very uncertain.
further financial support for subsidiaries, changes in the calculation of policyholder liabilities and the possible imposition of penalties by Asbestos and environmental claims the FSA.
Based on the information currently available, the directors The estimation of the provisions for the ultimate cost of claims consider they have made appropriate provisions for such costs and for asbestos and environmental pollution is subject to a range of they do not believe that any further costs will have a material uncertainties that are generally greater than those encountered adverse affect on the Groups financial position.
for other classes of business.
A significant issue is the long delay in reporting losses since the onset of illness and disability arising Disposal programme from exposure to harmful conditions may only become apparent With the nine months 2002 results, the Group announced a radical many years later.
For example, cases of mesothelioma can have programme of disposals and other actions that, inter alia, would a latent period of up to 40 years.
There may also be complex improve the capital position.
These actions are expected to reduce technical issues that give rise to delays in notication arising from the Groups general insurance written premiums to around 5.5bn unresolved legal issues on policy coverage and the identity of the per annum over the course of the next two years.
As a consequence, traditional techniques for estimating of these actions is dependent on a number of factors, including claims provisions cannot wholly be relied upon and the Group there being buyers willing to acquire the businesses that are being employs specialised techniques to determine provisions using the disposed of at an acceptable price.
The directors believe that the extensive knowledge of both internal asbestos and environmental actions outlined are achievable in the timeframe set out.
pollution experts and external legal and professional advisors.
Rating agencies Financial enhancement products The ability of the Group to write certain types of general In the UK, USA and Korea the Group has exposures to financial insurance business is dependent on the maintenance of the enhancement products which provide surety to banks, lending appropriate credit ratings from the rating agencies.
The Group institutions and credit facilities that insure principal and interest has the objective of maintaining single A rating from Standard & repayment on debt securities.
The Group no longer writes such Poors S&P and from AM Best.
At the present time the ratings business, however, the nature of such contracts is normally that are Afrom S&P and Afrom AM Best.
The actions announced the Group is on risk for more than one year and therefore liabilities by the Group during 2002 are intended to improve its capital remain for an extended period.
During 2002 a reinsurance position and regain the target ratings.
Any worsening in the arrangement was entered for which a premium of 124m was ratings would have an adverse impact on the ability of the Group ceded which has reduced the Groups exposure in relation to these to write certain types of general insurance business, in particular products in the UK.
Further information on financial enhancement certain commercial lines in the USA.
products in the USA is discussed in note 46.
Regulatory environment Litigation, mediation and arbitration The regulatory environment is subject to significant change The Group, in common with the insurance industry in general, over the next few years, in particular in respect of solvency is subject to litigation, mediation and arbitration in the normal requirements.
This is in part attributable to the implementation course of its business.
The directors do not believe that any of EU Directives but is also the natural response of the regulators current mediation, arbitration and pending or threatened litigation to the challenging market conditions that have prevailed over the or dispute will have a material adverse effect on the Groups last few years.
The changes that can be expected in the solvency financial position, although there can be no assurance that losses requirements in the UK are generally anticipated to arise in 2004, resulting from any pending mediation, arbitration and threatened although it is possible that the FSA will bring forward some litigation or dispute will not materially affect the Groups financial developments.
Inevitably, until the requirements are specified, position or cash ows for any period.
there will be uncertainty as to the implications for Group solvency and the impact of such developments could be material.
The Reinsurer default Group maintains a close dialogue with the FSA to gain a good The Group is exposed to the possibility of default by its reinsurers.
understanding of the likely developments and maximise the time The Group monitors the financial strength of its reinsurers, including available to plan for them.
those to whom risks are no longer ceded.
Allowance is made in the financial position for non-recoverability due to reinsurer default by The other specic significant current causes of uncertainties in the requiring operations to provide, in line with Group standards, having Groups financial position are discussed in note 46.
