BOARD OF DIRECTORS 32 | Capital Radio plc | www.
Barbara Thomas, 55, Non-Executive Director # 1 2 She joined the Board of Capital Radio in February 1999.
She is the Executive Chairman of Private Equity Investor 3 4 and Non-Executive Chairman of Axon Group plc and Deputy Chairman of Friends Provident Life Office.
5 6 Mrs Thomas is a lawyer and international banker and was a Commissioner for the US Securities and 7 8 Exchange Commission.
Tim Mason, 45, Non-Executive Director 9 10 He joined the Board of Capital Radio in December 2000.
He is a Director of Tesco PLC responsible for marketing, property services and is Chairman of Tesco.
He is Directors a Non-Executive Director of Tesco Personal Finance.
Peter Cawdron, 59, Chairman # He joined the Board of Capital Radio in December 2000 8.
Tony Illsley, 46, Non-Executive Director and was appointed Deputy Chairman in October 2001 He joined the Board of Capital Radio in December 2000 and Chairman in January 2002.
Until 1997, he was Group and is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He was Strategy Director of Grand Metropolitan plc.
He is now formerly Chief Executive Officer of Telewest plc prior to a Non-Executive Director of a number of companies the merger with Flextech plc.
Prior to this, he was with including Compass Group plc, ARM Holdings plc, Capital PepsiCo as President of Walkers Snack Foods and before Group plc and Johnson Press plc.
this he was President of Pepsi-Cola Asia Pacific.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of EasyJet plc, Megabeam 2.
David Mansfield, 48, Chief Executive Networks Limited, Lionhead Studios plc and Leisure Link He joined the Board as Commercial Director in January Group Limited.
1993 and was appointed Chief Executive in July 1997.
He is a Director of the Radio Advertising Bureau Limited 9.
Peter Harris, 40, Finance Director and the Commercial Radio Companies Association.
He joined Capital Radio in 1994 and was appointed to the Board in October 1996.
Linda Smith, 40, Commercial Director Accountant with Price Waterhouse in 1987.
She joined Capital Radio in March 2000 as Managing Director of Capital Radio Advertising.
She was appointed Company Secretary to the Board as Commercial Director in February 2002.
Nathalie Schwarz, 32 She is a Director of the Radio Advertising Bureau Limited.
She joined Capital Radio as Company Secretary in July 1998.
She qualified as a Solicitor with Clifford Chance 4.
Paul Davies, 47, Operations Director in 1995.
He was previously Managing Director of MSM, the Companys former radio advertising sales house.
President He was appointed to the Board as Commercial Director Lord Attenborough CBE, 79 in October 1997 and was appointed Operations Director He was appointed President of Capital Radio in 1992 in June 2000.
He is also a Director of Independent Radio in recognition of his outstanding contribution to its News Limited.
He was Chairman of the Company from its formation in 1972 until his retirement from the 5.
Peter Mitchell, 67, Deputy Chairman # Board in 1992.
He joined the Board of Capital Radio in October 1997.
He was appointed Deputy Chairman in January 2002 and is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He was A member of the Remuneration Committee of the Board A member of the Audit Committee of the Board formerly a Director of Guinness.
He is Chairman of # A member of the Nominations Committee of the Board Mountain View Group Limited and a partner in PBM Independent Director Associates.
He retired last year as a Council Member Senior Independent Director of the Advertising Standards Authority.
com | 33 Contents 35 Report of the Directors 40 Corporate Governance 44 Directors Remuneration Report 52 Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Accounts 53 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Capital Radio plc 54 Group Profit and Loss Account 55 Group Balance Sheet 56 Group Cash Flow Statement 57 Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds 57 Statement of Group Total Recognised Gains and Losses 58 Company Balance Sheet 59 Notes Forming Part of the Accounts 81 Principal Investments 82 Financial Record and Key Statistics 83 Shareholder Information 85 Company Secretary and Advisers 86 Notice of Annual General Meeting 34 34 | Capital Radio plc | www | Capital Radio plc | www.
com Report of the Directors The Directors have pleasure in submitting their Annual Report together with the audited accounts for the year ended 30 September 2002.
Principal activities and business review The Groups principal activity is that of a local radio broadcaster in the United Kingdom.
Other activities include the provision of services to the radio industry, the operation of entertainment-based internet sites, record production and distribution.
The principal activities of the Companys subsidiaries are set out on page 81.
A review of the activities of the year and future prospects is set out in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 1 to 25, and the Chairmans Statement on page 2.
Financial results Details of the Groups profit, taxation and dividends are set out in the Group Profit and Loss Account on page 54 and in the Notes to the Accounts.
Dividend The Directors have decided to recommend a final dividend of 12.5p 2001: 12.5p net per share payable on 28 January 2003 to shareholders on the register of members at the close of business on 29 November 2002 ex-dividend date: 27 November 2002.
With the interim dividend of 6.0p 2001: 6.0p net per share paid on 21 June 2002, this makes a total for the year of 18.5p 2001: 18.5p net per share.
Donations During the course of the year, the Group raised over 3,748,000 for its own charities, Help a London Child, Share a Capital Christmas, Cash for Kids in Birmingham and Help a South Wales Child, as well as for The Princes Trust and many local charities.
In addition, the Groups own donations to charities in the year amounted to 10,173 2001: 14,651.
These were principally to support the musical and artistic life in London and Birmingham, and charities mainly supporting needy children.
No contributions were made to political organisations.
Staff policies The quality, commitment and effectiveness of the Groups staff are crucial to its continued success.
Staff policies and programmes are designed to encourage employees to become interested in their respective companies and the Group and to reward all staff according to their contribution and capability.
Employee communications are a high priority and regular staff briefings are used to ensure that all staff are kept properly informed.
Employee share ownership is encouraged through savings-related and other employee share schemes.
Employment policies do not discriminate between employees or potential employees on the grounds of colour, race, ethnic or natural origin, sex, marital status, religious beliefs or disability.
If an employee became disabled whilst in employment and, as a result, was unable to perform his her duties, every effort would be made to offer suitable alternative employment and assistance with re-training.
com | 35 Report of the Directors continued Directors The names and details of the Directors holding office at 30 September 2002 are given on page 33.
Ian Irvine retired from the Board in January 2002 following the Annual General Meeting.
Details of current Directors including those offering themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting can be found on page 33.
Under Article 112 of the Articles of Association of the Company, Peter Cawdron, Barbara Thomas and Paul Davies retire by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, notice of which is set out on pages 86 to 89.
Peter Cawdron, Barbara Thomas and Paul Davies, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
In addition, in accordance with Article 121 of the Articles of Association of the Company, Directors appointed since the last Annual General Meeting are required to submit themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, Linda Smith having been appointed in February 2002, offers herself for re-election.
Details of all Directors offering themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting can be found on page 86.
Information on Directors remuneration and share option rights is given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 51.
Significant shareholdings At 14 November 2002 the Company had been notified of the following interests of 3% or more in its Ordinary Shares: Number of Ordinary Shares % FMR Corporation 7,351,873 8.94 Morley Fund Management 6,196,780 7.54 M & G Investment Management 4,788,679 5.82 ISIS Asset Management 3,874,763 4.71 Deutsche Asset Management 3,725,676 4.53 Schroder Investment Management 3,077,675 3.74 Legal & General Investment Management 3,062,098 3.72 Henderson Global Investors 2,665,307 3.24 Abbey National Asset Managers 2,554,570 3.11 Merrill Lynch Investment Managers 2,478,416 3.01 Share allotment and pre-emption rights In accordance with the Companys normal practice, a resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to renew the Boards authority to allot unissued Ordinary Shares up to a maximum amount of 444,717 being the lesser of the unissued share capital of the Company and 33% of the issued share capital of the Company as at the date of this report.
This authority will expire on the fifth anniversary of the date of the resolution.
A resolution will also be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to renew the Boards authority to issue shares for cash without first being required to offer such shares to existing shareholders on a pro-rata basis.
The authority will expire on the earlier of 23 April 2004 and the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting and is limited to Ordinary Shares having an aggregate nominal value of up to 102,764 which is equivalent to approximately 5% of the issued share capital of the Company as at the date of this report.
com Save in connection with the allotment of Ordinary Shares of 2.5p each pursuant to the exercise of options under the Companys employee share schemes, the Directors have no present intention of issuing any Ordinary Shares.
Authority to buy-in shares Under Article 9 of the Articles of Association, the Company is empowered to purchase its own shares.
The Directors consider that it is prudent to maintain the power to make purchases in the market of the Companys own shares and the necessary special resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The maximum number of shares which may be acquired pursuant to the authority is 8,221,133 which is equivalent to 10% of the issued share capital of the Company as at the date of this report and the maximum price payable for each Ordinary Share is 105% of the average closing middle market quotations for an Ordinary Share as derived from the Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the purchase.
The authority will expire on the earlier of 23 January 2004 and the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting.
The Board has no immediate intention to exercise the authority and purchases will only be made if the Board believes that to do so would be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders generally.
The authority granted at last years Annual General Meeting has not been used in the past year.
1998 Share Option Scheme and Long Term Incentive Plan At the Annual General Meeting, shareholders will be asked to approve two resolutions relating to the Executive Directors participation in the above employee share schemes.
First, shareholders will be asked to approve a change in the Remuneration Committees policy relating to the grant of options to Executive Directors, so that the ceiling on grant levels in any year measured in terms of the exercise prices of options would be increased from 75% to 110% of base salary, with the ability to exceed this percentage in exceptional circumstances.
Secondly, two changes are proposed to the Long Term Incentive Plan to increase the maximum award which may be granted to a participant in any year from 75% to 110% of base salary, and to provide greater flexibility as to the number of shares which are realisable following a change of control of the company.
Supplier payment policy Community involvement is a mainstay of the Groups radio operations and the Group considers that this extends equally to its position in the business community.
The Group does not follow a code but operates a prompt payment policy in settling outstanding debts.
For certain types of regular contracted services, the Group encourages direct debit or standing order arrangements.
Most other supplies are on an ad hoc basis and the terms of payment are agreed when the order is placed.
The majority of payments are made by electronic transfer direct to suppliers bank accounts within 30 days.
The amount of trade creditors shown in the balance sheet at 30 September 2002 represents 29 days 2001: 35 days of average purchases during the year for the Company and 33 days 2001: 20 days for the Group.
com | 37 Report of the Directors continued Directors shareholdings, share options and conditional share awards The beneficial interests of the Directors at 1 October 2001 or date of appointment if later and end of the financial year were: At 1 Oct 2001 At 30 Sept 2002 or date of appointment if later Conditional Conditional share share Shares Options awards Shares Options awards DJ Mansfield 80,972 123,791 73,100 64,672 58,753 78,900 PJ Harris 31,724 44,675 36,540 22,992 12,152 40,830 PR Davies 39,895 61,265 44,120 30,000 22,052 47,780 L Smith 10,679 39,349 22,210 10,679 10,208 8,350 P Mitchell 1,000 1,000 P Cawdron 3,200 3,200 T Mason T Illsley B Thomas 2,030 600 There were no changes in the Directors registered interests in the shares of the Company during the period from 1 October 2002 to 14 November 2002.
None of the Directors had any interest in the shares of any subsidiary company.
Further details of options and conditional share awards held by the Directors at 30 September 2002 are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Environmental policy The Group recognises the importance of environmental responsibility and, where practicable, has an environmental policy in place for the relevant business areas of the Group.
The nature of its activities has a minimal effect on the environment, but where it does, the Group acts responsibly and is aware of its obligations at all times.
Treasury The Groups financial instruments comprise borrowings, some cash and liquid resources, and various items, such as trade debtors and trade creditors, that arise directly from its operations.
It is, and has been throughout the year under review, the Groups policy that no trading in financial instruments shall be undertaken.
The risk arising from the Groups financial instruments is interest rate risk.
The Board reviewed and agreed policies for managing this risk and it is summarised below.
This policy has remained unchanged since the beginning of the year.
Short-term debtors and creditors that meet the definition of a financial asset or liability under Financial Reporting Standard 13 have been excluded from the disclosures as permitted by the Standard.
com Interest rate risk The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits and bank borrowings.
The Group borrows at both fixed and floating rates of interest.
The Groups operating activities are principally financed by floating rate borrowings, whereas significant investment and acquisition activities are generally financed through fixed interest borrowings.
Liquidity risk Short-term flexibility is achieved by overdraft facilities.
The Groups operations are typically cash generative, so exposure to liquidity risk is considered insignificant.
Foreign currency risk The Group has no exposure to foreign currency risk as it has no significant investments or financial instruments denominated in foreign currencies.
Auditors A resolution is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as Auditor of the Company.
The remuneration and expenses of the Auditors are fully disclosed in note 3 to the accounts.
By order of the Board Nathalie Schwarz Company Secretary 30 Leicester Square London WC2H 7LA 14 November 2002 Registered Number 923454 Capital Radio plc | www.
com | 39 Corporate Governance The Company recognises the importance of, and is committed to, high standards of corporate governance.
In June 1998 the Combined Code was published which embraces the work of the earlier Cadbury, Greenbury and Hampel Committees.
This statement, together with the Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages 44 to 51, describes how the Company has applied the principles of good governance as set out in the Combined Code.
Directors The Board of Capital Radio plc is responsible and accountable for the Groups operations.
Its principal focus is the overall direction and control of the Group.
The Board currently comprises the Non-Executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, three other Executive Directors and four other Non-Executive Directors.
Their biographies set out on page 33 illustrate the Directors breadth of experience which should ensure an effective board to lead and control the Group.
The Board believes that it has an appropriate balance of Non-Executive presence.
All of the Non-Executive Directors are considered to be independent of management and free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Non-Executive Directors bring individual judgement to Board decisions and extensive expertise at a senior level of business operation and practice.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years and each Director receives appropriate training on appointment and subsequently if necessary.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretary and, in the furtherance of their duties, may take independent professional advice if necessary at the Companys expense.
The Board meets monthly throughout the year and the annual programme is approved by the Board.
Currently, the programme includes reviews of strategy together with the operations and results of the main business units, as well as the approval of annual budgets.
Actual results for the Group and individual business units are reported to all Directors each month.
At least once each year the Board meets at the premises of one of the Groups business operations, to allow for presentations by, and more detailed discussions with, local management.
These procedures, together with other regular and ad hoc reports are intended to ensure that the Board is supplied in a timely manner with information that is appropriate to the discharge of its duties.
The Board reserves to itself certain key matters to approve or monitor, such as the Groups strategic plans, annual operating plan and budget and the Groups operating and financial performance.
The principal committees of the Board are the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and Executive Committees.
Reflecting the important role played by the independent Non-Executive Directors in ensuring high standards of corporate governance, the Audit and Remuneration Committees comprise all the Non-Executive Directors.
The Board delegates specific responsibilities to Committees and to the Executive Directors as described below: The Audit Committee currently comprises the Chairman and all the Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by Tony Illsley.
The Committee met three times during the financial year to review the half year and full year results and the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Committee has also reviewed the appropriateness and effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, policies and procedures.
The Group has an internal 40 | Capital Radio plc | www.
com risk and audit function to enhance the rolling programme of review and improvement to the Groups financial controls and this will continue to prove beneficial in identifying and correcting control deficiencies.
Meetings of the Committee are attended by the Finance Director and by other Directors and the Groups external and internal auditors as appropriate.
The Remuneration Committee currently comprises the Chairman and all the NonExecutive Directors and is chaired by Peter Mitchell.
The Committee met four times during the year to review the Companys general policy on Executive Remuneration and the application of this policy to the remuneration and benefits of the Executive Directors and other senior executives of the Company.
The Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages 44 to 51 contains a more detailed description of the Companys policy and procedures for Executive Remuneration.
Meetings of the Committee are attended by the Chief Executive as appropriate.
The Nominations Committee currently comprises the Chairman and two NonExecutive Directors.
The Committee is chaired by the Chairman and meets as required to select and propose to the Board suitable candidates of appropriate calibre for appointment as Non-Executive Directors.
The Executive Committee currently comprises the four Executive Directors and selected members of senior executive management.
The Committee meets every two weeks and has the responsibility of dealing with the day to day management of the Group.
Pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association currently the nearest number to, but not exceeding, one third of the Board shall retire each year by rotation Directors may submit themselves for re-election.
In practice, all Directors usually offer themselves for re-election at least every three years and the Articles will be amended to reflect this practice when they are next revised.
Details of appointments during the year and Directors retiring and submitting themselves for re-election can be found in the Directors Report on page 36.
Directors remuneration The Directors Remuneration Report appears on pages 44 to 51 and contains a statement of remuneration policy and details of the remuneration of each Director.
The Board considers each year whether shareholders should be invited to consider separately the Directors Remuneration Report at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board does not consider it necessary at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, but will be doing so in January 2004.
Relations with shareholders The Company maintains an active dialogue with its shareholders through a planned programme of investor relations.
This activity is a keystone of the Companys corporate communications programme and is headed by the Chief Executive and the Finance Director.
The programme includes formal presentations in London of the Companys full-year and interim results and meetings between institutional investors, analysts and senior management on a regular basis.
Regular communication with shareholders also takes place through the Companys Annual and Interim Reports and via the Company website www.
com which contains up to date information on Group activities.
com | 41 Corporate Governance continued The Annual General Meeting is used as an important opportunity for communication with both institutional and private shareholders, and also involves a short statement on the Companys latest trading position.
Shareholders may ask questions of the full Board, including the chairs of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
The results of the proxy votes are declared at the Annual General Meeting.
Internal control In September 1999, Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance was published to assist Directors in complying with the internal control elements of the Combined Code.
The Financial Services Authority requires all listed companies to follow this guidance when determining the extent of their compliance with the Combined Code.
Associated companies have not been dealt with as part of the Group for the purposes of applying these guidelines.
The Directors acknowledge their overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Although no system of internal control can provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, the Groups systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to meet business objectives and can only provide the Directors with reasonable assurance that material errors and irregularities are either prevented or detected on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately.
The Board confirms that there are ongoing procedures for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group and these accord with the Turnbull Guidance which the Board has fully adopted.
These procedures have been in place for the financial year covered in this Annual Report and Accounts and up to the date of its approval, and their effectiveness is regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Board.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control during the financial year.
In particular, the Board has reviewed and updated the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the business and the policies and procedures by which these risks are managed.
There are supporting Group policies and procedures for the reporting and resolution of suspected fraudulent activities.
The Board has established an internal risk management function to identify, with relevant management, the major business risks facing the Group and put in place appropriate policies and procedures to manage those risks.
Internal and external risks are assessed on a continual basis, and may be associated with a variety of internal or external sources including control breakdowns, disruption in information systems, competition, natural catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
These involve a process of control, self-assessment and hierarchical reporting that has been established to provide for a documented trail of accountability.
These procedures are relevant across Group operations and provide successive assurances to be given at increasingly higher levels of management and, finally, to the Board.
Management regularly report on their review of the risks and how they are managed to both the Board and the Audit Committee, whose role is to review the key risks inherent in the business and the systems of control necessary to manage those risks.
The Audit Committee present their findings to the Board as appropriate.
Management also reports to the Board on significant changes in the business and the external environment which affect significant risks.
The Board is provided with monthly financial information, which includes key performance and risk indicators.
Where areas for improvement in the 42 | Capital Radio plc | www.
com system are identified, the Board considers the recommendations made by management and the Audit Committee.
The Board believes that it is not appropriate to establish a separate Risk Committee, as risk is properly the responsibility of the full Board.
The Board reviews the risk management and control process and considers the: authority, resources and co-ordination of those involved in the identification, assessment and management of significant risks faced by the Group: response to the significant risks which have been identified by management and others: monitoring of reports from Group management: maintenance of a control environment directed towards the proper management of risk: and annual reporting procedures.
Additionally, management keeps abreast of all changes made to the system and follows up on areas which require improvement.
It reports to the Board whenever necessary.
Compliance with the Combined Code The Company complied with the requirements of the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, throughout the accounting year, other than those relating to the length of Directors service contracts.
The Executive Directors have rolling service contracts with notice periods of between one year and 18 months.
The Board believes that service contracts with notice periods in excess of one year are in line with comparable agreements within the industry and reflect the particular contribution and expertise of the Executive Directors in question.
The Board believes that it is in the best interests of shareholders to retain key executive directors whilst providing certainty, and facilitating a speedy and clean break on early termination by agreeing liquidated damages which reflect a discount to take account of an agreed level of mitigation.
Going concern The Group continues to generate a strong positive operating cashflow.
As a result the Directors are confident in making the following formal statement on going concern.
After making appropriate enquiries, including a review of budgets and other plans, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
com | 43 Directors Remuneration Report The Directors have pleasure in submitting their Remuneration Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2002.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee consists exclusively of Non-Executive Directors.
Members during the course of the financial year were Peter Mitchell, Ian Irvine, Barbara Thomas, Tim Mason, Peter Cawdron and Tony Illsley.
The Committee, which meets several times through the year, reviews and advises the Board on the Companys general policy on Executive Remuneration and applies it when considering the terms of service, remuneration, share options and other benefits of the Executive Directors and other senior executives of the Company, including where appropriate severance payments.
Remuneration policy The Committee aims to provide a competitive remuneration package to attract, retain and motivate the Executive Directors and senior executives of the highest calibre.
The Committee takes account of external market data supplied by independent professional advisers and is sensitive to the wider scene, including pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Company, especially when determining annual salary increases.
The Committee also takes account of the remuneration paid by the Companys comparator Group in the market.
The Committees remuneration policy is to move towards more incentive-based remuneration for the Executive Directors.
Details of each Directors remuneration package, together with details of interests in shares and share options, are set out below in this Report.
There are no elements of remuneration, other than basic salary, which are treated as being pensionable.
The fees of the Non-Executive Directors are a matter reserved to the Board as a whole.
The Non-Executive Directors do not participate in the Companys pension, annual bonus, share option or long term incentive schemes.
Service contracts The Remuneration Committee regularly reviews all aspects of executive service contracts in the light of current practice and the specific circumstances of the Group.
The Executive Directors hold contracts with notice periods of between one year and 18 months.
The Committee believes that the contracts with notice periods in excess of one year are in line with comparable agreements within the industry and reflect the particular contribution and expertise of the Executive Directors in question.
The Committee recognises the advantage of service contracts including an explicit calculation of compensation payable on early termination, other than for misconduct or in other circumstances justifying summary termination.
The Committee believes that it is in the best interests of shareholders to retain key Executive Directors whilst providing certainty, and facilitating a speedy and clean break on early termination by agreeing liquidated damages which reflect a discount to take account of an agreed level of mitigation.
None of the Executive Directors holds any significant business Directorships which are not directly related to the business of the Group.
Fees payable in relation to the services of Directors representing the Group on the boards of other companies are received and retained by the Group.
44 44 | Capital Radio plc | www | Capital Radio plc | www.
com Annual bonus schemes The Company operates an Executive Directors Incentive Scheme EPS related bonus scheme which is reviewed each year by the Remuneration Committee and under which each Director is able to earn a bonus of a maximum of 100% of his basic salary dependent upon progressive hurdles of growth in the Groups earnings per share being achieved.
The bonus is payable 65% in cash and 35% in shares.
The cash element and half of the share allocation is payable immediately.
The remaining balance of the shares will be awarded in three years, provided the Director is still in employment and has retained his original shareholding.
The balance of the shares will vest in direct proportion to the number of shares initially awarded and retained over the three-year period.
If the Group has made a strategic earnings diluting acquisition or investment which diminishes the Groups earnings per share by over 1%, the bonus is calculated after adjusting for the negative financial effect of the acquisition or investment.
In these circumstances, a proportion of the bonus is withheld by the Company and is only payable if the acquisition or investment meets the expectations in the business plan approved by the Board.
The Executive Directors participate in the Capital Radio plc Profit Bonus Pay Scheme.
This scheme is designed to enable the staff at all levels to participate in the profits of the Company, dependent on business areas meeting their targets.
The amount of the Bonus is divided amongst all eligible employees in proportion to their basic salaries.
Share option schemes During the year the Group operated four share option schemes.
The 1998 Share Option Scheme is aimed primarily at the Groups middle and senior management and the exercise of options under this Scheme is subject to a performance target being achieved.
The Capital Radio Savings Related Share Option Scheme was adopted by the Group in January 1995 and is open to all full-time employees of the Group who have been employed for more than 12 months at the date of grant of the option.
The Capital Radio 1986 Senior Executive Share Option Scheme had been used to incentivise Directors and senior executives of the Group.
No further options can be granted under this Scheme final options under this Scheme were granted in December 1996.
Following approval by shareholders in January 2001, the Company adopted the Capital Radio Presenters Share Option Scheme in order to incentivise self-employed presenters and companies which provide presenters services.
Employees in the Group are not eligible to receive awards under the Capital Radio Presenters Share Option Scheme.
Long Term Incentive Plan In 1996, the Company adopted the Capital Radio Restricted Share Plan the Long Term Incentive Plan under which the Executive Directors and other senior executives of the Group may be granted conditional performance-related awards entitling them, at the end of a three-year period, to a number of shares in the Company determined by reference to growth in total shareholder return over that period.
Total shareholder return is defined as the aggregate of a the increase or decrease in the market value of a share over the three-year period, b the aggregate of gross dividends paid in respect of a share over the three-year period and c the value arising from the re-investment of those dividends in further shares.
The monetary figure is then expressed as an inflation-adjusted compound annual rate of growth over the market value of a share at the start of that period.
Awards generally lapse if a participant leaves the employment of the Group.
The extent to which a participants conditional Capital Radio plc | www.
com | 45 Directors Remuneration Report continued award vests at the end of the three-year period is set out in the following table.
The maximum award granted to a participant in any year is currently 75% of salary.
Percentage of conditional Total shareholder return award realisable Up to 7.5% 0% Above 7.5% and up to 8.5% 25% Above 8.5% and up to 9.5% 30% Above 9.5% and up to 10.5% 35% Above 10.5% and up to 11.5% 40% Above 11.5% and up to 12.5% 45% Above 12.5% and up to 13.0% 50% Above 13.0% and up to 14.0% 60% Above 14.0% and up to 15.0% 70% Above 15.0% and up to 17.5% 80% Above 17.5% and up to 20.0% 90% Above 20.0% 100% The maximum award granted to a participant in any year is currently 75% of base salary.
As explained on page 89, shareholders will be asked at the Annual General Meeting to approve two amendments to the Long Term Incentive Plan to increase the maximum award granted to a participant in any year to 110% of base salary, and to provide greater flexibility as to the number of shares which are realisable following a change of control of the Company.
Awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan can be satisfied by the issue of new Ordinary Shares, as well as the purchase of existing Ordinary Shares.
Any new Ordinary Shares issued under the Plan would count towards the overall limits on the percentage of the Companys equity which may be issued for employee share scheme purposes.
The Long Term Incentive Plan is operated in conjunction with a discretionary trust operated by an independent Trustee.
Cash amounts may be lent by the Company to the Trustee in order to acquire shares on the London Stock Exchange for the purpose of fulfilling the awards.
At 30 September 2002, the Trustee held 94,407 Ordinary Shares in the Company with a market value of 462,594.
The dividends on these shares have been waived.
The cost of funding projected awards under the Plan is amortised over the performance period of three years in accordance with guidance given by the Accounting Standards Board.
1998 Share Option Scheme At the Annual General Meeting held in January 2001, shareholders approved an amendment to the 1998 Share Option Scheme the 1998 Option Scheme permitting the Executive Directors to participate in that scheme.
When that amendment was described to shareholders in our Annual Report for 2000, the Remuneration Committee anticipated that the value of options granted to Executive Directors each year measured in terms of the exercise prices of those options would not exceed 75% of the individuals base salary, other than in exceptional circumstances.
As explained on page 88, shareholders will be asked at the Annual General Meeting to approve a change to the Remuneration Committees current policy in the area, so that the value of options granted to Executive Directors each year measured as above should not exceed 110% of the individuals base salary, other than in exceptional circumstances.
com Share option awards granted to the Executive Directors are, and will continue to be, subject to supplementary stringent performance conditions.
First, in common with other participants in the scheme, options will only normally be exercisable if the growth in the Companys earnings per share in any three-year period between the grant and exercise exceeds the growth in the Retail Prices Index over the same period by an average of at least 3% per annum.
Secondly, options granted to Executive Directors and other LTIP participants in the future will be split into two separate option pools: each pool will have its own separate hurdle, performance against which will be measured at the third, fourth or fifth anniversaries of grant the Test Dates.
In the case of one half of the shares under option, the performance target will relate to the Companys percentage share price growth compared to the percentage growth in the FTSE 250 Index.
In the case of the other half of the shares under option, the performance target will relate to the Companys TSR ranking against a comparator group.
The comparator group for these purposes are the companies constituting the Media and Photography Index as at February 2002.
In relation to each type of target the level of exercisability will increase if the Companys performance improves between the three Test Dates, provided that the relevant option has not been exercised.
Once a particular level of exercisability has been attained, an optionholder who delays exercise will not be prejudiced if performance subsequently falls.
Review of Executive Directors Long Term Incentive Arrangements At the Annual General Meeting, shareholders will be asked to approve two resolutions relating to the Executive Directors long-term remuneration.
These proposals stem from the Remuneration Committees continuing policy to move towards a more incentivebased remuneration structure and follow a review undertaken with the assistance of independent benefit consultants.
This review has demonstrated that the Executive Directors long-term remuneration arrangements are materially less favourable than those of our peer group and of the market generally.
Following this review, it is proposed that: a the value of share options granted to Executive Directors each year measured in terms of the exercise prices of those options should be increased from 75% to 110% of the individuals base salary, with the ability to exceed this percentage in exceptional circumstances.
This matter does not strictly require shareholder approval, as no amendment to the rules of the 1998 Option Scheme is involved, but the Remuneration Committee considers it appropriate to obtain shareholder approval for this material change in policy: and b the maximum award which may be granted to a participant in the Long Term Incentive Plan in any year should be increased from 75% to 110% of the individuals base salary.
This matter requires the approval of shareholders under the rules of the Long Term Incentive Plan.
It is also proposed to amend the rules of the Long Term Incentive Plan to provide greater flexibility as to the number of shares which are realisable following a change of control of the Company.
Currently, the number of shares under an award which is realisable is determined under the table on page 46 opposite, by reference to the total shareholder return achieved by the Company over the shortened test period ending with the change of control.
The Remuneration Committee considers that this approach is Capital Radio plc | www.
com | 47 Directors Remuneration Report continued unduly restrictive.
Shareholders will be asked to approve an amendment to the rules so that the number of shares which are realisable following a change of control of the Company would be determined by the Remuneration Committee at its discretion having regard to the performance of the Company and management over that period, reflecting the principle of no automatic vesting of shares on change of control set out in the latest guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers.
It is proposed that this amendment will apply to awards which are currently outstanding as will as those granted in the future.
The benefits in kind shown in the above table relate principally to a fully expensed company car and to medical health cover for the Director and their immediate family.
com Share options Details of individual options, including those granted and exercised in the year, held by the Directors are set out below.
Options were granted at the market price ruling at the date of grant and are exercisable during the period between three and ten years from the date of grant.
Details of conditional awards vesting during the year are as follows: Exercise Market Aggregate Number price per price per gain Date of shares share share DJ Mansfield 29 03 02 27,167 LTIP 7.725 209,865 PJ Harris 29 03 02 14,553 LTIP 7.725 112,422 PR Davies 29 03 02 16,492 LTIP 7.725 127,401 Share options marked SAYE were granted under the terms of the Capital Radio Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
Shares marked LTIP vested under the terms of the Long Term Incentive Plan.
The total gain made by the Directors was 449,688 2001: 938,483.
The total gain made by the highest paid Director was 209,865 2001: 427,012.
com | 49 Directors Remuneration Report continued Details of the shares conditionally awarded to the Directors under the Long Term Incentive Plan are given in the table below.
Subject to the conditions described above, a proportion up to 100% of the shares will vest with the individuals on the vesting dates.
At the date of this report the performance percentage, reflecting performance to date, was 0% for the awards vesting in November 2002, November 2003 and November 2004.
As at 30 September 2002, the market price of the Companys Ordinary Shares of 2.5p was 4.90.
During the year ended on that date, the share price moved within the range of 4.53 and 8.48.
Pension schemes David Mansfield and Paul Davies are members of the Capital Radio Final Salary Pension and Assurance Scheme Final Salary Scheme.
Peter Harris and Linda Smith are members of the Capital Radio Group Personal Pension Plan, a Money Purchase personal pension scheme.
The Company also contributes to Personal Money Purchase Pension Schemes and Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefits Schemes Personal Pension Plans on behalf of the Directors.
Where contributions are in excess of the statutory pensions cap, the Director is responsible for any taxation arising.
com Directors pension entitlement and contributions Transfer value of the decrease in Increase accrued Accrued in accrued pension net pension at pension Members of members Age at 30 Sept above contribucontribu- 30 Sept 2002 inflation tion tion 2002 DJ Mansfield 48 11,528 1,583 2,862 13,647 PR Davies 47 56,096 4,005 6,488 84,129 The accrued pension for the highest paid Director for 2001 was 9,945.
Personal Pension Plans In the financial year, the Company contributed the following amounts to Personal Pension Plans on behalf of the Directors: Money Personal Total Total purchase pension plan 2002 2001 DJ Mansfield 82,513 82,513 80,500 PJ Harris 20,034 29,352 49,386 46,296 PR Davies 25,953 25,953 25,320 L Smith 7,000 10,209 17,209 This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Nathalie Schwarz Company Secretary 14 November 2002 Capital Radio plc | www.
com | 51 Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Accounts Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those accounts the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts: and prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
52 52 | Capital Radio plc | www | Capital Radio plc | www.
com Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Capital Radio plc We have audited the accounts on pages 54 to 80.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report.
As described on page 52 this includes responsibility for preparing the accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, are established in the United Kingdom by statute, the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and by our professions ethical guidance.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the accounts, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the statement on page 43 reflects the Companys compliance with those provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the corporate governance statement, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the accounts.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the accounts, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the accounts are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts.
Opinion In our opinion the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 30 September 2002 and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended and have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Registered Auditors London 14 November 2002 Capital Radio plc | www.
com | 53 Group Profit and Loss Account for the year ended 30 September 2002 2002 2001 Note 000 000 Turnover Continuing operations 120,004 123,201 Discontinued operations 11,386...................................... 2 120,004 134,587 Operating profit Continuing operations Before goodwill and exceptional operating costs 2 27,930 29,980 Exceptional operating costs 4 3,576 2,712 Amortisation of goodwill 2 9,372 9,622...................................... 14,982 17,646 Discontinued operations 2 2,689...................................... Operating profit 3 14,982 20,335 Share of operating profit of associated companies 1,144 2,612...................................... Total operating profit: Group and share of associates 16,126 22,947 Exceptional gain on disposal of investments 10,215...................................... Profit on ordinary activities before interest and taxation 2 16,126 33,162 Net interest payable and similar items from continuing operations 6 1,477 2,535 Net interest payable and similar items from discontinued operations 6 2,775.....................................
Basic earnings per share 11 8.8p 23.8p Loss per share on goodwill, exceptional items and discontinued operations after taxation 14.7p 2.5p......................................
Diluted earnings per share 11 8.8p 23.8p 54 | Capital Radio plc | www.
Retained loss profit for the financial year 4,233 1,416 New share capital issued 2,938 509 Movement on Quest 11 Merger reserve movement 685...................................... Net decrease increase in shareholders funds 1,284 2,610 Shareholders funds at beginning of year 176,031 173,421...................................... Shareholders funds at end of year 174,747 176,031 Statement of Group Total Recognised Gains and Losses for the year ended 30 September 2002 2002 2001 000 000 Group Profit for the financial year: Group 6,387 17,361 Share of associates 790 2,110...................................... Total gains and losses recognised since last annual report 7,177 19,471 Capital Radio plc | www.
com Notes Forming Part of the Accounts 1.
Accounting policies A summary of the principal Group accounting policies, all of which have been applied consistently throughout the year, is set out below.
Basis of accounting The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost accounting rules and in accordance with applicable accounting standards, including for the first time Financial Reporting Standard 19.
The introduction of this standard did not require a prior year adjustment because the amount was deemed immaterial.
Basis of consolidation i The consolidated accounts include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings made up to 30 September 2002.
Unless otherwise stated, the acquisition method of accounting has been adopted.
Under this method, the results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of in the year are included in the consolidated profit and loss account from the date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
An associate is an undertaking in which the Group has a long term interest, usually from 20% to 50% of the equity voting rights, and over which it exercises significant influence.
The Groups share of the profits less losses of associates is included in the consolidated profit and loss account and its interest in their net assets is included in the consolidated balance sheet.
Other fixed asset investments in the Group accounts, and all fixed assets in the accounts of the Company, are stated at cost less amounts written off in respect of any impairment in value.
ii Purchased goodwill both positive and negative arising on consolidation in respect of acquisitions before 1 October 1997, when Financial Reporting Standard 10, Goodwill and intangible assets, was adopted, was written off to reserves in the year of acquisition.
When a subsequent disposal occurs any related goodwill previously written off to reserves is written back through the profit and loss account as part of the profit or loss on disposal.
Purchased goodwill representing the excess of the fair value of the consideration given and any related costs over the fair value of the separable net assets acquired arising on consolidation in respect of acquisitions since 1 October 1997 is capitalised.
Positive goodwill is amortised to nil by equal annual instalments over its estimated useful life, being deemed to be 20 years.
On the subsequent disposal or termination of a business acquired since 1 October 1997, the profit or loss on disposal or termination is calculated after charging crediting the unamortised amount of any related goodwill negative goodwill.
iii Under section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
The profit for the financial year dealt with in the financial statements of the holding company was 10,964,000 2001: 16,530,000.
com | 59 Notes Forming Part of the Accounts continued c. Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset on a straight line basis over its expected useful life, as follows: Freehold buildings 2%-4% per annum Long leasehold premises 4%-6% per annum Short leasehold premises over the term of the lease, or where the lease is renewable, 5% Office and studio equipment 10%-20% per annum Digital equipment over the term of the contract Computer equipment 33% per annum Motor vehicles 25% per annum Freehold land is not depreciated.
d. Investments In the Companys accounts investments in subsidiary companies are stated at cost less provisions where, in the opinion of the Directors, there has been an impairment in the value of the investment.
Dividends receivable from subsidiary companies are credited to the Companys profit and loss account.
Fixed asset investments are stated at cost less provisions where, in the opinion of the Directors, there has been an impairment in the value of the investment.
e. Taxation Corporation tax payable is provided on taxable profits at the current rate.
f. Deferred taxation Financial Reporting Standard 19 requires full provision to be made for deferred tax assets and liabilities arising from timing differences between recognition in the financial statements and in the tax computation.
g. Operating leases Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis.
h. Finance leases Assets held under finance lease agreements are included in tangible fixed assets and are depreciated in accordance with the depreciation policy.
Obligations under such agreements are included in creditors net of finance charges allocated to future periods.
Finance charges are taken to the profit and loss account so that the annual rate of charge on the outstanding obligation at the end of each accounting period is approximately constant.
Turnover Turnover comprises income from the sale of advertising airtime, sponsorship and promotions net of agencies commissions and income from advertising on the Internet.
Turnover is stated excluding VAT, trade discounts, and intra group transactions and derives from goods and services provided in the normal course of business.
com Airtime revenue is recognised on the date of broadcast.
Sponsorship revenue and internet advertising revenue are recognised over the life of the contract.
j. Licences Expenditure incurred on the purchase of licences and successful applications and re-applications for licences is written off to the profit and loss account as it is incurred.
k. Pensions The Group provides for and funds pension liabilities on a going concern basis, on the advice of external actuaries.
The amount charged to the profit and loss account is calculated to produce a level percentage of the current and future pensionable payroll.
The Group has adopted the transitional arrangements under Financial Reporting Standard 17, Retirement Benefits, and these disclosures can be found in note 24. l. Own shares held under trust Shares in the Company issued to cover SAYE schemes are held in a qualifying Share Ownership Trust QUEST.
The cost of long term incentive plans for Directors and senior executives is charged to the profit and loss account over three years.
m. Capital Radio Restricted Share Plan the Plan Shares acquired by the Trustee of the Plan funded by the Company and held for the continuing benefit of the Company are classified as fixed asset investments until such time as the shares vest unconditionally in employees.
The cost of the shares is amortised to the profit and loss account as an operating expense over three years.
Any permanent diminution in value is recognised immediately and is charged as an operating expense.
com | 61 Notes Forming Part of the Accounts continued 2.
All exceptional costs relate to analogue commercial radio activities.
During the year the Group entered into Barter agreements worth 206,000.
This is accounted for in accordance with UITF 26.
Auditors fees have been reviewed by the Audit Committee.
Underlying profit before taxation from continuing operations Underlying profit before taxation from continuing operations has been calculated as follows: 2002 2001 000 000 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 14,649 27,852 Continuing operations: Abortive development costs 1,458 Restructuring costs 3,576 1,254...................................... Total exceptional operating costs 3,576 2,712 Amortisation of goodwill continuing operations 9,372 9,622 Amortisation of goodwill associates 165 Exceptional gain on disposal of investments continuing operations 10,215 Discontinued operations: Operating profit of television 2,689 Related interest on discontinued operations 2,775 Net excluded items 13,113 2,205......................................
Underlying profit before taxation from continuing operations 27,762 30,057 Restructuring costs in 2002 relate to costs incurred in re-aligning the Groups operations along brand lines and into one commercial division.
These costs consist of redundancies, consultancy fees and fixed asset write-offs of 319,000.
com | 63 Notes Forming Part of the Accounts continued 5.
Staff The aggregate payroll costs of the persons employed by the Group during the year were as follows: 2002 2001 000 000 Wages and salaries 23,403 25,391 Social security costs 2,538 2,941 Other pension costs 1,124 1,618...................................... 27,065 29,950 Redundancy costs included within exceptional items 1,477 530...................................... 28,542 30,480 The above analysis includes the costs relating to Directors.
The figures exclude radio presenters engaged under short-term and part-time contracts.
The average number of persons employed by the Group including Directors during the year was as follows: 2002 2001 Number Number Radio: Management and administration 171 174 Sales 304 318 Programming 159 162 Engineering 18 19...................................... 652 673 Interactive 35 58......................................
Continuing operations 687 731 Television discontinued 91...................................... 687 822 Details of individual Directors emoluments, pension entitlements, long term incentive schemes and share options including gains on exercise are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 48-51.
Net interest payable and similar items 2002 2001 000 000 Interest receivable and similar income: Bank interest 240 78 Bank interest attributable to associated undertakings 95 402...................................... 335 480 Interest payable and similar charges: Bank loan and overdrafts, wholly repayable within five years 1,415 1,553 Interest on Capital Radio plc loan notes 338 1,450 Hire purchase, finance leases and other interest 19 12 Bank interest attributable to associated undertakings 40...................................... 1,812 3,015...................................... Interest payable by continuing operations 1,477 2,535 Interest payable by discontinued operations 2,775...................................... 1,477 5,310 64 | Capital Radio plc | www.
Acquisition of Choice FM On 25 October 2001 Capital Radio plc acquired 19% of Tainside Limited trading as Choice FM for 3,565,000.
The net assets on acquisition amounted to 261,000.
The Group has applied associate accounting for this purchase.
On the same date the Group also signed a Put and Call Option to acquire the remaining 81% of Tainside Limited.
The options can potentially be exercised between 30 September 2004 and 29 September 2006.
The current best estimate of the possible additional consideration is in the range of 15,000,00020,000,000 which will be settled predominantly in shares.
The differences are explained below.
2002 2001 000 000 Current tax reconciliation Profit on ordinary activities before tax 14,649 27,852...................................... Current tax at 30% 2001: 30% 4,395 8,356 Effects of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes: Goodwill amortisation including that in respect of associated undertakings 2,861 2,887 Other 554 629 Depreciation for period in excess of capital allowances 171 78 Utilisation of tax losses 33 2,819 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous periods 42 750...................................... Total current tax charge see above 7,990 8,381 9.
Profit for the financial year The profit for the financial year dealt with in the accounts of the Company was 10,964,000 2001: profit 16,530,000.
A reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds is shown on page 57.
com | 65 Notes Forming Part of the Accounts continued 10.
Earnings per share The calculation of earnings per share is based on the profit after taxation and minority interest of 7,177,000 2001: 19,471,000 and on the weighted average of 82,014,070 2001: 81,729,926 Ordinary Shares in issue during the year.
The underlying earnings per share from continuing operations is included to show the effect of adjusting for the impact of exceptional items, goodwill and discontinued operations which result in earnings increasing by 13,113,000 2001: 2,205,000.
The depreciation charge in respect of these assets amounted to 82,000 2001: 85,000.
The gross book value of freehold property includes 1,488,000 2001: 1,488,000 of depreciable assets.
com | 67 Notes Forming Part of the Accounts continued 14.
In accordance with guidance given by the Urgent Issues Task Force the cost of these shares is amortised over three years, being the period of service in respect of which conditional awards have been made.
Further details of the Plan are given on page 45.
com | 69 Notes Forming Part of the Accounts continued 15.
Deferred tax asset 518 95 No account has been taken of UK tax losses which are not expected to be utilised in the foreseeable future.
The total amount unprovided in respect of these losses is 1,300,000 2001: 1,300,000.
Interest is paid six monthly in arrears at 1% below London Inter-Bank Offered Rates.
The loan notes may be redeemed at the holders option on interest dates until 2003, or by the Company on 31 July 2003.
Capital Radio plc loan notes amounting to 5,426,000 2001: 6,001,000 were issued in June 2001 and have a five-year term.
The loan notes may be redeemed at the holders option on interest dates until 2005, or by the Company on 31 March 2005.
Capital Radio plc loan notes amounting to 134,000 2001: 3,300,000 were issued in August 2001 and have a five-year term.
com | 71 Notes Forming Part of the Accounts continued 17.
Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year Group Group Company Company 2002 2001 2002 2001 000 000 000 000 Bank loans falling due after more than one year and less than two years 8,000 8,000 Finance leases falling due after more than one year and less than two years 37........................................................................... 8,037 8,000 18.
Share capital 2002 2001 000 000 Authorised 100,000,000 2001: 100,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 2.5p each 2,500 2,500 Allotted, called-up and fully paid 82,211,330 2001: 81,759,799 Ordinary Shares of 2.5p each 2,055 2,044 The increase in the issued share capital was due to: Number Number Ordinary Shares of 2.5p each issued fully paid during the year: on acquisitions 260,253 68,844 on issue of own shares to LTIP 133,700 on exercise of option rights 57,578 94,170....................................................... 451,531 163,014 The shares issued on acquisition of Tainside Limited were issued at 6.85 per share.
Share capital continued At 30 September 2002, the Company had options outstanding to subscribe for 2,750,204 2001: 2,201,735 Ordinary Shares.
Details of the outstanding options are as follows: Option Number of Exercise shares price Exercisable not Grant date under option pence earlier than Capital Radio 1986 Senior Executive Share Option Scheme July 1993 10,348 172 July 1996 December 1994 24,100 332 December 1997 December 1996 24,300 540 December 1999 Capital Radio Savings Related Share Option Scheme December 1997 44,771 389 February 2003 December 1998 29,595 448 February 2004 December 1999 33,899 897 February 2005 December 2000 16,770 1054 February 2006 December 2001 152,258 614 February 2007 Capital Radio 1998 Share Option Scheme March 1998 192,905 633 March 2001 November 1998 290,230 541 November 2001 June 1999 61,194 865 May 2002 November 1999 242,812 1224 November 2002 May 2000 83,926 1262 May 2003 November 2000 331,934 1172 November 2003 December 2000 16,204 1172 December 2003 February 2001 82,219 1080 February 2004 May 2001 141,638 795 May 2004 November 2001 443,970 815 November 2004 January 2002 109,059 705 January 2005 May 2002 119,489 773 May 2005 June 2002 54,264 645 June 2005 July 2002 79,734 668 July 2005 Capital Radio Presenters Share Option Scheme March 2000 54,794 1825 March 2003 December 2000 40,358 1115 December 2003 July 2001 38,759 645 July 2004 November 2001 30,674 815 November 2004 During the year, options over 94,671 Ordinary Shares of 2.5p each were exercised, of which 37,093 were issued through the Quest, for a total consideration of 164,000, resulting in an increase in the share premium account of 267,000.
Options over 346,308 shares lapsed during the year.
Share options under the Capital Radio 1986 Senior Executive Share Option Scheme and the Capital Radio 1998 Share Option Scheme and the Capital Radio Presenters Share Option Scheme expire ten years after the date of grant.
Options under the Capital Radio Savings Related Share Option Scheme expire six months after the date on which they can first be exercised.
com | 73 Notes Forming Part of the Accounts continued 19.
Reconciliation of operating profit to net cash inflow from operating activities 2002 2001 000 000 Operating profit 14,982 20,335 Depreciation 4,256 5,021 Amortisation and impairment of goodwill 9,372 9,622 Profit loss on disposal of tangible fixed assets 30 26 Increase decrease in debtors 1,412 2,745 Increase decrease in creditors 2,713 2,933 Change in provisions against investments in own shares 200...................................... Net cash inflow from operating activities 30,081 34,816 21.
Cash flows from acquisitions and disposals 2002 2001 000 000 Net cash disposed of with subsidiary 233 Net cash acquired with subsidiary 456 Net cost proceeds from sale of Border Television Plc 397 50,500 Net proceeds from sale of other investments 12,471 Purchase of fixed asset investments 2,247 Repayment of investment loan 1,930...................................... Net cash inflow outflow from acquisitions and disposals 2,644 65,124 74 | Capital Radio plc | www.
Cash flows from financing 2002 2001 000 000 Proceeds from issue of shares 268 507 Bank loans 14,000 Repayment of bank loans 6,000 58,000 Repayment of loan notes 3,771 15,253 Capital element of finance leases 227 557...................................... Net cash outflow from financing 9,730 59,303 23.
Pension funds The Group operates three pension schemes on behalf of its employees.
The Capital Radio Plc Pension and Assurance Scheme CRPPAS and the Midlands Radio Group Pension Scheme MRGPS are contributory defined benefit schemes.
Both schemes were closed to new employees from 31 March 1995.
At 30 September 2002, 21 employees of Capital Radio plc and seven employees of Birmingham Broadcasting Limited respectively were active members of these schemes.
All other employees in the Radio Group, and in particular new employees, are eligible to join the Capital Radio Group Personal Pension Plan, which was established on 1 April 1995.
This scheme is a contributory defined contribution arrangement and as at 30 September 2002, 252 employees were active members of this scheme.
The Group makes age related contributions to the scheme.
For both defined benefits schemes, the assets are held separately from those of the Group, being invested with insurance companies.
Independent actuarial valuations are obtained every third year.
Contributions to the pension schemes are made in accordance with advice given by independent qualified actuaries.
com | 75 Notes Forming Part of the Accounts continued 24.
Pension funds continued Details of the most recent Actuarial valuations of the defined benefit pension schemes, insofar as they relate to the Group, are as follows: MRGPS CRPPAS Date of last valuation 30 September 2000 1 April 1999 Method used Minimum Funding Attained Age Requirement MFR Assumptions: Annual salary increase 6% 6% Annual investment return before retirement 9% 7.5% Annual investment return after retirement 9% 6.5% Market value of scheme assets 3,638,000 7,277,000 Percentage of liabilities 84% 92% A new valuation for the CRPPAS is currently being finalised.
Under the MFR method of valuation, the current service cost of members will increase as members approach retirement.
The contribution to the CRPPAS made by the Company in the year was 275,000.
The Company has agreed to redress the deficit over five years at the funding rate of 22% plus the cost of insured death in service benefits as recommended by the actuary.
The contribution to the MRGPS made by the Company in the year was 325,000.
The Company has agreed to redress the deficit over five years at the funding rate of 14% of pensionable salaries plus 22,800 per month for 18 months, and 7,600 per month for a further three years as recommended by the actuary.
Additional disclosures in accordance with FRS 17 An actuarial estimate performed by independent qualified actuaries, based on the last full valuations as above, has been undertaken to provide the information required for FRS 17 as at 30 September 2002: The major assumptions used by the actuary were: MRGPS and CRPPAS MRGPS and CRPPAS 30 Sept 2002 30 Sept 2001 Rate of increase in salaries 4.00% 4.25% Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.00% 3.00% Discount rate 5.40% 6.00% Inflation assumption 2.25% 2.50% The assets in the Scheme and the expected rates of return were: Long-term rate of return Value at Long-term rate of return Value at expected at 30 Sept 30 Sept 2002 expected at 30 Sept 30 Sept 2001 2002 000 2001 000 Assets in the Scheme MRGPS CRPPAS MRGPS CRPPAS MRGPS CRPPAS MRGPS CRPPAS Equities 7.0% 7.5% 1,756 3,661 7.0% 6.5% 2,210 3,393 Gilts 4.5% 5.0% 723 2,651 6.0% 6.5% 157 3,393 Cash other 4.0% 5.4% 248 2,191 5.0% 6.0% 512 1,563....................................................................... 2,727 8,503 2,879 8,349 76 | Capital Radio plc | www.
Pension funds continued The following amounts at 30 September 2001 and 30 September 2002 were measured in accordance with the requirements of FRS 17: 2002 2002 2001 2001 000 000 000 000 MRGPS CRPPAS MRGPS CRPPAS Total market value of assets 2,727 8,503 2,879 8,349 Present value of Scheme liabilities 5,255 12,042 4,474 10,025............................................................................ Deficit in Scheme 2,528 3,539 1,595 1,676 Related deferred tax asset 758 1,062 478 503............................................................................ Net pension deficit 1,770 2,477 1,117 1,173 If the above amounts had been recognised in the financial statements, the Companys net assets and profit and loss reserve at 30 September 2002 and 30 September 2001 would be as follows: 2002 2001 000 000 Net assets excluding pension deficit 140,883 146,268 Pension deficit MRGPS 1,770 1,117 Pension deficit CRPPAS 2,477 1,173........................................................ Net assets including pension deficit 136,636 143,978........................................................ Profit and loss reserve excluding pension deficit 39,545 47,868 Pension reserve MRGPS 1,770 1,117 Pension reserve CRPPAS 2,477 1,173........................................................ Profit and loss reserve 35,298 45,578 The following amounts would have been recognised in the performance statements in the year to 30 September 2002 under the requirements of FRS 17: 000 000 MRGPS CRPPAS Operating profit Current service cost 81 194 Past service cost........................................ Total operating charge 81 194........................................ Other finance income: Expected return on pension scheme assets 189 511 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 271 595........................................ Net return 82 84 000 000 MRGPS CRPPAS Statement of total recognised gains and losses Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 341 329 Experience gains and losses on pension scheme liabilities 268 35 Change in assumptions underlying pension scheme liabilities 486 1,496........................................
Actuarial gains and losses in STRGL 1,095 1,860 Capital Radio plc | www.
com | 77 Notes Forming Part of the Accounts continued 24.
Pension funds continued 000 000 MRGPS CRPPAS Movement in deficit during the year Deficit in Scheme at beginning of year 1,595 1,676 Movement in year: Current service cost 81 194 Contributions 325 275 Past service costs Other finance income 82 84 Actuarial gain 1,095 1,860........................................ Deficit in Scheme at end of year 2,528 3,539........................................
Details of experience gains losses for year to 30 September 2002 Difference between actual and expected return on assets Amount 341 329 Percentage of Scheme assets 12.5% 3.9% Experience gains and losses on Scheme liabilities Amount 242 35 Percentage of the present value of the Scheme liabilities 4.6% 0.0% Total amount recognised in statement of total recognised gains and losses: Amount 1,095 1,860 Percentage of the present value of the Scheme liabilities 20.8% 21.9% In accordance with the transitional arrangements of FRS 17, the deficits on the above schemes have not been recognised in the accounts.
Pension costs for the two defined benefit schemes are charged to the Profit and Loss Account so as to spread the cost of pensions over employees working lives with the Group.
The pensions charge for the other schemes represents the contributions paid.
The outstanding debtor to pensions schemes at 30 September 2002 was 102,000 2001: creditor 87,000.
Financial commitments continued Contracted capital expenditure at 30 September not provided for in the accounts amounts to: 2002 2001 000 000 Group Company 26.
Contingent liabilities Neither the Group nor the Company had any material contingent liabilities at 30 September 2002 or 2001.
The Company has given its bankers a cross guarantee to secure the bank borrowings of the other Group undertakings see note 28.
This guarantee is secured by a fixed and floating charge over all the assets of the Company.
The Directors do not anticipate that any liability will fall on the Company in respect of this guarantee.
Related parties The Group has trading relationships with Independent Radio News Limited IRN and the Radio Advertising Bureau Limited RAB.
The Group holds significant shareholdings in both of these companies and has representatives on their boards of directors, and is therefore in a position to exercise significant influence over these companies.
All transactions were conducted at normal commercial rates.
IRN supplies the UK radio industry with a news service in return for airtime adjacent to news bulletins.
This airtime is sold as the Newslink national advertising product by Capital Advertising, as agent for IRN.
An element of the profits of IRN is repaid to participating stations as a payment for airtime given.
The Group also supplies accounting services to IRN.
During the year the Group received 2,232,000 2001: 2,251,000 of income from IRN, representing Capital Advertising commission income, airtime rebate and payment for accounting services.
The value of airtime transferred to IRN during the year was 2,298,000 2001: 2,475,000.
At 30 September 2002 there was an outstanding debtor from IRN of 650,000 2001: 604,000.
The RAB is a trade body promoting commercial radio with advertisers.
The RAB is funded by levies paid by the commercial radio industry in the UK based on volumes of advertising.
During the year the Group paid 832,000 2001: 897,000 in levies to the RAB and at 30 September 2002 had an outstanding creditor of 34,000 2001: 72,000.
Wildstar Records Limited is a record label.
At 30 September 2002 there were no outstanding debtors or creditors to the Group.
CE Digital operates three local digital radio multiplexes.
During the year the Group paid 844,000 2001: 804,000 to CE Digital in respect of radio broadcasts and received nil 2001: 170,000 from CE Digital in respect of legal expertise and engineering time.
At 30 September 2002 there was an outstanding creditor of 254,000 2001: debtor of 201,000.
Tainside Limited operates a commercial radio station Choice FM.
Derivatives and other financial instruments An explanation of the Groups objectives, policies and strategies for the role of derivatives and other financial instruments can be found in the Report of the Directors on page 38.
com | 79 Notes Forming Part of the Accounts continued 28.
Derivatives and other financial instruments continued Interest rate profile of financial assets and financial liabilities: Financial assets The interest rate risk profile of the financial assets of the Group as at 30 September 2002 was as follows: 2002 2001 000 000 Cash at floating interest rate 1,608 Debtors due after more than one year 952 869 Unlisted investments 47 47..................................... 999 2,524 The weighted average interest rate for cash at 30 September 2002 was 4%.
Financial liabilities The Groups floating rate financial liabilities which had a weighted average interest rate at the year end of 4.4%, consist of: 2002 2001 000 000 Bank overdraft 4,488 Bank loans 18,500 24,500 Loan notes 5,980 9,751 Finance leases 31 258..................................... 28,999 34,509 The floating rate bank loans carry interest at 0.6% over LIBOR and are repayable in instalments over three years ending on 30 June 2003.
Bank overdrafts carry interest at 1% over bank base rate and are repayable on demand.
The loan notes carry interest at 1% below bank base rate and are redeemable by the holders on interest dates or by the Company on dates ranging from 31 July 2003 to 31 March 2005.
The maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 30 September 2002 was as follows: 2002 2001 000 000 In one year or less, or on demand 28,999 26,472 In more than one year but not more than two years 8,037 In more than two years but not more than five years..................................... 28,999 34,509 Borrowing facilities The Group has various undrawn committed borrowing facilities.
The undrawn facilities available at 30 September 2002 in respect of which all conditions precedent have been met were as follows: 2002 2001 000 000 Expiring in one year or less 35,512 40,500 Fair value financial assets and financial liabilities There are no material differences between the carrying values and the fair values of the financial assets and financial liabilities disclosed above.
com Principal Investments At 30 September 2002 the principal investments of the Group were as stated below.
All the holdings are of ordinary shares, and are shown to the nearest whole percentage.
Proportion of shares held by: Principal activity The Company Subsidiaries Total Principal subsidiary undertakings Beat 106 Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% Birmingham Broadcasting Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% Capital Radio Management Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% Cardiff Broadcasting Company Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% Century Radio Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% Century 105 Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% Century 106 Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% First Oxfordshire Radio Company Limited Commercial radio 40% 60% 100% Radio Invicta Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% Southern Radio Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% The Ocean Radio Group Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% Xfm Limited Commercial radio 100% 100% Capital Radio Digital Limited Commercial digital radio 100% 100% Midlands Radio plc Holding company 100% 100% Southern Radio Group Limited Holding company 100% 100% Capital Radio Investments Limited Investment company 100% 100% Capital Radio UBC Data Limited Commercial digital data 70% 70% Issued share capital: 100,000 Principal associated undertakings Independent Radio News Limited Issued share capital: 374,535 Programme production 37% 9% 46% Radio Advertising Bureau Limited Issued share capital: 50,000 Marketing of commercial radio 30% 15% 45% Wildstar Records Limited Issued share capital: 600,000 Record production 50% 50% CE Digital Limited Issued share capital: 2 Commercial digital radio 50% 50% Digital News Network Limited Issued share capital: 600,000 Commercial radio 22% 22% Tainside Limited Issued share capital: 1,089,193 Commercial radio 19% 19% All principal investments are incorporated in England and Wales except Beat 106 Limited, which is incorporated in Scotland.
The underlying operating profit from continuing operations, underlying profit before taxation from continuing operations and underlying earnings per share from continuing operations figures are stated after eliminating the effect of significant non-recurring items, goodwill and discontinued operations.
Net debt represents the net total of cash at bank, loan notes, overdrafts and short term lease finance debt, plus short term investments.
3. Dividend cover is calculated using underlying earnings per share from continuing operations.
com Shareholder Information Analysis of ordinary shareholders as at 14 November 2002 % of % of Number of total Ordinary accounts accounts Shares Shares Holding of: Up to 1,000 shares 2,130 67.30 1,016,717 1.24 1,001 to 5,000 shares 577 18.23 1,350,519 1.64 5,001 to 10,000 shares 106 3.35 766,819 0.93 10,001 to 1,000,000 shares 336 10.62 43,944,836 53.45 Over 1,000,000 shares 16 0.50 35,138,835 42.74 Totals 3,165 100.00 82,217,726 100.00 Held by: Banks and Nominee Companies 808 25.52 77,773,425 94.59 Insurance Companies and Institutions 88 2.77 1,058,656 1.29 Private Individuals 2,269 71.71 3,385,645 4.12 Totals 3,165 100.00 82,217,726 100.00 Holders of Ordinary Shares Registrar: The Companys Registrar is Lloyds TSB Registrars and all correspondence regarding Ordinary Shares should be sent to the address shown on page 85.
Dividends: The record date for this years proposed final dividend, payable on 28 January 2003, is 29 November 2002 and the shares will trade ex-dividend on the London Stock Exchange from 27 November 2002.
Holders of Capital Radio Variable Rate Unsecured Loan Notes 2003 Registrar: The Registrar for the Loan Notes is the Company at its registered office and all correspondence regarding the Loan Notes should be sent to the Companys registered office, marked for the attention of the Company Secretary.
Interest payment and redemption: Interest is payable on the Xfm Loan Notes six monthly in arrears on 31 January and 31 July each year.
The Loan Notes are redeemable by the Company on 31 July 2003.
However, a holder of Loan Notes may require the Company to redeem the whole or part, such part being for 5,000 or more, of their holding on any interest payment date falling on or after 31 July 1999.
com | 83 Shareholder Information continued Holders of Capital Radio Variable Rate Unsecured Loan Notes 2005 Registrar: The Registrar for the Loan Notes is the Company at its registered office and all correspondence regarding the Loan Notes should be sent to the Companys registered office, marked for the attention of the Company Secretary.
Interest payment and redemption: Interest is payable on the Border Loan Notes six monthly in arrears on 31 March and 30 September each year.
The Loan Notes are redeemable by the Company on 31 March 2005.
However, a holder of Loan Notes may require the Company to redeem the whole or part, such part being for 5,000 or more, of their holding on any interest payment date falling on or after 31 March 2001.
Interest is payable on the Beat Loan Notes six monthly in arrears on 31 March and 30 September each year.
com Company Secretary and Advisers Secretary and Registered Office Auditors Nathalie Schwarz KPMG Audit Plc 30 Leicester Square 8 Salisbury Square London WC2H 7LA London EC4Y 8BB Company Registration Number Brokers 923454 Cazenove & Co 12 Tokenhouse Yard London EC2R 7AN Solicitors Bankers Freshfields Bank of Scotland 65 Fleet Street 38 Threadneedle Street London EC4A 1SH London EC2P 2EH Merchant Bankers Registrars and Transfer Office Credit Suisse First Boston Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland One Cabot Square PO Box 28448 London E14 4QJ Finance House Orchard Brae Edinburgh EH41 1WQ Capital Radio plc | www.
com | 85 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the twenty-eighth Annual General Meeting of the members of Capital Radio plc will be held on 23 January 2003 at One Whitehall Place Hotel, Whitehall Place, Westminster, London SW1 at 11.00am for the following purposes: Ordinary Business 1.
To receive and adopt the accounts for the year to 30 September 2002 and the reports of the Directors and Auditors.
To approve the payment of a final dividend of 12.5p net per Ordinary Share.
To re-elect as a Director Peter Cawdron who retires by rotation under the provisions of the Articles of Association.
To re-elect as a Director Barbara Thomas who retires by rotation under the provisions of the Articles of Association.
To re-elect as a Director Paul Davies who retires by rotation under the provisions of the Articles of Association.
To re-elect as a Director Linda Smith who having been appointed by the Board since the last Annual General Meeting retires in accordance with the Articles of Association.
That KPMG Audit Plc be and are hereby appointed as the Auditors of the Company to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
That the Directors be and are hereby authorised to determine the remuneration of the Auditors of the Company.
com Special Business To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions of which resolutions 9, 12 and 13 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and resolutions 10 and 11 will be proposed as special resolutions: Ordinary Resolution 9.
That: i for the purposes of section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, the Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of that section up to an aggregate nominal amount of 444,649 such authority to expire five years from the date of the passing of this resolution unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in general meeting : ii the Company may make an offer or agreement before the expiry of this authority which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after expiry of this authority and the Directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of that offer or agreement: and iii this authority shall replace all existing authorities conferred on the Directors in respect of the allotment of relevant securities to the extent that the same have not been previously utilised.
That: i subject to and conditional upon the passing of resolution numbered 9 set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting dated 18 December 2002 the section 80 resolution, the Directors be generally empowered pursuant to section 95 of the Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 94 2 of the Act pursuant to the authority conferred by the section 80 resolution or any renewal thereof as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that this power shall be limited: a to the allotment of equity securities, whether by way of rights issue, open offer or otherwise, to ordinary shareholders and holders of any other shares or securities of the Company that by their terms are entitled to participate in such rights issue, open offer or otherwise where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all ordinary shareholders and such holders of other shares or securities are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of Ordinary Shares held by them or into which their shares or securities are to be deemed converted in calculating the extent of their participation but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws of, or the requirements of any recognised regulatory body or stock exchange in, any territory: and Capital Radio plc | www.
com | 87 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued b to the allotment of equity securities for cash otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above up to an aggregate nominal value of 102,767: ii this power expires at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting following the date of this resolution or 23 April 2004 unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in General Meeting : iii this power shall enable the Company to make an offer or agreement before the expiry of this power which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after the expiry of this power and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement: and iv this power shall replace all existing powers granted to the Directors to allot equity securities as if the said section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to the extent that the same have not been previously utilised.
That, pursuant to Article 9 of the Companys Articles of Association, the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 of the Act of Ordinary Shares of 2.5p each Ordinary Shares in the capital of the Company provided that: i the maximum number of Ordinary Shares authorised to be purchased is 8,221,403: ii the minimum price which may be paid for each Ordinary Share is 2.5p exclusive of expenses: iii the maximum price which may be paid for each Ordinary Share is an amount equal to 105% of the average closing middle market quotations for an Ordinary Share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day of purchase: iv this authority expires at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting following the date of this resolution or 23 January 2004 whichever is the earlier: and v the Company may make a contract to purchase Ordinary Shares prior to the expiry of this authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and the Company may make purchases of Ordinary Shares in pursuance of any such contract.
That the Companys policy in relation to the level of participation by the Executive Directors in the Capital Radio 1998 Share Option Scheme should be amended in the manner described in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 46 of the Annual Report, and the Directors be authorised to do all such acts and things as they may consider necessary or expedient to carry the same into effect.
That the Capital Radio Long Term Incentive Plan should be amended in the manner described in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 47 of the Annual Report, and the Directors be authorised to do all such acts and things as they may consider necessary or expedient to carry the same into effect.
By order of the Board Nathalie Schwarz Company Secretary 30 Leicester Square, London WC2H 7LA 18 December 2002 Notes A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote on his or her behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
To be effective the accompanying Form of Proxy should be lodged together with the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or a notarially certified or office copy of such power or authority at the registered office of the Company not later than 48 hours before the time fixed for the Meeting or adjourned meeting.
Completion and return of the Form of Proxy will not affect the right of a member to attend and vote in person at the Meeting.
In accordance with Regulation 34 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 1995, only those members registered in the register of members of the Company as at 11.00am on 21 January 2003 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their respective names at that time.
Changes to entries on the register of members after that time will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the Meeting.
Copies of the Directors service contracts with the Company or its subsidiaries will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excluded from the date of this notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting itself and will be available for inspection at the Meeting and for a period of 15 minutes before it commences.
The register of Directors share interests is available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excluded.
The copies of the rules of the Capital Radio Long Term Incentive Plan will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company and at the offices of Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer, 65 Fleet Street, London EC4Y 1HS during normal business hours from the date of this notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting itself and will be available for inspection at the Meeting and for a period of 15 minutes before it commences.
com | 91 Designed and produced by Pauffley www.
com Photography: Patrick Harrison Copy and editing: Catherine Fallon and Finsbury Ltd Printed in the UK, St. Ives Westerham Press Storafine awarded the Nordic Swan Nordic Environmental Product Label Licence No 344043.
Totally recyclable and biodegradable including recyclable packaging and pallets.
Redeem 100% recycled post-consumer waste, produced without any secondary bleaching to the pulp whatsoever.
