Schroder Ventures International Investment Trust plc Notice and Agenda NOTICE is hereby given that the sixth Annual General may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which Meeting of Schroder Ventures International Investment Trust would or might require relevant securities to be allotted plc will be held at 12.00 noon on Tuesday 26 November 2002 after such expiry and the Board may allot relevant at 31 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QA, to consider and, securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if thought fit, pass the following resolutions, of which if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
resolutions 1 to 9 will be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions and resolutions 10 and 11 will be proposed as Special 10.
That, in substitution for the authority granted at the Resolutions: Companys Annual General Meeting held on 1.
That the Report of the Directors and the Accounts for the 22 November 2001, the Board be and is hereby year ended 30 June 2002 be adopted.
empowered, pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985, to allot equity securities within the meaning of 2.
That Mr Andrew Sykes be elected as a Director of the Company.
Section 94 of the said Act for cash, pursuant to the authority conferred by the previous resolution, as if sub- 3.
That Mr Andrew Williams be elected as a Director of the section 1 of Section 89 of the said Act did not apply to Company.
any such allotment, PROVIDED THAT this power shall be 4.
That Mr John Govett be re-elected as a Director of the limited to: Company.
a the allotment of equity securities up to an aggregate 58 5.
That Mr Anthony Habgood be re-elected as a Director of nominal amount of 1,022,656 equivalent to 1 per the Company.
of the issued ordinary share capital of the 6.
That Mr Edgar Koning be re-elected as a Director of the Company as at 1 October 2002 in connection with the Company.
Schroder Ventures International Investment Trust plc Executive Share Option Plan 2001: 7.
That Ernst & Young LLP be re-appointed as Auditors of the Company.
b the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue, open offer or any other pre-emptive offer 8.
That the Board be authorised to agree the Auditors in favour of ordinary shareholders where the equity remuneration.
securities respectively attributable to the interests of 9.
That, in substitution for the authority granted at the ordinary shareholders on a fixed record date are Companys Annual General Meeting held on proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective 22 November 2001, the Board be and is hereby generally numbers of ordinary shares held by them subject to and unconditionally authorised to exercise all powers of such exclusions or other arrangements as the Board the Company to allot relevant securities within the may deem necessary or expedient to deal with meaning of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 : fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems a up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,022,656 arising in any overseas territory, the requirements of equivalent to 1 per cent.
of the issued ordinary share any regulatory body or stock exchange or any other capital of the Company as at 1 October 2002 in matter whatsoever : and connection with the Schroder Ventures International c the allotment otherwise than pursuant to subInvestment Trust plc Executive Share Option Plan paragraphs a and b above of equity securities up 2001: and to an aggregate nominal amount of 10,226,569 b up to an aggregate nominal amount of 34,088,566 equivalent to 10 per cent.
of the issued ordinary share equivalent to one-third of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 1 October 2002, capital of the Company as at 1 October 2002, and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual which authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this of this resolution unless previously revoked or varied by resolution, save that the Company may before such expiry the Company in general meeting save that the Company make an offer or agreement which would or might require Schroder Ventures International Investment Trust plc Notice and Agenda continued NOTES equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the 1.
A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the Board may allot equity securities in pursuance of such an Meeting may appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and on a poll to offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had vote in his or her stead.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
Forms appointing proxies must be lodged with the not expired.
Companys Registrar not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the Meeting.
The completion and return of a form of 11.
That the Company be and is hereby generally and proxy will not preclude a member entitled to attend and vote in unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 166 person at the Meeting from doing so if he or she wishes.
of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 of the Act 2.
In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985, a of Ordinary shares of 1.00 each in the capital of the statement of all transactions of each Director and of his family interests in the shares of the Company will be available for Company Shares, provided that: inspection by any member of the Company at the registered ofce of the Company, 31 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QA, during a the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and be purchased shall be 15,329,628 equivalent to public holidays excepted and by any person attending the Annual 14.99 per cent.
of the issued ordinary share capital of General Meeting, during the continuance of the Meeting.
None of the Directors have a contract of service with the Company.
the Company as at 1 October 2002 : b the minimum price which may be paid for a Share is 3.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company has specified that only those 1.00: Shareholders registered in the Register of Members of the 59 c the maximum price which may be paid for a Share is Company at 12.00 noon on 24 November 2002 shall be entitled to an amount equal to 105 per cent.
of the average of attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of Shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to the Register of the middle market quotations for a Share taken from Members after 12.00 noon on 24 November 2002 shall be the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the disregarded in determining the right of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Share is purchased: d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: and e the Company may make a contract to purchase Shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of Shares pursuant to any such contract.
Registered Ofce: 31 Gresham Street London EC2V 7QA By Order of the Board Schroder Investment Management Limited Secretary 14 October 2002 Schroder Ventures International Investment Trust plc Glossary INVESTMENT STAGES: General Terms Early Stage Carried interest carry : Carried interest or simply carry represents the share of a private equity funds profit usually 20% that Seed will accrue to the general partners.
Financing provided to allow a business concept to be developed, Committed funds or raised funds or committed capital : Capital perhaps involving production of prototypes and additional committed by investors.
This will be requested or drawn down by research, prior to bringing a product to market.
private equity managers on a deal-by-deal basis.
This amount is Start-up different from invested funds for two reasons.
Firstly, most Financing provided to companies for the use in product partnerships will invest only between 80% and 95% of committed development and initial marketing.
Companies may be in the funds.
Second, one has to deduct the annual management fee which process of being set up or may have been in business for a short is supposed to cover the cost of operation of a fund.
time, but have not sold their product commercially.
Distributions: Payments to investors after the realisation of Other early stage investments of the partnership.
Financing provided to companies that have completed the product Divestments or realisations or exits : Exits of investments, usually development stage and require further funds to initiate commercial via a trade sale or an IPO Initial Public Offering on a stock market.
They will not yet be generating profit.
Draw downs: Payments to the partnership by investors in order to finance investments.
Funds are drawn down from investors on a dealLate Stage by-deal basis.
Expansion Financing Fund of funds: Private equity funds whose principal activity consists Capital provided for the growth and expansion of a company which of investing in other private equity funds.
Investors in funds of funds 60 is breaking even or even trading profitably.
Funds may be used to can thereby increase their level of diversication.
finance increased production capacity, market or product Gearing, debt equity ratio or leverage development and or provide additional working capital.
Capital The level of a companys borrowings as a percentage of shareholder provided for turn-around situations is also included in this category.
Management Buy-Out MBO Hurdle rate: Arrangement that caps the downside risk for investors.
Funds provided to enable current operating management and It allows investors to get preferential access to the profits of the investors to acquire an existing business.
In the absence of reaching the hurdle return, general Management Buy-In MBI partners will not receive a share of the profit carried interest.
A hurdle Funds provided to enable a manager or group of managers from rate of 10% means that the private equity fund needs to achieve a outside the company to buy into the company.
return of at least 10% before the profits are shared according to the carried interest arrangement.
Follow-on investment A company which has previously received venture capital.
Limited partnership: Most private equity rms structure their funds as limited partnerships.
Investors represent the limited partners and Secondary purchase private equity managers the general partners.
Purchase of existing shares in a company from another venture capital rm, or from other shareholders.
Realisation: the sale of an investment.
Public to Private Secondary market: The secondary market enables institutional Purchase of the share capital of a company quoted on a stock investors to sell their stakes in a private equity partnership before it is exchange with the intention of fide-listing the company and taking it wound up.
Trade sale: Sale of the equity share of an investee company to another company.
Turnaround: A loss making company which can be successfully transformed into a profit maker.
co. uk Registered Office Head Office 31 Gresham Street Burleigh House London EC2V 7QA 357 Strand London WC2R 0HS Telephone 020 7658 3206 Telephone 020 7010 8900 Fax 020 7658 3538 Fax 020 7240 5346
