Schroder Ventures International Investment Trust plc Company Summary THE COMPANY The net asset value is calculated at 31 December and 30 June Schroder Ventures International Investment Trust plc carries each year following an extensive valuation procedure.
Due to on business as an investment trust and it is listed on the the nature of the Companys investments, it is not practicable London Stock Exchange.
The Companys principal investment to publish the net asset value on a more frequent basis.
objective is to achieve capital appreciation by investing A factsheet containing information including the diversication primarily in an international portfolio of buy-out and of the portfolio and the Companys largest investments is development capital funds, which are managed and advised published quarterly and is available on request from the by Schroder Ventures or Permira.
investment objective and address the growing recognition of private equity in investment portfolios, the Company acquired WEB SITE Schroder Ventures London Limited SVLL and its subsidiary The Companys dedicated Web Site may be found at Schroder Ventures North America Inc. SVNA.
The site contains details of all press releases acquisition of SVLL and SVNA has provided the Company with published by the Company, share price information, copies of the a team dedicated to the structure and marketing of products Annual Report and Accounts and Interim Report and Accounts, for investment in private equity as well as continuing to advise and a Newssheet which incorporates information on recent the Board on its management of the affairs of the Company.
transactions, a comprehensive analysis of the Companys Portfolio The use of a benchmark is regularly reviewed by the Board.
As and detailed market commentary.
The Newssheet is distributed to 55 a result of the particular geographical and sectoral the shareholders of the Company.
The site also contains links to diversication of the Companys venture fund portfolio and the Schroder Ventures, Permira and Schroders sites.
nature of the investments made by the Venture Funds, there is currently no independent benchmark which the Directors CAPITAL GAINS TAX INFORMATION consider appropriate for the Company.
For the 2002 2003 tax year, the annual capital gains of private individuals in excess of 7,700 2001 2002: 7,500 are Investment trust companies are able to switch investments assessed for capital gains tax.
without liability for capital gains tax.
This, together with the advantages of professional management and spread of risk, Capital gains on shares disposed of by individuals may be makes investment trusts a valuable investment medium.
The taper reduces the amount of a chargeable gain according to how long the asset has been In order to obtain exemption from capital gains tax the held for periods after 5 April 1998.
Company conducts itself with a view to being an approved investment trust for the purposes of Section 842 of the United Where shares were acquired before 6 April 1998, the capital Kingdom Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 as gain will also be reduced by indexation allowance for the amended.
The Company is not a close company for taxation period up to April 1998, but not thereafter.
For the benefit of those shareholders who acquired their holdings in exchange for their interests in Schroder Ventures funds, the INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS acquisition cost of the shares for capital gains tax purposes The Companys shares and Subordinated Convertible bonds based upon initial dealings on 23 May 1996 was as follows: are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The stock exchange code for the shares is SVI and for the bonds is SVIC.
The price Each ordinary share of 1: 191.50p.
of the shares is quoted daily in the Financial Times, The Daily Telegraph and The Times.
The acquisition cost of the Subordinated Convertible bonds for capital gains tax purposes based upon the original purchase Real time share information for the Shares is available on the price was as follows: FT Cityline by dialing: 0906 843 1432.
Calls are charged at 60p per minute at all times.
1 Each 4 2% Subordinated Convertible Bond of 100,000 nominal value: 100,000.
Schroder Ventures International Investment Trust plc Company Summary continued ASSOCIATION OF INVESTMENT TRUST COMPANIES a regular investment option from a minimum of 50 per The Company is a member of the Association of Investment month Trust Companies, which produces monthly publications of competitive charges detailed information on the majority of investment trusts.
the option to reinvest income Copies of these publications can be obtained by subscription on application to the Association of Investment Trust Companies, the option to include other trusts.
Durrant House, 8-13 Chiswell Street, London EC1Y 4YY.
If you would like further information about the Schroder The aims of the Association are to protect and promote the Investment Trust Dealing Service or the Schroder Maxi ISA, interests of member companies and their shareholders by: please contact the Secretary of the Company at 31 Gresham taking specic action to safeguard and to improve the scal Street, London EC2V 7QA or call Schroder Investor Services and regulatory regime for member companies and their on freephone 0800 718 777. shareholders REGISTRAR SERVICES improving investor awareness of investment trusts through Communications with shareholders are mailed to the address held on the share register.
Any notifications and enquiries education, publicity and the provision of reliable statistical relating to registered share holdings, including a change of and other information address or other amendment should be directed to Lloyds 56 encouraging commitment to good practice and high TSB Registrars Scotland at PO Box 28448, Finance House, professional standards in the industry.
The helpline telephone number of Lloyds TSB Registrars is 0870 601 5366.
SCHRODER INVESTMENT TRUST DEALING SERVICE Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland maintain a web-based The Schroder Investment Trust Dealing Service provides a enquiry service for shareholders.
Currently the Shareview convenient and cost effective means of investing in the site address below contains information available on public ordinary shares of the Company.
The Service offers investors: registers.
Shareholders will be invited to enter their name, a regular investment option from a minimum of 50 per shareholder reference account number and post code and month will be able to view information on their own holding.
a lump sum investment option from a minimum of 1,000 Visit www.
daily dealing JP Morgan Chase Bank act as Registrar for the Subordinated Convertible bonds.
Any notications and enquiries relating to competitive charges Subordinated Convertible bonds should be directed to the option to reinvest income.
JP Morgan Chase Bank, Trinity Tower, 9 Thomas More Street, London E1N 1YT.
Other investment trusts which are available through this service are Schroder AsiaPacic Fund plc, Schroder Emerging Countries Fund plc, Schroder Income Growth Fund plc, Schroder Japan Growth Fund plc, Schroder Split Investment Fund plc, Schroder Split ZDP plc, Schroder UK Growth Fund plc and International Biotechnology Trust plc.
INDIVIDUAL SAVINGS ACCOUNT SCHRODER MAXI ISA PLAN The Schroder ISA offers investors: lump sum investments in the ordinary shares of the Company from a minimum of 1,000 to a maximum of 7,000 in the current tax year
