Schroder Ventures International Investment Trust plc Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing accounts for each legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of and dissemination of the accounts may differ from legislation affairs of the Company and of the Group at the end of the in their jurisdiction.
financial year and of the return for the year, and are in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
The Directors believe that they have complied with these responsibilities.
The Directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue in business and accordingly that the accounts should be drawn up on a going concern basis.
Further, appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, have been used in the preparation of these accounts and applicable accounting standards have been followed.
These policies and standards, for which the Directors accept responsibility, have been discussed with the Auditors.
23 The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud, error, other irregularities and non-compliance with laws and regulations.
The accounts are published on the www.
co. uk website, which is a website maintained by Schroder Ventures London Limited SVLL, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.
The maintenance and integrity of this website is the responsibility of SVLL.
The accounts are also published on the www.
co. uk website, which is a website maintained by Schroders.
The maintenance and integrity of the website maintained by Schroders or any other subsidiary of Schroders plc is, so far as it relates to the Company, the responsibility of Schroders.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of these websites and accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the accounts shown on the websites from this published report and accounts.
Visitors to the websites need to be aware that
