Schroders 22 Directors Responsibility Statement The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the Report of The Management Statement on pages 2 to 4 and the Operating and Financial the Independent Auditors, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders Review on pages 5 to 9 contain certain forward-looking statements with respect the respective responsibilities of the Directors and Auditors in relation to the to the financial condition, results of operations and businesses of the Group.
These statements and forecasts involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future.
There are a The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
number of factors that could cause actual results or developments to differ The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Group keeps proper materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements accounting records.
They are required by company law to prepare financial and forecasts.
Nothing in this report should be construed as a profit forecast.
statements which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group at the end of the financial year and of the results for the year.
They are also responsible for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors remain satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue in business and accordingly that financial statements should be drawn up on a going concern basis.
Further, appropriate accounting policies consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been used in the preparation of these financial statements and applicable accounting standards have been followed.
These policies and standards, for which the Directors accept responsibility, have been discussed with the Auditors.
The Directors, having prepared the financial statements, have requested the Auditors to take whatever steps and to undertake whatever inspections they consider appropriate for the purpose of giving their report.
