Chairmans Statement continued Whilst the general economic environment is, Banking without doubt, less positive than it was a year Our banking operations continued the growth ago, we have not experienced a material achieved in recent years, reporting profits for deterioration in the credit quality of our banking the year of 20.9 million, an increase of 14% book.
We have decided to increase our general over those of 2001: excluding the impact of provision by a further 500,000 broadly provisions for credit losses, the increase in maintaining its proportion to the banking book.
When set against the less favourable economic climate which Asset Management prevailed in 2002 compared with the previous year, this is a positive performance.
At The revenues of our asset management 31 December 2002 banking advances and the business are crucially dependent on market interest earning assets of our consumer finance levels and hence portfolio values on which and leasing businesses amounted to 1,162 management fees are calculated and, for million, an increase of 18% over those at the commission income on the volume and value of previous year end.
During 2002, the FTSE All Share Index declined by 25%, with the majority of the The private banking teams which we recruited fall occurring in the second half of the year.
The at the end of 2001, have been highly successful erosion of investor confidence resulted in a in novating the advances which they managed reduction in transactions, in value terms, of in their previous employments and in some 12% compared with 2001.
These two generating new business: private banking factors were the principal causes of a reduction advances amounted to 183 million at of 23% in gross revenues in 2002.
31 December 2002 compared with 46 million a year previously.
Asset management profits before taxation amounted to 6.0 million, a reduction of 40% Our consumer finance and leasing businesses against the 10.1 million earned in 2001. performed well.
The results for the year were Although that decline is a disappointment, it adversely affected by a provision of 2.25 should be placed in the context of the million required in our insurance premium performance of markets generally, and points to finance company in respect of losses arising the underlying resilience of our business and to from an unsuccessful new product development the effectiveness of the cost economy and launch, and, as a consequence, overall programmes which we implemented in the early profits from the consumer finance and leasing part of the year.
Our net margin on average funds businesses are no better than those achieved in under management was 15 bps 2001: 22 bps.
The acquisitions which we made in 2001 have all been successfully integrated and each has made a valuable contribution to this years profits with a notably encouraging result from Hermes Leasing.
Our healthcare leasing business continues to benefit from the substantial investment being made in the National Health Service.
Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 5
