Chairmans Statement continued In common with markets globally, the Nordic As recommended by the Accounting Standards markets, in which Carnegie operates, suffered Board, we have decided to implement the substantial declines during 2002 which provisions of FRS 17 in full in our 2002 impacted directly on its securities business in Financial Statements and the effect of the particular and its investment banking above transactions is reflected in accordance operations were adversely affected by the low with FRS 17.
This includes, in the current level of corporate activity in the region.
During years results, the credit from the one-off gain the year, Carnegie reduced its headcount by amounting to 7.7 million, arising from the some 11% in response to the depressed trading reduction in future benefits.
At 31 December 2002, the aggregate deficit of As I have previously reported, we are not a our two schemes under FRS 17 principles long-term holder of our investment in Carnegie amounted to 3.4 million, after deferred and it remains our intention to dispose of it taxrelief.
when market conditions are appropriate.
The current market value of our holding in Carnegie Directors and Staff is 82.9 million.
Sir Harry Djanogly has advised the Board that he wishes to retire as a Director at the Pensions Companys Annual General Meeting to be held We reported at the interim stage that we had on 29 April 2003.
Sir Harry is Deputy Chairman made a one-off contribution of 30 million and senior Non-Executive Director and has been before taking into account tax relief thereon to a director of the Company since its floatation in our UK final salary pension scheme, being the 1987.
His long experience in industry has been amount which our Independent Trustee required a most valuable ingredient in your Boards us to pay in order to address the past service deliberations over the years and we shall miss deficit as at 31 December 2001 within the his counsel and guidance.
context of agreement to changes in the terms In the light of Sir Harrys retirement from the and benefits of the scheme.
For the same Board and in order to align responsibilities at reason, we have subsequently made a one-off director level with good corporate governance contribution of 800,000 to our Isle of Man practice, the Board has agreed to my request final salary scheme.
The changes to the UK that I relinquish the position of Chairman in scheme, being principally a reduced rate of order to concentrate on my role as Chief accrual for future service and the requirement Executive.
I am delighted to report that Paul for contributions from members, were Selway-Swift, one of our Non-Executive implemented with effect from 1 October 2002 Directors has agreed to become Chairman in my and have resulted in a significantly lower rate of place with effect from the date of the Annual employer contribution: we have also General Meeting.
implemented a cap on increases in pensionable salaries.
Similar amendments are being made We intend to strengthen the breadth of in respect of the Isle of Man scheme, effective experience at Board level with further Nonfrom the same date.
Executive appointments and hope to be able to make an announcement in that regard in the near future.
Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 7 Chairmans Statement continued 2002 proved to be one of the most difficult years Your Group is soundly based and strongly I have experienced for any business in the capitalised and our businesses have securities industry.
The commitment of our staff demonstrated their resilience in an adverse hasremained undiminished in very trying environment.
We are therefore well conditions and it is a tribute to their endeavour positioned to benefit from any improvement and expertise that your Group has nevertheless in trading conditions.
produced a creditable profits achievement for the year.
Shareholders will, I am sure, wish to join John Hodson, Chairman the Board in thanking all our staff for their efforts 26 February 2003 in 2002.
Outlook We see no reason why our banking business should not continue to grow.
We are a lender able to be flexible and tailor solutions to our customers needs.
We have been able to and will continue to be able to develop new specialist lending activities.
The outlook for the asset management industry is less certain and the sectors within which we operate are subject to considerable competitive pressures.
The strong niche positions that we have created provide us with a solid platform to move forward again if and when conditions improve.
Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 8 Review of Activities Composition and Structure of Overview of Results the Group A summary of the Groups operating profits by business activity is set out on page 3, and the On 7 June 2001, the Group disposed of part of statutory Consolidated Profit and Loss Account its holding in Carnegie through the floatation of is shown on page 38. the shares of Carnegie on the Stockholm Stock Exchange.
The Groups holding in Carnegie was The total operating income of the Continuing reduced from 55% to 30.85% as a result of that Group in 2002 amounted to 107.1 million disposal and accordingly, with effect from 2001: 116.4 million, as follows: 7June 2001, Carnegie is accounted for as an associated undertaking with its pre-tax results OPERATING INCOME being presented within a single line in the 2002 2001 m m Consolidated Profit and Loss Account on page Net interest income 69.1 64.8 38.
This change in accounting treatment gives Net fees and commissions 30.8 40.0 rise to certain distortions in the comparison of Dealing profits 5.3 3.7 financial information between 2001 and 2002.
Other operating income 1.9 7.9 As previously reported, the Group is not a long Total operating income of the Continuing Group 107.1 116.4 term holder of its investment in Carnegie and Add: Operating income of Carnegie intends to dispose of it when market conditions and terminated activities 0.5 120.7 are appropriate.
Therefore, the Groups share of Total operating income per Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 107.6 237.1 the results of Carnegie are not regarded as being part of the core activities of the Group, which comprise Banking and Asset Within the Continuing Group, net interest Management.
These core activities, excluding income increased by 4.3 million, or 7%, Carnegie and terminated activities, are referred reflecting the 18% growth in interest earning to as the Continuing Group.
assets offset by lower interest earnings on Group cash balances.
The latter arises in part Historically, the Group has deployed a portion of from lower average depositrates, but more its capital into carrying investments in corporate importantly from reduced cash balances bonds and equities for its own account.
With following the payment of the 80.5 million effect from 1 January 2002, the Group decided special dividend in November 2001 and the to reallocate the capital invested in corporate 30.8 million one-off pension contributions bonds to its banking operations and, from the paid during 2002. same date, its investments in equities were transferred to the parent company.
The decline in net fees and commissions arises principally in our Asset Management business.
The reduction in other operating income of 6.0 million arises from our own account investment portfolios, which produced a net gain in 2001 in contrast to a net loss in 2002, and reduced rental income following the disposal of our investment property portfolio.
Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 9 Review of Activities continued The total administrative expenses of the In overall terms, staff related expenses are Continuing Group in 2002, excluding the the largest component of the administrative exceptional pension curtailment credit, costs of the Continuing Group and in 2002 amounted to 60.7 million 2001: 62.9 amounted to 62.6% of the total 2001: 65.3%.
million, as follows: A significant proportion of staff related expenses is directly linked to profitability at ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES both Group and individual business levels.
The 2002 2001 cost to income ratio of the Continuing Group, m m derived by expressing administrative expenses Staff related expenses as a percentage of total operating income, excluding pension curtailment credit 38.0 41.1 amounted to 56.7% in 2002 compared with Other costs 22.7 21.8 Totaladministrative expenses 54.0% in 2001. of the Continuing Group 60.7 62.9 Add: Administrative expenses Provision for credit losses is made on the of Carnegie and terminated basisof regular review of exposures with the activities 0.6 84.1 objective of writing down assets to a Less:Pension curtailment credit 7.7 conservative expectation of net realisable Totaladministrative expenses per Consolidated Profit and value where there is a realistic prospect of a Loss Account 53.6 147.0 less than full recovery.
Non performing assets and those which otherwise give cause for concern are reviewed at each meeting of the The reduction in administrative expenses of the Risk Review Committee.
Continuing Group, before the impact of the curtailment credit, amounting to 2.2 million, or In the banking book, specific provisions are 3%, lower than 2001, arises principally from a made on a case by case basis, including, where reduction in staff costs being partly offset by an necessary, the costs associated with recovery.
increase of 0.9 million in other administrative We also carry a general provision in the banking costs.
Staff related expenses are 3.1 million or book in recognition that credit losses may 7% lower than 2001, principally due to lower emerge which are not apparent at the time of profit related bonus charges.
The impact of this drawing up the financial statements.
Our policy, saving has been partly offset by increased salary based on industry norms, is that the general costs, most notably within Private Banking and provision should be maintained at around 0.7% the consumer finance and leasing businesses, of total advances and in the light of the growth where increased resourceshave been recruited in the banking book during 2002, we have to respond to the higher business volumes.
increased the general provision by 500,000 at Control over costs is achieved through strict 31 December 2002: at that date, it stood at authorisation and approval procedures.
4.25 million, equivalent to 0.76% of the Budgets are prepared at the commencement of banking book.
each year and are updated regularly during the Because of the volume of customers, it would year in the light of actual performance.
The be impractical for our consumer finance and monthly reporting process includes an analysis leasing companies to make provision wholly of cost variances against budget and against on a specific case by case basis.
Accordingly, prior year actual figures.
Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 10 Review of Activities continued these businesses make provision for credit The amount of goodwill shown in the losses principally on formulaic bases by Consolidated Balance Sheet see note 21 on reference to the value of their interest earning page 61 represents the unamortised portion of assets and repayment instalments in arrears the difference between net assets acquired and supplemented, where necessary, by the consideration paid for those net assets.
additional provisions where specific cases of We undertake an annual assessment of the loss are identified.
carrying value of goodwill if there is an indication that its value is impaired, and if so The net charge for provisions for the Continuing an appropriate write down is made.
The balance Group amounted to 5.4 million in 2002 2001: is amortised, generally over twenty years, but 2.5 million, as follows: over a shorter period if circumstances dictate.
The amount of annual amortisation is taken to CHARGE FOR PROVISIONS profits for the year.
2002 2001 m m Other Group income less central costs in 2002 Banking book: amounted to a net charge of 5.7 million 2001: Specific provisions 2.6 2.3 a net charge of 0.3 million, as follows: General provision 0.5 1.0 Less: Release of specific provisions made in earlier years.
2.4 2.6 OTHER GROUP INCOME AND COSTS Total: Banking book 0.7 0.7 2002 2001 m m Consumer finance and leasing businesses 4.7 1.8 Net interest income 2.5 5.7 Total charges for provisions: Results from equity investments Continuing Group 5.4 2.5 for own account 1.6 2.4 Terminated activities 1.4 2.0 Central costs 6.6 8.4 Totalcharge for provisions per Net charge for the year 5.7 0.3 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 6.8 4.5 Net interest income comprises principally the The release of specific provisions made in the interest receivable on the cash balances held by banking book in earlier years which are no Singer & Friedlander Group PLC less, in 2001, longer required 2.4 million relates principally that payable on the convertible unsecured loan to the provision made in 2000 against the stock 2009 14, the remaining outstanding advance to Independent Energy.
The amount of balance of which was converted into ordinary the advance has now been recovered in full.
The shares of the Company on 31 May 2001. provisions in respect of the consumer finance and leasing businesses include an amount of 2.25 million 2001: nil for losses incurred and to be incurred by our insurance premium finance subsidiary arising from the development and launch of a new product.
Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 11 Review of Activities continued As stated earlier in this Review, the Groups negotiations to secure agreement to changes in investments in equities for its own account are the terms of and benefit structure of the now accounted for within the parent company.
In December 2002, we made a similar The results from these investments were: one-off contribution of 800,000 gross in respect of the defined benefit scheme operated RESULTS FROM OWN ACCOUNT INVESTMENTS by our subsidiary based in the Isle of Man.
2002 2001 These one-off contributions, aggregating m m 30.8 million, are accounted for as a reduction Income including interest on in the FRS 17 deficit as at 31 December 2001. cash balances within the portfolios 0.7 0.8 With effect from 1 October 2002, we Realised and unrealised losses gains net 2.3 1.6 implemented certain changes to the terms and Net loss profit for the year 1.6 2.4 benefits of the UK scheme, being principally a reduction in the rate of accrual of pension entitlements, the requirement for employees to Central costs are the direct expenses of Singer contribute a percentage of their salaries to the & Friedlander Group PLC and the costs of scheme and a cap on increases in pensionable certain of the central functions of the Group, salaries.
We are in the process of introducing such as Internal Audit, Risk Control and the same changes for our Isle of Man scheme Compliance, as well as property occupancy also to be effective from 1 October 2002.
The costs to the extent that they cannot properly be calculated benefit to the Group arising under allocated to the operating businesses.
the provision of FRS 17, which amounts to 7.7 During 2001, a new accounting standard, million, is accounted for as a credit to operating Financial Reporting Standard 17 FRS 17, for profits.
accounting for the costs and other financial Our final salary schemes currently have 235 information relating to defined benefit pension active members out of our total staff schemes came into force.
Staff who are not in the implementation of FRS 17 is not mandatory final salary schemes participate in money until 2005, its earlier full implementation is purchase schemes.
encouraged by the Accounting Standards Board and we have accordingly done so as at The effective rate of corporation tax on the 31 December 2002.
Because we are introducing profit from ordinary activities is 23.7% 2001: a new accounting standard, the opening 29.4%.
The effective rate of corporation tax is position, namely the FRS 17 deficit at 1 January lower than the standard rate of 30%, primarily 2002, amounting to 34.4 million before because a new accounting standard FRS 19 taxrelief as noted in our 2001 financial no longer permits us to make provision for the statements, falls to be accounted for as an difference between the UK rate and the lower adjustment to Group reserves of the prior year.
rates applicable on profits earned by our subsidiaries in certain overseas jurisdictions As reported at the time of our 2002 interim until such profits are remitted to the UK.
The results, we were required by the Independent effective rate is further reduced as a result of Trustee of our UK scheme, to make a one-off the release of tax provisions made in previous contribution amounting to 30 million, before years which are no longer required and because taxrelief, to address the past service deficit as goodwill amortisation is non-taxable.
at 31 December 2001 as part of the Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 12 Review of Activities continued Where a discrete business as opposed to a The Group is strongly capitalised.
The increase business segment has been disposed of of 178 million in our banking advances and outside the Group, the results from its interest earning assets in 2002 was comfortably operations are disclosed separately in the covered by reserves.
Our consolidated risk Consolidated Profit and Loss Account as asset ratio at 31 December 2002, comprised terminated activities.
The loss from terminated almost entirely of Tier 1 capital, was 15.1% activities in 2002 amounting to 1.5 million, 31 December 2001: restated for the impact of and that in 2001 2.6 million, relates to changes in accounting standards 15.7%, a Singer & Friedlander Factors.
level which does not constrain further growth in our banking activities.
Transactions which, under accounting principles, are not regarded as part of the Our Banking and Asset Management operations Groups normal trading operations are not are both subject to regulation by the Financial included in the operating results in the Services Authority FSA or its equivalent in Consolidated Profit and Loss Account but are non UK jurisdictions and the costs involved in separately disclosed as non-operating complying with the regulatory requirements are exceptional items.
Additional costs of regulation arising in 2002 related to NON-OPERATING EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS the procedures following the enactment of the 2002 2001 Financial Services and Markets Act at the end of m m 2001, which unified the various separate Profit loss on disposal of regulatory bodies into the FSA, and a total businesses and associated undertakings: review of our customer status information base 24.15% holding in Carnegie 38.9 which we, along with all regulated institutions, Other 0.9 0.4 have been required to carry out in connection 0.9 38.5 with money laundering controls.
We are now Losses profits on sale of embarking on the very considerable work that investment properties 0.3 0.3 will be necessary to comply with the EU Losses on sale of fixed asset investments 2.1 regulatory directive known as Basel II whose 0.6 36.7 introduction has now been postponed until Taxation thereon 0.4 13.5 2006.
We acknowledge and accept the Non-operating exceptional items importance of financial regulation but are after taxation 0.2 23.2 concerned at the increasing cost of compliance which impacts smaller institutions, such as The capital requirements of our two core ours, particularly severely.
businesses of Banking and Asset Management are significantly different, given the differing nature of the businesses and the applicable regulatory requirements.
However, we consider return on capital to be a key yardstick in measuring the overall performance of the Group.
After taxation, but before exceptional items, the return on capital earned by the Group in 2002 was 7.6% 2001: 12.3%.
Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 13 Review of Activities continued Banking PROFILE OF THE BANKING BOOK 2002 2001 The Groups banking operations are m m headquartered at our head office in the City of Wholesale banking 284 305 London, with other offices in Manchester, Equipment finance and leasing 274 251 Glasgow and other key locations in Great Britain Consumer finance 213 165 together with an offshore subsidiary located in Private banking 183 46 the Isle of Man.
Property related advances 151 140 Commodity trade finance 29 31 Charles Price We undertake traditional banking activities for a Other 28 46 Head of the Banking broad spectrum of corporate and private Division Total 1,162 984 customers, and specific financing in a number of sectors.
The majority of advances to Our banking book is financed entirely by corporate customers are made on a bilateral customer deposits.
We had another successful basis, but we are also active in the syndicated year in attracting and retaining customer credit market and in the purchase of publicly deposits which amounted to 1,223 million at traded bonds.
Advances to private customers 31 December 2002 2001: 1,120 million, thus are made principally in respect of personal comfortably exceeding customer lending.
The vast majority of banking advances, to both corporate and The profits from our core banking activities in private customers are made on a secured basis.
2002 amounted to 16.5 million, an increase of The principal sectors in which specific financing 18% over the profits of 14.0 million earned in advances are made include property, 2001. commodity trading, equipment finance and leasing, consumer finance for the purchase of PROFITS FROM BANKING ACTIVITIES motor vehicles and insurance premiums, and 2002 2001 m m trade bill and block discounting.
The vast Totalrevenues 39.6 34.4 majority of the banking advances and interest Costs 23.1 20.4 earnings assets were within and subject to the Profits from banking activities 16.5 14.0 jurisdictions of the United Kingdom and the Isle of Man.
Totalrevenues increased by 15% compared Advances to customers and interest earning with those achieved in 2001, the increase assets at 31 December 2002 amounted to arising principally from the growth in advances.
1,162 million compared with 984 million at Costs increased by 13% in 2002 the increase 31 December 2001 growth of 18% during the arising from higher head count driven salary year.
The profile of the book at the end of 2002 costs in the private banking business area and was asfollows: higher profit related bonus costs offset to an extent by a lower depreciation charge on our Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 14 Review of Activities continued main banking system.
The cost to income ratio, The rigorous management of credit risk is a excluding from the former, depreciation, vitalcomponent of our ability to maintain and amortisation of goodwill and the charge for sustain the profit performance of our banking provisions, amounted to 53.7% 2001: 51.6%.
Our procedures and process for the management of credit risk are set out in note The continuing growth in both the assets and 40 on pages 75 to 82 of the Financial profits of our banking operations, demonstrates Statements and the bases on which we make the value of our concentrating on ensuring that provision for amounts which we consider to be we deliver a high quality service to our actually or potentially irrecoverable are customers and maintaining close personal described earlier in this Review.
In addition to relationships with them and by the identification a detailed assessment of the credit risk of and development of expertise in niche individual borrowers and individual specific opportunities for lending and financing.
These financing activities supported by a attributes have enabled us in some cases to sophisticated loan grading matrix, we further negotiate attractive levels of total return by control the overall risk profile of the book by enhancing the appropriate level of margin with setting limits on our exposure to particular bespoke fee arrangements and the sale of industry and commercial sectors and on additional profitable products.
The profits for the year as summarised above are struck after During 2002, the private banking teams which making net new provisions of 5.4 million we recruited at the end of 2001 have made 2001: 2.5 million, excluding those relating excellent progress in novating the loans which to terminated activities, of which 0.7 million they managed in their previous employments was in respect of banking advances and 4.7 and in developing new business.
At million was in respect of the consumer finance 31 December 2002, private banking advances and leasing activities: the provisions made in amounted to 183 million, an increase of the banking book include a sum of 0.5 million nearly 300% during the year.
The majority of 2001: 1.0 million set aside to increase the these advances are to high net worth level of the general provision.
Releases of expatriates working in the UK and are secured provisions previously made on a specific basis, on residential property, thereby having the which are deducted in arriving at the figure of advantage of being 50% weighted for net new provisions made in the year amounted regulatory capital purposes and affording, to 2.4 million 2001: 2.6 million.
through the relationship, the potential for cross-selling into our asset management and Our consumer finance and leasing businesses trust services.
Our subsidiary in the Isle of Man have achieved solid growth in 2002 with has been instrumental in facilitating this interest earning assets increasing by 22%.
The business and has, as a result, had a most businesses which we acquired in 2001 have all successful year.
been successfully integrated and each has traded profitably during 2002 with a notably Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 15 Review of Activities continued strong performance from Hermes, which we Asset Management acquired at the end of 2001 and which leases Our asset management operations consist of vehicles and equipment.
We are a leader in the the management of funds, in the vast majority field of leasing medical and healthcare of cases on a discretionary basis, for private equipment to National Health trusts under clients, charities and institutions from our head operating leases and our business has office in the City of London, from branch offices expanded with the increased government in Birmingham and Leeds as well as offshore in expenditure on the National Health Service: the the Isle of Man, together with a collective funds Richard Killingbeck profits of this business were some 26% ahead Head of the Asset operation based in Dublin.
We are now at the Management Division stage that the primary terms of the earlier 2002 was a difficult year for our asset leases which we wrote are coming to an end management business.
Our principal sources of and a satisfactory pattern of secondary lease revenue are management fees which are terms and resale values is emerging which virtually exclusively charged by reference to the gives us comfort that the residual values value of funds under management and implicit in the primary lease terms are robust.
commissions which are charged by reference to Our car finance business faced less buoyant the value of transactions in the market.
We are trading conditions with severe competitive primarily an equity house and therefore the pressure on margins: despite that pressure, value of the funds under our management, and credit quality in the car finance business hence the management fees which we earn improved.
However volumes and new business therefrom, are directly affected by movements intake held up well, bolstered by initiatives in the equity markets.
The FTSE All-Share index which included commencing the finance of ended 2002 25% lower than its level at the end motor cycles and a marketing thrust directed at of 2001 and its average level in 2002 was some military personnel.
The interest earning assets 19% below that for the previous year.
Our of our insurance premium financing business revenues from management fees declined by increased substantially in the year, driven by 24% year on year, thus broadly tracking the fall organic growth and the continuing hardening of in the market.
The level of fee income was also premium rates.
affected by the fact that market conditions were such that there was no investor appetite for the In addition to growing our banking activities launch of tax driven products and we were organically and through the identification of therefore unable to repeat the successful AIM fresh niche opportunities, we continue to VCT offerings of earlier years which, in 2001, search for suitable acquisitions.
We examined a earned us fee income of 0.9 million.
The number of potential targets during 2002, but significant fall in the market, which followed concluded that none provided both added value falls in each of the two previous years, together for shareholders and a commercial and with pervasive political and economic strategic adjunct to our existing business.
uncertainty created a much less favourable Against a difficult economic background, our environment against which our managers banking activities have performed well and we adopted a more cautionary stance, especially in are optimistic that the achievements of recent regard to trading, this directly affected our years provide the basis for further growth gross commission income which was 32% lower in 2003. than our earnings from that source in 2001.
Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 16 Review of Activities continued business and the success of our management of ASSET MANAGEMENT REVENUES the cost base.
2002 2001 m m The net margin earned on the average level of Revenues: Management fees 19.7 26.1 funds under management during the year Front-end fees 0.1 1.8 amounted to 0.15% 2001: 0.22%.
Commissions net 2.9 2.2 Other revenues 2.6 2.9 Funds under management at 31 December 2002 25.3 33.0 amounted to 2.8 billion 2001: 3.6 billion analysed as follows: In the light of the adverse trading conditions, FUNDS UNDER MANAGEMENT AT YEAR END we have taken steps to manage down the cost 2002 2001 base of our asset management business.
As bn bn reported last year we transferred the assets of Private clients 1.6 2.1 our Premier Funds Service, which managed Institutional clients 0.9 1.1 smaller portfolios by investing in third party Collective vehicles 0.9 1.3 collective vehicles, to another provider and as 3.4 4.5 part of that transfer we were able to reduce our Less: Client assets invested in our own collective vehicles 0.6 0.9 headcount.
In addition, in the early part of 2.8 3.6 2002, we undertook a review of the resources in our administration and back office areas, following which we made further reductions in The movement in funds under management is staff numbers.
We have also seen the benefit in analysed as follows: 2002 of the decision made in 2001 to insource the administration of Personal Equity Plans and MOVEMENT IN FUNDS UNDER MANAGEMENT Individual Savings Accounts.
In overall terms, 2002 2001 bn bn costs in 2002 were 17% lower than those Funds under management at the incurred in 2001. beginning of the year 3.6 3.5 Market movement 0.9 0.6 The profits earned by our asset management Inflow of new money 0.3 0.7 business in 2002 amounted to 6.0 million, a Outflow of money 0.5 0.4 decline of 40% from the earnings of 2001.
The 1.1 0.3 profit for the year includes the receipt of Effect of performance relative brokerage of 0.6 million 2001: 0.9 million, to the market 0.3 0.4 net of related costs, being the second, and final, Funds under management at the end of the year 2.8 3.6 payment due in respect of the transfer of assets managed by our Premier Funds Service.
The Market movement is measured by reference to the reduction in profitability is a disappointment, FTSE 100 Index.
butgiven the falls in market levels and the erosion of investor confidence, both being factors outside our control, the level of earnings is indicative of the resilience of our underlying Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 17 Review of Activities continued The principal area of our asset management commercial benefits and the value and financial business continues to be the management of returns to our shareholders have not been portfolios for private clients and charities sufficiently attractive for us to proceed.
It is also principally on a discretionary basis, which becoming increasingly apparent that, in current accounted for 62% of funds under management market conditions, the loyalty of clients to a at 31 December 2002.
This market remains particular house comes under pressure on a intensely competitive and it and the retail change of ownership.
A more fruitful area for sector has come under the greatest pressure growth by acquisition continues to be the from the erosion of confidence in the face of recruitment of key individuals and teams and falling markets.
Our clients, and their advisers, we have been successful in this respect during are becoming increasingly demanding over the year, most notably in attracting a team of performance evaluation and charging levels.
three fund managers from Atlantic Wealth Our principal sources of new business are the Management.
Trading conditions in the industry professional service firms accountants, generally are currently such that an increasing solicitors and trust companies and referrals number of teams are disposed to consider from our network of other providers.
We have moving and we are in active discussions with a strengthened our marketing team by further number of potential targets.
recruitment during the year in order to expand The early part of 2003 has seen no our presence both in London and the regions.
improvement in markets from their depressed The specialist institutional side of the business levels of the second half of last year and we hasconsolidated its position during the year see little grounds for optimism based on following the significant number of new present fundamentals.
Investor confidence and mandates won in 2001.
The majority of this part sentiment remains depressed and is likely to of the business involves the management of a remain so whilst major economic and political segregated portion of institutional portfolios uncertainties persist.
The current year will, and our reputation is particularly strong in without doubt, be a difficult one for our asset Continental European and Pan European management business and further structural equities.
The fee rates for institutional business re-alignment may be required if conditions are lower than those for private client mandates show no sign of improvement in the medium but we have, in some cases, been able to term.
We remain however fully committed to negotiate the potential for enhancement the business and the steps which we have through performance fee arrangements.
taken and continue to take to strengthen its base leave it well positioned to take advantage During 2002, we have continued to explore of any improvement in market conditions which opportunities for growth through acquisition.
Although there is no shortage of opportunities, the level of consideration generally being sought by vendors is such that, in our view, the Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 18 Financial Statements and Other Statutory Information Corporate Governance 20 Report on Directors Remuneration 24 Report of the Directors 29 Corporate Social Responsibility 33 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 35 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of 36 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 38 Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses 39 Consolidated Note of Historical Cost Profits and Losses 39 Consolidated Balance Sheet 40 Balance Sheet 41 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 42 Notes to the Accounts 43 Abridged Accounts of Singer & Friedlander Limited 84 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account Consolidated Balance Sheet Balance Sheet Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 19 Corporate Governance The Higgs Review and Application of the Principles of The Smith Report the Code Both the Higgs Review on the role and The Board, its Committees and Procedures effectiveness of non-executive directors and the The Board comprises the Executive Chairman, Financial Reporting Council Audit Committees the Group Finance Director and Chief Operating Combined Code Guidance The Smith Report Officer, and the Non-Executive Directors.
These The Executive Directors are Mr John Hodson, the reports both provide proposals for changes in Chairman and Mr Michael Gibbins, the Group boardroom practice and improvements in the Finance Director and Chief Operating Officer.
framework of Corporate Governance The Code defines two key tasks in every public particularly seeking to strengthen the role and company, the running of the board and accountability of the non-executive directors.
executive responsibility for the running of the The Board has noted the proposals made in the business.
Although the Board has been reports and the changes that may be made in satisfied, in view of its size and the degree of the revised Combined Code, which is expected delegation of the management of the Groups to come into effect on 1 July 2003. operating subsidiary companies to the directors of those companies, that these two key The Board will be considering in detail the functions can be properly combined on the proposals made and where relevant changes Group Board, in light of best corporate may be made in order to comply with the governance practice it feels that it would now possible new code provisions.
be appropriate to separate the roles and steps are being taken in this respect as explained Combined Code later in this report.
The Board is also satisfied that there is a clear and practical division of The Committee on Corporate Governance issued responsibilities between the Chairman and the the Combined Code the Code in June 1998.
Chief Operating Officer, such that neither can The Listing Rules of the Financial Services exercise unfettered powers of decision on Authority require: matters of material importance to the Groups A narrative statement of how the Company affairs.
The Chairman has delegated day to day hasapplied the principles of the Code: and responsibility for the running of the Groups financial, internal control and other operational a statement as to whether the Company has procedures to the Chief Operating Officer.
complied with the provisions of the Code throughout the accounting period, giving The Non-Executive Directors have a wide range reasons for non-compliance.
of outside business interests, and the Board considers all the Non-Executive Directors to The Groups interest in Carnegie is held outside be independent.
The senior Non-Executive of this reporting structure.
Director is Sir Harry Djanogly.
The Directors believe that the Company was in Compliance with Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year.
Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 20 Corporate Governance continued As reported in the Chairmans Statement, For other work, except in respect of regulatory Sir Harry Djanogly intends to retire as a Director reporting, tax compliance and circulars to of the Company at the Annual General Meeting shareholders, the prior approval of the to be held on 29 April 2003.
In the light of his Committee is required to engage the external retirement and having regard to best corporate auditors for any piece of work when the fee is governance practice, the Board will re-align in excess of 50,000 or which would bring responsibilities from that date.
Mr Hodson will the total fees for such work for the year to relinquish the position of Chairman to more than 100,000. concentrate exclusively on his role as Chief The Remuneration Committee comprises the Executive and Mr Selway-Swift will be Non-Executive Directorsof the Company appointed Chairman.
Mr Hodson will also under the chairmanship of Mr Selway-Swift.
assume certain of the responsibilities currently The Committee meets as required, and makes undertaken by Mr Gibbins in his role as Chief recommendations to the Board on Executive Operating Officer.
Following the retirement of Directors remuneration policy and Sir Harry Djanogly, the Board intends to recruit specifically approves the remuneration and new Non-Executive Directors.
other detailed terms of service of the The Board has delegated some of its Executive Directors.
The Report on Directors responsibilities to Committees, which have Remuneration on pages 24 to 28 includes written terms of reference.
details of the Companys executive remuneration policy and practice.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Sir Brandon Gough and comprises the NonIn view of the size of the Board, the Directors Executive Directors of the Company.
The currently do not consider it necessary to Committee meets at least twice a year.
It establish a separate Nominations Committee.
provides a forum for discussing with the Any Director of the Company is entitled to Groups external auditors their report on the nominate candidates for appointment to the annual and interim accounts, reviewing the Board and the whole Board will vote on such scope and results of the internal audit work nominations.
However, following the findings programme, the reports of the Risk Review and the recommendations contained in the Higgs Committee and Compliance Department and Review, the Board will review whether a separate considering any other matters which might nominations committee needs to be formed.
have a financial impact on the Company.
This The Board meets regularly throughout the year.
includes reviewing the Groups system of Substantive agenda items have briefing papers, internal control and the process for evaluating which are circulated in a timely manner before and monitoring risk.
The Committee reviews the meeting.
The Board is satisfied that it is the objectivity of the external auditors, supplied with all the information that it requires including the level of non-audit services and requests, in a form and of a quality to provided, and ensures that there is an enable it to discharge its duties.
In addition to appropriate audit relationship.
In relation to ongoing matters concerning the management of the latter, the Committee has determined that the Company and of the Group, the Board has the external auditors should not be engaged to undertake internal audit and risk management work for the Group nor to advise on or implement financial or related systems.
Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 21 Corporate Governance continued determined certain items which are reserved Internal Control and Financial for decision by itself.
These matters include the Reporting acquisition and disposal of other than minor The Board of Directors isultimately responsible businesses, the issue of capital by any Group for the Companys system of internal control company and any transaction by a subsidiary and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system company that cannot be made within its own of control is designed to manage rather than resources or that is not in the normal course of eliminate risks which are inherent in the its business.
All Directors have unrestricted Groups business and can provide only access to the Company Secretary and are able reasonable and not absolute assurance against to take independent professional advice for material misstatement or loss.
the furtherance of their duties, at the Companys expense.
Following publication of guidance for directors on internal control, Internal control: Guidance The Companys Articles ofAssociation provide for Directors on the Combined Code the that each Director must submit himself for Turnbull guidance, the Board confirms that election at the Annual General Meeting next there is an ongoing process for identifying, following his appointment, and subsequently evaluating and managing the significant risks for re-election every three years.
This process has been in Shareholder communications place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of these Report and Accounts.
The Chairman and Chief Operating Officer The Board reviewed the effectiveness of the maintain a regular programme of visits and Groups system of internal control at its meeting presentations to major institutional on 25 February 2003.
The review covered all shareholders.
controls, including financial, operational and The Board welcomes the attendance of all compliance controls and risk management.
The shareholders at the AGM, in particular private Company complied with the Turnbull guidance shareholders.
Shareholders are encouraged throughout the year.
to submit their questions in writing in The following is a summary of the means by advance of the AGM so that a considered which the Board discharges its internal response can be given.
The Chairmen of the control responsibilities.
Audit and Remuneration Committees are available at the AGM to answer questions.
In 1997 the Board established a Risk Review Each matter to be voted on at the meeting is Committee, whose role is to review, monitor and proposed as a separate resolution.
ratify or approve all risks arising within the Group.
The Chairman of the Group or his The Company aims to present a balanced nominated deputy, normally the Chief Operating and understandable assessment in all its Officer, chairs the monthly meeting of the Risk reports to shareholders, its regulators and Review Committee.
The Committee is responsible the wider public.
Key announcements and for the ongoing assessment of the adequacy of other information can be found at controls established to mitigate and monitor risk.
Risks include credit, market, operational and reputational risks, new business products and other issues including liquidity, funding and Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 22 Corporate Governance continued management of equity capital.
The Committee, Groups compliance officershave responsibility under the delegated authority of the Group for compliance with regulatory requirements.
Board, administers the delegation of all limit and The Standards require that the board of each approval authorities throughout the Group.
regulated company is provided with a quarterly report on compliance issues, and a summary of The Board has adopted a set of Group risk these reports is considered by the Group Audit policies and standards, which are applied Committee.
In addition, there is a requirement throughout the Group.
Compliance with these for the immediate reporting of certain key standards is monitored by the Groups risk events to both the local board, and centrally to control function and deficiencies reported to the the Group.
Within this framework, management are responsible for the identification There is a well established internal audit function and evaluation of significant risks applicable to within the Group.
The internal audit functions their areas of business together with the design role is primarily to review the effectiveness of and operation of suitable internal controls.
These controls and procedures established on each risks are assessed on a continual basis and may Company to manage risk.
An audit programme is be associated with a variety of internal or external agreed annually in advance with the Group Audit sources including control breakdowns, disruption Committee and the head of internal audit attends in information systems, competition, natural each meeting of the Committee to present a catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
summary of the audit reports completed during the period and to provide any explanations The Group risk policies also set out a process of required by the Committee.
control, self-assessment and hierarchical reporting which provides for a documented and The Groups system of internal financial control auditable trail of accountability.
These includes appropriate levels of authorisation, procedures are relevant across Group operations segregation of duties and limits for each aspect and provide for successive assurances to be given of the business.
There are established at increasingly higher levels of management and procedures and information systems for regular finally, to the Board.
This process is facilitated by budgeting and reporting of financial internal audit who also provide a degree of information.
Financial reports are presented to assurance as to the operation and validity of the the Board monthly detailing the results and system of internal control.
Planned corrective other performance data.
The Group Audit actions are monitored by internal audit to ensure Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of timely completion.
the Groups system of internal financial control.
The Board established Group Standards for Compliance the Standards in 1995.
The Standards seek to apply uniformly high standards of integrity, fair dealing and market conduct to companies throughout the Group.
All Group companies which are subject to regulation are required to have proper management controls to ensure that their business is conducted in accordance with local regulatory requirements at all times.
The Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 23 Report on Directors Remuneration The Remuneration Committee has prepared The Companys Auditors are required to this Report in accordance with the audit certain elements of this Report.
The requirements of Schedule 7A of the elements audited within the Report are Companies Act 1985 Directors Directors emoluments, share options, long Remuneration Report Regulations.
An term incentive plan and pensions.
ordinary resolution for the approval of this The total remuneration of the Directors of Report will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
2 Mr N W Wray retired as a Director on 26 February 2001.
The remuneration of the Executive Directors is publicly available information, supplemented determined on behalf of the Board by the as necessary, by advice commissioned by an Remuneration Committee whose membership executive remuneration consultant.
During the comprises Mr Selway-Swift Chairman, year, the Remuneration Committee engaged Sir Harry Djanogly and Sir Brandon Gough.
McClagan & Partners, management The Committees policy in 2002, which will consultants, to advise them on certain aspects continue unchanged in 2003, has been to of remuneration of the Executive Directors: reward competitively on the broad principle McClagan & Partners were selected on the that overall remuneration for the basisof their reputation for expertise in this responsibilities undertaken is based around field.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive the median remuneration paid to executives Directors is determined by the Board as of comparable companies, ascertained from a whole.
Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 24 Report on Directors Remuneration continued The remuneration of the Executive Directors Service Contracts comprises their basic salary, a profit share Mr Hodson is employed on a rolling service based on Group operating profits before contract which is subject to two years notice by taxation and eligibility for a bonus at the either party.
In view of the key position which discretion of the Remuneration Committee Mr Hodson holds in the Company and in its following a review of the individuals major operating subsidiaries, the Board performance.
The Executive Directors also considers that a notice period of two years is participate in a Long Term Incentive Plan the reasonable and in the best interests of the Plan, further details of which are set out Group and its shareholders.
The Plan was approved by shareholders in 1997 following assumptions Mr Gibbins is employed on a rolling service made by the Board concerning the Group contract which is subject to 364 days notice strategy at that time.
In 2000 the Board by either party.
reviewed its long term strategy for the Group and its dependence on earnings from The Company does not have a standard policy stockbroking activities.
Following the on directors contract periods.
successful implementation of the Groups new The Non-Executive Directors do not have strategy to reduce the Groups dependence on service contracts.
earnings from stockbroking through the disposal of Collins Stewart and a part of the Groups holding in Carnegie, and the return of Benefits the proceeds to shareholders, a reduction in earnings per share resulted and it is apparent J Hodson M E S Gibbins that following the change in the Groups 2002 2001 2002 2001 strategy the Plan which is linked to a rise in earnings per share is unlikely to produce the Provision of a company car and fuel or cash incentive for the Executive Directors which entitlement in lieu was its objective in order to align their thereof 16,230 12,881 11,772 11,772 interests with those of shareholders.
The Private health insurance premium 737 737 737 737 Remuneration Committee considers it is in the 16,967 13,618 12,509 12,509 interest of shareholders that long term incentive arrangements for the Executive Directors should be a key component of their remuneration and is therefore assessing Bonus alternative arrangements to be submitted to The discretionary bonuses awarded by the shareholders for approval in due course.
Remuneration Committee were as follows: J Hodson M E S Gibbins 2002 2001 2002 2001 Annual award 100,000 65,000 100,000 Realisation bonus 299,977 171,416 399,977 65,000 271,416 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 25 Report on Directors Remuneration continued Mr Hodson and Mr Gibbins have been granted Profit Share phantom options over 750,000 and 250,000 Ordinary shares of the Company respectively, J Hodson M E S Gibbins 2002 2001 2002 2001 which may be exercised on the dates shown below, provided that earnings per share have increased in the aggregate from the date of Executive Directors Scheme 116,173 226,777 66,384 129,587 grant to the date of exercise by not less than Payment from Profit the increase in the Retail Price Index plus 6% Related Pay Scheme 10,415 8,143 per annum.
In 1997, when the Plan was 116,173 237,192 66,384 137,730 introduced, a performance target was chosen that was considered fair and reasonable by reference to the composition of the Group at the The Remuneration Committee considers it is in time and assumed that the composition would the interest of shareholders that a key not change.
The exercise price is the mid component of the remuneration of the Executive market price at 31 December immediately Directors is that they are entitled, under the preceding the inception of the Plan, and the exit terms of their service contracts, to a profit share price is calculated by multiplying the earnings calculated on a percentage of Group profits per share for the year immediately preceding after deducting minority interests therein but exercise by the price earnings ratio of an before charging taxation and excluding Ordinary share on 31 March in the year of exceptional items.
The percentage profit share inception.
If the earnings per share growth entitlements are 0.35% for Mr Hodson and performance target is not met, the phantom 0.20% for Mr Gibbins.
options will roll forward and, if the target is not met by the final exercise date, they will lapse.
Following the withdrawal of the income tax benefits accorded to Profit Related Pay Schemes, the Group terminated its Scheme on J Hodson M E S Gibbins 31 December 2001.
Until that date, the Phantom options granted 750,000 250,000 Executive Directors participated in the Groups Inception date 1.1.
00 Scheme on the same terms as all other Price earnings ratio for eligible employees.
calculation of exit price 12.21 10.73 Dates on which exercisable and number of options available for Long Term Incentive Plan exercise at each date: 31 March 2003 125,000 For the reasons previously specified, it is 31 March 2004 250,000 125,000 apparent that the Long Term Incentive Plan 31 March 2005 250,000 currently in place is unlikely to produce the 31 March 2006 250,000 incentive for the Executive Directors which was its objective in order to align their interests with those of shareholders.
There is nevertheless the requirement to disclose details of the Plan in this Report.
Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 26 Report on Directors Remuneration continued None of the other Directors employment is Pension pensionable.
Mr Walker, who was a Director Mr Hodson is a member of the Singer & until 31 December 2001, was a full time Friedlander Limited Pension and Assurance employee of Singer & Friedlander Limited until Scheme under which he is entitled to receive a his retirement as an executive in 1990: up to pension at the date of his retirement calculated that date, the Group made pension by reference to his final basic salary and years contributions in respect of him and he received of completed service.
Mr Hodson has been required to contribute 5% of his basic salary to the Scheme: prior to that Share Options date, the Scheme was non-contributory.
Mr Hodsons normal retirement date, in Mr Hodson and Mr Gibbins held the following common with all active members of the options granted under the terms of the Singer & Scheme, is at age 60.
Mr Hodsons pension Friedlander Sharesave Scheme, the details of entitlement from the Scheme is not constrained which are set out in note 30 to the Financial by the Inland Revenue earnings cap on Statements, on pages 66 and 67. approved pension benefits.
Options held Exercise Date from The Listing Rules of the Financial Services at 31 December Date of price which 2002 2001 grant p exercisable Authority require the disclosure of Directors pension entitlements in accordance with the J Hodson recommendations of the Faculty and Institute of 13,479 1.11.95 86.8 1.11.02 Actuaries.
Increase in accrued benefit excluding inflation 2,739 On 1 November 2002, being the maturity date of the Increase in accrued benefit including inflation 8,413 1995 Scheme Mr Hodson closed his savings account in Mr Hodsons contribution during the year 5,938 respect of this Scheme and did not exercise his option, accordingly this option has now been cancelled.
Transfer value of increase in accrued benefit in the year, excluding inflation less Mr Hodsons The mid market price of an ordinary share of the contribution 40,578 Company at 31 December 2002 was 132p and Transfer value of accrued benefits at 31.12.01 4,868,406 Transfer value of accrued benefits at 31.12.02 4,768,875 the range during 2002 was 122.5p to 250p.
Increase in transfer value over the year ended 31.12.02 less Mr Hodsons contribution made in the year 105,469 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 27 Report on Directors Remuneration continued Outside Directorships 300 With the prior approval of the Board, the 250 Executive Directors are permitted to take up appointments as directorsofcompanies 200 outside the Group.
Any remuneration receivable by an Executive Director in respect of non Group 150 directorships is paid to the Group.
100 Companies Act Disclosure 50 Details of the emoluments of the Directors in 98 99 00 01 02 compliance with the requirements of the Companies Act are set out in note 8 to the Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Total Return Index Financial Statements on page 49.
FTSE 350 Total Return Index The above graph shows the total cumulative Total Shareholder Return shareholder return of the Company over the five The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations year period ended 31 December 2002, measured requires the Company to present a graph against the FTSE 350 Index, of which the plotting the performance of the Company in Company is a constituent, and on the terms of total shareholder return against a assumption that dividends have been reinvested.
broad index for the last five years.
By order of the Remuneration Committee Paul Selway-Swift Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 26 February 2003 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 28 Report of the Directors The Directors submit their Report and the audited Authorised and Issued Accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries for Share Capital the year ended 31 December 2002.
During the year a total of 791,759 2001: 827,163 Ordinary shares were issued pursuant Activities and Business Review to the exercising of options under The Singer & Singer & Friedlander Group PLC is the holding Friedlander Group Executive Share Option company for a Group whose principal activities Scheme and the Singer & Friedlander comprise Banking and Asset Management.
The Chairmans statement is on pages 4 to 8 At 31 December 2002 the issued share capital and review of activities during the year is on of the Company was 192,531,173 Ordinary pages 9 to 18. shares of 12 pence each.
At 25 February 2003 the issued share capital Results of the Company was 192,531,173 Ordinary shares of 12 pence each.
The profit before non-operating exceptional items and taxation of the Company and its subsidiaries for the year was 40,804,000 Directors 2001: 79,787,000.
Profit after exceptional The names of the Directors of the Company items but before taxation for the year was appear on page 2.
The Directors have served 41,370,000 2001: 116,481,000. throughout the year.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Dividends Messrs P E Selway-Swift and J Hodson retire by An interim dividend of 4.50p 2001: 4.50p per rotation at the Annual General Meeting and, Ordinary share was paid to shareholders on being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 5.50p per Ordinary share in respect of the year ended 31 December 2002.
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 29 April 2003, the dividend will be paid on 23 May 2003 to shareholders whose names appear in the register of members at the close of business on 2 May 2003.
Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 29 Report of the Directors continued Directors Interests Substantial Interests The interests of those persons who were As at 25 February 2003 the Directors had been Directors of the Company at 31 December 2002 notified that the following persons had in the share capital of the Company, in interests amounting to 3% or more of the accordance with the register kept by the issued voting share capital of the Company.
Company, were as follows: Percentage of Number of issued Ordinary Ordinary shares Ordinary shares Name Ordinary shares share capital of 12p each of 12p each 31.12.02 31.12.01 M&G Investment Management Ltd 9,767,798 5.07% J Hodson 142,010 142,010 M E S Gibbins 33,333 33,333 Sir Harry Djanogly CBE 1,017,763 1,017,763 Employees Sir Brandon Gough 33,333 33,333 P E Selway-Swift 16,666 16,666 Details regarding the Groups responsibilities to its employees is given on page 34.
Asat 31 December 2002 491,606 2001: 491,606 Ordinary shares were held in a Barnett Waddingham The Group operates equal opportunities in Self Invested Personal Pension on behalf of Mr Hodson.
During the year an in-specie transfer of recruitment, promotion and training for all these shares was made from The Singer & Friedlander employees.
It is the Groups policy not to Limited Senior Executive Retirement Benefit Scheme.
discriminate against the disabled in recruitment, Messrs J Hodson and M E S Gibbins also held training, career development and promotion.
options granted under the terms of The Singer & Friedlander Sharesave Scheme.
Details of these The average number of persons, including options are given in the Report on Directors Directors, employed by the Group during the Remuneration on page 27. year was 643 2001: 997.
No other Directors have been granted options under any of the Share Option Schemes.
No Director has any material interest in any contract of significance with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
No changes in the Directors interests disclosed above had been notified to the Company by 25 February 2003.
Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 30 Report of the Directors continued Employee Share Ownership Litigation The Company operates a savings related share The Company is not involved in any litigation option scheme, The Singer & Friedlander which could be viewed as material to the Sharesave Scheme.
had been granted to employees, including two Executive Directors who were participating in the Tangible Fixed Assets Scheme, over a total of 3,626,137 2001: Information relating to changes in tangible 3,810,140 Ordinary shares exercisable at prices fixed assets is given in note 23 on page 63 of ranging from 86.8p per share to 233.6p per the Financial Statements.
The Company operates two employee share Intangible Fixed Assets option plans: the Approved Discretionary Share Option Plan and the Unapproved Discretionary The amortisation of purchased goodwill in the Share Option Plan and an employee share accounts is in order to comply with FRS 10. ownership trust.
At 31 December 2002 options had been granted to certain employees over a Reserves total of 1,632,722 2001: 1,102,000 Ordinary shares exercisable at prices ranging from Information relating to the movement on 133.4p to 305.7p.
reserves is given in note 32 on page 69 of the Financial Statements.
The Company operates an executive share option scheme, The Singer & Friedlander Group Executive Share Option Scheme.
No options Charitable Donations and have been granted since 1996 and no further Investment in the Community options will be granted under this scheme.
At The Group actively contributes to the well being of 31 December 2002 the number of outstanding the community by seeking to cater for the needs of options that had been granted to certain all groups.
During the year the Group assisted employees under this Scheme was over 306,600 various charitable events and projects and made 2001: 336,100 Ordinary shares exercisable at charitable donations totalling 124,675.
Further prices ranging from 81.5p per share to 99.5p per details regarding the Groups responsibilities to share.
These options were granted between the Community is given on page 34.
It is the Groups policy not to make political Information relating to the movements made donations and no political donations were made during the year on the Companys share option in the year.
schemes are given in note 30 on pages 66 and 67 of the Financial Statements.
Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 31 Report of the Directors continued Health and Safety Policy Auditors It is the Groups policy to conduct its activities with A resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit due regard for the health, safety and welfare of its Plc as Auditor of the Company is to be proposed at employees, visitors and members of the public.
the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Chief Operating Officer on behalf of the Registrars Board of Directors is responsible for health, safety and welfare matters.
The Health and Administration enquiries concerning Safety policy aims to ensure that the risk in this shareholdings in Singer & Friedlander Group PLC area is minimised and that the safety of our should be sent directly to our Registrars, Lloyds employees, visitors and members of the public TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West is regarded with the utmost importance.
Group actively encourages employees to participate in relevant Health and Safety training Annual General Meeting courses and seminars.
Senior personnel have completed Certificates in Occupational Health The Annual General Meeting of the Company and Safety Practice.
will be held at 12.30 pm on Tuesday, 29 April 2003 at 21 New Street, Bishopsgate, London EC2M 4HR.
The Notice of Meeting together with Directors and Officers Insurance an explanation of the items of special business The Company maintains insurance for is contained in the Chairmans letter that Directors and Officersof the Company and accompanies this Report.
its subsidiaries, which indemnifies them against liabilities arising from the conduct of By order of the Board their duties.
Stephen Doherty, Secretary 26 February 2003 Creditor Payment Policy Registered Office: The Groups policy, in relation to all of its 21 New Street Bishopsgate suppliers, is to settle the terms of payment London EC2M 4HR when agreeing the terms of the transactions Company Registration No.
970842 and to abide by those terms provided that it is satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods or services in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
The Company does not follow any code or standard on payment practice.
Based on the ratio of amounts invoiced by suppliers during the year to the average trade creditors during 2002, trade creditor days for the Group were 34 days 2001: 49 days.
Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 32 Corporate Social Responsibility Singer & Friedlander Group PLC is an In addition, the Boards of Directors and senior independent financial services group whose management of each of the operating principal activities consist of the provision of companies accept that they are responsible for banking and asset management services.
Our promoting the highest level of business ethics fundamental strategy is to strive to increase the and integrity, and they aim to create and foster a total return to shareholders by building and culture throughout the organisation that strengthening our businesses organically and emphasises and demonstrates the importance through appropriate acquisition and other of maintaining high business ethics.
opportunities and by the optimal use of the Clients Groups capital.
We are committed to providing all our clients with Whilst we acknowledge that ultimately we are a superior banking and investment management accountable to our shareholders, we believe service.
All our dealings with our clients are made that in order to achieve our corporate in a regulated environment.
We aim to embrace objectives, the Group must take into account all the regulations and all interpretations of best the interests of all stakeholders including our practice.
In order to meet our commitment of employees and our clients as well as the maintaining a high level of service to our clients community and environment in which we we seek to ensure that dealings are made by operate.
We have adopted policies that support appropriately trained and competent staff.
our commitment to our social responsibilities.
We aim to provide our clients with a high level Business ethics of flexibility and personal involvement, above The Group operates within a complex legal and all we treat our clients as individuals, we aim regulatory environment in which it seeks to adhere not to be prescriptive and our service is flexible, to best practice at all times.
We seek to maintain accommodating our client requests at all levels.
the highest business and ethical standards and to We have short communication lines that enable mitigate any risks to our shareholders or us to be efficient when dealing with clients stakeholders.
In order to assist in the execution of requests.
We believe in our ability to forge this policy we have in place a framework to strong business relationships with our clients.
monitor and report risk throughout the Group.
We respect the rights of our clients confidentiality.
The Board of Directors of the Group meets We aim to produce communications with our regularly throughout the year and deals with clients that are clear, accurate and comply with important aspects of the Groups affairs: all regulations.
including, but not limited to, setting and monitoring strategy, reviewing performance, The environment ensuring the adequacy of financial resources We consider environmental issues in all the available within the Group, regulatory issues business areas throughout the Group.
Energy and reporting to shareholders.
saving and recycling procedures and systems are implemented where we consider The Board of  its appropriate as we seek to minimise the impact responsibility for approving the strategies and of our operations on the environment.
This includes an appreciation of the risks and ensuring that the In recognition of the importance of executive management take the necessary steps environmental management, we have a policy of to manage the identification, monitoring, control using professional consultants to advise and and reporting of these risks in a timely manner.
implement procedures to ensure that all services and plant are managed in an environmentally friendly manner so far as is reasonably practical.
Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 33 Corporate Social Responsibility continued The on site documentation utilised in the We are also members of Business in the management of the environmental services has Community.
While financing is a key factor in been overhauled and rationalised which will helping many organisations, we acknowledge assist an improved maintenance regime.
that there is also a real need for the allocation of time, experience, mentoring and moral During the year considerable attention has support.
Accordingly we support employees on been given to continuing our policy of these initiatives.
implementing cost effective and beneficial measures to improve the operation and Employees efficiency of the mechanical and electrical Our most important asset is our staff.
Policies services plant at head office.
and procedures exist which govern the professional relationship with them, which are Measures undertaken during the year include all in accordance with best practice.
the installation of new contracts for the boilers and hot water services, and changing We are committed to developing policies that the computer room halogen gas suppression encourage all employees to achieve their system to a FM 2000 system, well ahead of greatest potential and to contribute to the EU regulation 2037 2000 which sets a success of the Group.
We seek to develop deadline of 31 December 2003 to remove employees potential by encouraging them to all halogen systems which are virulent attend seminars, training courses and providing ozone depleters.
help in seeking necessary professional qualifications to further their careers.
As part of the on-going energy management of our occupied buildings, we are continually We operate equal opportunities in recruitment, reviewing ways in which we can become more training and promotion of all employees, energy efficient.
regardless of gender, ethnic origin, nationality or disability.
It is our policy to treat applicants Charitable donations and investment and employees with disabilities equally and in the community fairly and not to discriminate against the We actively contribute to the well being of the disabled in recruitment, training, career community by seeking to cater for the needs of development and promotion.
We support social, medical, cultural and educational projects that place particular The interest of staff in the Groups performance is emphasis on supporting the under-privileged achieved in a variety of ways including profit within society.
sharing schemes, option schemes and sharesave schemes in which staff at all levels participate.
Our charity committee meets at least twice a year and reviews all requests for support.
Employees We endeavour to keep employees informed about are encouraged to submit requests for support the progress of the business.
The text of public to charities in which they are involved.
announcements is made available to employees simultaneously with its public release.
We We are a patron member of The Outward Bound encourage the development of employee Charitable Trust.
As part of our commitment to involvement in each of our operating companies this charity, each year we finance the placing of through both formal and informal meetings.
a number of school classes on Outward Bound Courses.
In accordance with our policy of By order of the Board supporting the under-privileged within society, the schools chosen have pupils who come from Stephen Doherty, Secretary areas of deprivation and where high levels of 26 February 2003 unemployment exist.
Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 34 Statement of Directors Responsibilities Company law requires the Directors to prepare The Directors are responsible for keeping Financial Statements for each financial year proper accounting records which disclose with which give a true and fair view of the state of reasonable accuracy at any time the financial affairs of the Company and of the Group and of position of the Company and the Group and the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing enable them to ensure that the Financial those Financial Statements, the Directors are Statements comply with the Companies Act required to: 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to select suitable accounting policies and then them to safeguard the assets of the Group, and apply them consistently: to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: By order of the Board state whether applicable accounting Stephen Doherty, Secretary standards have been followed: and 26 February 2003 prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 35 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Singer & Friedlander Group PLC We have audited the financial statements on information and explanations we require for our pages 38 to 83.
We have also audited the audit, or if information specified by law information in the Directors Remuneration regarding Directors Remuneration and Report that is described as having been audited.
transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Companys We review whether the statement on pages 20 to members, as a body, in accordance with section 23 reflects the Companys compliance with the 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work seven provisions of the Combined Code specified has been undertaken so that we might state to for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report the Companys members those matters we are if it does not.
We are not required to consider required to state to them in an auditors report whether the Boards statements on internal and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent control cover all risks and controls, or form an permitted by law, we do not accept or assume opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups responsibility to anyone other than the Company corporate governance procedures or its risk and and the Companys members as a body, for our control procedures.
audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we We read the other information contained in the have formed.
Annual Report, including the Corporate Respective responsibilities of Directors Governance Statement and the unaudited part of and Auditors the Directors Remuneration Report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited The Directors are responsible for preparing the financial statements.
We consider the Annual Report and the Directors Remuneration implications for our report if we become aware of Report.
As described on page 35 this includes any apparent misstatements or material responsibility for preparing the financial inconsistencies with the financial statements.
statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
Our Basisof audit opinion responsibilities, as independent Auditors, are We conducted our audit in accordance with established in the United Kingdom by statute, Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing the Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, the Financial Services Authority, and by our on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the professions ethical guidance.
amounts and disclosures in the financial We report to you our opinion as to whether the statements and the part of the Directors financial statements give a true and fair view and Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also whether the financial statements and the part of includes an assessment of the significant the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited estimates and judgements made by the Directors have been properly prepared in accordance with in the preparation of the financial statements, the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you and of whether the accounting policies are if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistent with the financial statements, if the consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 36 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Singer & Friedlander Group PLC continued We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31 December 2002 and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor, London 26 February 2003 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 37 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account For the year ended 31 December 2002 Notes 2001 Restated 2002 note 1b 000 000 Interest receivable Interest receivable and similar income arising from debt securities 25,736 36,168 Other interest receivable and similar income 107,485 124,928 Less: Interest payable 63,681 88,932 Net interest income 69,540 72,164 Dividend income from equity shares 2 93 Fees and commissions receivable 37,117 139,122 Less: Fees and commissions payable 6,317 5,480 3 Dealing profits 5,283 23,179 9 Defined benefit pension schemes other finance income 157 104 4 Other operating income 1,797 7,892 38,039 164,910 Operating income 107,579 237,074 5 Administrative expenses net of 7,715,000 exceptional pension credit 53,600 147,041 Depreciation and amortisation Tangible assets 12,463 11,563 Goodwill 427 379 Negative goodwill 1,913 17 Provisions for bad and doubtful debts 4,511 4,538 Provisions for commitments and contingencies 2,250 6 Amounts written off fixed asset investments 2,729 2,134 7 Group operating profit 33,512 71,419 Share of operating profit from associated undertakings 7,292 8,368 Profit on ordinary activities before non-operating exceptional items and taxation 40,804 79,787 Continuing operations 42,351 82,354 10 Terminated activities 1,547 2,567 10 Non-operating exceptional items excluding associated undertakings 566 35,102 10 Share of associated undertakings non-operating exceptional items 1,592 Profit on ordinary activities after exceptional items but before taxation 41,370 116,481 11 Taxation on ordinary activities excluding non-operating exceptional items and associates 7,761 20,598 11 Share of associated undertakings taxation 1,917 2,867 11 Taxation on non-operating exceptional items 411 13,500 10,089 36,965 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 31,281 79,516 Minority interests equity 79 10,936 Profit for the financial year attributable to shareholders 31,202 68,580 13 Dividends 19,175 103,423 Retained profit loss for the year 12,027 34,843 31 Headline earnings per share under IIMR guidelines Basic 15.40p 21.37p Diluted 15.29p 20.51p 31 Earnings per share Basic 16.26p 32.03p Diluted 16.13p 30.64p The notes on pages 43 to 83 form part of these accounts.
Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 38 Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses For the year ended 31 December 2002 Notes 2001 Restated 2002 note 1b 000 000 32 Profit for the financial year attributable to shareholders 31,202 68,580 32 Revaluation of properties 164 137 32 Foreign exchange translation differences 2,498 3,166 32 Actuarial loss on pension scheme net of current and deferred tax 6,302 12,522 Totalrecognised gains and losses for the period 27,562 53,029 Prior year adjustments per note 1b : Adoption of FRS 17 24,201 Adoption of FRS 18 652 Adoption of FRS 19 4,377 Totalrecognised gains and losses since the last report 7,086 The combined reconciliations of movement in shareholders funds and statement of movements in reserves are set out in note 32 to these accounts.
Consolidated Note of Historical Cost Profits and Losses For the year ended 31 December 2002 2001 Restated 2002 note 1b 000 000 Reported profit on ordinary activities before taxation 41,370 116,481 Realisation of property revaluation gains of previous years 6,951 Historical cost profit on ordinary activities before taxation 41,370 123,432 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 39 Consolidated Balance Sheet At 31 December 2002 Notes Prepared under Schedule 9 of The Companies Act 1985 2001 Restated 2002 note 1b 000 000 Assets Cash and balances at central banks 167 4,252 15 Loans and advances to banks 405,821 286,849 16 Loans and advances to customers 1,097,012 936,589 18 Debt securities 443,264 611,184 19 Equity shares 2,669 4,687 20 Interests in associated undertakings 34,584 38,633 21 Intangible fixed assets goodwill 7,686 8,071 21 Intangible fixed assets negative goodwill 2,716 5,089 23 Tangible fixed assets 106,916 90,056 24 Other assets 28,507 55,002 Prepayments and accrued income 18,796 19,556 Totalassets 2,142,706 2,049,790 Liabilities 25 Deposits by banks 385,057 416,492 26 Customer accounts 1,223,197 1,129,139 27 Debt securities in issue 140,076 83,574 28 Other liabilities 42,811 53,037 Accruals and deferred income 24,683 28,801 Provisions for liabilities and charges: 29 Deferred taxation 170 301 9 Pension scheme liabilities net of deferred tax 3,372 24,201 Equity minority interests 199 187 30 Called up share capital 23,104 23,009 32 Share premium account 129,054 128,183 32 Capital redemption reserve 4,240 4,240 32 Revaluation reserve 7,221 7,057 32 Profit and loss account 159,522 151,569 32 Equity shareholders funds 323,141 314,058 Totalliabilities and shareholders funds 2,142,706 2,049,790 Memorandum items Contingent liabilities: Acceptances and endorsements 78,423 71,273 Guarantees 46,457 61,129 124,880 132,402 36 Commitments 243,523 265,804 The notes on pages 43 to 83 form part of these accounts.
Approved by the Board of Directors on 26 February 2003 and signed on its behalf by: John Hodson, Chairman.
Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 40 Balance Sheet At 31 December 2002 Notes Prepared under Schedule 4 of The Companies Act 1985 2002 2001 000 000 Fixed assets 22 Investment in Group undertakings 236,813 231,813 19 Equity shares 1,250 1,440 238,063 233,253 Current assets Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 32,533 70,975 24 Other assets 12,326 3,140 44,859 74,115 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 53,229 52,573 Other creditors 337 9,849 13 Proposed dividends 10,542 12,539 64,108 74,961 Net current liabilities 19,249 846 Net assets 218,814 232,407 Capital and reserves 30 Called up share capital 23,104 23,009 32 Share premium account 129,054 128,183 32 Other reserve 36,100 36,100 32 Capital redemption reserve 4,240 4,240 32 Profit and loss account 26,316 40,875 32 Equity shareholders funds 218,814 232,407 The notes on pages 43 to 83 form part of these accounts.
Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 41 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement For the year ended 31 December 2002 Notes 2002 2001 000 000 41 Net cash outflow inflow from operating activities 122,188 140,195 Dividends from associates 12,287 2,525 Returns on investment and servicing of finance Interest paid on convertible loan stock and debenture stock 2,637 2,175 Dividends paid to minority interests equity 26,664 Net cash outflow from returns on investments and servicing of finance 2,637 28,839 Taxation UK corporation tax paid 15,582 28,591 Overseas tax paid 489 20,332 Taxation paid 16,071 48,923 Capital expenditure and financial investment Purchase of tangible fixed assets 31,044 31,779 Proceeds from sale of tangible fixed assets 1,519 29,165 Purchase of investment securities 247,795 226,934 Proceeds from sale and maturity of investment securities 409,902 171,734 Net cash inflow outflow from capital expenditure and financial investment 132,582 57,814 Acquisitions and disposals Purchase of subsidiary undertakings net of cash acquired 125 16,620 Net proceeds from sale of investment in subsidiary and associated undertakings 948 47,921 Net cash inflow from acquisitions and disposals 823 31,301 Equity dividends paid 21,116 104,660 Net cash outflow before financing 16,320 66,215 Financing 44 Issue of ordinary share capital net of 270,000 contribution to employee share trust 2001: 808,000 696 670 Net cash inflow from financing 696 670 42 Net change in cash in the year 15,624 65,545 The notes on pages 43 to 83 form part of these accounts.
Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 42 Notes to the Accounts 1Accounting basis a Basis of preparation of accounts The accounts are prepared under the historical costconvention modified to include properties at market value and in accordance with applicable accounting standards and the Companies Act 1985 except as stated under Tangible Fixed Assets outlined in note 2h below.
With the exception of the Company Balance Sheet which is prepared in accordance with Schedule 4 of the Companies Act 1985 the accounts are drawn up in accordance with the special provisions of Part VII of the Companies Act 1985 relating to banking groups and applicable accounting standards have been consistently applied.
The accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Statements of Recommended Practice SORPs issued by the British Bankers Association and with the SORP issued by the Finance and Leasing Association FLA.
The following statement is included in these accounts solely because it is required under the Combined Code and The Stock Exchange requires a statement of compliance with the Combined Code for all UK quoted companies: The accounts are prepared on a going concern basis as the Directors are satisfied that the Group has the resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
bChanges in accounting policies During 2002 the Group has adopted and applied 3 new accounting standards.
The impact of these is summarised below: FRS 17 Retirement benefits Although full implementation of FRS 17 is not mandatory until 2005, its earlier adoption is encouraged by the Accounting Standards Board and the Group has accordingly done so as at 31 December 2002.
In respect of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes the full service cost as adjusted by the impact of any curtailments past service adjustments to the scheme is charged to the profit and loss account.
A charge equal to the expected increase in the present value of the scheme liabilities as a result of scheme liabilities being one period closer to settlement and a credit reflecting the long-term expected return on assets based on the market value of the scheme assets at the beginning of the period is included in the profit and loss account within the category other finance income.
The balance sheet records, as an asset or liability as appropriate, the difference between the market value of the scheme assets and the present value of the accrued scheme liabilities, net of deferred tax.
The differences between the expected return on assets cost of liabilities and that actually achieved in the period are recognised in the Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses STRGL.
As a result of this accounting change the reserves as at 1 January 2001 have been reduced by 11,677,000.
The results for the period to 31 December 2001 have been restated with a consequent further reduction in reserves as at 31 December 2001 of 12,522,000.
The impact of this accounting change on the profit and loss account for the year ended 31 December 2001 was immaterial, with virtually all the reduction of 12,522,000 being a result of actuarial losses, which are recorded in the STRGL.
The impact of FRS 17 on the results of the year ended 31 December 2002 is a decrease in reserves before deferred tax relief of 1,172,000 analysed as follows : 000 Other finance income 157 Current service cost 2,706 Exceptional pension credit see below 7,715 5,166 Actuarial losses recorded in the STRGL 8,933 3,767 Contributions on a SSAP 24 basis 2,595 1,172 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 43 Notes to the Accounts continued Accounting basis continued Exceptional pension credit During the course of 2002 the benefits of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes were changed with the result that, inter alia, the future rate of increase of active members pensionable salaries was reduced.
FRS 17 requires the impact of such changes to defined benefit schemes to be accounted for in the profit and loss account.
FRS 18 Accounting policies FRS 18 introduced a requirement to comply with all applicable Statements of Recommended Practice SORPS.
Whilst the Group complies with all SORPS issued by the British Bankers Association it did not, previously, fully comply with the SORP issued by the Finance and Leasing Association FLA which affects certain of our asset finance companies.
In particular the FLA SORP restricts the amount of income able to be recognised at the commencement of a new lease or instalment credit agreement to that amount which can be matched to the initial direct costs of entering into that lease agreement.
The Group has altered its income recognition policy such that it does now fully comply with the FLA SORP.
The impact of this change in accounting policy was to reduce reserves as at 31 December 2001 by 652,000.
There was an immaterial impact on the results for the year ended 31 December 2001 and on the results for the year ended 31 December 2002.
The adjustment related to Hermes Group Limited, a subsidiary that became part of the Group on 14 December 2001.
FRS 19 Deferred tax FRS 19 introduced a requirement to account fully for deferred tax on differences resulting from an item being recognised in the accounting results in a period different to that in which its tax impact is recorded.
Following the adoption of FRS 19, both the profit and loss account and the balance sheet for prior periods have been restated.
Shareholders funds as at 1 January 2001 increased by 4,640,000 a result of the Group being able to recognise previously unrecognised deferred tax assets and no longer being permitted to make provision for the difference between the tax charge incurred on profits earned by our subsidiaries operating in lower tax rate jurisdictions and the full UK tax rate of 30%.
The adoption of FRS 19 resulted in an increase in the tax charge for the year ended 31 December 2001 of 263,000.
The impact of FRS 19 on the results for the year ended 31 December 2002 is a reduction in the tax charge of 2,970,000.
The adoption of FRS 19 has resulted in the recognition of negative goodwill in respect of the Groups acquisition in December 2001 of Hermes Group Limited.
Prior to the restatement required by FRS 19 the Group reported, as at 31 December 2001, positive goodwill on this acquisition of 704,000.
However, the introduction of FRS 19 results in the recognition of a previously unrecognised deferred tax asset with a corresponding restatement of the goodwill to show negative goodwill of 5,089,000.
This negative goodwill is being amortised through the profit and loss account over a period of 5 years on a reducing balance basis to match the benefit of the assets acquired, as required by FRS 10.
The amount credited to the profit and loss account during the period to 31 December 2002 was 1,913,000.
Similarly, the adoption of FRS 19 has reduced the amount of goodwill arising on the acquisition, in 2001, of W H Jones Limited.
2Accounting policies aConsolidated accounts The consolidated profit and loss account and balance sheet include the accounts of the Company and all subsidiary undertakings.
Unless otherwise stated, the acquisition method of accounting has been used.
Under this method, the results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of in the year are included in the consolidated profit and loss account from the date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
An associate is an undertaking in which the Group has a participating interest, usually from 20% to 50% of the equity voting rights, and over which it exercises significant influence.
The Groups share of the profits less losses of associates is included in the consolidated profit and loss account and its interest in their net assets is included in the consolidated balance sheet.
bInterest receivable and payable Interest receivable and interest payable includes all income arising out of banking activities, namely lending and deposit taking business, and interest on related hedging transactions.
Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 44 Notes to the Accounts continued Accounting policies continued c Fees and commissions Commissions are recognised on deal date.
Fees are recognised when due if there is no continuing committment.
In the event that a fee was received in lieu of interest it would be recognised over the life of the service provided.
dDealing income Dealing income includes coupons or dividends and net profits or losses from principal securitiestrading and market making reported on a mark to market basis after deduction of related funding costs, agency, brokerage and other clearing charges.
eProvision for bad and doubtful debts Specific provisions against bad and doubtful debts are made on the basis of regular reviews of exposures.
General provisions are made in relation to losses which, although not specifically identified, are likely to exist in the banking portfolio at the balance sheet date.
Loans and advances are written down to estimated realisable value when there is no realistic prospect of recovery.
Provisions are charged directly to the profit and loss account.
Interest and fees of doubtful collectability are excluded from the profit and loss account and credited to a suspense account.
Recovery expenses are written off as incurred unless there is a reasonable chance of their recovery.
fDebt securities and equity shares Debt securities and equity shares are held for both trading and investment purposes.
Listed equity shares held for investment purposes are stated at cost less anyprovision for permanent diminution in value.
Unlisted equity shares held for investment purposes are stated at the lower of cost and Directors valuation.
Investment securities are intended for use on a continuing basisby the Group and have been identified as such.
The cost of debt securities held for investment purposes is adjusted for the amortisation of premiums or discounts over the period to maturity.
The amortisation of premiums or discounts is included in interest income in the profit and loss account.
Debt and equity positions resulting from securities dealing have been valued at market value and profits and losses arising from this valuation are taken to the profit and loss account.
g Net investment in finance leases, instalment credit agreements and operating leases The net investment in finance leases and instalment credit agreements represents the future lease rentals receivable less profit and costs allocated to future periods.
An element of lease income is recognised at the commencement of a lease instalment credit agreement where this income can be matched against identifiable initial direct costs, otherwise income is recognised throughout the life of the deal to provide a constant rate of return on the net cash investment in each lease.
This income recognition policy has been selected due to it matching the total gross earnings to each accounting period during the lease credit term so that the earnings are matched with the associated expense.
Assets held for leasing under an operating lease are recorded as fixed assets and are depreciated over their useful life.
Operating lease rentals receivable are recognised on an appropriate basis over the period of the lease.
hTangible fixed assets Furniture, fixtures and equipment are depreciated on a straight line basis to estimated residual value typically over a period of four years.
Depreciation is charged on Group occupied buildings at 1% per annum on a straight line basis.
Investment properties are included in the balance sheet at open market value with the aggregate surplus or deficit being transferred to revaluation reserve.
No depreciation or amortisation is provided in respect of other freehold properties and leasehold investment properties with over 20 years to run.
Properties which are deemed to have an asset life of more than 50 years are subject to annual impairment reviews.
This treatment, as regards the Groups investment properties, departs from the requirements of the Companies Act concerning depreciation of fixed assets.
However, these properties are not held for consumption but for investment and the Directorsconsider that systematic annual depreciation would be inappropriate.
The accounting policy adopted is therefore necessary for the accounts to give a true and fair view.
Depreciation or amortisation is only one of the many factors reflected in the annual valuation and the amount which might otherwise have been shown cannot be separately identified or quantified.
Short leasehold land and buildings are depreciated over the remaining period of the lease on a straight line basis.
Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 45 Notes to the Accounts continued Accounting policies continued i Rates of exchange Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies and the balance sheets of overseas subsidiary and associated undertakings are expressed in sterling at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The results of overseas interests are translated at average rates of exchange for the year.
Exchange differences resulting from the translation of opening net assets of overseas subsidiary and associated undertakings and from the restatement of their results from average to year-end rates are taken to reserves.
All other exchange differences are included in operating profit.
jTaxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year, amended for permanent differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is fully provided in accordance with FRS 19 on timing differences using tax rates which are expected to apply on crystallisation of the timing differences.
No provision for deferred taxismade for the difference between the UK rate and the lower rates applicable on profits earned by subsidiaries in certain overseas jurisdictions until such profits are committed to being remitted to the UK.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent they are more likely than not to be recovered.
The Group does not discount deferred tax balances.
kGoodwill Purchased goodwill both positive and negative arising on consolidation in respect of acquisitions before 1 January 1998, when FRS 10 Goodwill and intangible assets was adopted, was written off to reserves in the year of acquisition.
When a subsequent disposal occurs any related goodwill previously written off to reserves is written back through the profit and loss account as part of the profit or loss on disposal.
Purchased goodwill representing the excess of the fair value of the consideration given and associated costs over the fair value of the separable net assets acquired arising on consolidation in respect of acquisitions since 1 January 1998 is capitalised.
Positive goodwill is amortised to nil by equal annual instalments over its estimated useful life, normally 20 years.
On the subsequent disposal or termination of a business acquired since 1 January 1998, the profit or loss on disposal or termination is calculated after charging the unamortised amount of any related goodwill.
Negative goodwill is recognised in the profit and loss account in the periods expected to be benefited by the assets acquired.
In the Companys financial statements, investments in  and associates are stated at cost less any permanent diminution in value.
lPension costs In respect of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes the full service cost less the impact of any curtailments and other past service adjustments is charged to the profit and loss account.
The difference between the expected return on assets cost of liabilities and that actually achieved in the period are recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
Actuarial gains losses which arise from differences between actuarial assumptions underlying the scheme and actual experience during the period and the effect of changes in actuarial assumptions are also recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
In respect of the Groups defined contribution pension schemes the pension costs charged to the profit and loss account are the contributions paid during the period.
Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 46 Notes to the Accounts continued Accounting policies continued mLeasing Assets acquired under a finance lease being a lease that  all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset to the lessee are recorded in the balance sheet as tangible fixed assets with corresponding obligations to pay future rentals.
The assets are valued at the present value of the minimum lease payments at the rate implicit in the lease.
Rentals payable are apportioned between a finance charge and a reduction of the outstanding obligation for future amounts payable.
The total finance charge is allocated to accounting periods during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of charge on the outstanding obligation throughout the lease.
Payments under all other leases, known as operating leases, are charged to the profit and loss account in equal annual amounts over the period of the lease.
n Derivative transactions Derivatives which are held for the purposes of hedging as part of the Groups overall riskmanagement are accounted for in the same manner as the underlying assets, liabilities or net positions to which they relate.
In the event that these non-trading derivatives cease to qualify as a hedge they are then treated as trading derivatives and are marked to market with any gains losses being taken to dealing profit.
Derivative instruments traded on the Groups own account are valued at market prices and the resultant profits and losses are included in dealing profits.
All other derivative transactions are entered into on behalf of customers and the resultant profits are included in fees and commissions.
o Sale and repurchase transactions Securities which have been sold with an agreement to repurchase continue to be shown on the balance sheet and the sale proceeds recorded as a deposit.
Securities acquired in reverse sale and repurchase transactions are not recognised in the balance sheet and the purchase price is treated as a loan.
The difference between the sale and repurchase price is accrued evenly over the life of the transaction and charged or credited to the profit and loss accountas interest payable or receivable.
pProperty dealing activities Dealing properties and investments in jointly developed properties, all of which are held for realisation, are included at the lower of cost and the Directors estimate of realisable value.
All costs incurred on properties in the course of development are capitalised.
The costs include purchase price, materials, labour and an appropriate amount of overheads.
Loans relating to jointly developed properties are included in property when the legalcharge over the property gives the Company access to the risks and rewards associated with the legal ownership of the property.
Due to the nature of the property dealing agreements with third parties regarding the development of certain properties, the Groups share of profits on such propertiescannot be determined until they are sold.
Except where the outcome of the jointly developed properties can reasonably be foreseen, rental income is not recognised until the sale of the respective property.
Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 47 Notes to the Accounts continued 3Dealing profits The net gain from trading in financial and non-financial assets and liabilities for the period to 31 December 2002 can be analysed as follows: 2002 2001 000 000 Securities dealing 176 23,071 Foreign exchange 1,164 825 Trading in non-financial assets properties 4,725 4,911 Funding costs 430 5,628 5,283 23,179 The main products used to generate the financial assets financial liability dealing profits include equity shares, equity options, preference shares and debt securities within Securities dealing and forward foreign currency contracts and foreign exchange options within Foreign exchange.
4 Other operating income 2002 2001 000 000 Rental income 256 2,510 Disposal of fixed assets and banking investment securities 525 3,320 Sundry income 1,016 2,062 1,797 7,892 5 Administrative expenses 2001 Restated 2002 note 1b 000 000 Staff costs Wages and salaries 32,218 86,760 Social security costs 2,483 6,010 Exceptional pension credit per note 1b 7,715 Other pension costs note 9 3,568 6,352 Other administrative expenses 23,046 47,919 53,600 147,041 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 48 Notes to the Accounts continued 6Amounts written off fixed asset investments securities 2002 2001 000 000 Investment debt securities note 18 1,397 1,340 Investment equity shares note 19 1,332 794 2,729 2,134 7Group operating profit Is stated after: 2002 2001 000 000 Crediting Aggregate rentals receivable under finance leases 51,916 30,747 Aggregate rentals receivable under hire purchase agreements 173,278 107,737 Rentals receivable under operating leases 12,951 10,511 Income from investment securities 5,609 5,455 Charging Operating rentals payable 296 361 Interest charge on subordinated convertible loan stock 456 Group Company 000 000 Fees paid and payable to Auditors: Audit work 2002 496 90 2001 549 80 Fees paid and payable to the Auditors and their associates: Non-audit work 2002 324 8 2001 561 Fees paid to the Auditors and their associates includes fees in respect of taxation advice and regulatory advice reviews.
8 Emoluments of Directors The emoluments paid to those persons who served as Directors of the Company during the year, excluding pension contributions amounted to 1,161,033 2001: 1,988,775.
The Report on Directors Remuneration on pages 24 to 28 provides further information on the emoluments paid to the Directors of the Company.
The aggregate gain on the exercise of share options by Directors of the Company during the year was nil 2001: 9,891.
Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 49 Notes to the Accounts continued 9Pension costs and other post retirement benefits The principal pension scheme operated by the Group is the Singer & Friedlander Limited Pension & Assurance Scheme S&F PAS which is a funded defined benefit scheme.
There is also a defined benefit scheme operated for certain of the Groups employees in the Isle of Man, the Singer & Friedlander Isle of Man Limited Retirement Benefit Scheme S&F IOM RBS.
In addition to the two defined benefit schemes certain of the Groups subsidiaries operate defined contribution schemes.
The assumptions used by the actuary in respect of both the Groups defined benefit pension schemes are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, due to the timescale covered, may not necessarily be borne out in practice.
Defined benefit schemes S&F PAS Contributions to the S&F PAS are assessed in accordance with the advice of an independent qualified actuary on the basis of valuations using the attained age method.
The most recent valuation was at 31 December 2001.
This valuation has been updated by the actuary as at 31 December 2002 to take account of the requirements of FRS 17.
The current contribution rate agreed with the actuary is 14.6%.
The S&F PAS is unlikely to receive any new members and as such, under the projected unit method, the current service cost will increase as the members of the scheme approach retirement.
S&F lOM RBS Contributions to the S&F IOM RBS are assessed in accordance with the advice of an independent qualified actuary.
The most recent valuation was as at 1 January 1999 which showed the market value of the schemes assets to be 1,594,920, being 78% of the value of the accrued benefits after allowing for expected future increases in earnings.
As a result of the latest valuation the contribution rate was increased to 29.9% from 21.1%.
The financial assumptions used to calculate liabilitiesfor both defined benefit schemes under FRS 17 are set out below.
In those cases where the assumptions used within the S&F PAS and the S&F IOM RBS differ, the range of assumptions used has been provided.
2002 2001 2000 % %% Pensionable salary increases 1.25 5.35 5.35-5.45 Discount rate 5.50-5.75 5.80 6.00 Inflation 2.40-2.50 2.60 2.60-2.70 Pension increases 2.40-2.50 2.60 2.60-2.70 The expected rates of return assumed on the assets held in the defined benefit schemes are: 2002 2001 2000 % %% Equities 8.00 7.75-8.00 7.75-8.00 Bonds 4.80-5.75 4.75-5.80 4.75-6.00 Gilts 5.00 5.00 5.00 Cash 4.50 4.50 4.50 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 50 50 Notes to the Accounts continued Pension costs and other post retirement benefits continued The fair value of the schemes assets, which are not intended to be realised in the short-term and may be subject to significant change before they are realised, and the present value of the schemes liabilities, which are derived from the cash flow projections over long periods and are thus inherently uncertain, were: 2002 2001 2000 000 000 000 Assets Equities 19,828 44,053 53,142 Bonds 27,624 6,006 4,623 Gilts 22,138 3,285 3,374 Cash 9,472 3,386 3,168 79,062 56,730 64,307 Liabilities 83,842 91,138 80,889 4,780 34,408 16,582 Related deferred tax asset 1,408 10,207 4,905 Deficit 3,372 24,201 11,677 Analysis of the amount included within operating profit as: 2002 2001 Administrative expenses 000 000 Current service cost 2,706 2,851 Exceptional pension credit 7,715 Net operating credit charge 5,009 2,851 Other finance income Expected return on pensions scheme assets 5,320 4,870 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 5,163 4,766 Net return 157 104 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 51 Notes to the Accounts continued Pension costs and other post retirement benefits continued Analysis of amount recognised in statement of total recognised gains and losses STRGL : 2002 2001 000 000 Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 14,155 13,525 Experience gains and losses arising on scheme liabilities 2,263 1,056 Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of scheme liabilities 2,959 3,226 Actuarial loss recognised in STRGL 8,933 17,807 Movement in deficit during the year: 2002 2001 000 000 Deficit in scheme at start of year 34,408 16,582 Movement in year: Current service cost 2,706 2,851 Contributions 33,395 2,728 Other finance income 157 104 Exceptional pension credit note 1b 7,715 Actuarial loss 8,933 17,807 Deficit in scheme at end of year 4,780 34,408 As disclosed in the Groups 2002 interim report, on 3 September 2002 the Group made an additional one-off contribution of 30m equivalent to 21m after tax relief to the S&F PAS in order to reduce the past service scheme deficit.
Further, the scheme benefits were changed such that the pension accrual rate for future service was reduced, a restriction was introduced on the level of future increases in active members pensionable salaries and employee contributions were introduced.
Similarly on 11 December 2002 the Group made an additional one-off contribution of 800,000 to the S&F IOM RBS in order to reduce its past service scheme deficit.
Further, the scheme benefits have been changed in line with the changes made to the S&F PAS.
Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 52 Notes to the Accounts continued Pension costs and other post retirement benefits continued History of experience gains and losses: 2002 2001 Difference between the expected and actual return on scheme assets: Amount 000 14,155 13,525 Percentage of scheme assets 18% 24% Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities: Amount 000 2,263 1,056 Percentage of the present value of the scheme liabilities 3% 1% Total amount recognised in STRGL: Amount 000 8,933 17,807 Percentage of the present value of the scheme liabilities 11% 20% Defined contribution schemes The total contributions made to the defined contribution schemes operated within the Group were 862,000 2001: 3,500,706.
There were no outstanding or prepaid contributions at 31 December 2002.
10 Terminated activities and non-operating exceptional items The composition of profit from terminated activities included in the profit and loss account is as follows: 2002 2001 000 000 Loss arising from Singer & Friedlander Factors Ltd 1,547 2,567 The composition of non-operating exceptional items included in the profit and loss account is set out below: 2002 2001 000 000 Net profit on sale closure of subsidiary associated undertakings 915 38,515 Loss on sale of investment properties excluding associated undertakings 349 1,336 Loss on sale of fixed asset investments 2,077 566 35,102 Share of associated undertakings non-operating exceptional items 1,592 566 36,694 The calculation of non-operating exceptional profits on the sale of subsidiary undertakings includes the write-back of any goodwill which was previously written-off to reserves on the original acquisition of those subsidiaries.
Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 53 Notes to the Accounts continued 11 Taxation on group profit on ordinary activities 2001 Restated 2002 note 1b 000 000 Current tax UK corporation tax on profits for the period 11,025 15,692 Adjustments in respect of previous periods 408 784 Double tax relief 5,279 7,029 Share of associated undertakings taxation 1,917 2,867 Taxation on non-operating exceptional items 411 13,500 7,666 25,814 Foreign tax 931 11,239 Adjustments in respect of previous periods 369 104 1,300 11,135 Total current tax 8,966 36,949 Deferred tax Deferred tax re defined benefit pension schemes 2,274 17 Origination and reversal of timing differences 1,095 33 Adjustments in respect of previous periods 56 Total deferred tax 1,123 16 Totaltaxation charge in consolidated profit and loss account 10,089 36,965 Current tax included within statement of recognised total gains and losses 3,035 Deferred tax included within statement of total recognised gains and losses 403 5,286 Totaltax for period 7,457 31,679 Taxation on non-operating exceptional items in 2000 and 2001 included provisions totalling 30 million for gains arising on the sale of the Groups interest in Collins Stewart and the sale of part of the Groups holding in Carnegie.
The tax paid on these disposals has yet to be finalised and it is possible that the Group may be able to secure a more favourable outcome.
Both the likelihood and the amount of any such reduction in tax payable is uncertain and cannot be estimated at this time.
Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 54 Notes to the Accounts continued Taxation on group profit on ordinary activities continued Reconciliation to current year tax charge: 2001 Restated 2002 note 1b 000 000 Profit before taxation 41,370 116,481 Implied tax charge thereon at 30% 2001: 30% 12,411 34,944 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 95 680 Goodwill amortisation disallowed 445 75 Overseas earnings taxed at lower rates 1,502 1,382 Difference between tax and accounting profit on disposal of Carnegie 1,621 Disallowable expenses and other permanent differences 280 1,027 Deferred tax re defined benefit pension schemes 2,274 17 Management charges allowable in future years 511 Other timing differences 640 33 Current tax charge for period 8,966 36,949 In the event that profits earned in lower tax juridictions were remitted to the UK the amount of additional tax payable would be in the region of 3.4 million 2001: 2.3 million.
12 Group profit dealt with in the accounts of Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Group profit after taxation includes 4,886,000 2001: 106,824,000 which is dealt with in the accounts of Singer & Friedlander Group PLC.
A separate profit and loss account dealing with the results of the Company only has not been presented, as permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985.
13 Dividends 2002 2001 Pence per Pence per 2002 2001 share share 000 000 Interim paid 4.5 4.5 8,633 10,354 Special paid 35.0 80,530 Final proposed 5.5 6.5 10,542 12,539 10.0 46.0 19,175 103,423 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 55 Notes to the Accounts continued 14 Assets and liabilities Group Restated Group Company note 1b Company 2002 2002 2001 2001 000 000 000 000 Denominated in sterling 1,715,615 282,922 1,629,860 307,368 Denominated in currencies other than sterling 427,091 419,930 Totalassets 2,142,706 282,922 2,049,790 307,368 Denominated in sterling 1,748,421 282,922 1,640,200 307,368 Denominated in currencies other than sterling 394,285 409,590 Totalliabilities and shareholders funds 2,142,706 282,922 2,049,790 307,368 15 Loans and advances to banks Group Group 2002 2001 000 000 Repayable on demand 30,742 42,281 Other loans and advances Remaining maturity: Three months or less but not repayable on demand 364,351 244,189 One year or less but over three months 423 379 Over five years 10,305 405,821 286,849 Sing Singe er & Friedlander Gr r & Friedlander Group PL oup PLC C Re Repor port t and and Ac Acc co ou un nt ts s 2002 2002 56 Notes to the Accounts continued 16 Loans and advances to customers 2001 Restated 2002 note 1b 000 000 Repayable on demand 81,714 179,196 Other loans and advances Remaining maturity: Three months or less but not repayable on demand 233,569 144,886 One year or less but over three months 172,359 167,660 Five years or less but over one year 555,504 405,080 Over five years 77,110 62,169 General and specific bad and doubtful debt provisions 20,994 22,402 Provisions for commitments and contingencies 2,250 1,097,012 936,589 Assets leased to customers Loans and advances to customers included above : Finance leases 78,718 77,679 Hire purchase agreements 262,347 233,227 Cost of assets acquired for letting under finance leases 38,250 42,411 Cost of assets acquired for letting under hire purchase agreements 204,743 186,392 17 Provisions for bad and doubtful debts Specific General Total Specific General Total 2002 2002 2002 2001 2001 2001 Group 000 000 000 000 000 000 At 1 January 16,706 5,696 22,402 17,299 3,592 20,891 Exchange adjustments 598 598 Net charge against profits 3,626 885 4,511 3,061 1,477 4,538 Amounts written off 5,672 247 5,919 855 153 1,008 Acquisition disposal of subsidiaries 2,201 780 1,421 At 31 December 14,660 6,334 20,994 16,706 5,696 22,402 At 31 December 2002 12,280,109 2001: 9,877,358 of loans and advances were deemed to be non-performing and an amount of 7,804,011 2001: 7,928,279 had been provided against these.
The net charge against profits includes a 102,000 credit 2001: 96,000 in respect of the recovery of advances previously written-off.
Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 57 Notes to the Accounts continued 18 Debt securities Balance Market Balance Market sheet value sheet value 2002 2002 2001 2001 Group 000 000 000 000 Issued by public bodies Investment securities: Government securities 500 508 499 523 Other public sector securities 409 314 500 508 908 837 Issued by other issuers Investment securities: Bank and building society certificates of deposit 369,194 369,194 525,125 525,204 Other debt securities 67,147 68,211 77,123 75,963 Other securities: Other debt securities 6,423 6,423 8,028 8,028 442,764 443,828 610,276 609,195 Totaldebt securities 443,264 444,336 611,184 610,032 Due within one year 392,081 545,014 Due one year and over 51,183 66,170 Totaldebt securities 443,264 611,184 Of total debt securities 13,244,000 is subordinated 2001: 15,653,000.
Investment securities: Listed on a recognised UK exchange 27,080 27,954 39,386 39,303 Listed elsewhere 25,998 26,288 18,191 17,332 Unlisted 383,763 383,671 545,579 545,369 436,841 437,913 603,156 602,004 Other debt securities: Listed on a recognised UK exchange 778 778 Unlisted 6,423 6,423 7,250 7,250 6,423 6,423 8,028 8,028 Totaldebt securities 443,264 444,336 611,184 610,032 Sing Singe er & Friedlander Gr r & Friedlander Group PL oup PLC C Re Repor port t and and Ac Acc co ou un nt ts s 2002 2002 58 58 Notes to the Accounts continued Debt securities continued Discounts and Carrying Cost premiums Provisions value 000 000 000 000 Investment securities: At 1 January 2002 607,289 900 3,233 603,156 Exchange adjustments 2,469 1 2,470 Acquisitions 247,904 109 247,795 Disposals 411,930 178 2,007 409,745 Provision made 1,397 1,397 Amortisation of discounts and premiums 498 498 At 31 December 2002 440,794 1,330 2,623 436,841 19 Equity shares Balance Market Balance Market sheet value sheet value 2002 2002 2001 2001 Group 000 000 000 000 Investment securities: Listed on a recognised UK exchange 275 170 535 308 Listed elsewhere 53 30 58 58 Unlisted 2,105 2,105 3,332 3,332 2,433 2,305 3,925 3,698 Other securities: Listed on a recognised UK exchange 47 47 302 302 Unlisted 189 189 460 460 236 236 762 762 Total equity shares 2,669 2,541 4,687 4,460 Company Investment securities: Listed on a recognised UK exchange 35 18 Unlisted 1,250 1,250 1,405 1,405 1,250 1,250 1,440 1,423 The book value of certain investment securitieshave not been written down to market value as, in the opinion of the Directors, there has been no permanent diminution in value.
Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 59 Notes to the Accounts continued Equity shares continued Investment securities: Carrying Cost Provisions value Group 000 000 000 At 1 January 2002 8,025 4,100 3,925 Exchange adjustments 34 29 5 Disposals 155 155 Provisions made 1,332 1,332 At 31 December 2002 7,836 5,403 2,433 Carrying Cost Provisions value Company 000 000 000 At 1 January 2002 3,440 2,000 1,440 Disposals 155 155 Provisions made 35 35 At 31 December 2002 3,285 2,035 1,250 20 Interests in associated undertakings Group 000 At 1 January 2002 38,633 Exchange adjustment 2,428 Disposals 25 Profit after tax 5,375 Dividends received 11,827 At 31 December 2002 34,584 The Groups interest in associated undertakings is analysed as follows: Balance Balance sheet sheet 2002 2001 000 000 Unlisted investments 269 453 Listed investments 34,315 38,180 34,584 38,633 Sing Singe er & Friedlander Gr r & Friedlander Group PL oup PLC C Re Repor port t and and Ac Acc co ou un nt ts s 2002 2002 60 60 Notes to the Accounts continued Interests in associated undertakings continued The principal associated undertaking is the Groups 30.85% holding in D. Carnegie & Co AB, a Nordic investment bank and asset management firm registered in Sweden and operating in Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Finland, Luxembourg, the UK and the US.
Carnegie had issued share capital of 66,701,600 SEK 2 ordinary shares at 31 December 2002.
Carnegies accounting reference date is 31 December.
The Groups interest is held by a subsidiary undertaking, Singer and Friedlander Securities Ltd.
The Groups share of key elements of the results of Carnegie for the period to 31 December 2002 and the position as at 31 December 2002 as per Carnegies own disclosure is as follows: 2002 2001 000 000 Interest income 8,989 5,463 Interest expense 5,985 3,491 Profit before tax 7,221 7,200 Taxation 1,896 2,547 Profit after tax 5,325 4,653 Tangible fixed assets 3,567 4,048 Other assets 268,762 384,451 Totalliabilities 238,015 347,177 The 2001 comparative figures are affected by Carnegie only being an associate from the date of the Carnegie IPO 7 June 2001.
As at 31 December 2002 the Groups share of the market value of Carnegie was 82 million 2001: 176 million.
21 Intangible fixed assets Goodwill Positive Negative goodwill goodwill Total Group 000 000 000 Cost or valuation 1 January 2002 as previously reported 9,291 9,291 Effect of adopting FRS 19 per note 1b 768 5,089 5,857 1 January 2002 as restated 8,523 5,089 3,434 Additions fair value adjustments 42 460 502 31 December 2002 8,565 4,629 3,936 Amortisation 1 January 2002 452 452 Credit charge 427 1,913 1,486 31 December 2002 879 1,913 1,034 Net book value at: 31 December 2002 7,686 2,716 4,970 31 December 2001 restated per note 1b 8,071 5,089 2,982 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 61 Notes to the Accounts continued 22 Investments in Group undertakings Total Company 000 At 1 January 2002 231,813 Additions 5,000 At 31 December 2002 236,813 There is no difference between the historical cost of the shares in Group undertakings and the carrying value as shown above.
Proportion of ordinary share Country of capital owned incorporation, and effective registration interest of Principal and principal the company activity area of operation % Principal subsidiary undertakings Singer & Friedlander Securities Limited Holding Company England 100 Singer & Friedlander Investment Management Holdings Limited Holding Company England 100 Singer & Friedlander Investment Management Limited Investment Management England 100 Singer & Friedlander Asset Management Limited Investment Management England 100 Singer & Friedlander Portfolio Management Limited Investment Management England 100 Singer & Friedlander Total Asset Management Limited Investment Management Ireland 100 Singer & Friedlander Investment Management International Limited Holding Company Isle of Man 100 Singer & Friedlander Investment Management Isle of Man Limited Investment Management Isle of Man 100 Ancomass Limited Holding Company England 100 Singer & Friedlander Holdings Limited Holding Company England 100 Singer & Friedlander Limited Banking England 100 Singer & Friedlander Leasing Limited Leasing England 100 Singer & Friedlander Insurance Finance Limited Insurance Finance England 100 Singer & Friedlander Finance Limited Leasing England 100 Coachlease plc Leasing England 100 Singer & Friedlander Commercial Finance Limited Leasing Scotland 100 Hermes Group Limited Leasing England 100 Singer & Friedlander Trade Finance Limited Trade Finance England 75 Singer & Friedlander Limited Isle of Man Holdings Limited Holding Company Isle of Man 100 Singer & Friedlander Isle of Man Limited Banking Isle of Man 100 Singer & Friedlander Trust Company Isle of Man Limited Trustee Isle of Man 100 Sinjul Investments Limited Investment England 100 Held directly by the Company.
All of the above subsidiary undertakings are included in the consolidated accounts.
A full list of the Companys subsidiaries will be included in the Companys annual return to Companies House.
Included in the accounts at their 31 December 2002 values are investment properties which have a net book value of 105,000 2001: 755,000.
The freehold and leasehold properties are stated at valuations as at 31 December 2002 provided by external valuers, Chesterton plc, on the basis of Market Value in accordance with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors Appraisal and Valuation Manual.
Group occupied properties include 21 New Street, London EC2M 4HR which is stated at Market Value on the basis of a lease to Singer & Friedlander Limited.
On the historical cost basis, land and buildings would have been included as follows: Group Group 2002 2001 000 000 Cost less impairment 31,923 32,980 Accumulated depreciation 4,592 4,453 27,331 28,527 There is no material difference between the depreciation charged in the Profit and Loss account and the charge based on the historical cost of the relevant assets.
Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 63 Notes to the Accounts continued 24 Other assets Group Company Group Company 2002 2002 2001 2001 000 000 000 000 Deferred tax assets 2001 restated per note 1b 11,256 7,261 3,379 Taxation recoverable 3,945 4,740 3,789 2,863 Trade debtors 7,273 18,942 Dealing properties 2,764 17,388 Other 3,269 325 11,504 277 28,507 12,326 55,002 3,140 Group Group 2002 2001 000 000 Deferred tax asset: At 1 January 2001 as previously reported 3,179 Effect of adopting FRS 19 3,360 Deferred tax liability offset 4,947 1 January, as restated 3,379 1,592 Exchange differences 212 Deferred tax asset re additional pension contribution 6,870 Released to the profit and loss account 1,007 974 Acquisitions 2,973 At 31 December 11,256 3,379 As disclosed in note 9, during 2002 the Group made  into the Groups defined benefit pension schemes totalling 30.8 million.
The tax benefit of these contributions will be received over a period of 4 years.
As required by FRS 19, deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset to the extent that they relate to taxes levied by the same tax authority and they arise in the same taxable entity group.
The adoption of FRS 19 resulted in an offset of 4,947,000 from the previously reported position see also note 29.
25 Deposits by banks With agreed maturity dates or periods of notice, by remaining maturity: Group Group 2002 2001 000 000 Repayable on demand 142 2,244 Three months or less but not repayable on demand 339,540 373,308 One year or less but over three months 34,043 24,519 Five years or less but over one year 11,332 16,421 385,057 416,492 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 64 Notes to the Accounts continued 26 Customer accounts With agreed maturity dates or periods of notice, by remaining maturity: Group Group 2002 2001 000 000 Repayable on demand 242,175 316,245 Three months or less but not repayable on demand 855,286 764,147 One year or less but over three months 95,035 38,627 Five years or less but over one year 30,701 10,120 1,223,197 1,129,139 27 Debt securities in issue Group Group 2002 2001 000 000 Other debt securities in issue, by remaining maturity: Three months or less but not repayable on demand 110,109 53,609 Over five years 29,967 29,965 140,076 83,574 In order to secure long-term funding for property investments, 29.949 million was raised on 10 March 1994 by the issue of 30.0 million 8.8% debenture stock maturing 2019.
Interest is due in equal half yearly instalments in arrears on 30 September and 31 March each year until redemption.
The redemption date of the original stock is 31 March 2019 at par.
If the stock is redeemed prior to this date the redemption price will be determined by reference to the Gross Redemption Yield on the Benchmark Gilt, being 8.75% Treasury Stock 2017.
The debenture was previously secured against a number of properties held by the Group.
On 6 February 2002 a variation to the security arrangements was completed.
The Company has guaranteed the payment of interest and the security obligations of the subsidiary undertaking relating to the debenture.
The security provided was also amended to include one property, 21 New Street, London EC2M 4HR together with a cash deposit of 10,000,000 and interest earned thereon.
28 Other liabilities Group Group 2002 2001 000 000 Trade creditors 19,404 7,805 Taxation 957 12,083 Proposed dividends 10,542 12,539 Other liabilities 11,908 20,610 42,811 53,037 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 65 Notes to the Accounts continued 29 Deferred taxation Group 2001 Group Restated 2002 note 1b 000 000 Provision for deferred taxation: Capital allowances 1,915 1,977 Other timing differences 1,745 1,676 170 301 At 1 January 2001 as previously reported 14,076 Effect of adopting FRS 19 1,280 Deferred tax asset offset 4,947 At 1 January, under FRS 19 301 7,849 Exchange adjustments 13 431 Charge release to the profit and loss account 144 941 Disposals 3,196 Acquisitions 2,980 At 31 December 170 301 The provision for UK deferred taxation relating to capital allowances has been made at 30% being the rate of corporation tax at which the liability is expected to crystallise.
Unprovided deferred tax liabilities in respect of unrealised property capital gains amount to 5,005,000 2001: 5,512,000.
The adoption of FRS 19 resulted in an offset of 4,947,000 from the previously reported position see also note 24.
30 Called up share capital 2002 2001 Number of Number of Ordinary shares 2002 Ordinary shares 2001 of 12 pence each 000 of 12 pence each 000 Authorised 275,000,000 33,000 275,000,000 33,000 Allotted, called up and fully paid 192,531,173 23,104 191,739,414 23,009 During the year the Company issued 791,759 Ordinary shares as a result of the exercising of options issued under The Singer & Friedlander Group Executive Share Option Scheme and The Singer & Friedlander Sharesave Scheme.
The Company operates two share option schemes: The Singer & Friedlander Sharesave Scheme, for the benefit of employees, and The Singer & Friedlander Group Executive Share Option Scheme.
The Company also operates two share option plans: The Approved Share Option Plan and the Unapproved Share Option Plan.
The tables below summarise movements in these schemes in the year: Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 66 Notes to the Accounts continued Called up share capital continued 2002 2001 Savings Related Share Options Number Number Outstanding at 1 January 3,810,140 4,178,020 Granted in the year 1,481,818 634,034 Exercised during the year 762,259 478,163 Expired cancelled 824,593 523,751 At 31 December 3,626,137 3,810,140 Dates exercisable 01.11.2003 01.11.2002 to 01.05.2008 to 01.05.2007 Price per share 86.8p 233.6p 86.8p 233.6p Price range of options exercised during the year 86.8p 233.6p 79.6p 233.6p 2002 2001 Executive Share Options Number Number Outstanding at 1 January 336,100 685,100 Exercised during the year 29,500 349,000 At 31 December 306,600 336,100 Dates exercisable 17.04.1997 17.04.1997 to 21.04.2006 to 21.04.2006 Price per share 81.5p 99.5p 81.5p 99.5p Price range of options exercised during the year 81.5p 99.5p 43.5p 99.5p 2002 2001 Approved Share Option Plan Number Number Outstanding at 1 January 494,800 Granted in the year 166,102 494,800 Lapsed 39,200 At 31 December 621,702 494,800 Dates exercisable 06.06.2004 06.06.2004 to 03.10.2012 to.
02.10.2011 Price per share 133.4p 305.7p 205.3p 305.7p 2002 2001 Unapproved Share Option Plan Number Number Outstanding at 1 January 607,200 Granted in the year 480,220 607,200 Lapsed 76,400 At 31 December 1,011,020 607,200 Dates exercisable 06.06.2004 06.06.2004 to 03.10.2012 to 02.10.2011 Price per share 133.4p 305.7p 205.3p 305.7p As permitted by Urgent Issues Task Force abstract number 17, the cost of share awards under Inland Revenue approved SAYE schemes are not charged to the profit and loss account.
Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 67 Notes to the Accounts continued 31 Earnings per Ordinary share 2001 Restated 2002 note 1b Earnings per share basic 16.26p 32.03p Amortisation of goodwill 0.78p 0.18p Non-operating exceptional items: Loss profit on disposal of fixed assets 0.36p 1.09p Profit on sale termination of operations 0.44p 11.93p Headline earnings per share under IIMR guidelines basic 15.40p 21.37p Diluted earnings per share under IIMR guidelines 15.29p 20.51p Diluted earnings per share 16.13p 30.64p The basic earnings per share has been calculated by reference to the profit attributable to shareholders of 31,202,000 2001: 68,580,000 and the weighted average of 191,903,644 2001: 214,129,149 shares in issue during the year ranking for dividend.
Institute of Investment Management and Research IIMR Headline Earnings are calculated excluding amortisation of goodwill of 1,486,000 credit 2001: 379,000 debit and the losses arising from non-operating exceptional items attributable to shareholders of 155,000 in 2002 2001: 23,194,000 profit as set out in note 10 and adjusted for taxation.
The IIMR calculations for earnings per share are provided as the Directors consider, in particular, that the exclusion of nonoperating exceptional items from earnings per share provides useful additional information.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated on a weighted average of 193,398,117 number of shares 2001: 225,366,676 after allowing for the exercising of shares under the Group Executive Share Option and Sharesave Schemes.
Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 68 Notes to the Accounts continued 32 Combined reconciliations of movements in shareholders funds and statement of movements on reserves Profit & loss account S&F Total Issued Share Capital Group PLC & 2001 share premium Redemption Revaluation subsidiary Total Restated capitalaccount reserve reserve undertakings 2002 note 1b 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 1 January as previously reported 353,733 FRS 17 adjustment 11,677 FRS 19 adjustment 4,640 1 January as restated 23,009 128,183 4,240 7,057 151,569 314,058 346,696 Profit attributable to shareholders 31,202 31,202 68,580 Dividends 19,175 19,175 103,423 Net write back of goodwill 1,632 Property revaluation 164 164 137 Actuarial differences re defined pension schemes 6,302 6,302 12,522 Issue of Ordinary shares 95 871 966 17,584 Contribution to employee share trust 270 270 808 Foreign exchange translation difference 2,498 2,498 3,166 FRS 18 adjustment per note 1b 652 At 31 December 23,104 129,054 4,240 7,221 159,522 323,141 314,058 The total amount of goodwill at 31 December 2002 which has been written-off to reserves in respect of prior years in accordance with Statement of Standard Accounting Practice number 22 is 39,178,000 2001: 39,178,000.
Issued Share Capital Profit sharepremium Specialredemption & loss Total Total capital account reserve reserve account 2002 2001 Company 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 At 1 January 23,009 128,183 36,100 4,240 40,875 232,407 212,230 Profit attributable to shareholders 4,886 4,886 106,824 Dividends 19,175 19,175 103,423 Issue of Ordinary shares 95 871 966 17,584 Contribution to employee share trust 270 270 808 At 31 December 23,104 129,054 36,100 4,240 26,316 218,814 232,407 2002 2001 000 000 Profit and loss reserve excluding defined benefit pension schemes 162,894 175,770 Pension reserve 3,372 24,201 Profit and loss reserve 159,522 151,569 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 69 Notes to the Accounts continued 33 Segmental information The Group has Banking and Investment Management as its primary business focus with income from Stockbroking also being generated from the Groups interest in D. Carnegie & Co AB Carnegie.
Asset Banking Management Stockbroking Other companies companies companies group Total 2002 2002 2002 2002 2002 000 000 000 000 000 Operating income 78,150 25,629 3,800 107,579 Profit on ordinary activities 25,619 5,974 7,221 1,990 40,804 Non-operating exceptional items before taxation and minority interests 221 345 566 Totalassets 1,816,762 39,565 34,315 252,064 2,142,706 Net assets 204,628 22,034 34,315 62,164 323,141 Since the floatation of Carnegie on 7 June 2001 substantially all of the Groups activity is conducted in the United Kingdom and the Isle of Man.
Asset Banking Management Stockbroking Other companies companies companies group Total 2001 2001 2001 2001 2001 Restated 000 000 000 000 000 Operating income 74,266 32,842 119,162 10,804 237,074 Profit on ordinary activities 23,850 10,104 46,179 346 79,787 Non-operating exceptional items before taxation and minority interests 164 36,858 36,694 Totalassets 1,741,906 39,762 38,180 229,942 2,049,790 Net assets 209,190 16,768 38,180 49,920 314,058 Rest of UK World Total 2001 2001 2001 Segmental reporting 000 000 000 Interest receivable 142,211 18,885 161,096 Interest payable 78,084 10,848 88,932 Fees and commissions receivable 41,436 97,686 139,122 Fees and commissions payable 5,480 5,480 Dividend income 87 6 93 Dealing profits 3,710 19,469 23,179 Other operating income 7,996 7,996 Operating income 111,876 125,198 237,074 Profit on ordinary activities 43,554 36,233 79,787 Non-operating exceptional items 36,694 36,694 Totalassets 2,013,933 35,857 2,049,790 Net assets 282,825 31,233 314,058 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 70 Notes to the Accounts continued Segmental information continued Historically, the Group has deployed a portion of its capital into carrying investments in corporate bonds and equities for its own account.
At the beginning of 2002, the Group decided to reallocate the capital invested in corporate bonds to its core banking operations and from that date the income therefrom has been accounted for within core banking with the results and assets for 2001 being restated accordingly.
The 2001 segmental analysis has also been restated in accordance with note 1b to the accounts.
Stockbroking profits in the above analyses include all the activities of Carnegie.
Carnegie is run as a fully integrated business and the Directors believe this gives the shareholders a better appreciation of the results of the business.
The results included in the Rest of World geographical analysis are predominantly those of Carnegie.
34 Related parties Set out below are transactions with related partiesasrequired by FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures.
Subsidiary Undertakings Details of the principal subsidiary undertakings are shown in note 22.
In accordance with Financial Reporting Standard No.
8 Related Party Disclosures, transactions or balances between Group entities that have been eliminated on consolidation are not reported.
Associated Undertakings Singer & Friedlander Properties PLC owns 50% of the share capitalofClarke London Limited.
At 31 December 2002 Clarke London Limited had funds on deposit with Singer & Friedlander Limited of 39,552 2001: 83,250.
The deposit is on normal commercial terms.
Directors and Officers Loans There were no amounts outstanding at 31 December 2002 under transactions, arrangements and agreements made by the Company from those persons who were Directors including connected persons or Officers of the Company.
During the year, one Director held an account with Singer & Friedlander Limited an authorised institution and a subsidiary of the Company which was overdrawn.
The maximum overdrawn amount on this account was 7,163.
Any transaction, arrangements or agreements made are made on normal arms length commercial terms both as to security and interest.
35 Employees The number of persons employed by the Group at the year end was made up as follows: 2002 2001 Number Number Managers 226 214 Clerical Staff 362 349 Others 58 77 646 640 All employees are located within the UK and the Isle of Man.
Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 71 Notes to the Accounts continued 36 Commitments Notional Notional principal principal 2002 2001 000 000 Other commitments: Documentary credits and short-term trade-related transactions 28,512 14,885 Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend: One year and over 92,322 79,981 Less than one year 122,689 154,340 Commitments to enter into property transactions 16,598 243,523 265,804 Concentrations of off balance sheet exposure: At 31 December 2002 26% of the Groups commitments were in respect of counterparties operating in the wholesale trade sector and 23% were in respect of counterparties operating in the real estate sector 2001: 13% and 26% respectively.
At 31 December 2002 33% of the Groups acceptances were in respect of counterparties operating in the real estate sector 2001: 34%.
37 Operating lease commitments At 31 December, the Group had annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring: Land and Land and buildings buildings 2002 2001 000 000 Within one year 23 90 Between one and five years 326 585 In five years or more 692 703 1,041 1,378 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 72 Notes to the Accounts continued 38 Exposure to residual values on leased assets The Groups leasing business is split between the provision of finance leases including hire purchase and operating leases.
The Group has negligible residual value risk in respect of its finance lease and hire purchase business.
The residual value risk arising from the provision of operating leases is largely mitigated through insurance.
The uninsured element of residual value risk can be analysed as follows: Medical Medical equipment Other Total equipment Other Total Year in which residual 2002 2002 2002 2001 2001 2001 value will be recovered 000 000 000 000 000 000 Less than 1 year 945 68 1,013 119 119 1-2 years 587 91 678 909 68 977 2-5 years 2,448 586 3,034 1,827 627 2,454 More than 5 years 4,482 433 4,915 1,666 117 1,783 Total exposure 8,462 1,178 9,640 4,521 812 5,333 39 Derivative transactions In the normal course of business, the Group enters into derivative transactions in the foreign exchange, interest rate and equity markets.
These are used for both trading and hedging purposes.
The risk associated with trading derivatives is managed by the imposition of limits in each area of operations.
Ultimate responsibility of the control of risk rests with the Directors of the Group, however, the day-to-day operational management of risk is delegated to the operating entities within the Group, who operate within their own prescribed limits.
The methodology for managing risk varies across the Group, reflecting the complexity of the relevant business.
Trading derivatives Notional Positive Negative Notional Positive Negative principal fair value fair value principal fair value fair value 2002 2002 2002 2001 2001 2001 000 000 000 000 000 000 Interest rate contracts Futures contracts 76,000 36 29 Interest rate swaps 33,960 453 447 31,820 392 291 Options 58,300 197 196 30,000 308 339 Foreign exchange contracts Forward agreements 17,445 257 22 39,771 145 138 Options 3,967 70 5,180 29 5 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 73 Notes to the Accounts continued Derivative transactions continued Non-trading derivatives The notional principal amounts for non-trading derivatives as at 31 December 2002 and 31 December 2001 were: 2002 2001 Notional Notional principal principal 000 000 Interest rate contract Futures contracts 36,000 19,000 Forward rate agreements 12,432 32,000 Interest rate swaps 262,128 206,604 Options 124,881 145,769 Exchange rate contracts Forward foreign exchange 101,433 121,500 At 31 December 2002 and 31 December 2001 the notional principals and replacement costs, by maturity, from over the counter and non margined exchange traded contracts were:  ment Notional ment principal cost principal cost 2002 2002 2001 2001 000 000 000 000 Remaining Maturity Over five years 15,536 304 3,936 108 Between one and five years 283,926 2,697 284,867 310 Less than one year 192,239 444 157,390 146 All over the counter and non-margined exchange traded contracts as at 31 December 2002 and 31 December 2001 were held with financial counterparties.
Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 74 Notes to the Accounts continued 40 Risk Management The Group enters into contracts involving financial instruments during the normal course of its business.
Such contracts may be entered into in order to facilitate customer requirements, to take trading positions on the Groups own book or to hedge exposures arising either as a result of customer business or proprietary positions.
The Group primarily enters into financial instrument contracts involving deposits, loans, bonds, shares including equity shares and preference shares, contingent liabilities and derivative financialinstruments including forward contracts, futures, swaps and options.
In addition, certain financial instruments such as trade debtors and trade creditors arise directly from the Groups operations.
Derivative contracts are used for both trading and non-trading purposes.
The risk management disclosures made below apply to both the trading and non-trading elements of derivative contracts.
The use by business units of financial instruments other than those which arise directly from the Groups operations must be approved in advance by senior management.
Approval will either be considered on a case by case basis or by the setting of limits within which financial instruments must be managed.
These limits are split between financialinstruments held for trading purposes and financial instruments held for non-trading purposes.
The exposures which result from holding such financial instruments are managed in order that the cumulative interest rate mismatch and the maturity and currency profiles of the financial instruments are maintained within approved limits.
The Groups trading activities include providing financial instruments to clients, taking proprietary positions and their related hedges.
The Groups non-trading activities include traditional lending and deposit-taking, asset liability and liquidity management, investment activity and related hedges.
Risk exposures arising from financial instruments are monitored against the approved limits on at least a daily basis either by local management or by central risk management.
Further, there is at least monthly review of the aggregate exposures by central risk management.
The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are interest rate risk, liquidity risk, foreign currency risk and market risk.
The exposure to and management of these risks are summarised below.
The year-end figures reported in these financialstatements for financial instruments are not materially different from the positions held throughout the year within the Group, excluding Carnegie, and are consistent with the objectives, policies and strategies approved by the Board.
With the exception of the currency risk disclosures, the numericaldisclosures provided in these notes for financial instruments have not included the effect of short-term debtors and creditors that relate to non-banking activities.
Credit risk The Group manages credit risk by setting procedures for the establishment of new renewed credit exposuresaswell as setting limits for credit risk, split between direct credit exposure, credit equivalent exposure and settlement exposure.
Further, limits are set for the tenor, country and currency of exposure as well as for total exposures to certain categories of business.
The credit limits are monitored by local, independent management as well as by the Groups Risk Review Committee.
Interest rate risk The Groups exposure to interest rate fluctuations on its borrowings and deposits is primarily managed by limiting interest rate mis-matches and using derivative instruments as described above.
The limits for exposure to interest rate risk are set at local business unit level.
The interest rate risk profile of the Group as at 31 December 2002 and 2001 is summarised below.
Part of the Groups return on financial instruments is obtained from running a controlled mis-match between the maturity or the next interest rate fixing date of assets compared to the maturity or next interest rate fixing date of liabilities.
The tables below summarise these repricing mismatches on the Groups non-trading book as at 31 December 2002 and 2001.
Items are allocated to time bands by reference to the earlier of the next interest rate repricing dates and the maturity dates.
Liquidity risk is primarily managed by the Groups central treasury operations with reference to liquidity limits set internally by senior management and by external regulators.
The Group has reference to regular reports which summarise the current liquidity position, thus helping to ensure that the Group has sufficient liquid assets to be able to meet its future expected cash outflows.
Currency risk Following the reduction of the Groups interest in Carnegie from 55% to 30.85% and its subsequent accounting for Carnegie as an associated undertaking, the subsidiaries which are controlled by the Group are predominately based within Great Britain and the Isle of Man.
The main operating currency is therefore Sterling.
However, the Groups consolidated results continue to be affected by movements in the exchange rates of the Scandinavian countries operated in by Carnegie.
Translation gains losses arising from structural foreign currency exposures and related hedges are reported in the Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses on page 39.
The Groups policy is not to run significant transactional currency exposures.
The Group has hedged its structural currency risk resulting from its holding in Carnegie to the extent of selling forward Carnegies 2002 proposed dividend, being a Sterling equivalent amount of 13,181,000.
Borrowings taken out in the functional currencies of the overseas operations in order Net investments in to hedge the net investments Remaining structural overseas operations in such operations currency exposures 2002 2001 2002 2001 2002 2001 000 000 000 000 000 000 Functional currency of the operation involved Swedish Krona 21,134 38,180 21,134 38,180 The tables below show the Groups primary non-trading currency exposures, being those transactional or non-structural exposures that give rise to the net currency gains and losses recognised in the profit and loss account.
Such exposures comprise the monetary assets and monetary liabilities of the Group that are not denominated in the functional currency of the operating unit involved.
As at 31 December 2002 and 2001, these exposures were as follows: 31 December 2002 000 Euro US Dollar Swiss Francs Other Total Functional currency of Group operation Sterling 970 3,711 56 2,265 2,360 31 December 2001 000 Euro US Dollar Swiss Francs Other Total Functional currency of Group operation Sterling 988 3,439 381 576 5,384 The amounts shown in the above tables take into account the effect of any currency swaps, forward contracts and other derivatives entered into to manage these currency exposures.
Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 78 Notes to the Accounts continued Risk Management continued Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities The tables below set out a comparison, by category, of book values and fair values of the Groups actively tradeable financial assets and financial liabilities as at 31 December 2002 and 2001.
Net book Net fair Positive Negative value value fair value fair value 31 December 2002 000 000 000 000 Held on the trading book Interest rate swaps and options 77 650 643 Forward foreign currency contracts options 305 305 327 22 Debt securities 6,423 6,423 6,423 Equity shares 236 236 236 6,971 6,971 7,636 665 Non-trading book Interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements 435 3,467 1,033 4,500 Interest rate caps, collars and floors 433 15 471 456 Interest rate futures 29 108 412 304 Floating rate note 609 609 609 Forward foreign exchange 468 468 1,357 889 Bank Building Society certificates of deposit held 369,194 369,194 369,194 Bank certificates of deposit issued 109,500 109,500 109,500 Public sector debt securities 500 508 508 Debenture issued 29,967 48,800 48,800 Other actively tradeable debt securities 67,147 68,211 68,211 Actively tradeable equity shares 328 200 200 297,588 276,328 441,386 165,058 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 79 Notes to the Accounts continued Risk Management continued Netbook Netfair Positive Negative value value fair value fair value 31 December 2001 000 000 000 000 Held on the trading book Interest rate swaps and options 70 70 700 630 Interest rate futures 7 7 36 29 Forward foreign currency contracts options 31 31 174 143 Debt securities 8,028 8,028 8,028 Equity shares 762 762 762 8,898 8,898 9,700 802 Non-trading book Interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements 337 643 415 1,058 Interest rate caps, collars and floors 713 1,137 1,163 26 Interest rate futures 57 7 15 22 Floating rate note 609 609 609 Forward foreign exchange 88 88 517 605 Bank Building Society certificates of deposit held 525,125 525,204 525,204  54,218 54,218 54,218 Public sector debt securities 908 837 837 Debenture issued 29,965 41,800 41,800 Other actively tradeable debt securities 77,123 75,963 75,963 Actively tradeable equity shares 585 366 366 519,294 506,142 604,480 98,338 Market values have, wherever possible, been used to determine the fair value of all swaps, forward foreign currency contracts, interest rate caps, collars and floors and alllisted publicly quoted securities.
Where market values are not available values have been obtained by discounting cash flows at market ratesor using option valuation models.
Certain other financial assets liabilities have been valued at their carrying amount as this is not considered to be materially different to fair value.
Hedging disclosures As explained above, the Groups policy is to hedge the following exposures: Interest rate risk using interest rate swaps, caps, floors and collars, currency swaps and forward foreign currency contracts: and operational and transactional currency exposures using currency swaps and forward foreign currency contracts.
Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 80 Notes to the Accounts continued Risk Management continued Gains and losses on instruments used for hedging are not recognised until the gain loss on the exposure being hedged is recognised.
As at 31 December 2002 the Group had an unrecognised cumulative aggregate loss on derivative financial assets and liabilities for which hedge accounting had been used.
This aggregate loss on derivative contracts may be analysed as approximately 3,273,000 2001: 2,119,000 of gains and 6,151,000 2001: 1,942,000 of losses.
In addition, carried forward at the balance sheet date pending recognition in the profit and loss account, are realised gains on settled derivative contracts of approximately 434,000 2001: 482,000 and losses of 371,000 2001: 713,000.
On the basis of the relevant yield curves at 31 December 2002, 1,115,000 2001: 1,362,000 of gains and 3,607,000 2001: 1,435,000 of losses are expected to be recognised in the profit and loss account for the year ended 31 December 2003 in respect of settled and outstanding derivative contracts.
Again on the basis of relevant yield curves as at 31 December 2001, gains of approximately 1,362,000 2001: 1,044,000 and losses of about 1,435,000 2001: 1,269,000 have been recognised in the profit and loss account which arose in previous years but which had previously been unrecognised.
Exposure to market risk of trading book Whilst the Groups activities are such that there is the potential for exposure to equity price risk, currency risk and or interest rate risk the Group does not have significant exposure to market risk as a result of operating a trading book.
Equity price risk Note 18 of the accounts discloses information about the equity shares held by the Group at 31 December 2002 and 2001.
The total market value of the trading book equity shares held by the Group as at 31 December 2002 was 1,283,000 2001 : 3,028,000.
These levels are not materially different to the exposures run throughout the year.
As such the Group does not have a material exposure to equity price risk.
Equity price risk is primarily managed through the Groups Risk Review Committee setting approved limits for exposures to trading book market risk.
Further, investment in such equities requires the prior approval of an appropriate level of directors and such investment is subsequently independently monitored by the Groups Risk Control department to provide comfort that the approved limits are not breached.
Anysuch breach would be reported to the Risk Review Committee and appropriate remedial action would be taken.
Interest rate risk The Group accepts a degree of interest rate risk as long as the interest rate mis-match between the Groups assets and liabilities does not breach pre-defined limits.
The Group manages its interest rate mis-match both trading and non-trading by using mis-match tables which plot the maturities of the various assets and liabilities held by the Group and which enable the overall exposure to interest rate movements to be monitored.
Such mis-match tables are used by each of the Groups primary subsidiaries where material interest rate risk could arise.
However, trading exposures are only permitted in the Groups authorised Banking entities, being Singer & Friedlander Limited and Singer & Friedlander Isle of Man Limited.
The mis-match tables are monitored on an ongoing basis by local management and are reviewed on a monthly basis by senior independent management.
The interest rate mis-match of the Banking entities are considered on a monthly basis by the Groups Risk Review Committee.
As a result of the limits established and the ongoing monitoring of the interest rate mis-match position the Groups trading book exposure to interest rate risk was not material during the year or at the year end.
Currency risk The Groups overall currency risk exposure is managed by the Groups central Treasury department.
All significant foreign exchange transactions are sourced by this department and they manage the overall currency risk within pre-defined limits which are independently monitored on a daily basis.
As a result of the limits established and the ongoing monitoring of the currency risk the Groups trading book exposure to currency risk was not material during the year or at the year end.
Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 81 Notes to the Accounts continued Risk Management continued Prior to 7 June 2001 the Groups primary exposure to trading book market risk arose from the Carnegie group, in which the Group had a 55% holding.
This market risk was managed as set out above.
On 7 June 2001 the Group reduced its interest in Carnegie to 30.85% as a result of Carnegies IPO.
Following the IPO, Carnegie is accounted for as an associated undertaking and therefore, whilst the Group still has an exposure to Carnegies trading book risk, this exposure is not reflected in the consolidated figures above.
41 Reconciliation of Group operating profit to net operating cash flows 2001 Restated 2002 note 1b 000 000 Group operating profit 33,512 71,419 Change in prepayments and accrued income 760 6,712 Change in accruals and deferred income 4,503 55,376 Interest on convertible loan stock and debenture stock 2,637 2,175 Provision for bad and doubtful debts 842 5,019 Amortisation of premiums and discounts 498 216 Depreciation and amortisation tangible assets 12,499 11,563 goodwill 1,486 379 Sale of tangible fixed assets 18 1,576 Sale and provisions against fixed asset investments 2,729 2,134 Change in other assets 34,528 8,053 Change in other liabilities and provisions 2,841 6,168 Change in pension scheme liability 38,608 19 Foreign exchange movement 2,103 8,227 Net cash flow from trading activities 48,334 38,406 Net increase decrease in: Treasury and other eligible bills 2,847 Loans and advances to customers 132,145 41,116 Loans and advances to banks 130,511 93,327 Non investment securities 2,131 171,035 Hire purchase receivables 29,120 60,963 Net increase decrease in: Deposits and customer accounts 62,623 81,646 Certificates of deposit in issue 56,500 3,891 Settlement balances 135,402 Net cash outflow inflow from operating activities 122,188 140,195 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 82 Notes to the Accounts continued 42 Analysis of changes in cash during the year 2002 2001 000 000 Balance at 1 January 46,533 112,078 Net cash flow 15,624 65,545 Balance at 31 December 30,909 46,533 43 Analysis of cash balances 2002 2001 Change 000 000 000 Cash and balances at central banks 167 4,252 4,085 Loans and advances to banks repayable on demand 30,742 42,281 11,539 30,909 46,533 15,624 44 Analysis of changes in financing during the year Share capital Debenture including stock premium in issue 2002 2002 000 000 Balance at 1 January 151,192 29,965 Issue of ordinary share capital 966 Amortisation of discount 2 Balance at 31 December 152,158 29,967 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 83 Abridged Accounts of Singer & Friedlander Limited Consolidated Profit and Loss Account For the year ended 31 December 2002 Prepared under Schedule 9 of the Companies Act 1985 2002 2001 000 000 Interest receivable: Interest receivable and similar income arising from debt securities 25,736 34,742 Other interest receivable and similar income 105,575 102,032 Less: interest payable 66,494 83,712 Net interest income 64,817 53,062 Dividend income from equity shares 2 68 Fees and commissions receivable 27,925 35,300 Less: Fees and commissions payable 5,500 4,599 Dealing profits 3,651 4,190 Other operating income 1,681 8,655 27,759 43,614 Operating income 92,576 96,676 Administrative expenses 56,633 57,558 Depreciation and amortisation 10,897 10,447 Provisions for bad and doubtful debts 4,511 4,532 Provisions for commitments and contingencies 2,250 Amounts written off fixed asset investments securities 2,694 2,134 Group operating profit 15,591 22,005 Share of profit from associated undertakings 71 1,141 Profit on ordinary activities before non-operating exceptional items and taxation 15,662 23,146 Continuing Operations 17,209 25,713 Terminated Operations 1,547 2,567 Non-operating exceptional items excluding associated undertakings 222 2,632 Share of associated undertakings non-operating exceptional items 1,592 Profit on ordinary activities after exceptional items and before taxation 15,884 22,106 Taxation on ordinary activities excluding non-operating exceptional items 3,520 5,695 Share of associated undertakings taxation 21 320 Taxation on non-operating exceptional items 411 379 3,952 6,394 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 11,932 15,712 Minority interests equity 79 13 Profit for the financial year attributable to shareholders 11,853 15,725 Dividends 13,000 10,195 Retained loss profit for the year 1,147 5,530 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 84 Abridged Accounts of Singer & Friedlander Limited Consolidated Balance Sheet At 31 December 2002 Prepared under Schedule 9 of the Companies Act 1985 2002 2001 000 000 Assets Cash and balances at central banks 154 398 Loans and advances to banks 397,161 284,311 Loans and advances to customers 1,107,349 966,733 Debt securities 442,964 610,984 Equity shares 1,411 3,238 Other participating interests 269 453 Tangible fixed assets 106,880 90,056 Intangible fixed assets 3,766 2,982 Other assets 19,784 37,080 Prepayments and accrued income 14,079 14,537 Total assets 2,093,817 2,010,772 Liabilities Deposits by banks 385,057 415,052 Customer accounts 1,282,882 1,226,351 Debt securities in issue 140,076 83,574 Subordinated loan stock 10,000 5,000 Other liabilities 30,989 32,021 Accruals and deferred income 22,736 25,622 Provisions for liabilities and charges: Deferred taxation 165 301 Equity minority interests 223 144 Called up share capital 50,000 50,000 Other reserves 37,129 37,286 Profit and loss account 134,560 135,421 Shareholders funds 221,689 222,707 Totalliabilities and shareholders funds 2,093,817 2,010,772 Memorandum items Contingent liabilities: Acceptances and endorsements 78,423 71,273 Guarantees 42,457 61,129 120,880 132,402 Commitments 243,523 249,206 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 85 Abridged Accounts of Singer & Friedlander Limited Balance Sheet At 31 December 2002 Prepared under Schedule 9 of the Companies Act 1985 2002 2001 000 000 Assets Cash and balances at central banks 154 114 Loans and advances to banks 369,162 251,867 Loans and advances to customers 951,948 870,373 Debt securities 400,254 565,593 Equity securities 236 761 Shares in Group undertakings 56,873 61,769 Tangible fixed assets 3,655 4,560 Other assets 10,297 8,862 Prepayments and accrued income 10,371 8,519 Totalassets 1,802,950 1,772,418 Liabilities Deposits by banks 465,405 570,752 Customer accounts 1,056,593 968,911 Debt securities in issue 110,109 53,609 Subordinated loan stock 15,000 10,000 Other liabilities 2,546 2,459 Accruals and deferred income 17,925 19,413 Called up share capital 50,000 50,000 Other reserves 2,913 2,913 Profit and loss account 82,459 94,361 Shareholders funds 135,372 147,274 Totalliabilities and shareholders funds 1,802,950 1,772,418 Memorandum items Contingent liabilities: Acceptances and endorsements 78,423 71,273 Guarantees 28,271 28,934 106,694 100,207 Commitments 231,240 249,206 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 86 Directory of Principal Offices Singer & Friedlander Leasing Limited United Kingdom S& F House, Junction Road Singer & Friedlander Head Office Dorking RH4 3HB 21 New Street, Bishopsgate, London EC2M 4HR Tel: 01306 872687 Fax: 01306 872688 Tel: 020 7623 3000 Fax: 020 7623 2122 www.
com Singer & Friedlander Commercial Finance Limited Investment Management: www.
co. uk 231 St. Vincent Street, Glasgow G2 5QY Singer & Friedlander Limited: www.
co. uk 46 Fountain Street, Manchester M2 2AH Hermes Group Limited Tel: 0161 833 9581 Fax: 0161 833 9351 21 New Street, Bishopsgate, London EC2M 4HR Singer & Friedlander Nottingham Tel: 020 7975 3800 Fax: 020 7975 3801 22A The Ropewalk, The Park, Nottingham NG1 5DT www.
co. uk Tel: 0115 941 9721 Fax: 0115 941 7992 Singer & Friedlander Birmingham Overseas Office 85-89 Colmore Row, Birmingham B3 2BB Singer & Friedlander Isle of Man Limited Tel: 0121 236 1001 Fax: 0121 236 9889 PO Box 197 Samuel Harris House Singer & Friedlander Leeds 5-11 St Georges Street 31 Park Square, Leeds LS1 2PF Douglas, Isle of Man IM99 1SN Tel: 0113 243 5000 Fax: 0113 244 0563 Tel: 01624 699222 Fax: 01624 699200 www.
co. im Singer & Friedlander Finance Limited Parsonage House, Parsonage Square Church Street, Dorking, Surrey RH4 1UP Tel: 01306 872600 Fax: 01306 877577 www.
co. uk Singer & Friedlander Insurance Finance Limited Yeoman House, Parsonage Square Church Street, Dorking, Surrey RH4 1UP Tel: 01306 872666 Fax: 01306 646760 www.
co. uk Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2002 87 Produced by
