ST. JAMESS PLACE FOUNDATION The ethos of raising money within the working environment, for the benefit of the less fortunate members of society, plays an important role in the lives of those associated with St. Jamess Place.
From the outset, charitable giving has Each of the Companys regional offices More than 160,000 was raised from been a key part of the culture of the and each department within head office this event alone.
Sir Mark Weinberg has a long organise fundraising events.
These association with the charitable world, range from raffles bringing in a few Alongside these ad hoc fundraising being one of the co-founders of The hundred pounds, to promises auctions initiatives, the Foundation has PerCent Club now part of Business in and race evenings, which can raise consistently promoted the benefits of the Community, an organisation set up several thousands of pounds.
Every Deeds of Covenant Gift Aid and to encourage businesses to donate a social event is looked upon as an supported these by deductions from percentage of their profits to charitable opportunity to raise funds for the payroll and, in the case of Partners, causes.
In addition, the founder Foundation.
Many of the Companys deductions from their gross earnings.
members of the Company knew, from local and national suppliers are happy This has had two major benefits.
Firstly, their previous walks of life, how much to support the Foundation and are very it provides regular monthly income to satisfaction people within a company generous when approached to provide the Foundation: and secondly, the can obtain from putting something, a raffle prize.
Foundation can reclaim the tax relief whether time or money, back into the provided under the Deeds of community.
It is not surprising In addition to group events, individuals Covenant Gift Aid regimes.
therefore that charitable trusts were also push themselves to the limit in an established early on by both St. Jamess effort to raise as much sponsorship as By the end of 2002, over 87% of the Place Capital plc and the J. Rothschild possible from their contacts and clients.
St. Jamess Place community of 1,500 Assurance Group.
These charitable The challenges taken up include: the people were making regular monthly trusts were merged in 1999 and in London Marathon, the New York donations to the Foundation, either 2000 renamed the St. Jamess Place Marathon, the Sahara Marathon, through Deed of Covenant or Gift Aid, Foundation the Foundation.
cycling through Death Valley in demonstrating the commitment to the California, climbing Mt Kilimanjaro, Foundation throughout the Company at How is the Foundation Funded?
trekking to Mt Everest base camp, every level.
Over 319,000 of the The Trustees ultimately retain climbing Mt Aconcagua, trekking along money raised in 2002 was as a result of responsibility for any actions taken by part of the Great Wall of China, these regular monthly donations.
However, to assist parachute jumps and many more.
them in their duties and to encourage The funds raised by the The St. Jamess involvement and a sense of ownership, 2001 saw the Foundations first national Place Foundation and in its previous a management committee made up of fundraising event, when teams from all guise, The J. Rothschild Assurance one representative from each regional the offices took part in the Three Peaks Foundation since 1992 has steadily office, together with representatives Challenge climbing Ben Nevis, Scafell risen and for the past two years has from the Companys head office, was and Snowdon within 24 hours.
This exceeded 1 million each year.
This remains one event raised in excess of 200,000 the position today, with each including the Companys matching.
In representative supported within their 2002, an even more daunting challenge office by a group of people who assist in was met with 95 people attempting to organising fund raising events.
scale 12 Welsh mountains in 12 hours.
PAGE 96 ST. JAMESS PLACE FOUNDATION continued Until 1998 the Foundation was funded project in the UK that is for the direct The Future solely by members of staff and benefit of mentally and or physically The Foundation is proud of what has members of the St. Jamess Place disabled children, or those suffering been achieved over the past 11 years Partnership through their support of from a life threatening or degenerative and looks forward to the challenge of such fundraising initiatives.
In 1999, the illness, can apply for a grant from the sustaining and increasing its growth so shareholders of St. Jamess Place Foundation.
that even more people may benefit Capital agreed that, in future, the from its success.
Company should match, pound for In addition to the grants awarded under Supporting the Foundations pound, all monies raised by the the theme, and largely as a result of Foundation, with an upper limit of the additional monies available to the fundraising activities is a key 500,000.
In 2001, this resulted in Foundation from the Companys corporate objective.
funds raised exceeding 1 million in matching policy, the Foundation has one year for the first time, an been able to enter into a four year accomplishment that was repeated 500,000 commitment to Hope & in 2002.
Homes for Children, a UK based charity which provides family homes and other support for children Amounts Raised orphaned by war or disaster.
The first 1,200,000 tranche of 125,000 in 2000 provided 1,000,000 eight homes in Ukraine: the second 800,000 tranche provided a similar number of 600,000 homes in Belarus during 2001 and in 400,000 2002 homes were bought in both 200,000 countries.
0 In 2001, the Foundation entered into an arrangement with the Variety Club of Great Britain whereby it will fund 21 A Common Goal Sunshine Coaches for children with Supporting the Foundations disabilities at special schools fundraising activities is a key organisations located near to each of corporate objective.
The management the Companys offices.
This will entail a team, from the top down, focus on this commitment approaching 400,000 in aspect of the Companys business, in all.
As at 31 December 2002, 6 coaches much the same way as it does on other have been bought and are in use.
hoped that a close and lasting relationship will be formed between How Does the Foundation Award the school organisation and the Grants?
members of the local offices.
The Foundations management committee, in consultation with the Over 2,675,000 has been given in rest of the community, establish a grants to the above causes since the theme framework for awarding Foundation was established just over grants.
For the last seven years this ten years ago.
In addition, the theme has been Cherishing the Foundation has approximately 1 Children.
Any charity that has a million available for future distribution.
