Principal Accounting Policies Accounting Convention Debt Securities, Equity Shares and Treasury Bills The accounts of the Company and of the Group have been prepared Securities, including equity shares and treasury bills, which are intended under the historical cost convention, modified by the revaluation for use on a continuing basis in the Groups activities are classied of certain xed assets and dealing positions.
The following accounting as investment securities.
They include portfolios of securities held policies have been consistently applied with the exception of the in countries where the Group is required to maintain a stock of liquid changes detailed in Change in Accounting Policies in note 40. assets.
Investment securities are stated at cost less any provision for permanent diminuition in value.
The cost of dated investment securities Group Accounts is adjusted to reflect the amortisation or accretion of premiums The consolidated accounts of the Group comprise the accounts and discounts on acquisition on a straight-line basis over the residual of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings for the year ended period to maturity.
The amortisation and accretion of premiums 31December 2002 and are drawn up in accordance with Part VII and discounts are included in interest income.
Chapter II of the UK Companies Act 1985 the Act, applicable Securities other than investment securities are classified as dealing Accounting Standards and the British Bankers Associations securities and are held at market value.
Where the market value Statements of Recommended Accounting Practice.
of such securities is higher than cost, the original cost is not disclosed as its determination is not practicable.
Company Accounts The Company accounts are drawn up in accordance with Section 228 Deferred Taxation of, and Schedule 4 to, the Act and applicable Accounting Standards.
Full provision has been made for deferred tax assets and liabilities As permitted by Section 230 of the Act, the Companys profit and loss arising from all timing differences between the financial statements account has not been included in these financial statements.
and the tax computation on a non-discounted basis.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised if the tax obligation exists Bad and Doubtful Debts at the balance sheet date.
Provisions for bad and doubtful debts are held in respect of loans and advances, including cross border exposures.
The provisions Equipment Leased to Customers and Instalment Credit Agreements comprise two elements specific and general.
Assets leased to customers under agreements which transfer Provisions against loans and advances are based on an appraisal substantially all the risks and rewards associated with ownership, other of the loan portfolio.
Specic provisions are made where the repayment than legal title, are classified as finance leases.
The balance sheet amount of identied loans is in doubt and reflect an estimate of the amount of represents total minimum lease payments receivable less unearned loss expected.
The general provision is for the inherent risk of loan losses income.
Income from finance leases is recognised in the profit and loss which, although they have not been separately identied, are known account in proportion to the funds invested.
Fixed rate instalment credit from experience to be present in any loan portfolio.
The amount agreements are treated in a similar manner to finance leases.
of the general provision reects past experience and judgements Lease agreements other than finance leases are classified as operating about current conditions in particular locations or business sectors.
Operating leases are included in loans and advances but are Provisions are made against cross border exposures where a country treated as fixed assets and depreciated over the shorter of the lease may experience or has experienced external liquidity problems and term and the estimated useful life of the asset.
The profits arising from doubts exist as to whether full recovery will be achieved.
operating leases are recognised in the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the duration of each lease.
Provisions are applied to write off advances, in part or in whole, when they are considered wholly or partly irrecoverable.
Income arising from the residual interest in instalment credit agreements which have been sold is credited to the profit and loss account as it accrues.
Interest on loans and advances is accrued to income until such time Expenses incurred in generating this income are deferred and amortised as reasonable doubt exists about its collectability: thereafter, and until over the duration of the income flow and in proportion to it.
all or part of the loan is written off, interest continues to accrue on customers accounts, but is not included in income.
Such suspended Foreign Currencies interest is deducted from loans and advances on the balance sheet.
Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are expressed in US dollar terms at rates of exchange ruling on the balance sheet date.
profits and losses earned in foreign currencies are expressed in US dollar terms at the average exchange rate of each currency against US dollar during the year.
Exchange differences arising from the balance sheet period end rate and the profit and loss average rate are taken to reserves.
Gains or losses arising from positions taken to hedge such profits and losses are included in the profit and loss account.
65 Principal Accounting Policies Continued Translation differences arising from the application of closing rates Sale and Repurchase Agreements of exchange to opening net assets denominated in foreign currencies These are arrangements under which assets are sold by one party are taken directly to reserves.
to another on terms that provide for the seller to repurchase the assets in certain circumstances at a later date.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of opening net monetary assets and results of operations in areas experiencing hyper-inflation Where the substance of the transaction is that of a secured loan, are included in the profit and loss account.
Non-monetary assets the sale and any apparent profit will not be recorded as such in the books in these areas are not retranslated.
of the seller, but the proceeds of sale will be recorded as a deposit.
All other exchange differences arising from normal trading activities, Swaps and Sales of Assets and on branch profit and dividend remittances to the United Kingdom, Assets acquired through debt exchange transactions are included are included in the profit and loss account.
in the accounts in the same line as the original underlying asset at the directors assessment of their fair value.
Where the asset represents Investments in Subsidiary Undertakings exposure to a country which is experiencing payment difficulties, it is Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated in the balance sheet stated at its principal amount and any provision required to reduce the of the Company at the Companys share of their attributable net assets, exposure to its fair value is included with other provisions of a like nature.
together with any long-term loans provided by the Company to the subsidiary undertakings.
Profits and losses on sales of assets are calculated by reference to their net carrying amount, whether at historical cost less any provisions Off-Balance Sheet Financial Instruments made or at a valuation, at the time of disposal.
Off-balance sheet financial instruments are valued with reference to market prices and the resultant profit or loss is included in the profit Tangible Fixed Assets and loss account, except where the position in the instrument has been Freehold and long leasehold premises premises with unexpired lease designated as a hedge when the profit or loss resulting from marking terms of 50 years or more are included in the accounts at their historical them to market is dealt with in the same way as the accounting cost or at the amount of any subsequent valuation.
Leasehold premises treatment applied to the position hedged.
with no long-term premium value are not revalued.
Trading positions are valued at market rates, and non-trading positions Land is not depreciated.
Freehold premises are amortised on a straight-line are valued on the same basis as the items being hedged.
basis over their estimated residual lives.
Leasehold premises are amortised over the remaining term of each lease on a straight-line basis.
Netting occurs where transactions with the same counterparty meet the following requirements.
The balances must be determinable and in freely Equipment, including xed plant in buildings, computers and capitalised convertible currencies.
The Standard Chartered entity can insist on net software development expenditure, is stated at cost and is depreciated settlement, and this ability is beyond doubt.
on a straight-line basis over its expected economic life, which is six years on a weighted average basis.
Retirement Benefits The Group operates some 50 retirement benefit schemes throughout Intangible Fixed Assets the world.
Arrangements for retirement benets for members of staff Any purchased goodwill is capitalised and amortised to nil, on a are made in a variety of ways in accordance with local regulations straight-line basis, over its estimated useful life.
The amortisation period and customs.
The major schemes are of the defined benefit type.
of capitalised goodwill is up to 20 years, being the period over which the Group expects to derive economic benefit from the assets.
Purchased The pension costs relating to these schemes are assessed in accordance goodwill arising on consolidation in respect of acquisitions before with the advice of qualified actuaries.
The assets of the schemes are 1January 1998 was written off through reserves in the year of acquisition generally held in separate funds administered by trustees.
and has not been restated.
Any goodwill previously written off through The cost of providing pensions and other post-retirement benets for reserves is charged through the profit and loss account in the year employees is charged to the profit and loss account over their expected of disposal.
Fees and Commissions The Group is complying with the transitional requirements of Fees or commissions which represent a payment for a service provided FRS17 Retirement Benets.
in setting up a transaction, are credited to the profit and loss account once they are receivable.
Fees or commissions which in substance amount to an additional interest charge, are recognised over the life of the underlying transaction on a level yield basis.
