Shareholder Information Dividend and Interest Payment Dates Interim dividend Ordinary shares Final dividend provisional only Results and dividend announced 19 February 2003 6 August 2003 Ex dividend date 26 February 2003 13 August 2003 Record date for dividend 28 February 2003 15 August 2003 Last date to elect for share dividend or to change standing instructions 10 April 2003 22 September 2003 Dividend payment date 13 May 2003 14 October 2003 Preference shares 1st half yearly dividend 2nd half yearly dividend 3 7 per cent Non-Cumulative Irredeemable preference shares of 1each 1April 2003 1October 2003 8 1 8 per cent Non-Cumulative Irredeemable preference shares of 1each 1April 2003 1October 2003 4 8.9 per cent Non-Cumulative preference shares of $5 each: dividends paid on the 1st of each calendar quarter.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at 12 noon on 8 May 2003 at Merchant Taylors Hall, 30 Threadneedle Street, London EC2R 8JB.
Interim Results The interim results will be announced to the London Stock Exchange, the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong and put on our website: www.
ShareCare ShareCare is available to shareholders on the United Kingdom register and allows you to hold your Standard Chartered shares in a nominee account.
Your shares can be held in electronic form so you will no longer have to worry about keeping your share certificates safely.
If you join ShareCare you will still be invited to attend the Companys AGM and you will still receive your dividend at the same time as everyone else.
ShareCare is free to join and there are no annual fees to pay.
If you would like to receive more information please contact the shareholder helpline on 0870 702 0138.
Low Cost Share Dealing Service We are pleased to be able to offer shareholders on the United Kingdom register a postal dealing service through NatWest Stockbrokers Limited and the use of the Instant Share Dealing Service which is available in many NatWest branches.
If you would like details of these services please contact NatWest Stockbrokers Limited on 0870 600 2050.
You can also request details of the service in pdf.
Please e-mail NatWest Stockbrokers on contactces@natwest.
com quoting Standard Chartered Shareholder Dealing Services.
Previous Dividend Payments Dividend per Cost of one new ordinary share Dividend and financial year Payment date ordinary share under share dividend scheme Interim 1998 16 October 1998 6.25p 587.2p Final 1998 28 May 1999 14.50p 889.5p Interim 1999 15 October 1999 6.75p 860.8p Final 1999 26 May 2000 16.10p 797.9p Interim 2000 13 October 2000 7.425p 974.3p Final 2000 25 May 2001 17.71p No offer Interim 2001 12 October 2001 12.82c 8.6856p No offer Final 2001 17 May 2002 29.10c 19.91p 8.43 $12.32 Interim 2002 15 October 2002 14.10c 9.023p 6.537 $10.215 Insofar as this reference constitutes an investment advertisement it has been approved by NatWest Stockbrokers Limited for the purposes of Section 21 2 b of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 only.
NatWest Stockbrokers Limited is a member of the London Stock Exchange and is regulated by the FSA.
Telephone calls with NatWest Stockbrokers may be monitored or recorded in order to maintain and improve service.
112 Standard Chartered Bankers Automated Clearing System BACS Taxation Dividends and loan stock interest can be paid straight into your Information on taxation applying to dividends paid to you if you bank or building society account.
Please contact our registrar are a shareholder in the United Kingdom, Hong Kong and the for a mandate form.
United States will be sent to you with your dividend documents.
Registrars and Shareholder Enquiries Electronic Communications If you have any enquiries relating to your shareholding and you hold If you hold your shares on the United Kingdom register your shares on the United Kingdom register, please contact our registrar and in future you would like to receive the Report and Accounts Computershare Investor Services PLC, at PO Box 82, The Pavilions, electronically rather than by post, please register online at: Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 7NH.
There is a shareholder helpline www.
If you hold your shares on the Hong Kong branch Shareholder Details and follow the instructions.
You will need to have register please contact Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services your Shareholder or ShareCare Reference number when you log on.
Limited at Rooms 19015, 19th Floor, Hopewell Centre, 183 Queens You can find this on your share certificate or ShareCare statement.
You can check your shareholding at: www.
Chinese Translation If you would like a Chinese version of this Report and Accounts please contact: Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited at Rooms 19015, 19th Floor, Hopewell Centre, 183 Queens Road East, Hong Kong.
Shareholders on the Hong Kong branch register who have asked to receive the report and accounts in either Chinese or English can change this election by contacting Computershare.
If there is a dispute between any translation and the English version of this Report and Accounts, the English text shall prevail.
113 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Designed and produced by williams and phoa.
Principal location photography by Michael Heffernan.
Printed in the UK on paper made from 50% pulp, 50% recycled bres and is biodegradable.
Seeing is Believing is Standard Chartereds global community fundraising project which aims to raise $700,000, enough to restore sight to 28,000 people around the world by World Sight Day, 9th October 2003.
If you would like to support Seeing is Believing please contact: Chris Sykes, Head of Corporate Social Responsibility chris.
com @ Telephone 44 0 20 7280 7753 Seeing is Believing AnnualReportand Accounts2002 Giving 28,000 people back their sight $25 for a cataract operation can let someone see again.
Standard Chartered PLC March 2003 Registered Ofce: 1Aldermanbury Square London EC2V 7SB Telephone 44 0 20 7280 7500 www.
com Principal Place of Business in Hong Kong: 32nd Floor, 4-4A Des Voeux Road, Central, Hong Kong Registered in England number:966425 Standard Chartered Annual Review 2002 Designed and produced by williams and phoa.
com @ Telephone 44 0 20 7280 7753 Seeing is Believing Annual Review 2002 Giving 28,000 people back their sight $25 for a cataract operation can let someone see again.
com Principal Place of Business in Hong Kong: 32nd Floor, 4-4A Des Voeux Road, Central, Hong Kong Registered in England number:966425 Principal Group Ofces Head Ofce Greece Oman United Kingdom Standard Chartered PLC Standard Chartered Standard Chartered Bank Standard Chartered Bank Telephone: 44 020 7280 7500 Grindlays Bank Telephone: 968 704 484 Telephone: 44 020 7280 7500 Telephone: 301 362 4601 Australia Pakistan United States of America Standard Chartered Bank India Standard Chartered Bank Standard Chartered Bank Australia Limited Standard Chartered Bank Telephone: 92 21 Telephone: 1 212 6670700 Telephone: 61 02 9232 9333 Telephone: 91 022 267 0162 2416945 2416541 Venezuela Bahrain Indonesia Peru Banco Standard Chartered Standard Chartered Bank Standard Chartered Bank Banco Standard Chartered Telephone: 58 212 993 3293 Telephone: 973 223636 Telephone: 62 021 251 3333 Telephone: 51 01 4117000 Vietnam Bangladesh Ivory Coast Philippines Standard Chartered Bank Standard Chartered Bank Standard Chartered Bank Standard Chartered Bank Telephone: 84 04 825 8970 Telephone: 880 02 956 Cote dlvoire SA Telephone: 63 02 886 7888 Zambia 2337 956 1713 Telephone: 225 20 30 32 00 Qatar Standard Chartered Bank Botswana Japan Standard Chartered Bank Zambia PLC Standard Chartered Bank Standard Chartered Bank Telephone: 974 4414248 Telephone: 260 01 22924250 Botswana Limited Telephone: 81 03 55111200 Republic of Korea South Korea Zimbabwe Telephone: 267 360 1500 Jersey Standard Chartered Bank Standard Chartered Bank Brunei Standard Chartered Grindlays Telephone: 82 02 750 6114 Zimbabwe Limited Standard Chartered Bank Offshore Ltd Telephone: 263 4 752852 9, Sierra Leone Telephone: 673 02 220345 Telephone: 44 01534 704000 753212 5 Standard Chartered Bank Cameroon Jordan Sierra Leone Limited Representative Offices Standard Chartered Bank Standard Chartered Bank Telephone: 232 0 22 Full banking facilities not provided Cameroon S. A.
Telephone : 962 06 568 3429 226220 225021 Argentina Telephone: 237 343 5200 Kenya Singapore Telephone: 54 114875 0500 China Standard Chartered Bank Standard Chartered Bank Bahamas Managing Agent Standard Chartered Bank Kenya Limited Telephone: 65 6 225 8888 Contact the New York office: Telephone: 86 021 5887 1230 Telephone: 254 02 3209 3000 Sri Lanka 1 212 6670700 Extn 7338 This Review and Summary Financial Statement Lebanon Standard Chartered Bank Standard Chartered employs 29,000 people does not give you all the information you need Brazil Hong Kong SAR Standard Chartered Bank s. a. l. Telephone: 94 01 480000 to gain as full an understanding of the results in over 500 ofces in more than 50 countries.
Telephone: 55 11 33710150 Standard Chartered Bank Telephone: 961 04 542474 of the Group and the state of affairs of the Bank, Taiwan Telephone: 852 2820 3333 The Group provides Consumer Banking services Cambodia or of the Group, as the full Annual Report and Macau Standard Chartered Bank Telephone: 855 23 Accounts.
If you want to receive a free copy Colombia Standard Chartered Bank Telephone: 886 02 2716 to individuals and small to medium size 216685 212729 of the full Annual Report and Accounts for 2002, Banco Standard Chartered Telephone: 853 786111 6261 2717 2866 or future years, please write to our registrars.
businesses, and offers Wholesale Banking Colombia Iran Malaysia Tanzania Telephone: 57 01 326 4030 Telephone: 98 21888 1918 9 capabilities to corporate and institutional clients.
Standard Chartered Bank Standard Chartered Bank Falkland Islands Malaysia Berhad Tanzania Limited Laos With 150 years in the emerging markets the Group Standard Chartered Bank Telephone: 60 03 2072 Telephone: 255 22 2122 160 Telephone: 856 21414422 Telephone: 500 22220 21352 6555 7766 has unmatched knowledge and understanding Thailand Mexico The Gambia Mauritius Standard Chartered Bank of its customers in its markets.
Standard Chartered Telephone: 52 55 5387 1307 Standard Chartered Bank Standard Chartered Bank Standard Chartered Nakornthon recognises its responsibilities to its staff Gambia PLC Telephone: 230 208 8268 Bank Public Company Limited Myanmar Telephone: 220 227744 Telephone: 66 02 724 4000 Telephone: 95 1 240260 240274 and to the communities in which it operates.
Nepal Ghana Uganda Standard Chartered Bank South Africa Standard Chartered Bank Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited Telephone: 27 11 3010600 Ghana Limited Uganda Limited Telephone: 977 1783 753 782 333 Telephone: 233 021 6645918 Telephone: 256 041 341623 Nigeria United Arab Emirates Standard Chartered Bank Standard Chartered Bank Nigeria Limited Telephone: 971 04 5070 350 352 Telephone: 234 01 320 2000 262 68015 262 681519 49 Strategic Highlights 1 Strategic Highlights Strong performance despite sustained 2 Group at a Glance 4 Chairmans Statement global economic uncertainty.
8 Group Chief Executives Review 14 Business Review Good growth in Consumer Banking 20 Corporate Social Responsibility 24 Summary Financial Review in South East Asia.
30 Board of Directors 32 Summary Report of the Directors Completed the integration of Grindlays 33 Statement of the Independent Auditor 34 Consolidated profit and Loss Account in India, the Middle East and South Asia.
35 Consolidated Balance Sheet 36 Summary Segmental Information Launched dual primary listing 37 Directors Remuneration Report 47 Shareholder Information in Hong Kong, to provide improved 49 Principal Group Ofces access for Asian investors and strengthen regional prole.
Signicantly expanded shared service centres in Chennai and Kuala Lumpur.
Balance Sheet Growth Net Revenue $ billion $ million profit before Taxation Dividend per Share $ million Cents Unless another currency is specified, the word dollaror symbol $ in this document means United States dollar.
1 Group at a Glance Hong Kong Singapore Malaysia Other Asia Pacic Hong Kong remains the Groups Standard Chartered has been Standard Chartered is the oldest The Group has more than largest market, generating one third doing business in Singapore bank in Malaysia, where there 80 branches and ofces of the Groups revenue.
We have for 144 years and has 20 branches is a network of 29 branches.
in 14 countries across the region.
Standard and ofces, the largest branch Malaysia is another of the Groups In China, Standard Chartered has Chartered has been transacting network among foreign banks.
core markets with broadly based one of the largest branch networks business in Hong Kong since 1858 The business in Singapore accounts business as a result of long of any foreign bank and is welland we issue bank notes there.
for approximately eleven per cent established franchises.
In 2002, Standard Chartered The Group continues to expand The Group is developing its became the first FTSE 100 company Standard Chartered has Qualifying its Shared Service Centre which Consumer Banking business and to launch a new dual primary listing Full Bank status, which has enabled was opened in 2001and carries has opened branches in Shanghai in Hong Kong.
This will make the expansion of the distribution out operations and processing and Shenzhen.
In Thailand, Group more accessible to Asian network.
The centre in Kuala Lumpur the integration of Nakornthon Bank investors and will enhance magazine named Standard has contributed signicantly was successfully completed the Groups regional prole.
Chartered the Best Retail Bank to improvements in the Groups in 2002. in Singapore.
The average number of employees The average number of employees in Hong Kong in 2002 was 4,677.
The average number of employees The average number of employees in Other Asia Pacic in 2002 in Singapore in 2002 was 2,451. in Malaysia in 2002 was 1,981. was 4,851.
Net Revenue Net Revenue Net Revenue Net Revenue $ million $ million $ million $ million 2 Standard Chartered India Region Middle East and other South Asia Africa United Kingdom Standard Chartered is the largest The MESA region performed Standard Chartered continues and the Americas international bank in India and, well in 2002.
The region accounts to be one of the leading banks Businesses in the United Kingdom following the successful completion for approximately eleven per cent in sub-Saharan Africa.
The Group and the Americas provide services of the integration of Grindlays, of the Groups revenues.
offers Consumer Banking and to leading multinationals and major has a combined customer The integration of Grindlays was Wholesale Banking services in financial institutions which trade base of 2.4 million in Consumer successfully completed and the 13 African countries with a network or invest in Asia, Africa, the Middle Banking and over 1,200 corporate Group is now one of the leading of 149 branches and ofces.
international banks in each of Standard Chartered recently In 2002, businesses in the its chosen markets in the region.
launched operations in the Ivory The Group launched its business Americas were extensively Coast and re-entered Nigeria.
in Mauritius in 2002 to provide The contribution of the Groups restructured to improve efficiency Wholesale Banking services business in the United Arab Businesses in East Africa have for future growth.
The Group to corporate clients.
The shared Emirates reects the significant performed well.
Despite difficulties also operates a growing Offshore service centre in Chennai continues growth of the businesses.
Standard in Zimbabwe, the Groups business banking business based in Jersey.
to develop rapidly as more services Chartered now holds leadership in Africa has delivered good results.
The average number of employees and processes are migrated from positions in most of its key product The average number of employees in the United Kingdom and other countries.
The average number of employees The average number of employees in the India region in 2002 was 5,251. in the Middle East and Other South Asia region in 2002 was 2,995.
Net Revenue Net Revenue Net Revenue Net Revenue $ million $ million $ million $ million 3 Chairmans Statement We are recommending a final dividend of 32.9 cents per share, compared with 29.10 cents in 2001.
This gives a total dividend of 47.0 cents, an increase of 12.1 per cent over 2001.
The dividend is covered 1.4 times.
The sterling amount will be set in April.
A Turbulent World In the past two years the world economy has suffered a succession of economic, financial and terrorist shocks.
We witnessed economic collapse in Argentina, war in Afghanistan, corporate governance issues in the United States and the continued bear market for equities.
Yet, despite all this, world economies continued to grow and, in most of Asia, economic growth was good.
Resilient consumer demand in the United States and the increasing regional We have delivered a strong importance of China as a consumer performance with a good increase market, boosted exports in Asia.
Domestic in trading profit, despite turbulent demand was stronger too.
The need to economic conditions.
We have reduced compete with China is forcing economies our costs and brought down our bad like Hong Kong and Singapore to move debt charge.
up the value chain, leading to a painful near-term transition.
2002 Results Pre-tax profits rose 16 per cent The Hong Kong economy remains weak.
to $1,262 million, compared with Unemployment is high and there are still $1,089 million in the previous year.
Although we Net revenue increased to remain cautious on the near-term outlook, $4,539 million, up three per cent.
we believe the current pessimism on Costs were reduced and the cost the longer-term prospects is overdone.
income ratio came down from The Middle East enjoyed healthy economic 56 per cent to 54 per cent.
growth, despite the uncertainties Debt charge down by $19 million, associated with Iraq.
The combination at $712 million, despite the bankruptcy of rm oil prices and healthy government issue in Hong Kong, and Argentina.
Normalised earnings per share was 74.9 cents, as against 66.3 cents in 2001.
Normalised return on equity increased to 13.4 per cent.
4 Standard Chartered This is an exciting year for us as we celebrate 150 years of Standard Chartered.
There are very few companies who can say the same.
We have come a long way from serving customers Our unique 150-year history gives in a tent to modern, well-designed branches around the world that reect our new brand.
us a deep understanding of our We have a deep understanding of our core markets, which enables us to work closely markets, our customers and with our customers and communities and develop strong, lasting relationships.
the local communities in which We will be celebrating these relationships throughout the year, sharing our pride we operate.
It is a strong platform in our history and confidence in our future.
5 Chairmans Statement Continued Africa benefited from an improved Asia has been a net exporter of capital The Nakornthon acquisition in1999 began economic environment, with a softer since the 1997 crisis but may now see to deliver profits this year.
This is another dollar, higher commodity prices and a return of investment ows to the region example of our ability to take on an existing continued economic reform.
Last year as the world economy shifts its focus.
China organisation and integrate it profitably nished with a successful election has already become the worlds biggest with ours.
in Kenya, highlighting the positive recipient of foreign direct investment.
political change in parts of the region.
Hong Kong Listing There is a shift in the service sector too, The biggest exception was Zimbabwe In October 2002, we became the first with India a big beneciary, as international where deteriorating economic conditions major FTSE listed company to launch rms move service centres, software and have reduced our profits by $50 million.
a dual primary listing in Hong Kong.
back ofce functions to take advantage We are one of the three note-issuing of lower costs and a high skill base.
Prospects for 2003 banks in Hong Kong and listing on Last year three key economic themes China and India are future economic the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong was a dominated.
We expect these three powerhouses.
Both are central to our further demonstration of our commitment themes to dominate again in 2003: strategy and success.
The listing will help us to expand our base of Asian First, modest growth: Investments and Acquisitions institutional and retail investors.
The offer second, low ination with low In July, we took a $50 million stake in the was comfortably over-subscribed.
interest rates: and initial public offering of BOC Hong Kong third, investors searching for Holdings Limited on the Stock Exchange Move to Manhattan higher yields and safer havens.
It is a subsidiary of Bank Our New York ofce was one of many This has favoured Asia over Latin America, of China, one of the largest state-owned that were destroyed on that terrible day, bonds over equities and is continuing commercial banks.
After a year to contribute to higher commodity prices a Memorandum of Understanding of operating from temporary ofces our and a softer dollar.
We have identied colleagues moved back to Manhattan.
eight areas for alliances on product The move signied the end of a difficult The start to this year shows that and distribution on the mainland and emotional year.
I wish our United we continue to live in uncertain times.
States colleagues well in their new ofce.
Oil prices have risen sharply and the Iraq situation has contributed to weak We completed the integration of Grindlays Board Changes business confidence around the globe, in Middle East and South Asia and India I will be retiring in May 2003 after including Asia.
Today we are the largest foreign ten years as Chairman.
It is with great bank across much of the region and Given this environment, policy makers pleasure that I welcome Bryan Sanderson in India.
Both India and the United Arab are taking measures to boost growth, as my successor.
He is currently Chairman Emirates now contribute more than with relaxed scal policies and low interest of BUPA and was BPs director responsible $100 million in trading profit per year.
As a result we expect continued for Asia until 2000. moderate growth, providing the United States economy continues to grow.
It is an internet platform, which speeds up and reduces the cost of international trade.
6 Standard Chartered He is also Chairman of the Learning We are part of the fabric of the communities In addition, we have increased our and Skills Council.
Bryan Sanderson in which we operate around the world.
joined Standard Chartered as a We are using our 150th year to launch a This is where the greatest opportunities non-executive director in December 2002. number of initiatives that enable us to put lie as the middle income earners increase Under his guidance, Standard Chartered something back into these communities.
in size and prosperity in all our markets.
will continue to grow as a performance In 2002 we started to take our award In 1993 Consumer Banking accounted driven organisation.
winning HIV AIDS staff awareness for about 33 per cent of our revenues, programme world-wide.
In February now it is 53 per cent.
There were also two other new members 2003, we launched Seeing Is Believing, One of the changes over the past of the Board.
Peter Sands joined us a joint initiative with Sight Savers ten years that has given me the most in May 2002 as Finance Director, from International, aimed at raising enough pleasure is that we have become a truly McKinsey & Co.
funds to restore the sight of 28,000 multi-cultural organisation that offers Richard Meddings joined us in November people around the world.
opportunities to good managers whatever 2002 as Director of Risk, from Barclays In ten years as Chairman I have been their ethnic background.
In addition Gareth Bullock and Peter proud of the way Standard Chartered has of our senior managers are from non-OECD Wong became directors of Standard responded to the challenges it has faced, countries.
That gure will continue to grow.
Chartered Bank our main operating from the difficulties of the early 1990s subsidiary.
All these appointments have I leave the business in good shape to the growth opportunities of the present signicantly strengthened our top team.
with an experienced new Chairman day.
Total shareholder return has grown who knows Asia well and a dynamic more than seven times.
I would like to thank Keith Mackrell, who management team led by Group Chief retired from the Board during 2002, and In writing my first Chairmans Statement Executive Mervyn Davies.
Cob Stenham, who will be retiring in May in 1993, I referred to the opportunities Finally, I would like to thank our people, after nearly twelve years.
I have valued that lay ahead with the emergence without whom my years as Chairman their contributions to the Board.
We have grasped would not have been half as rewarding.
Today we are one of The enthusiasm with which they run 150th Anniversary the most profitable multinationals in India this great business is truly outstanding.
In 2003, we celebrate our 150th year as and we are very well positioned in China.
Their commitment to do whats right a company.
This longevity says a lot about for our customers and shareholders We have increased our focus on markets our strengths and the market positions will enable Standard Chartered to rise where we have a competitive advantage we hold.
However, the anniversary is to the tremendous opportunities ahead.
and reduced our business in Organisation a time to look forward, not back.
There for Economic Co-operation and is an opportunity to deliver a step change Development OECD countries.
We have in performance by continuing to be also achieved a better geographic balance.
innovative and aggressive in our markets and remaining focused on moves that Sir Patrick Gillam, Chairman will improve shareholder returns.
19 February 2003 Sir Patrick Gillam speaking at an event to mark the launch of our dual primary listing in Hong Kong.
Standard Chartered sponsors the Hong Kong International Cricket Sixes, which is broadcast across Asia.
7 Group Chief Executives Review 2002 Performance This was a strong performance.
Revenue momentum has been sustained despite market conditions.
There was strong cost control and a resilient performance on bad debts.
Despite the Hong Kong bankruptcy issue, bad debts fell in 2002.
Our cost income ratio improved to 54 per cent.
Our target is to bring it below 50 per cent.
At the same time, we are beginning to see efficiency gains from our shared service centres in Chennai and Kuala Lumpur.
These global hubs are helping us to re-engineer our cost base.
We have seen good growth in Consumer Banking, outside Hong Kong and our Wholesale Banking business has generated improved profitability as it focuses on improving returns.
The end of 2002 marks my first Delivering on our Agenda full year as Group Chief Executive.
In 2002, we set out our nine management Despite a difficult global economic agenda items to drive improved return backdrop it has been a year of strong on equity.
These were to: performance and we have made good progress in developing a more Build market share performance driven culture.
in Consumer Banking: increase focus on value creation When I took over the role, I obviously in Wholesale Banking: knew the Group very well having been capture profitable growth in India an executive director for four years and China: and, with the executive director team, transition Thailand and Taiwan I set out four key areas of focus: achieve to profitability: our potential through a strong set of deliver efficiency and exibility values that are shared by all employees: in technology and operations: build a sustainable performance culture rationalise central costs: with the right balance between risk reduce costs in smaller countries: and reward: become a Company that control risk: and is known for top performance, not just improve capital efficiency.
for its great franchise: and increase our We have made good progress against customer focus to achieve the highest all of these goals.
These are the internal goals that underpin the improvement in our results.
Normalised Cost Income Ratio % 8 Standard Chartered Consumer Banking On a geographic belt running from the India and China Consumer Banking continues to offer Middle East to China, we have almost The two countries where we have the the highest potential for growth.
We have six million credit cards in issue and have greatest opportunity to transform our excellent positions in a number of markets a leadership position in Hong Kong, India business are India and China.
Each with scale and momentum.
and parts of the Middle East.
Most of our country is experiencing sustained strong markets are under-penetrated, including economic growth and we are strongly There is strong momentum in Consumer India where we have 1.4 million of the positioned in both.
Banking, despite the short-term pressures countrys total of five million credit card caused by the rapid rise in personal It is in India where the growth opportunities users.
The population of card users bankruptcies.
We took early action to are most immediate.
India is already one and the amount of card spend is growing contain the impact of this industry-wide of our top markets world-wide in terms of rapidly across Asia and this offers us issue and we are now seeing improvement profitability.
We currently have 62 branches enormous scope for growth.
The Hong Kong and 2.4 million customers in 19 cities.
Government will begin implementation In Wealth Management we have In September, we completed the of a positive data-sharing bureau in grown market share.
The impact integration of Grindlays, having reduced the first half of 2003, which will enable of falling interest rates has been offset the headcount of the combined banks banks to share information on customer by good growth in unit trust sales by 25 per cent during that process.
Hong Kong remains and bancassurance products.
In February 2003, we announced plans an attractive market for our Group.
to expand our operations to additional We have a strong and resilient business, Wholesale Banking cities bringing our network to 81branches which is demonstrated by the continuing We have reshaped our business.
in 25 cities by the end of the year.
performance of our mortgage book.
We have deliberately traded revenue for lower risk, exiting relationships not In China, the opportunities lie further In Singapore we have expanded our generating the right return, and have ahead.
Under an agreement with the distribution network and seen significant taken a more disciplined approach World Trade Organisation, the Wholesale growth in our customer base.
At the same time we Banking market will open up in 2004 and, gained market share and achieved good have strengthened our capital markets by 2007, foreign banks will be allowed growth in revenue and profit.
business, cross-selling products to start retail banking with the Chinese In Malaysia, revenue growth has that provide higher return.
At that time been boosted by the success of our we expect to be selling credit cards, In Global Markets, we were able to exploit MortgageOne home loan product, which mortgages and Wealth Management falling US dollar interest rates, generating now accounts for the majority of our new products to the emerging middle income strong revenue.
In xed income and housing loans there.
earners in about ten major cities.
syndications our excellent relationships We have seen rapid growth in the United and market prole keep us at the top Standard Chartered is one of only a Arab Emirates UAE and we have an of the league tables for Asia.
Our OECD handful of international banks positioned ambitious branch expansion plan in India.
businesses, in the United Kingdom for the opening of Chinas markets.
and the United States, were particularly In 2002, we opened our first two retail Mortgages remain a good business.
successful in sourcing syndications branches, in Shanghai and Shenzhen Though we have seen margin pressure and structured export finance transactions and made a strategic investment in more mature markets there is significant for customers in our emerging in BOC Hong Kong Holdings Limited.
potential as countries like India and China markets network.
It is a product that helps us attract new customers and it offers good returns.
In 2002 we also won important Asian regional mandates for cash management and trade.
9 Group Chief Executives Review Continued Thailand and Taiwan Latin America Risk One of our goals for the year was We have refocused our Latin American One of our key agenda items for 2002 to transition Thailand and Taiwan business to concentrate expertise was to reinforce our control of risk and to profitability.
on supporting banks and multi-nationals enhance our risk performance culture.
Both have the potential to become large and we have reduced our risk exposure.
It has been a challenging year for risk markets for us.
In Thailand, we delivered This will enable us to redirect capital with the increased threat of terrorism, a trading profit for the first time since to our core growth markets in Asia corporate collapses, problems in the acquisition of Nakornthon Bank.
the telecommunications industry and the impact of Argentina, but we have We will continue to operate branches MESA and Africa performed well.
in Colombia, Peru and Venezuela with In the Middle East and South Asia representative ofces in Argentina, Brazil We reinforced the independence MESA region we completed the Grindlays and Mexico, focusing primarily on United of this function with the appointment integration and we are seeing strong States dollar clearing, trade finance of a Director of Risk.
The United Arab Emirates is one and global markets activities.
a high-level task force that developed of our top-five markets and Bangladesh, an action plan resulting in one Pakistan, Bahrain, Sri Lanka and Qatar Cost and efficiency of our lowest levels of bad debt within are all well-established businesses with Our cost performance is one of our Wholesale Banking in recent years.
key achievements in 2002 and the cost We introduced a tougher credit review In Africa our business has seen income ratio has improved.
process in Wholesale Banking and have good progress.
We have an excellent responded more quickly to customers In particular, we are beginning to reap competitive position.
We are ranked showing early signs of problems.
the fruits of our investment in world-class number one or two bank in most of the In Consumer Banking we improved service centres in Chennai and Kuala markets where we operate.
In 2002 we customer segmentation and have Lumpur.
The shared service centres are performed particularly well in East Africa strengthened our collection capability.
now providing services remotely to most and we expanded our business in Nigeria.
of the Banks computer users.
We have Looking ahead, we also expect to grow Capital efficiency stepped up our investment in expanding our business in South Africa.
The challenge Having carefully assessed the capital the service centres and now have over in the region has been the extremely needs of the business to achieve 2,200 people employed in them.
We remain our ambitious growth objectives, we cautious and have realigned our operations As well as giving us economies of scale, considered we had an excess of capital.
in line with current prospects by selling the shared service centres allow us to To address this we launched a tender five branches and reducing headcount.
introduce standardised operating models offer which led to the repurchase across the Bank.
in December 2002 of $659 million of 8.9 per cent preference shares.
We have also controlled costs through tighter project management and stricter discipline on general expenditure.
The benets of outsourcing activities like purchasing, premises and other non-essential services, and the impact of reduced telecommunications and infrastructure costs have all contributed to a great performance on costs.
Net Revenue by Business $ million 10 Standard Chartered In October 2002, we became the first major Delivering shareholder returns.
FTSE listed company to launch a dual primary listing in Hong Kong.
This demonstrates our commitment to Hong Kong and China, and We are driving business performance, will help us to expand our Asian institutional and retail shareholder base.
developing innovative value adding We have also made great progress in our drive to reduce inefficiencies.
We now have products, improving service quality, two fully operational shared service centres in Chennai and Kuala Lumpur, centralising and transforming our cost base.
and standardising our service delivery.
We have launched a new international voice telecommunications system that will deliver significant cost reductions.
11 Group Chief Executives Review Continued The premium on repurchase was The rebranding has been accompanied The Future $82 million, which was funded from by the internal launch of brand values 2002 was a year in which we made reserves.
There is a net negative impact to all of our employees.
Our brand values, good progress.
on 2002 basic earnings per share.
Courageous, Responsive, International, While we will continue to look selectively However, in future years there will be an Creative and Trustworthy have been at acquisitions, at the heart of the improved annual saving of $59 million in preference enthusiastically accepted.
These shared performance in 2002 has been a drive share dividends, which will have a positive values support our performance culture.
to get more out of our existing businesses.
impact on return on equity and earnings They act as a touchstone for all employees This will continue.
in helping to meet the needs of our customers.
We are broadening our demographic A modest issue of 35 million new ordinary base.
We have added India and the shares, representing 3.1per cent of our Our People United Arab Emirates to the list of markets issued share capital, facilitated our listing I would like to thank the people at Standard where we make operating profit of more on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong.
Chartered for their commitment throughout than $100 million a year.
This helps give As a result Tier 1capital stands the year and their drive towards generating us the scale and balance that we need.
Listing in Hong Kong stronger shareholder returns.
As I have is an integral component of our strategy.
India and China are the two greatest travelled to our operations around the It has raised our prole in our biggest opportunities of the 21st Century.
world, it has confirmed my view that market.
It has also given us a platform We are strongly positioned in both.
we have tremendous talent at all levels to expand our investor base in Asia.
My job is to harness the talent We will continue to grow, although the and unleash the energy of our employees.
pace of growth will reect the underlying Brand economic uncertainties and our focus Our new brands modern and dynamic During the year there was an increased on sustainable returns.
look appeals to the growing, afuent focus on talent management.
We made middle income earners who seek financial a number of key external hires and about I am very pleased with the progress that products and services which reect 60 internal moves at senior management we have made on our cost income ratio.
We launched a new approach We are a long way down the road to research shows that customers prefer to organisational learning, which will allow restructuring the cost base and homing the new identity.
employees more control over their own in on our target of a cost income ratio training and development as well as the of below 50 per cent.
We have large-scale businesses Cards, We have strengthened our leadership Wealth Management, Global Markets and development with processes that others and efficiency in our operations.
include one-to-one coaching and I am confident that we will deliver a short but intensive leadership course improved returns to our shareholders.
I believe staff engagement has a direct impact on performance and all managers are therefore measured on the way they Mervyn Davies, Group Chief Executive manage people.
Employee engagement 19 February 2003 is tracked annually through a Gallup Survey.
Normalised Earnings Per Share Cents 12 Standard Chartered We are well positioned in the worlds most We hold leading positions in dynamic markets.
We are the largest foreign bank in India and across much of the Middle East and South Asia.
We are in some In addition we took a $50 million stake of the worlds fastest growing markets in BOC Hong Kong Holdings Limited in 2002.
This is a subsidiary of the Bank of China, one of the largest state-owned commercial banks.
including the United ArabEmirates, The Nakornthon acquisition in Thailand India, China and the markets is already delivering profits and we are well placed for further growth in this market.
13 Business Review Consumer Banking Cards is one of our most important Consumer Banking has seen strong businesses, generating high returns.
growth in all its markets outside of It also presents us with a great opportunity Hong Kong.
Business volumes, revenue, for potential growth.
We are the largest pre-provision profit and trading profit cards provider in a number of countries, increased in virtually every market.
which gives us scale and competitive Our focus on costs has also delivered advantage in the marketplace.
In India a significant improvement in the cost we launched a number of co-branded income ratio.
The bankruptcy issue in Hong Kong has Karen Ngui Mortgages and Auto Finance had a significant impact on our profitability.
Global Head, Group Brand Management We are well positioned in this sector, However, we acted decisively by putting and Strategic Marketing and have seen earnings grow and margins in place a number of initiatives to mitigate The new Standard Chartered is an exciting stabilise.
Key markets such as Singapore and dynamic organisation, built on our heritage, the impact.
These initiatives focused and Hong Kong delivered strong growth anchored in our values and positioned for the on strengthening the risk management and outpaced the market.
I believe we have a world-class brand framework, reducing exposure in high grew at 13 per cent and India has almost and the challenge is to stay focused on our goal risk segments, improving our collections doubled its loans outstanding.
Taiwan to be the right partner for our customers, staff process, and driving through cost and the communities in which we operate.
has also shown rapid growth in this sector.
Bankruptcies remain a big issue for the banking industry although The credit quality of our mortgage Facts the impact on our portfolio has declined portfolio remains resilient.
For example, World-wide research during brand in recent months.
our mortgage delinquency rates in Hong development showed that: Over 2,000 consumers signicantly prefer Kong have fallen from 0.77 per cent in Our Qualifying Full Bank status has our new brand identity.
2001 to 0.63 per cent at the end of 2002, enhanced our distribution capability in Over 10,000 consumers and staff endorse which is lower than the market average Singapore.
We launched a shared ATM our brand values.
of 1.06 per cent according to Hong Kong Over 2,000 consumers afrmed that network in conjunction with two banks Monetary Authority gures.
the I Believe campaign created a positive giving customers access to a total of 54 impression and increased their preference locations island-wide.
In addition, we are We launched MortgageOne, an innovative for Standard Chartered.
the only foreign bank admitted into the product which allows customers to offset local NETS direct debit services network, the interest earned on current accounts We must allowing us to offer services to 17,000 against the interest on their mortgage.
Leverage our brand to create further retailers.
Standard Chartered was named The account was initially launched differentiation and enhance our Best Retail Bank in Singapore and Asia in Malaysia and subsequently rolled out business results.
Pacic by Asian Banker magazine.
in Hong Kong, Singapore and India, with Realise our full potential by living our brand values.
It now accounts for more Cards and Personal Loans than 35 per cent of new sales.
As a result We have had very strong growth in we gained strong market shares in our both Credit Cards and Personal Loans.
Growth across India, Middle East, South Asia and Singapore has been in excess Wealth Management of 20 per cent.
significant revenue growth in guaranteed funds, retail, treasury and bancassurance products, has been offset by declining interest margins on deposits.
Revenue by Product $ million 14 Standard Chartered We are a trusted and well-respected provider Commitment to our markets.
of financial products and services.
We have built up an enviable knowledge of local markets in Asia, Africa, the Americas and the Middle East.
We have been in many of our In many cases, we have had a presence markets for several generations for more than a century.
Our first two branches were in Calcutta and Shanghai and we have been operating continuously in China for the last and have become a trusted partner 144 years.
We issue banknotes in Hong Kong.
When the Asian crisis hit in 1997 we continued to businesses and individuals.
to support businesses in the region.
15 Business Review Continued While it has been a difficult market We were able to exploit falling US dollar for equity funds and pensions, our assets interest rates, which generated strong under management grew signicantly revenues, and continue to top the with India, Taiwan and Indonesia Asia league tables in xed income accounting for much of the new growth.
The Asian Fixed In Malaysia our range of unit trusts Income business showed further includes eight Islamic banking funds.
growth and we grew our syndications market share.
Wholesale Banking A wider product range complements Wholesale Banking is moving from our strength in emerging markets Foreign Peter Sullivan a lending oriented and capital intensive Exchange.
This includes Currency Options Chief Executive officer Africa business to one focused on a more and Interest Rate Derivatives, Fixed In 2002, Africa contributed eight per cent balanced product range and on Income, Structured Asset Solutions, of the Groups pre-tax profit.
This is in spite improving returns.
of major challenges in one of our key markets, Loan Syndications, Corporate Advisory Zimbabwe.
The African business, which has We have reshaped the business, trading and Funds Management.
demonstrated strong growth across the region, revenue for lower risk, and strengthened is poised to grow further, with expansion plans our capital market franchise, cross-selling Trade Finance and Lending in Nigeria and South Africa.
The vision for Africa products that provide higher return.
The repositioning of our trade and lending is to be clearly the leading international bank We are also focusing on a smaller number portfolio has had a short-term impact on the African continent.
Our focus is to grow of high value customers, and exiting on revenues.
However, the overall quality our revenue through innovative products customers and segments that of our portfolio has improved as a result.
and a robust sales culture, while continuing do not generate the right return.
We have grown market share for trade to manage risk.
products in key countries, despite exiting We have seen the benets of the Facts some of the lower return segments measures we have taken to control risks.
and were appointed Asian trade These changes, together with historic Biggest bank by trading profit and market finance partner to a number of other share in many African countries.
high levels of provisions, have resulted financial institutions.
Consistently profitable, particularly in local in a lower debt charge for Wholesale currency terms.
Banking and good improvement In November 2002 we launched B2BeX, Leading bank in Trade and Treasury Services.
our leading-edge platform designed to facilitate cross-border trade and supply We must Global Markets chain management.
In December B2BeX Further improve the levels of customer service.
It was an important year for Global won the ifs BT Financial Innovation Expand our business in Nigeria.
We have seen new revenue Awards 2002 in the Most Innovative Continue to build employee engagement growth from a broader and more Business to Business Initiative category.
through our Africa First initiative.
sophisticated product set, including credit derivatives and asset backed Cash Management and Custody securitisation.
We have also launched Cash transaction volumes continue innovative retail bonds for corporations to grow and we maintained our position such as Wharf Holdings, Mass Transit as a leading Asian Cash Management Railway Corporation and Hong Kong provider.
However revenues fell reecting Airport Authority.
These bonds utilise both the low interest rate environment.
our Consumer Banking and Wholesale Banking capabilities to deliver effective debt nancing solutions that meet the needs of local retail investors.
Net Revenue % Africa excluding Zimbabwe, as a percentage of the Group 16 Standard Chartered We believe that our international breadth One of the worlds most international is a competitive advantage.
More than 85 per cent of our revenue is generated from outside OECD countries.
We are a major global We are truly a multi-cultural company.
player with a presence in over International diversity is part of our DNA.
We understand the cultures and the aspirations of our customers around the world.
Our people are drawn of our 150th anniversary we will be celebrating our internationalism, encouraging employees from local markets and bring with to embrace each others cultures and traditions.
them a wealth of local knowledge and expertise.
17 Business Review Continued We have strengthened our franchise In addition to processing, the hubs in the Middle East and South Asia, also provide information technology IT, invested in Cash Management capabilities, systems development, human resources delivered new products to market, and and finance services to the Bank.
launched a new internet based platform.
This has all contributed to the aquisition Telecommunications of a number of new customers.
Reliable and economic telecommunications are vital to a bank Investing in our Cash Management with our international scale of operations product capabilities has resulted in and are a key enabler of our centralisation deposit growth of 16 per cent.
In addition Gareth Bullock strategy.
We have installed an Internet we have won a number of significant Director of Standard Chartered Bank Protocol-based global-wide area data regional mandates from some of the Group Head, Technology and Operations network.
A separate but complementary worlds leading multinationals.
In July Group Technology and Operations is Standard satellite network was installed for our Chartereds central nervous system and is vital 2002, we were appointed by the Hong African business.
Additionally, we also to the Groups success.
We cover a broad Kong Monetary Authority as the sole signed a contract for international voice range of services from communications settlement institution for Euro clearing.
telecommunications, which will lead to processing transactions and data.
We are to significant cost reductions.
at the heart of the Banks goals to improve cost, Technology and Operations service quality and exibility.
We will continue In 2002 we brought together the to reshape our infrastructure to standardise, Technology Supporting technology and operations functions centralise and re-engineer our technology and Business Development under one operating model.
This has already led to the creation The major focus of our investment in and Operations is an integrated part of two service centres.
technology is to provide a cost-efficient of the Bank, supporting the development platform that enables improvement Facts and growth of Consumer Banking, in products and customer service.
2,200 staff in two centralised service centres Wholesale Banking and regional in Chennai and Kuala Lumpur.
It also supports our drive Two major initiatives were launched last Wide range of processes migrated to improve cost, service quality year focusing on our Consumer Banking to the service centres banking operations, and exibility through standardisation, networks in Hong Kong and Singapore.
credit cards, systems support, IT, finance centralisation and re-engineering.
We have implemented the first stages and HR.
of the Customer Sales and Service $60 million cost reduction as a result of centralising processes and products Global Hubs project based on a world-class customer in first full year of implementation.
By the end of the year there were over relationship management solution and the 2,200 staff in our centralised hubs in installation of an advanced teller platform.
We must Kuala Lumpur and Chennai, servicing In August we successfully launched a new Continue to focus on providing a wide range of banking products such a cost-efficient platform.
branch banking system in United Arab as trade, credit cards and payments.
Continue to migrate processes and products Emirates, called eBBS, which we aim We expect the number of staff to increase into the centralised service centres.
to roll out in the rest of Middle East and signicantly in 2003 as the size South Asia and range of operations processes migrated increases.
Total Operating Expenses $ million 18 Standard Chartered Our refreshed brand is aligned to the lifestyle Strong, well regarded brand.
and aspirations of our customers.
Customers trust our brand as we strive to become the partner of choice the right partner for providing Customers prefer our refreshed world-class financial products and services.
It is built on our values, which are also rmly brand, which has been introduced embedded in the Groups culture.
Branches around the world, from India globally.
Our brand signies to United Arab Emirates, Singapore to Kenya have a consistently modern and dynamic look.
a shared set of values that help We sponsor a number of marathons around the world including Singapore and Hong Kong, us do the right thing for customers.
19 Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Community Uganda supported the Nsumba is at the core of our values.
Standard Our community programmes mainly Childrens Home as a rehabilitation centre Chartered believes that with appropriate target those countries in Asia, Africa and to train and counsel street children.
policies and practices in place it can the Middle East from which we derive our Zambia supported a University Teaching be a legitimate inuence for good.
In 2002 $3.9 million was spent on Hospital Paediatrics wing in Lusaka.
It does this by promoting high standards such initiatives.
Apart from funding many of socially responsible business in the of the projects, staff are encouraged Middle East and South Asia emerging markets.
A new corporate to take part in activities to support Bangladesh employees donated social responsibility website was the community.
blood to the Bangladesh National Blood launched in 2002.
This details policies Bank, cleaned up the childrens ward and procedures put in place to enable Living with HIV of the Islamiya Eye hospital and also Standard Chartered to meet or exceed We won several awards for our HIV AIDS donated mosquito nets and food the legal, ethical, commercial and public staff education programme Staying Alive packets to patients.
expectations of the communities rolled out to Africa staff in 2000.
The Bank Lebanon supported the SOS Childrens in which it operates.
The Bank strongly is now committed to roll out its new Village through donations and childrens supports the trend toward delivering Living with HIV education programme visits to the Bank for a learning experience.
shareholder value in a socially, ethically to all employees by December 2003. and environmentally responsible manner.
Training of staff champions will Sri Lanka provided support to continue through 2003.
We share Vajira Rehabilitation Childrens Home This has been recognised externally.
the programmes we have developed and Maharagama Cancer Hospital.
Standard Chartered has been a member with other corporations, government The Bank has donated a heavy-duty of FTSE4Good since its launch institutions and community groups.
suction unit, TV, furniture and medicine in July 2001.
FTSE4Good is a Socially to the hospital.
Responsible Investment index that Seeing is Believing only includes companies reaching certain Nepal supported an education In February 2003, we launched a global standards of corporate social responsibility.
programme for young girls through campaign in partnership with Sight The Company has publicly declared the United Nations Womens organisation Savers International to raise enough its support for the United Nations Global project Kamlarni Scholarship Programme.
funds to restore the sight of 28,000 Compact and the OECD Guidelines people.
The campaign was initially India continued to support Pratham for Multinational Business.
It is an active launched in Bangladesh.
Delhi an education initiative to provide member of the Prince of Wales International pre-school education for street children, Business Leaders Forum and has been Africa Victoria Memorial School for the blind and included in Morley Fund Managements The Community Partnership for Africa, an exhibition and sale of articles produced Sustainability Matrix.
begun in 2001, sets aside $1million per by developmentally handicapped children For the latest environmental report and annum for worthy high impact projects.
more detail on community projects please Ghana in partnership with Water visit the CSR website: North East Asia Aid donated 100 wells to support www.
com ourbeliefs Hong Kong the Hong Kong Council the provision of clean drinking water of Social Service awarded the Bank to 100 villages.
with the Caring Company Award Kenya donated 27 maize mills and 2002 2003.
The award recognises six boreholes to provide food and water Standard Chartereds long-term to the community.
commitment to the community and dedicated support of the many staff who volunteer to help charities.
20 Standard Chartered Standard Chartered supports many youth We are part of the fabric of the projects in the area of health and education.
In India the Bank supports Prem Dan Learning Centre and the Victoria Memorial School for local community.
In Hong Kong and Singapore the Bank sponsors marathons which raise considerable and procedures ensure that we funds for charity.
The Community Partnership for Africa oversees promote high standards of socially many worthy projects on the continent including the refurbishment of the Kurasini Orphanage responsible business ethics.
21 Corporate Social Responsibility Continued Hong Kong raised HK$1.8 million Peru supported the Santa Rosa Possible environmental risks are $230,770 for the Hong Kong Sports Community Project in Peru to replace managed by an environmental and Association for the Physically Disabled the existing makeshift classroom made social credit risk policy.
In a recent study, through the 2002 Hong Kong marathon.
of wooden poles, cardboard and plastic ISIS concluded that Standard Chartered For the fifth year, the Bank has sponsored sheets.
The classroom is for 28 nursery had engaged in a serious review of the Asian Youth Orchestras rehearsal school children aged 35. environmental credit risk assessment, camp in Hong Kong, the Childrens and established policies and operating United Kingdom supported the Tower Heart Fund and the Youth Arts festival.
procedures in their home markets.
Taiwan adopted and developed Standard Chartered staff volunteered Improvements in our management Victoria Garden, a small park outside and provided interviewing skills, mentoring, of environmental issues have also begun our agship branch in Taipei.
reading and numerical learning for children to be reected in external benchmarks.
In the United Kingdom, the Business South East Asia in the Environment Index of Corporate Thailand in co-operation with the Thailand Environment Environmental Engagement improved Business Initiative for Rural Development 2002 saw significant progress its rating of the Bank.
Additionally we handed over a village meeting centre on environmental matters.
In 2001 we became a signatory to the United Nations at Ang Hin.
The centre will be used published our first environmental report Environmental Programme UNEP as a venue for vocational training, which concentrated on preliminary work Statement on the Environment and a library and a meeting place.
in the United Kingdom, and presented Sustainable Development.
management and performance targets Singapore sponsored a series We also continued to support a number for subsequent years.
In 2002 this was of monthly lunches for 90 elderly of environmental projects across the followed with the launch of a three-year one-room at dwellers.
To mark our environmental global environmental management commitment and to raise awareness Indonesia provided support programme.
This programme has among staff, customers and the to the elementary school for children developed a global environmental community, we launched a Clean and of low-income earners.
management system designed Green campaign in October.
Various to formally manage the Banks most activities took place during the week, United Kingdom and the Americas significant operational impacts such which included an environmental quiz United States staff volunteered to paint as waste production and energy use.
on the website, recycling of clothing and refurbish a primary school in the Bronx It is currently being implemented and computer materials, conservation section of New York City.
in 19 locations in seven countries, of energy and joining in community covering 40 per cent of staff.
projects to protect the environment.
Bank employees in Venezuela participate in tree planting during Standard Chartereds Clean and Green week.
22 Standard Chartered There follow a few examples of the many Brunei Qatar environmental projects that have taken Staff in Darussalam were involved Standard Chartered employees place this year around the world.
in a beach cleaning exercise which in Qatar collected 50 bags of garbage included the replanting of vegetation from the Crescent of Isle Banana to Africa and release of 150 young turtles into support conservation and cleanliness.
Staff from 13 territories in Africa planted the South China Sea.
Bahrain Philippines Standard Chartered Bahrain Kenya All employees in the Philippines received won an award from the Electricity Standard Chartered Kenya sponsored a green book, which provided staff with and Water Ministry for a power the 31st Annual World Environment useful information about the environment, conservation programme.
Day promoted by the United Nations including recycling, energy conservation, The Bank held a charity walk to raise Environment Programme UNEP.
funds for sponsoring a 72-page book About 100 staff joined 150 youth on environmental issues.
groups in a Clean Up campaign Nepal and raised the local communitys The Bank donated 25 personal United Kingdom environmental awareness.
computers to Shree Tilingtar Higher The Bank issued green paper recycling Secondary School at Dhapasi collection boxes to every employee.
Now more than 3,000 kilos of paper Staff in Shanghai participated in the are recycled each week.
cleaning of the Huang Pu River while Malaysia a team from Shenzen participated A plant gala was organised at one of our A what a turn off campaign was in a beach cleaning exercise.
branches and more than 300 ornamental introduced to encourage staff to switch plants of all types were donated for sale.
off the lights and other equipment when India not in use 950 kilowatts of energy Staff cleaned a park and planted near Pakistan are saved each week.
the Sarita Vihar slum in New Delhi.
Staff supported a kidney centre for six Details of this and the progress planned years via an annual donation of $25,000, The Bank partnered with the South for next year can be found in our second sponsored Art students at Indus Valley Chennai Chapter of Exnora and environmental report available at: School for six years via ArtFest and ONYX organised the Clean Up www.
com ourbeliefs donated over 200 computers to schools Marina Beach campaign.
Standard Chartered Ghana contributes to improving peoples life by giving access to clean water.
100 wells have been donated to 100 villages.
21employees of the Bank scaled Mount Kinabalu in Malaysia raising funds for charity.
23 Summary Financial Review Group Summary Net interest income increased by six per cent driven largely by volume The results for the year ended 31December 2002 reflect a strong growth, lower funding costs and better spreads in Consumer Banking performance with profit before tax up16 per cent from $1,089 million and strong earnings on asset and liability management in Wholesale to $1,262 million.
Revenue momentum has been sustained despite Banking.
The Group also benefited by $57 million from the unwind of tough market conditions, pressure on margins and a low interest rate interest rate swaps relating to the Groups preference shares which were environment.
Costs have been reduced by $28 million without cutting repurchased in December.
The Groups average interest earning assets investment in growth businesses and in re-engineering the Bank.
rose by $2.9 billion compared to 2001, an increase of three per cent.
Provisions for bad debts and contingent liabilities were $19 million lower, Overall the average net interest margin was 3.1 per cent compared mainly due to tight control on risk in Wholesale Banking where new to 3.0 per cent in 2001. provisions were lower and recoveries were higher than in 2001.
Net fees and commissions receivable have increased by one per cent The results were adversely impacted by increased Consumer Banking to $991million compared to $977 million in 2001.
The focus on a more bad debts from bankruptcies in Hong Kong, the economic deterioration sophisticated product set within Global Markets generated higher fees in in Argentina in the first quarter and the difficult economic environment the Americas and United Kingdom.
In Other Asia Pacific, India and MESA in Zimbabwe, but benefitted from a gain on the unwind of a swap relating growth was largely in unsecured lending in Consumer Banking, offsetting to the preference shares repurchased in December.
the impact of bankruptcy containment actions in Hong Kong.
Revenue has grown by three per cent to $4,539 million and reflects strong Dealing profits have fallen by $50 million or eleven per cent.
Hong Kong, momentum in Consumer Banking outside of Hong Kong.
Total Group India and MESA performed well, increasing revenue by $22 million revenue has felt the impact of three significant factors in 2002.
However, in addition to the hyper-inflationary the deliberate action taken to trade revenue to improve the risk prole adjustment and translation losses relating to Zimbabwe, lower spreads of the business.
Secondly, the deteriorating conditions and hyper-inflationary and reduced volumes in a number of countries led to a fall in revenue.
environment in Zimbabwe depressed revenue by $64 million.
Thirdly, Total operating expenses were reduced by $28 million to $2,557 million the Group unwound certain interest rate swaps hedging the $659 million compared to $2,585 million in 2001.
The benefits of the centralisation of preference shares which were repurchased in December with a gain and operational efficiency programmes continue and the integration of of $57 million.
Grindlays has led to higher than targeted cost synergies.
This improvement is despite a $41million charge in Latin America as a result of refocusing the strategy, and has been achieved while continuing to invest for future growth.
The cost income ratio for 2002 was 53.6 per cent, compared to 55.8 per cent in 2001on a normalised basis.
The net provisions for bad and doubtful debts and contingent liabilities were $19 million lower than 2001at $712 million.
Wholesale Banking improved its position year on year by $292 million, despite a $75 million charge for Argentina.
This was achieved through a pro-active focus on risk management and a strong performance on recoveries.
Hong Kong bankruptcies accounted for much of the rise in Consumer Bankings bad debts with a charge of $287 million in 2002, compared to $121million in 2001.
Post tax return on equity normalised was 13.4 per cent, up from 12.0 per cent in 2001.
This has been achieved through growing high return businesses, cost efficiency and active capital management.
24 Standard Chartered Consumer Banking The Americas and the United Kingdom have increased profit Consumer Banking remains of prime importance to the Bank.
Revenue from $4 million to U$34 million, mainly due to cost efficiencies arising has increased by nine per cent from $2,222 million in 2001 to $2,416 from restructuring in 2001. million in 2002, and costs have been reduced by five per cent to $1,190 There has been strong revenue growth in Credit Cards and Personal million.
The total debt charge has increased by $273 million to $603 million Loans of ten per cent, and they continue to make impressive returns.
mainly due to the bankruptcy situation in Hong Kong.
This reduced the Lending outside of Hong Kong grew 20 per cent.
Bankruptcy operating profit by two per cent from $638 million to $623 million.
containment actions taken in Hong Kong offset growth elsewhere.
Hong Kong profits have fallen overall by 54 per cent from $340 million Wealth Management has performed well with revenues up by five to $157 million.
However, profits before bad debts have increased per cent over 2001.
This has been driven by growth in unit trust, treasury by four per cent.
Market conditions continue to be difficult with rising and bancassurance products which offset the impact of the lower interest unemployment, reduced margins and the bankruptcy problem affecting rate environment.
This has impacted revenue and bad debts.
Revenue has fallen by three per cent largely because the Group took decisive Mortgages and Auto Finance revenue increased by 25 per cent.
and early action to mitigate bankruptcy risk in its unsecured portfolio.
Mortgage outstandings grew by nine per cent aided by the successful Revenues from Cards and Personal Loans fell by 12 per cent, while implementation of MortgageOne Account in Singapore, Malaysia revenues from Mortgages and Wealth Management grew by eight and India and E-Mortgage in Hong Kong.
Margins improved in 2002. per cent.
Growth in Mortgages was from improved margins and volume Total costs in Consumer Banking have fallen by $64 million growth.
Wealth Management delivered strong growth in fee-based five per cent to $1,190 million, with $52 million of the reduction in Hong income, partially offset by declining margins as a result of the low interest Kong.
These savings are after taking account of accelerated investment rate environment in response to lower revenues.
Costs in Hong Kong in new sales platforms, rebranding and distribution channels.
have been strongly managed and have been reduced by $52 million.
The MortgageOne product has been successfully rolled out Singapore has increased operating profit by 25 per cent and significantly and E-Mortgage developed in Hong Kong.
increased its market share in secured and unsecured lending.
This has The net debt charge increased from $330 million to $603 million.
This been driven by lower funding costs, the successful launch of the innovative was largely driven by personal bankruptcies in Hong Kong.
The data from MortgageOne housing loan solution which offers debt consolidation, the Official Receivers Office shows that although petition rates appear liquidity management and Wealth Management, and through leveraging to have stabilised they remain high and volatile.
The charge off period Standard Chartereds Qualifying Full Banking licence.
for credit cards has been reduced from 150 days past due to120 days Other Asia Pacific increased profits twelve-fold from $4 million to past due in Hong Kong as a consequence of the market environment.
This was mainly due to the Groups investments in Taiwan Elsewhere the growth in bad debts reflects higher volumes, changes and Thailand.
Thailand benefitted from higher volume and margin in Credit in the business mix and economic conditions.
Revenue in Taiwan increased substantially Outside Hong Kong, trading profit growth of 56 per cent required due to increased volumes from a successful mortgage campaign incremental risk weighted assets of $2.4 billion, a 22 per cent increase, together with lower funding costs.
indicating that growth in Consumer Banking need not be capital intensive.
MESA increased operating profit by 66 per cent to $93 million and India by 33 per cent to $52 million.
This was due to the growth in the business and the success of the Grindlays integration.
In India, the mortgage portfolio doubled in size aided by the successful launch of MortgageOne.
Africa delivered operating profit of $10 million, an increase of $4 million from 2001.
This was despite an extremely difficult environment in Zimbabwe.
Improved fees and commissions contributed to this performance.
25 Summary Financial Review Continued Wholesale Banking Risk The Wholesale Banking business continues to be repositioned to focus Risk is inherent in the Groups business and the effective management on products which offer higher returns.
The Group has deliberately traded of that risk is seen as a core competence within Standard Chartered.
revenue to improve the risk profile of the business and this is reected Through its risk management structure the Group seeks to manage in the results of 2002.
Overall revenues fell by three per cent.
However, efficiently the eight core risks: credit, market, country and liquidity risk operating profit has risen by 35 per cent due to the substantial reduction arise directly through the Groups commercial activities whilst business, in the charge for debts.
The debt charge has improved due to lower regulatory, operational and reputational risk are a normal consequence provisions and improved recoveries.
The key element of risk management philosophy is for the risk functions to operate as an independent control Most regions have improved their results through focusing more closely working in partnership with the business units to provide a competitive on Global Markets, reduced costs and improved debt charges.
Malaysia advantage to the Group.
has generated an additional $98 million, MESA $65 million and Hong Kong $43 million.
In MESA and India the improved performance was in Credit Risk part due to the integration of the Grindlays acquisition and higher volume Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not settle its obligations growth and improved margins in Global Markets.
In Africa, the reduction in accordance with agreed terms.
in revenue of $29 million was driven by hyper-inflationary adjustments in Zimbabwe.
Credit exposures include individual borrowers, connected groups of counterparties and portfolios on the banking and trading books.
The profit in the Americas and the United Kingdom has fallen from $95 million to $41million.
This is mainly due to a $75 million charge taken Problem Credits against Argentina in the first quarter of 2002, and costs associated with The Group employs a variety of tools to monitor the portfolio repositioning the business.
and to ensure the timely recognition of problem credits.
Trade and lending revenues have fallen by nine per cent from $849 million In Wholesale Banking, accounts are placed on Early Alert when they to $775 million.
The reduction in business is in line with the strategy display signs of weakness.
Such accounts are subject to a dedicated to trade revenue for risk and to concentrate resources on Global Markets.
process involving senior risk officers and representatives from a specialist This, together with weak market demand, has had an impact on results.
recovery unit, which is independent of the business units.
Account plans Global Markets revenue has increased by six per cent to $973 million.
are re-evaluated and remedial actions are agreed and monitored until Asset and liability management is a significant component within Global complete.
Remedial actions include, but are not limited to, exposure Markets and the positions taken generated substantial revenues in reduction, security enhancement, exit of the account or immediate the low interest rate environment, particularly in the first half of 2002. movement of the account into the control of the specialist recovery unit.
Revenue growth was also generated as the Group focused on higher In Consumer Banking, an account is considered to be in default when return business.
payment is not received on the due date.
Accounts that are overdue Cash Management balances have grown significantly by 16 per cent but by more than 30 days 60 days for mortgages are considered delinquent.
revenues have not improved as margins have declined as a result of the These are closely monitored and subject to a special collections process.
The reduction in Custody revenues by eight In general, loans are treated as non-performing when interest per cent reflects the decrease in equity activity as this business is driven or principal is 90 days or more past due.
by volume and equity values.
However, partially offsetting this was additional revenue from winning new mandates.
Costs have risen by $20 million.
Costs in 2002 include $45 million staff redundancy and other costs associated with repositioning the business.
Investment to enhance product capability has been funded by other cost underlying efficiencies within the Wholesale Banking business.
The significant improvement in the charge for debts reflects the risk management initiatives over the last two years and strong recoveries.
26 Standard Chartered Consumer Banking Where the principal, or a portion thereof, is considered uncollectable Provisions are derived on a formulaic basis depending on the product: and of such little realisable value that it can no longer be included at its Mortgages: a provision is raised where accounts are 150 days past full nominal amount on the balance sheet, a specific provision is raised.
due based on the difference between the outstanding value of the In any decision relating to the raising of provisions, the Group attempts loan and the forced sale value of the underlying asset.
to balance economic conditions, local knowledge and experience and Credit cards: a charge off is made for all balances which are 150 days the results of independent asset reviews.
past due or earlier as circumstances dictate.
In Hong Kong charge off Where it is considered that there is no realistic prospect of recovering is currently at 120 days.
the principal of an account against which a specific provision has been Other unsecured Consumer Banking products: a charge off is made raised, then that amount will be written off.
The Group reports at 150 days past due.
non-performing loans on a net at risk basis two years after first raising Other secured Consumer Banking products: a provision is raised a specific provision.
Net at risk is the result of netting interest in at 90 days past due for the difference between the outstanding value suspense and specific provision against applicable gross outstandings.
and the forced sale value of the underlying asset.
The underlying asset Normal account management and collection efforts are not impacted is then re-valued periodically until disposal.
It is current practice to provision and write off exposure in respect Included in Other Asia Pacific are net non-performing loans of $690 of Hong Kong bankruptcies at the time the customer petitions million 2001: $739 million in Standard Chartered Nakornthon Bank for bankruptcy.
SCNB which are subject to a Loan Management Agreement LMA.
The Small and Medium Enterprises SME portfolio is provisioned In 2001 gross non-performing loans for Other Asia Pacific have been on a case by case basis.
restated to include $58 million of gross non-performing loans subject to the LMA which were previously reported under Consumer Banking.
In 2001, gross non-performing loans and advances for Other Asia Pacific have been restated.
$58 million of gross non-performing loans Wholesale Banking Cover Ratio in Standard Chartered Nakornthon Bank SCNB subject to a Loan Corporate loans and advances to customers against which Management Agreement LMA are now reported in Wholesale Banking.
provisions have been outstanding for two years or more are written The relatively low Consumer Banking cover ratio reflects the fact that down to their net realisable value.
The following table shows the cover ratio after adjusting for the cumulative amounts written down.
Standard Chartered classifies all exposure which is 90 days past due as non-performing, whilst provisions on unsecured lending are The non-performing loans recorded in SCNB are excluded from the only raised at the time of charge-off see details relating to the raising cover ratio calculation as they are the subject of a Loan Management of provisions above.
Agreement with a Thai government agency.
Net non-performing loans have decreased by $291million to Wholesale Banking $1,323 million at 31December 2002 on the back of strong recoveries Loans are designated as non-performing as soon as payment of interest as work-out strategies initiated in earlier years take effect.
Net or principal is 90 days or more overdue, or where sufficient weakness non-performing loans are covered by collateral and on-going work-out is recognised that full payment of either interest or principal becomes strategies.
The Wholesale Banking adjusted cover ratio also shows questionable.
Where customer accounts are recognised as significant improvement year-on-year and now stands at 78 per cent non-performing or display weakness that may result in non-performing 2001: 73 per cent.
status being assigned, they are passed to the management of a specialist unit, which is independent of the main businesses Country Risk of the Group.
Country risk is the risk that a counterparty is unable to meet its For loans and advances designated non-performing, interest continues contractual obligations as a result of adverse economic conditions to accrue on the customers account but is not included in income.
or actions taken by governments in the relevant country.
27 Summary Financial Review Continued Market Risk Interest Rate Exposure The Group recognises market risk as the exposure created by the The Groups interest rate exposures comprise trading exposures and potential changes in market prices and rates.
Market risk arises on structural interest rate exposures.
Interest rate risk arises on both trading financial instruments, which are either valued at current market prices positions and non-trading books.
mark to market or at cost plus any accrued interest non-trading basis.
Structural interest rate risk arises from the differing re-pricing The Group is exposed to market risk arising principally from customer characteristics of commercial banking assets and liabilities, including driven transactions.
non-interest bearing liabilities such as shareholders funds and some Market risk is supervised by the Group Risk Committee, which agrees current accounts.
policies and levels of risk appetite in terms of Value at Risk VaR.
The average daily interest rate revenue from market risk related activity A Group Market Risk Committee sits as a specialist body to provide during 2002 was $2.2 million.
business level management, guidance and policy setting.
Policies cover the trading book of the Group and also market risks within the non-trading Derivatives books.
Limits by location and portfolio are proposed by the business Derivatives are contracts whose characteristics and value derive from within the terms of agreed policy.
Group Market Risk agrees the limits underlying financial instruments, interest and exchange rates or indices.
and monitors exposures against these limits.
They include futures, forwards, swaps and options transactions in the Group Market Risk augments the VaR measurement by regularly stress foreign exchange and interest rate markets.
Derivatives are an important testing aggregate market risk exposures to highlight potential risk that risk management tool for banks and their customers because they may arise from extreme market events that are rare but plausible.
In can be used to manage the risk of price, interest rate and exchange addition, VaR models are back tested against actual results to ensure rate movements.
pre-determined levels of accuracy are maintained.
The Groups derivative transactions are principally in plain vanilla Additional limits are placed on specific instrument and currency instruments, where the mark-to-market values are readily determinable concentrations where appropriate.
Factor sensitivity measures are used by reference to independent prices and valuation quotes or by in addition to VaR as additional risk management tools.
Option risks are using standard industry pricing models.
The total off-balance sheet controlled through revaluation limits on currency and volatility shifts, exposure to derivatives at 31December 2002 was $9,783 million limits on volatility risk by currency pair and other underlying variables 2001: $7,517 million based on net replacement cost.
that determine the options value.
Liquidity Risk Foreign Exchange Exposure The Group defines liquidity risk as the risk that funds will not be available The Groups foreign exchange exposures comprise trading and to meet liabilities as they fall due.
structural foreign currency translation exposures.
A range of tools are used for the management of liquidity.
These comprise Foreign exchange trading exposures are principally derived from commitment and wholesale borrowing guidelines, key balance sheet customer driven transactions.
The average daily foreign exchange ratios and medium-term funding requirements.
trading revenue during 2002 was $1.2 million.
At the local level, in line with policy, the day to day monitoring of future cash flows takes place and suitable levels of easily marketable assets are maintained by the businesses.
Operational and Other Risks Operational risk is the risk of direct or indirect loss due to an event or action causing failure of technology, processes, infrastructure, personnel, and other risks having an operational risk impact.
Standard Chartered seeks to minimise actual or potential losses from operational risk failures through a framework of policies and procedures that identify, assess, control, manage and report risks.
28 Standard Chartered Capital Standard Chartereds policy is to maintain a conservative balance sheet and strong capital base.
The Group Asset and Liability Committee targets Tier 1 and Total Capital ratios of seven per cent to nine per cent and 12 to 14 per cent respectively.
The Group believes that being well capitalised is important.
2002 2001 $million $million Tier 1 capital: Shareholders funds 7,327 7,538 Minority interests 249 73 Innovative Tier 1 securities 997 929 Unconsolidated associated companies 31 22 Less: Premises revaluation reserves 3 61 Goodwill capitalised 2,118 2,269 Own shares held 57 Total Tier 1 capital 6,426 6,232 Tier 2 capital: Premises revaluation reserves 3 61 General provisions 468 468 Undated subordinated loan capital 1,853 1,804 Dated subordinated loan capital 2,605 2,677 Total Tier 2 capital 4,929 5,010 Investments in other banks 558 Other deductions 4 19 Total capital 10,793 11,223 Risk weighted assets 55,931 53,825 Risk weighted contingents 18,623 15,517 Total risk weighted assets and contingents 74,554 69,342 Capital ratios Tier 1 capital 8.6% 9.0% Total capital 14.5% 16.2% 2002 2001 $million $million Shareholders funds Equity 6,695 6,279 Non Equity 632 1,259 Total 7,327 7,538 Post tax return on equity normalised 13.4% 12.0% Comparative restated see page 34.
Relates to shares held in trust to fulfil the Groups obligations under employee share schemes.
The Group identified improving the efficiency of capital management as a strategic priority for 2002.
A capital plan to achieve this has been developed.
This includes several key elements.
In particular, to reduce the amount of Tier 2 capital and to improve the overall capital mix within the broad target ratios.
In October 2002, Standard Chartered PLC listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.
The Company issued 35 million shares of $0.50 per share.
The shares were issued at HK$84 per share, raising $17.5 million of share capital and $328 million of share premium.
In December 2002, the Company repurchased 659,126 Non-cumulative Preference Shares with a nominal value of $5 and issued at a price of $1,000 per Preference Share.
The Shares were repurchased at $1,110 per share, together with an amount to compensate for accrued dividend.
The deduction from the share premium reserve was restricted to the $328 million premium raised on the Hong Kong listing.
29 Board of Directors Sir Patrick Gillam Lord Stewartby Mervyn Davies Sir Patrick John Gillam Chairman Appointed to the Board on 1 August 1988 and became Chairman on 6 May 1993.
He is the non-executive Chairman of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc but will retire from this role in March 2003.
He is a member of the Court of Governors and an Honorary Fellow of the London School of Economics and Political Mike DeNoma Christopher Keljik Richard Meddings Science.
He will retire as Chairman in May 2003.
The Rt Hon Lord Stewartby Deputy Chairman Appointed to the Board on 1January 1990 and became Deputy Chairman in 1993.
He is Chairman of the Throgmorton Trust PLC, Deputy Kai Nargolwala Peter Sands Ronnie Chan Chairman of Amlin plc and a non-executive director of other companies.
He was formerly a member of the Financial Services Authority.
Evan Mervyn Davies CBE Group Chief Executive Appointed to the Board on 16 December 1997 and as Group Chief Executive on 28 November Sir CK Chow Barry Clare Ho KwonPing 2001.
He joined Standard Chartered in 1993 with responsibility for global account management and prior to joining the Board he was based in Singapore in charge of the Groups corporate and investment banking business.
Before his appointment as Group Chief Executive he was executive director with responsibility for Hong Kong, China and North East Asia and for David Moir Hugh Norton Rudy Markham Group-wide technology and operations.
He is a member of Hong Kongs Exchange Fund Committee.
Michael Bernard DeNoma Appointed to the Board on 12 May 2000.
He is responsible for the Groups consumer banking business world-wide.
He joined Sir Ralph Robins Bryan Sanderson Cob Stenham Standard Chartered in July 1999 with responsibility for Consumer Banking in the Asian markets.
30 Standard Chartered Christopher Avedis Keljik Sir CK Chow Sir Ralph Harry Robins Appointed to the Board on 7 May 1999.
Appointed to the Board on 24 February 1997.
Appointed to the Board on 1October 1988.
He is responsible for the Groups businesses He is Chief Executive Officer of Brambles He was formerly Chairman of Rolls-Royce plc and for governance in Africa, the Middle East Industries plc and Brambles Industries Limited.
and the Defence Industries Council, and and South Asia and has governance responsibility He is a Fellow of the Royal Academy is a former President of the Society of British for the United Kingdom and the Americas.
of Engineering, the City and Guilds of Aerospace Companies.
He is a non-executive He is also on the Visa International Asia Pacic London Institute and the Institute of Chemical director of Cooper Industries Limited.
He is also a governor of the Chartered in 1976 and has held a number of London Business School.
He is based Bryan Kaye Sanderson CBE senior positions working in London, Hong Kong, in both Sydney and London.
Appointed to the Board on 9 December 2002.
He is to become Chairman in May 2003.
He New York and Singapore in corporate finance, treasury and general management.
Barry Clare spent most of his career with British Petroleum, Appointed to the Board on 31July 2002. rising to become a main board director and Richard Henry Meddings He was formerly an executive director Chief Executive of BP Chemicals before he of the Boots Company PLC.
He is Chairman of BUPA and Appointed to the Board on 16 November 2002.
He is responsible for audit and for risk.
Prior a non-executive director of Six Continents PLC.
to his appointment, he was the Chief Operating Ho KwonPing He is also Chairman of the Learning and Skills Officer, Barclays Private Clients at Barclays PLC.
Appointed to the Board on 22 October 1996.
He is Chairman of the Wah-Chang Group.
He was Group Finance Director of The Woolwich plc before it was acquired by Barclays, where He is also Chairman of Banyan Tree Holdings Anthony William Paul Stenham his responsibilities included risk, compliance Pte Ltd, Singapore Management University Appointed to the Board on 1October 1991. and treasury.
Age 44. and Co-Chairman of the Thailand-Singapore He is Chairman of TeleWest Communications Business Council.
plc, Whatsonwhen plc and IFonline Group plc, Kaikhushru Shiavax Nargolwala Age 50. and a non-executive director of Jarrold and Appointed to the Board on 7 May 1999.
Sons Ltd and Hebridean Cruises plc.
He is He is responsible for the Groups wholesale Rudolph Harold Peter Markham also an advisory director of The Management Appointed to the Board on 19 February 2001.
Age 71. banking business worldwide and for corporate governance across the Asia Pacific region He is Finance Director of Unilever PLC and and India.
He joined Standard Chartered Unilever NV.
Audit and Risk Committee in 1998 as Group Head of Sales responsible Lord Stewartby Chairman David George Moir CBE Rudolph Markham for relationships with corporate and institutional customers in the Asia Pacific region, the USA Appointed to the Board on 1January 1993 Hugh Norton and Europe.
Age 52. as an executive director.
He retired as an Sir Ralph Robins executive director on 18 March 2000 after 42 years service with Standard Chartered Board Remuneration Committee Peter Alexander Sands Appointed to the Board on 14 May 2002.
Group but remains as a non-executive director.
Hugh Norton Chairman He is responsible for finance, strategy, He also sits on the Board of Pengurusan Barry Clare technology and operations.
Prior to his Danaharta Nasional Berhad Danaharta.
Ho KwonPing Age 62. appointment he was a director with world-wide Sir Ralph Robins consultancy McKinsey & Co.
He had been Anthony Stenham with McKinsey since 1988, where he worked Hugh Edward Norton Lord Stewartby extensively in the banking and technology sectors Appointed to the Board on 7 August 1995.
He is a non-executive director of Inchcape plc in a wide range of international markets.
The Board Remuneration Committee acts and is also a member of the Chancellors Court as the Boards Nomination Committee.
Ronnie ChiChung Chan of Benefactors, Oxford University.
Appointed to the Board on 5 May 1994.
Director of Standard Chartered Bank.
He is Chairman of the Hang Lung Group and Independent non-executive director.
its subsidiaries, Hang Lung Properties Limited Non-executive director.
and Grand Hotel Holdings Limited.
31 Summary Report of the Directors Activities Mr D G Moir and Mr K S Nargolwala retire from office by rotation and The Company is a holding company and co-ordinates the activities will offer themselves for re-election at this years AGM.
Sir Patrick Gillam of its subsidiaries which mainly carry out the business of banking and Mr A W P Stenham will retire from office at this years AGM and will and the provision of other financial services.
The Chairmans Statement on pages 4 to 7 and the Group Chief Sir Ralph Robins was 70 on 16 June 2002, and in accordance Executives Review on pages 8 to 12 contain a review of the business of with the Companies Act 1985 he is vacating ofce at this years AGM.
the Group during 2002, of recent events and of likely future developments.
Special provisions apply to the reappointment of directors who have reached the age of 70 and the Company has received special notice Share Capital proposing the reappointment of Sir Ralph Robins as a director.
On 31 October 2002 the Company listed its ordinary share capital The Board is supporting this resolution.
on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong and 35,000,000 shares were Mr Meddings, Mr Nargolwala and Mr Sands have service contracts issued in Hong Kong at a price of HK$84.00 per share.
with a notice period of one year and two years in limited circumstances.
Mr D G Moir, Sir Ralph Robins and Mr Sanderson are non-executive On 4 December 2002 the Company repurchased and cancelled directors and do not have service contracts.
659,126 of its 8.9 per cent preference shares of $5 each.
Social, Ethical and Environmental Policies Dividends Copies of the Groups SEE and environmental policies are available The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 32.9 cents to shareholders on the Companys website at: per ordinary share to be paid on 13 May 2003 to shareholders on the www.
The interim dividend of 14.1cents per ordinary share was paid on 15 October 2001 making a total of 47.0 cents Corporate Governance for the year.
Ordinary shareholders will be offered the choice of taking A report on corporate governance is included on pages 44 and 45 their dividends in sterling, US dollars, Hong Kong dollars or new shares.
Directors Auditors The directors of the Company at the date of this report are listed The Companies Act requires the auditors to report if the accounting on pages 30 and 31. records are not properly kept or if the required information and All of the directors with the exception of Mr P A Sands, Mr R H Meddings explanations are not received.
Their report on the full accounts and Mr B K Sanderson held office throughout the year.
Mr Sands contains no such statement.
and Mr Meddings were appointed as executive directors on 14 May and 16 November 2002, respectively and Mr Sanderson was appointed Annual General Meeting as a non-executive director on 9 December 2002.
It is intended that The Companys AGM will be held at 12 noon on Thursday 8 May 2003 Mr Sanderson will be appointed as Chairman of the Company when at Merchant Taylors Hall, 30 Threadneedle Street, London EC2R 8JB.
Sir Patrick Gillam retires in May 2003.
Mr P N Kenny and Mr K A V Mackrell resigned as directors on 30 April and 2 May 2002, respectively.
32 Standard Chartered Statement of the Independent Auditor to the members of Standard Chartered PLC pursuant to section 251of the Companies Act 1985 We have examined the summary financial statements set out on pages Basis of Opinion 34 to 36.
We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 The auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued by the Auditing Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Our Report on the The directors are responsible for preparing the annual review in Groups full annual accounts describes the basis of our audit opinion accordance with applicable United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility on those accounts.
is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statements within the annual review with the full annual accounts, Opinion the directors report and the directors remuneration report and its In our opinion the summary financial statement is consistent with compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251of the Companies the full annual accounts, the directors report and the directors Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other remuneration report of Standard Chartered PLC for the year ended information contained in the annual review and consider the implications 31December 2002 and complies with the applicable requirements for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements of section 251of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statements.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor London, 19 February 2003 33 Consolidated profit and Loss Account for the year ended 31December 2002 2002 2001 $million $million Interest receivable 5,288 6,419 Interest payable 2,225 3,519 Net interest income 3,063 2,900 Fees and commissions receivable 1,160 1,135 Fees and commissions payable 169 158 Dealing profits 420 470 Other operating income 65 58 1,476 1,505 Net revenue 4,539 4,405 Administrative expenses: Staff 1,270 1,241 Premises 269 285 Other 673 735 Depreciation and amortisation 345 324 Total operating expenses 2,557 2,585 Operating profit before provisions 1,982 1,820 Provisions for bad and doubtful debts 705 732 Provisions for contingent liabilities and commitments 7 1 Amounts written off fixed asset investment 8 Operating profit before taxation 1,262 1,089 Taxation 387 378 Profit after taxation 875 711 Minority interests equity 31 12 Profit for the year attributable to shareholders 844 699 Dividends on non-equity preference shares 108 68 Dividends on ordinary equity shares 545 474 Retained profit 191 157 Basic earnings per ordinary share 57.6c 55.9c Diluted earnings per ordinary share 57.2c 55.4c The 2002 and 2001 results are all from continuing operations.
Comparative restated see note below.
Financial Reporting Standard 19 Deferred Tax FRS19 is effective for accounting periods ending on or after 23 January 2002, and the Group adopted FRS19 in the current period.
It specifies the provisions that are required for Deferred Tax, which are on a different basis to its predecessor, Statement of Standard Accounting Practice 15.
The adjustments have no effect on current or prior periods tax charge but affect the Deferred Tax balances, and Reserves.
The brought forward balances at 1 January 2001 have been restated as follows: the Deferred Tax Asset balance is increased by $156 million, the Profit and Loss Reserves balance is increased by $140 million and the Premises Revaluation Reserve is increased by $16 million.
In February 2002, the Urgent Issues Task Force issued Abstract 33 UITF 33 Obligations in Capital Instruments.
This reviewed the classification of instruments that have the characteristics of both liabilities and shareholders funds and provided further guidance on the accounting treatment of these issues.
In 2001, the 300 million 8.103 per cent Set-up Callable perpetual Trust Preferred Securities and the E500 million 8.16 per cent non-cumulative Trust Preferred Securities were treated as minority interests non-equity in the consolidated accounts of Standard Chartered PLC, in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 4 Capital Instruments.
As a result of complying with UITF33 the instruments have been reclassifed from minority interests non-equity to liabilities.
The restatement of principal balances at 31 December 2001 is $878 million together with accrued interest is $51 million.
The associated minority interest payable is $59 million for the year ended 31 December 2001.
Comparative figures for the year ended 31 December 2001are restated to reflect these changes to accounting policy.
34 Standard Chartered Consolidated Balance Sheet at 31December 2002 2002 2001 $million $million Assets Cash and balances at central banks 1,100 1,004 Cheques in course of collection 137 170 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 5,050 5,105 Loans and advances to banks 16,001 19,578 Loans and advances to customers 57,009 53,005 Debt securities and other fixed income securities 20,187 15,971 Equity shares and other variable yield securities 250 109 Intangible fixed assets 2,118 2,269 Tangible fixed assets 928 992 Other assets 9,106 8,250 Prepayments and accrued income 1,124 1,082 Total assets 113,010 107,535 Liabilities Deposits by banks 10,850 11,688 Customer accounts 71,626 67,855 Debt securities in issue 4,877 3,706 Other liabilities 11,618 9,910 Accruals and deferred income 945 1,267 Provisions for liabilities and charges 63 150 Subordinated liabilities: Undated loan capital 1,853 1,804 Dated loan capital including convertible bonds 3,602 3,544 Minority interests equity 249 73 Called up share capital 909 861 Share premium account 2,764 2,761 Capital reserve 5 5 Capital redemption reserve 3 Premises revaluation reserve 3 61 Profit and loss account 3,643 3,850 Shareholders funds including non-equity interests 7,327 7,538 Total liabilities and shareholders funds 113,010 107,535 Memorandum items Contingent liabilities: Acceptances and endorsements 897 704 Guarantees and irrevocable letters of credit 12,199 11,227 Other contingent liabilities 4,817 3,645 17,913 15,576 Commitments 43,803 42,622 Comparative restated see page 34.
These accounts were approved by the Board of Directors on 19 February 2003 and signed on its behalf by: Sir Patrick Gillam, Chairman E M Davies, Group Chief Executive P A Sands, Group Executive Director 35 Summary Segmental Information By geographic segment 2002 Asia Pacific Middle Americas, Hong Other East & Other UK & Group Kong Singapore Malaysia Asia Pacific India South Asia Africa Head Office Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Net revenue 1,416 485 234 572 394 501 332 605 4,539 Total operating expenses 622 209 143 406 190 196 228 563 2,557 Operating profit before provisions 794 276 91 166 204 305 104 42 1,982 Charge for debts and contingent liabilities 428 41 13 61 38 13 3 115 712 Amounts written off fixed assets investments 8 8 Profit before taxation 366 235 78 105 166 292 101 81 1,262 Total assets employed 41,143 17,387 6,732 16,295 6,411 10,400 3,880 42,327 144,575 2001 Asia Pacific Middle Americas, Hong Other East & Other UK & Group Kong Singapore Malaysia Asia Pacific India South Asia Africa Head Office Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Net revenue 1,442 440 237 529 355 436 355 611 4,405 Total operating expenses 679 205 131 404 209 207 226 524 2,585 Operating profit before provisions 763 235 106 125 146 229 129 87 1,820 Charge for debts and contingent liabilities 257 51 130 86 27 39 13 128 731 Profit before taxation 506 184 24 39 119 190 116 41 1,089 Total assets employed 39,508 15,086 6,223 14,580 5,994 9,604 3,487 41,335 135,817 By class of business 2002 2001 Consumer Wholesale Consumer Wholesale Banking Banking Total Banking Banking Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Net Revenue 2,416 2,123 4,539 2,222 2,183 4,405 Total operating expenses 1,190 1,211 2,557 1,254 1,191 2,585 Profit before provisions 1,226 912 1,982 968 992 1,820 Charge for debts and contingent liabilities 603 109 712 330 401 731 Amounts written off fixed asset investments 8 8 Operating profit before taxation 623 795 1,262 638 591 1,089 Total assets employed 40,465 104,110 144,575 44,992 90,825 135,817 Comparative restated see page 34.
Total operating expenses include $156 million 2001: $140 million amortisation of goodwill.
These costs are a result of global projects managed from the centre and corporate decisions made at the centre and have not been attributed to business segments.
For the segmental information given above, Group central expenses and other overhead costs have been distributed between geographic segments and classes of business in proportion to their direct costs and the benefit of the Groups capital has been distributed between geographic segments and classes of business in proportion to their risk weighted assets.
Total assets employed include intra-group items of $25,874 million 2001: $24,724 million and balances which are netted in the summarised consolidated balance sheet of $5,691million 2001: $3,558 million.
Assets held at the centre have been distributed between geographic segments and classes of businesses in proportion to their total assets employed.
36 Standard Chartered Directors Remuneration Report This report has been prepared by the Board Remuneration Performance-related Remuneration Committee and has been approved by the Board as a whole.
Target remuneration levels for the Groups executive directors are set at the median of its key international competitors, particularly those The Board Remuneration Committee the Committee is made financial institutions headquartered in Europe, the United States and up exclusively of non-executive directors.
The members of the Asia which have significant operations in the Groups principal markets.
Committee are Mr H E Norton Committee Chairman, Lord Stewartby, In addition, relative performance against a specific comparator group Mr B Clare, Mr Ho KwonPing, Sir Ralph Robins and Mr A W P Stenham.
is used in conjunction with one of the Groups share plans, the 2001 Mr K A V Mackrell served as a member of the Committee until his Performance Share Plan.
Details of this comparator group are set retirement on 2 May 2002. out on page 39.
The Committee has specific terms of reference and meets at least Excellent performance by both the Group and by the individual three times a year.
It considers and recommends to the Board the executive directors is rewarded with higher bonus levels and share Groups remuneration policy and agrees the individual remuneration awards, taking potential total compensation to the upper quartile packages of the Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive and or higher of the Groups key international competitors.
No executive directors are involved Executive directors target total compensation is structured to give the in determining their own remuneration.
heaviest weighting to performance-related elements, with approximately The tabular information on pages 41 to 45 has been audited.
30 per cent of total compensation delivered through base salary, 30 per cent through an annual bonus, and 40 per cent through the expected Advisors to the Board Remuneration Committee value of share options and awards under the Performance Share Plan.
The principal advisors to the Committee are the Group Head of Human Resources Mr T J Miller and the Group Head of Reward Ms K J Olley.
Retirement Benefits for executive directors, as for all employees, are set Their advice draws on formal remuneration survey data provided by to be competitive in the local market and are not performance-based.
McLagan and Towers Perrin and, in respect of the design and operation of the Groups share plans, on advice provided by Clifford Chance and Remuneration Structure Towers Perrin.
In addition to this share plan advice, Towers Perrin also The remuneration arrangements for the executive directors consist of: provides retirement, benefit and welfare consulting services to the Group in North America.
Base Salaries Base salary levels are set at the median of the Groups key international The Committee relies upon these principal internal advisers but will competitors.
Salary levels are reviewed annually by the Committee draw upon independent advice as appropriate and depending upon taking account of the latest available market data as well as the the subject matter under discussion.
The Committee did not seek performance of the individual executive.
Mr Davies salary increase in 2002 reflects his promotion from executive In addition, data required for the analysis of comparative Total director to Group Chief Executive.
Excluding Mr Davies, the average Shareholder Return for the Groups Performance Share Plan salary increase for executive directors in 2002 was three per cent.
and for the comparator performance graph disclosed in this report is provided by Datastream.
Annual Performance Bonus Executive directors each have an annual target bonus of 100 per cent Remuneration Policy of base salary, with a maximum award of 150 per cent.
This is a cash sum The success of the Group depends upon the performance and payable immediately on award.
Annual bonus awards are made wholly commitment of talented employees.
The Groups remuneration on the basis of Group and individual performance.
Group performance policy is, and will continue to be, to: is assessed on the basis of a number of quantitative and qualitative Support a strong performance-oriented culture and ensure that measures which include earnings per share, revenue growth, costs individual rewards and incentives relate directly to the performance and cost control, bad debts, pre-tax profits and cost to income ratio.
of the individual, the operations and functions for which they are Individual performance is appraised taking account not only of responsible, the Group as a whole and the interests of shareholders: the results achieved by the executive director but also their adherence and to the Groups values and contribution to the collective leadership maintain competitive awards that reflect the international nature of the Group.
This principle is also applied throughout the organisation.
of the Group and enable it to attract and retain talented executives Actual awards made to executive directors in relation to 2002 ranged of the highest quality internationally.
During 2002, over 89 per cent from 43 per cent to 132 per cent of base salary.
of the Groups trading profit came from operations outside the United Kingdom.
The executive directors of the Group all bring international Long Term Incentives experience and expertise to the Group and the Group recognises In order to align the interests of executive directors and employees with that it recruits from an international marketplace.
those of shareholders, the executive directors are eligible to participate in two of the Groups share incentive schemes, the 2001 Performance Share Plan and the 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme.
Both schemes are designed to provide competitive long term incentives which are only exercisable upon the achievement of tough performance criteria.
Details of these schemes are given on pages 38 and 39.
37 Directors Remuneration Report Continued Remuneration Structure continued All executive directors service agreements contain clauses specifying The importance placed on such programmes as a percentage of executive payments in the event of early termination by the Group other than where summary dismissal is appropriate.
In such circumstances the directors total potential remuneration is one of the strongest indicators of the Groups commitment to paying for demonstrable performance.
service agreements provide for payment that would take account of Awards under these schemes are entirely discretionary and are based the executive directors base salary, pension contributions and certain on individual directors performance.
A performance test is therefore allowances, but exclude non cash benefits and performance related bonus for the relevant period of notice.
effectively applied both at the time of grant and upon vesting.
Upon recruitment to the Group, newly appointed executive directors may Performance Graph also be granted an award of restricted shares under the Groups 1997 The graph below shows the year on year change over the last five years Restricted Share Scheme.
Such awards are made on an exceptional in the Groups total shareholder return alongside the total shareholder basis and are principally used to partly compensate such directors for return of the FTSE 100.
The FTSE 100 provides a broad comparator share awards forfeited on leaving their previous employer.
Executive group against which the Groups shareholders may measure their relative directors are also eligible to participate in the Groups all-employee returns.
The Company is a constituent member of the FTSE 100 Index UK or International Sharesave Schemes on the same terms as other and the London Stock Exchange is the principal exchange for the eligible employees.
A more tailored comparator group as described below is used for the purpose of measuring Group performance for Retirement Benefits the Groups share plans and its remuneration arrangements in general.
All of the executive directors, excluding the Chairman, are eligible for post retirement benefits through an executive directors retirement compensation scheme.
These are provided through a variety of different 45 defined benefit, defined contribution and cash structures reflecting the 30 point at which the executive director joined the Group, their length of service with the Group and their retirement arrangements with previous 15 employers and with external pension providers.
Generally, the Group aims 0 to provide a retirement benefit equivalent to two thirds of salary based on at least 20 years of service with the Group at retirement age of 60.
-15 Base salary is the only element of remuneration which is pensionable.
Retirement benefits are not designed to be performance-related.
-30 -45 Service Contracts Jan 98 Jan 99 Jan 00 Jan 01 Jan 02 Dec 02 The policy for the Group is for all executive directors to receive Standard Chartered and be required to give twelve months notice.
In the twelve month FTSE 100 Index period following a change of control of the Company, the notice period applicable to all existing executive directors is 24 months.
The Committee Five Year Total Shareholder Return will continue to monitor the appropriateness of this policy in the light Data provided by Datastream of market practice and guidelines on corporate governance to allow Long Term Incentives the Group to attract and retain executive directors of the highest quality with commensurate experience.
2001 Performance Share Plan The Performance Share Plan the Plan is designed as an intrinsic Sir Patrick Gillam will retire as Chairman in May 2003.
His successor, part of total remuneration for the Groups executive directors and Mr Bryan Sanderson, will have a contract subject to twelve months for a very small number of the Groups most senior executives.
There is no change in his notice period following a change internationally competitive long term incentive that focuses executives of control of the Company.
on meeting and exceeding the long term performance targets of the The dates of the executive directors service agreements are set out below: Group.
The performance criteria which need to be met are listed below.
Executive director Date of agreement A personal shareholding requirement further reinforces the long term Sir Patrick Gillam 5 May 1993 nature of this plan.
The Plan is administered by the Standard Chartered E M Davies 3 November 1997 Employee Share Ownership Trust the Trust which is managed by an M B DeNoma 19 June 2000 independent corporate trustee.
Awards of nil price options to acquire C A Keljik 11August 1999 shares are granted to the director and will normally be exercised R H Meddings 16 November 2002 between three and ten years after the date of grant if the individual K S Nargolwala 9 August 1999 is still employed by the Group.
There is provision for earlier exercise in P A Sands 13 May 2002 certain limited circumstances.
The value of shares awarded in any year to any individual may not exceed one times their base salary.
To participate in the Plan and before exercising any award, executive directors have to build up, within three years of participating in the Plan, a personal shareholding equivalent to one times base salary in addition to the shareholding requirement for the 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme.
The Committee will set appropriate performance conditions each time that awards are made under the Plan.
38 Standard Chartered Percentage TSR change over the year The performance conditions which need to be met before any award The Committee is responsible for approving the grant and exercise of can be exercised under the Plan are summarised below, together with all awards made to executive directors under the Plan.
The Committee the reason for their selection: may amend the performance conditions which apply to any award if the amended condition would provide a more appropriate measure Relative Total Shareholder Return TSR : measuring the year-on-year of performance as long as the amended condition would be no less growth in share price plus dividends paid to shareholders during that demanding to satisfy.
period, relative TSR is recognised as one of the best indicators of whether a shareholder has achieved a good return on investing It will be determined in January 2004 whether the performance in the Group relative to a basket of companies or a single index.
conditions of the first award under this Plan have been met.
For awards Earnings per Share: An earnings per share EPS performance granted in 2002, normalised EPS of 66.3 cents was used as a base condition is used as this is recognised as providing an appropriate EPS figure.
During 2002, awards over 322,621 shares were granted measure of the Groups underlying financial performance.
to executive directors under this Plan.
No awards under the Plan have been exercised in 2002.
The Plan operates as follows: The first half of the award is dependent upon the Groups TSR compared 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme to that of a Comparator Group at the end of a three-year period.
The Executive Share Option Scheme is designed as an intrinsic part of The Comparator Group comprises: the Groups executive directors and senior managers total remuneration.
The scheme is designed to be internationally competitive and focus ABN AMRO Holding Bank NV HSBC Holdings executive directors and their senior management teams on delivering Bank of America JP Morgan Chase long term performance.
EPS performance criteria need to be met before Bank of East Asia Lloyds TSB options can be exercised.
A personal shareholding requirement Barclays Overseas Chinese Banking Corporation reinforces the long term nature of the scheme.
Citigroup Royal Bank of Scotland DBS Group United Overseas Bank Executive share options to purchase ordinary shares in the Company Deutsche Bank Standard Chartered are exercisable after the third, but before the tenth, anniversary HBOS of the date of grant.
The exercise price per share is the share price at the date of grant and options can normally only be exercised The following table shows the percentage of award which will normally if a performance condition is satisfied.
be exercisable at the end of the relevant three year performance period, depending on the ranking achieved in the Comparator Group: The performance condition which needs to be met before any award can be exercised is summarised below, together with the reason for Ranking in list of TSR Performance Percentage of award its selection: of Comparator Companies exercisable Earnings per Share: An earnings per share EPS performance 9th 15th Nil condition is used as this is recognised as providing an appropriate 8th 20.0 7th 27.5 measure of the Groups underlying financial performance.
6th 35.0 The 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme the 2000 scheme was 5th 42.5 introduced in 2000 to replace the Groups existing executive share option 1st 4th 50.0 schemes.
An amendment to the schemes performance conditions was approved by shareholders in 2001.
From May 2001, options awarded The other half of the award will be subject to an earnings per share EPS under the 2000 scheme may be exercised if the Groups EPS has growth target applied over the same three-year period.
increased by at least eight per cent per year for three years i. e. at least 24 per cent over three years.
Re-testing may be carried out in the fourth The following table shows the percentage of award which will normally and fifth year after grant, but if the performance conditions have not be exercisable at the end of the relevant three year performance period, been met at the end of the fifth year all options lapse automatically.
depending on the EPS performance: To participate in the 2000 scheme, executive directors have to build Increase in EPS Percentage of award up, over a two-year period from the grant of an option, a personal over performance period exercisable shareholding equivalent to one times base salary at the date of grant less than 15% Nil and retain such shareholding until exercise.
The maximum value of 15% 20.0 options which may be granted in any year to any individual is six times 30% or greater 50.0 base salary.
During 2002, options over 1,447,475 shares were granted to the The proportion of the award which may be exercised for EPS executive directors under the 2000 scheme at option exercise prices growth between 15 per cent and 30 per cent will be calculated of between 723 pence and 862 pence per share.
For options granted on a straight-line basis.
in 2002, normalised EPS of 66.3 cents was used as the base EPS gure.
No executive share options under the 2000 scheme were exercised by the directors during 2002.
39 Directors Remuneration Report Continued Long Term Incentives continued During 2002, options over 5,914 shares were granted to executive 1997 Restricted Share Scheme directors under the all employee sharesave schemes.
In addition, The Group operates a discretionary Restricted Share Scheme for high executive directors exercised options over 1,376 shares.
The directors performing and high potential staff at any level of the organisation.
total gains on options exercised were 188.
Except upon appointment, when an executive director may be granted an award of restricted shares, this scheme is not applicable to executive 1997 Supplemental Share Option Scheme closed directors.
It is designed for the recruitment, retention and motivation No awards have been made under this scheme since February 2000 of employees below executive director level who are recognised as key and it is anticipated that no future grants will be made under it except in performers and possessing talent which the Group wishes to retain.
To be eligible for a grant under this scheme, participants had to retain a personal holding of at least 10,000 shares, Fifty per cent of the award vests two years after the date of grant and purchased at their own expense.
Options can only be exercised up the remainder after three years.
Along with the all employee sharesave to the fifth anniversary of the grant date if the share price increases by schemes detailed below, the Restricted Share Scheme plays an at least 50 per cent plus RPI and EPS increases by at least 25 per cent important part in the Groups ambition to increase employee share plus RPI.
In the event of a change of control, the Committee may deem ownership at all levels across its operations internationally.
There are the EPS target to have been met.
no performance conditions attached to awards under the Restricted Share Scheme.
During 2002, no share options were exercised by executive directors.
Options over 181,488 shares lapsed during the year.
The scheme is administered by trustees of an employee benefit trust the Trust which holds ordinary shares to meet its obligations under this 1994 Executive Share Option Scheme closed and the Groups other long term incentive schemes.
As each executive No awards have been made under this scheme since August 1999 director is within the class of beneciary of the Trust, they are deemed, as the scheme was replaced by the 2000 Executive Share Option for the purposes of the Companies Act 1985, to have an interest in the Scheme.
Executive share options to purchase ordinary shares shares held in the Trust.
As at 31 December 2002, the Trusts holding in the Company are exercisable after the third, but before the tenth was 7,160,366 ordinary shares 3,411,218 as at 1 January 2002. anniversary of the date of grant.
The exercise price is the share price During 2002, options over 97,535 shares were granted to executive at the date of grant and options can only be exercised if EPS increases directors.
No options under the Restricted Share Scheme were by at least 15 per cent over three consecutive years.
exercised by executive directors or lapsed during 2002.
During 2002, executive directors exercised options over 20,000 shares.
Directors total gains on options exercised were 77,600.
All Employee Sharesave Schemes No options lapsed.
The Group believes strongly in encouraging employee share ownership at all levels in the organisation.
It seeks to engage employees in the 1995 Restricted Share Scheme closed performance of the Group, align their interests more closely with those Awards are no longer made under this scheme.
Under the scheme, of shareholders and offer them an opportunity for long term savings directors were awarded a proportion of their annual variable bonus and a share in the Groups financial success which they help to create.
These shares were not normally released before the The Group has operated a UK sharesave scheme since 1984 in third anniversary of the date of the award, and released in full between which all UK-based employees are eligible to participate.
In 1996 the fifth and seventh anniversary.
the International Sharesave Scheme was launched and made available to all employees based outside the UK.
The scheme is administered by the trustee of the Trust.
The shares held in the Trust are released at the discretion of the trustee.
During 2002, A small number of countries in which the Group operates do not permit 1,503 shares and 4,078 shares were released to E M Davies and sharesave plans to operate and in these countries the Group offers an C A Keljik, respectively.
Sir Patrick Gillam and P N Kenny hold 23,725 equivalent cash-based scheme to its employees.
Under the UK and the shares and 727 shares under the scheme, respectively as at 31December International plans, employees have the choice of opening a three-year 2002, which are available for release between 2003 and 2004. or a five-year savings contract.
Within a period of six months after the third or fifth anniversary, employees may purchase ordinary shares General in the Company.
The price at which they may purchase shares is at The middle market price of an ordinary share at the close of business on a 20 per cent discount to the share price at the date of grant.
The share price range during 2002 is proud to announce that in 2002, 50 per cent of employees globally was 592.5 pence to 872.5 pence per share based on closing middle participated in its all employee sharesave schemes.
There are no market prices.
performance conditions attached to options granted under the all employee sharesave schemes.
Full details of the directors shares and options can be found in the Companys register of directors interests.
b Expatriate directors carrying out their duties overseas have their remuneration adjusted to take local living costs into account.
This adjustment is to put them in a position, after taxation differentials, where they are no worse off as a result of carrying out their duties overseas.
The benets column includes additional benefits, such as allowances for working overseas or the provision of accommodation, also granted to directors working overseas.
For Messrs Davies, DeNoma, and Nargolwala, these allowances and benets amounted to Nil 2001: $653,532 $611,922 2001: $296,368 $301,344 2001: $441,104, respectively.
c Mr Meddings was appointed as an executive director on 16 November 2002.
Mr Meddings bonus includes an amount that was guaranteed upon his appointment.
d Mr Sands was appointed as an executive director on 14 May 2002. e Mr Kenny resigned as an executive director on 30 April 2002.
Mr Kennys service contract specified the amount he would be paid in the event of termination.
This amount was a single termination payment of $820,500 546,000 and has been paid.
He will also receive a pro-rata bonus for 2002 of $150,000 100,000. f Member of the Board Remuneration Committee.
g Member of the Audit and Risk Committee.
h The fees of the Non-executive directors are determined by the executive directors only and are non-pensionable.
Non-executive directors fees are reviewed at least every two years and, as with executive directors remuneration, reflect the international nature of the roles which they perform.
Basic annual fees and Committee fees are set to be competitive against the Groups international comparator group.
With effect from 1 April 2002 basic annual fees are $67,600.
Ordinary membership of a Board Committee is rewarded with an additional annual fee of $13,500.
The Deputy Chairman, Lord Stewartby, who is also Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee and a member of the Board Remuneration Committee, receives a total annual fee of $203,000 inclusive of Board and Committee fees.
The Chairmanof the Board Remuneration Committee, Mr Norton, is rewarded with an annual fee of $22,500.
Mr Moir received a fee of $150,300 in 2002 2001: $144,010 for advisory services.
These amounts are shown in the table above.
The fees for Lord Stewartby and Mr Stenham each include a payment of $53,000 35,000 for additional work.
i Mr Sanderson was appointed as a Non-executive director on 9 December 2002. j Mr Mackrell resigned as an Non-executive director on 2 May 2002.
Compensation for past directors Mr Talwar ceased to be a director on 28 November 2001.
Under the terms of the compensation agreed which were announced on 16 April 2002, Mr Talwar received an initial payment of $886,600 590,000 on 15 May 2002, with five subsequent instalments of $592,750 394,459 payable over two years.
41 Directors Remuneration Report Continued Audited Information continued Retirement Benefits of executive directors 2002 2001 Defined Defined Defined Defined Defined Defined Defined Defined contribution plans: benefit plan: benefit plan: benefit plan: contribution plans: benefit plan: benefit plan: benefit plan: transfer transfer increase in total accrued value of total increase in total accrued value of total contribution accrued pension pension at accrued pension contribution accrued pension pension at accrued pension during the year during the year c year end at year end during the year during the year c year end at year end $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 E M Davies 113 30 50 668 137 3 19 186 M B DeNoma 151 146 C A Keljik 19 381 6,400 58 338 5,579 R H Meddings 27 K S Nargolwala 151 143 P A Sands 173 P N Kenny 106 2 46 539 172 6 42 497 Total 721 51 477 7,607 598 67 399 6,262 or at date of resignation.
Notes a The executive directors retirement compensation scheme comprises defined contribution plans and defined benefit plans.
Dened contribution plans are a combination of an approved scheme, unapproved schemes and salary supplements.
The defined benefit plans are provided through a non-contributory unapproved unfunded scheme and by the Standard Chartered Pension Fund, which is an approved non-contributory scheme.
Under both schemes the normal retirement age is 60.
A spouses pension of 60 per cent of the members pension including any amount exchanged for a cash lump sum at retirement is payable on death after retirement.
On the death of a director, pension benefits are available to other dependants.
Members of the Standard Chartered Pension Fund are entitled to retire early but on a reduced pension equivalent in value to the deferred pension.
Guaranteed pension increases subject to the Guaranteed Pension Increase Allowance rule are given in respect of pension for service up to 5 April 1997 and five per cent per annum or the increase in the RPI if lower for service from 6 April 1997. b The ages of the directors are shown on pages 30 and 31. c Defined Benefit Plan: The increase in accrued pension is the difference between the accrued pension at the end of 2001increased by an allowance for ination of 2.6 per cent 2001: 0.9 per cent and the accrued pension at the end of 2002.
The table below shows both the increase in accrued pensions without any allowance for inflation and the increase in the transfer value of the total accrued pensions between the end of 2001and the end of 2002 for members of the Standard Chartered Pension Fund.
Increase in accrued Increase in the transfer value pension during 2002 of total accrued pension excluding inflation allowance during 2002 Directors $000 $000 E M Davies 30 482 C A Keljik 29 821 P N Kenny 342 The transfer value in respect of the unapproved unfunded defined benefit plan in which Mr E M Davies participates has been calculated using FRS17 methodology and assumptions, although the circumstances in which a cash amount can be paid are strictly limited.
d Amounts paid by the Group in addition to pension fund payments under the pension scheme to former directors or their dependants in respect of post-retirement benefits amounted to $237,054 2001: $364,034.
There were no other post-retirement benefits payments to former directors.
None of these amounts first became payable after 31March 1997.
or at date of resignation, if earlier.
Notes a The beneficial interests of directors and their families in the ordinary shares of the Company are set out above.
The directors do not have any non-beneficial interests in the Companys shares.
b No director had an interest in the Companys preference shares or loan stock, nor the shares or loan stocks of any subsidiary or associated undertaking of the Group.
c No director had any corporate interests in the Companys ordinary shares.
d Other interests refer to shares held under the 1995 Restricted Share Scheme, details of which are set out on page 40.
43 Directors Remuneration Report Continued Audited Information Long term Incentives The following table sets out details of options over ordinary shares granted, exercised and lapsed during 2002 and which directors hold at 31December 2002.
Details of the performance criteria of these options are set out on pages 39 to 40.
Notes a Market value on date of exercise 23 December 2002 was 717.5p.
b Market value on date of exercise 29 November 2002 was 775p.
c Between the date of resignation and 31December 2002 options over 32,035 shares and 30,000 shares were exercised on 28 June 2002 market value 700p and 23 July 2002 market value 622.5p, respectively.
44 Standard Chartered Audited Information Further details of options held as at 31 December 2002 are as follows: Options where market price Options where market price greater than exercise price lower than exercise price At 31 December Weighted exercise At 31 December Weighted exercise Director Type of Scheme 2002 price pence Expiry date 2002 price pence Expiry date Sir Patrick Gillam Executive Schemes 843,719 827.58 20052012 E M Davies Executive Schemes 60,483 620 2008 845,795 802.4 20032012 Sharesave Scheme 2,957 559.5 2008 M B DeNoma Executive Schemes 387,196 838.07 20032012 Sharesave Scheme 2,397 704 2004 C A Keljik Executive Schemes 40,645 620 2008 528,065 835.34 20032012 Sharesave Scheme 5,164 334 2004 R H Meddings Executive Schemes 135,957 772.3 20052012 D G Moir Executive Schemes 118,750 880.8 20032005 K S Nargolwala Executive Schemes 48,387 620 2008 561,002 835.55 20032012 P A Sands Executive Schemes 208,865 861.8 20052012 Sharesave Scheme 2,957 559.5 2008 P N Kenny Executive Schemes 489,539 822.28 2003 Sharesave Scheme 1,339 723 2003 Executive Schemes includes 1994 Executive Share Option Scheme, Supplemental Share Option Scheme and 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme.
The following table sets out details of awards nil price options over ordinary shares to directors who served in 2002 including those awards that are currently unexercisable under certain long-term incentive schemes.
Vesting of these shares is subject to the performance criteria on pages 38 to 40.
At 1 January At 31 December Period of Director Scheme 2002 Granted Vested 2002 vesting Sir Patrick Gillam Performance Share Plan 48,750 48,750 2004 a Performance Share Plan 67,100 67,100 2005 E M Davies Performance Share Plan 34,500 34,500 2004 a Performance Share Plan 83,010 83,010 2005 M B DeNoma Performance Share Plan 32,500 32,500 2004 a Performance Share Plan 30,713 30,713 2005 C A Keljik Performance Share Plan 32,500 32,500 2004 a Performance Share Plan 38,392 38,392 2005 b R H Meddings Restricted Share Scheme 45,319 45,319 20042005 K S Nargolwala Performance Share Plan 37,250 37,250 2004 a Performance Share Plan 51,189 51,189 2005 c P A Sands Performance Share Plan 52,216 52,216 2004 c Restricted Share Scheme 52,216 52,216 20042005 P N Kenny Performance Share Plan 37,250 37,250 2004 or at date of resignation.
Notes a Market value on date of award 6 March 2002 was 722.8p.
b Market value on date of award 6 December 2002 was 772.5p.
c Market value on date of award 20 May 2002 was 861.8p.
45 Directors Remuneration Report Continued Remuneration of Five Highest Paid Individuals In addition to its responsibilities for the remuneration of executive directors, the Committee ensures that the remuneration policy of the Group is consistently applied for other senior executives.
Specifically the Committee ratifies appointments of key senior executives and approves any significant remuneration packages.
Following the Companys recent listing on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange it is necessary to disclose certain information relating to the five highest paid employees in the Group.
Set out below are details for five individuals one of whom is not an executive director whose emoluments excluding bonuses or commissions linked to profits generated by the individual or collectively by the individuals were the highest in the year ending 31December 2002: Components of remuneration $000 Basic salaries, allowances and benefits in kind 4,808 Pension contributions 522 Bonuses paid or receivable 5,064 Payments made on appointment Compensation for loss of office contractual other Total 10,394 Total HK$000 81,073 Their emoluments are within the following bands: Number of HK$ approx.
$ equivalent employees HK$12,500,001 HK$13,000,000 $1,602,688 $1,666,795 1 HK$13,000,001 HK$13,500,000 $1,666,795 $1,730,902 1 HK$16,000,001 HK$16,500,000 $2,051,440 $2,115,547 1 HK$17,500,001 HK$18,000,000 $2,243,762 $2,307,870 1 HK$20,500,001 HK$21,000,000 $2,628,407 $2,692,515 1 By order of the Board G A Bentley, Group Secretary 19 February 2003 46 Standard Chartered Shareholder Information Dividend and Interest Payment Dates Interim dividend Ordinary shares Final dividend provisional only Results and dividend announced 19 February 2003 6 August 2003 Ex dividend date 26 February 2003 13 August 2003 Record date for dividend 28 February 2003 15 August 2003 Last date to elect for share dividend or to change standing instructions 10 April 2003 22 September 2003 Dividend payment date 13 May 2003 14 October 2003 Preference shares 1st half yearly dividend 2nd half yearly dividend 3 7 per cent Non-Cumulative Irredeemable Preference shares of 1 each 1April 2003 1October 2003 8 1 8 4per cent Non-Cumulative Irredeemable Preference shares of 1 each 1April 2003 1October 2003 8.9 per cent Non-Cumulative Preference shares of $5 each: dividends paid on the 1st of each calendar quarter.
Please e-mail Natwest Stockbrokers on contactces@natwest.
com quoting Standard Chartered Shareholder Dealing Service.
47 Shareholder Information Continued Bankers Automated Clearing System BACS Taxation Dividends and loan stock interest can be paid straight into your Information on taxation applying to dividends paid to you if you bank or building society account.
You can check your shareholding at: Shareholder Details and follow the instructions.
your Shareholder or ShareCare Reference number when you log on.
You can find this on your share certificate or ShareCare statement.
48 Standard Chartered Principal Group Ofces Head Ofce Greece Oman United Kingdom Standard Chartered PLC Standard Chartered Standard Chartered Bank Standard Chartered Bank Telephone: 44 020 7280 7500 Grindlays Bank Telephone: 968 704 484 Telephone: 44 020 7280 7500 Telephone: 301 362 4601 Australia Pakistan United States of America Standard Chartered Bank India Standard Chartered Bank Standard Chartered Bank Australia Limited Standard Chartered Bank Telephone: 92 21 Telephone: 1 212 6670700 Telephone: 61 02 9232 9333 Telephone: 91 022 267 0162 2416945 2416541 Venezuela Bahrain Indonesia Peru Banco Standard Chartered Standard Chartered Bank Standard Chartered Bank Banco Standard Chartered Telephone: 58 212 993 3293 Telephone: 973 223636 Telephone: 62 021 251 3333 Telephone: 51 01 4117000 Vietnam Bangladesh Ivory Coast Philippines Standard Chartered Bank Standard Chartered Bank Standard Chartered Bank Standard Chartered Bank Telephone: 84 04 825 8970 Telephone: 880 02 956 Cote dlvoire SA Telephone: 63 02 886 7888 Zambia 2337 956 1713 Telephone: 225 20 30 32 00 Qatar Standard Chartered Bank Botswana Japan Standard Chartered Bank Zambia PLC Standard Chartered Bank Standard Chartered Bank Telephone: 974 4414248 Telephone: 260 01 22924250 Botswana Limited Telephone: 81 03 55111200 Republic of Korea South Korea Zimbabwe Telephone: 267 360 1500 Jersey Standard Chartered Bank Standard Chartered Bank Brunei Standard Chartered Grindlays Telephone: 82 02 750 6114 Zimbabwe Limited Standard Chartered Bank Offshore Ltd Telephone: 263 4 752852 9, Sierra Leone Telephone: 673 02 220345 Telephone: 44 01534 704000 753212 5 Standard Chartered Bank Cameroon Jordan Sierra Leone Limited Representative Offices Standard Chartered Bank Standard Chartered Bank Telephone: 232 0 22 Full banking facilities not provided Cameroon S. A.
Nepal Ghana Uganda Standard Chartered Bank South Africa Standard Chartered Bank Standard Chartered Bank Nepal Limited Telephone: 27 11 3010600 Ghana Limited Uganda Limited Telephone: 977 1783 753 782 333 Telephone: 233 021 6645918 Telephone: 256 041 341623 Nigeria United Arab Emirates Standard Chartered Bank Standard Chartered Bank Nigeria Limited Telephone: 971 04 5070 350 352 Telephone: 234 01 320 2000 262 68015 262 681519 49 Standard Chartered Annual Review 2002 Designed and produced by williams and phoa.
com Principal Place of Business in Hong Kong: 32nd Floor, 4-4A Des Voeux Road, Central, Hong Kong Registered in England number:966425
