Statement of accounting policies GENERAL ex-dividend.
UK dividends are stated net of related The accounts are prepared in accordance tax credits.
Dividends received as scrip dividends with applicable accounting standards and with are taken to the revenue account.
The accounting the Statement of Recommended Practice treatment of special dividends is considered on a Financial Statements of Investment Trust case by case basis.
The accounts have been The fixed returns on debt securities are recognised prepared on the historical cost basis of accounting on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect their modified to include the revaluation of fixed asset effective yield.
MANAGEMENT CHARGE CONSOLIDATION In accordance with the expected long term split of All subsidiary companies make up accounts to returns, one half of the investment management fee 31 December and results for the year ended on that for the year is charged to the revenue account and date are included in the Group results in full.
the other half is charged to capital reserves, net of corporation tax relief and inclusive of any related INVESTMENTS irrecoverable value added tax.
Listed investments are stated at market value which is based upon middle market prices at the balance DEFERRED TAXATION sheet date.
Realised surpluses or deficits on the Financial Reporting Standard 19 Deferred Tax has disposal of investments and permanent impairments been adopted in these financial statements.
This has in the value of investments are taken to capital had no impact on the results for the current or reserve-realised and unrealised surpluses and preceding year.
Provision is made for taxation at deficits on the revaluation of investments are taken current rates on the excess of taxable income over to capital reserve-unrealised.
Where applicable, a provision is made on are included at directors valuation.
all timing differences between the recognition of income in the financial statements and its SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES recognition in the Companys annual tax returns.
Investments in subsidiary companies are valued at the lower of cost or net asset value, as in the opinion DEBENTURE INTEREST of the directors this most fairly reflects the value of Interest payable is treated on an accruals basis.
accordance with the expected long term split of returns, one half of the interest for the year is INCOME AND EXPENSES charged to the revenue account and the other half is All income and expenses are treated on the charged to capital reserves, net of incremental accruals basis and dividend income is included in corporation tax relief.
revenue when an investment is quoted Temple Bar Investment Trust 26
