Shareholder Information Points of Contact Nominee Share Code If you have any questions or need more information Where notification has been received in advance, Witan concerning Witan or Henderson Global Investors, you may will provide nominee operators with copies of shareholder contact us in the following ways: communications for distribution to their customers.
Nominee investors may attend general meetings and speak at them when Freephone: invited to do so by the Chairman.
Henderson Retail Client Services on 0800 21 22 56 Capital Gains Tax Website: The calculation of the tax on chargeable gains will depend on www.
If you are in any doubt about your personal tax position, you are recommended to contact Post: your professional adviser.
For Share Plan Jump queries: The Share Plan Administrators Disability Act Registrars Department Copies of this Report and Accounts or other documents PO Box 28448 issued by Witan Investment Trust plc are available from the Finance House Company Secretary.
If needed, copies can be made available in Orchard Brae a variety of formats, either Braille or on audio tape or larger Edinburgh type as appropriate.
EH4 1WQ You can contact our Registrar, Computershare Investor For PEP ISA queries: Services PLC, which has installed textphones to allow speech Henderson Global Investors and hearing impaired people who have their own textphones PO Box 620 to contact them directly without the need for an intermediate London operator.
Specially trained operators are available during EC2M 2SX normal business hours to answer queries via this service.
Alternatively, if you prefer to go through a typetalk operator Points of Reference provided by The Royal National Institute for Deaf People, You can follow the progress of your savings through the the number is 0800 959 598. newspapers.
Witans share price appears daily in the national press stock exchange listings under Investment Trusts or For investors through the Witan Share Plan, PEP or ISA a Investment Companies.
minicom telephone service is available on 020 7850 5406.
This service is available during normal business hours.
The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List SEDOL code is 0974406.
If you invest through the Witan Share Plan, ISA or PEPs you will be sent a valuation of your Plan every April and October, together with a newsletter containing a comprehensive market review and general articles of interest.
Every February you will receive the annual report for Witan along with an invitation to attend the Companys Annual General Meeting.
An interim report is despatched every September.
For details on the ways to invest and save in Witan, please see Witanwisdom on page 47 of this document.
Registrar Auditors Solicitors Stockbroker Computershare Investor Deloitte & Touche Herbert Smith Cazenove Services PLC Stonecutter Court Exchange House 12 Tokenhouse Yard PO Box 435, Owen House 1 Stonecutter Street Primrose Street London EC2R 7AN 8 Bankhead Crossway North London EC4A 4TR London EC2A 2HS Edinburgh EH11 4BR Telephone: 0870 702 0010 45
