Marketing Review James Budden Report for the year ended December 2002 The Company continues to pursue its long-term marketing objectives at the core of which is a commitment to enhance shareholder value by maximising and increasing the demand for the Companys shares.
During 2002 Witan pursued its integrated marketing approach, combining advertising, direct mail, sponsorship, public relations and the internet to promote the benets of owning shares in the Company.
The Trust used its unique brand footprint of Witanwisdom, combining an engaging approach with the sagacity of investing in Witan.
The Company also highlighted Jump, the savings plan for children, as a separate entity within an increasingly popular sector of the savings and investment market place.
Once again market conditions and the subsequent difficult environment for investors made it a challenging prospect to encourage large scale investment into Witan Simple Contribution Pension Tax year 2002 2003 Witans product plans during 2002.
However the growing strength of Witans brand and the increasing success of Jump the savings plan for children as a bespoke investment medium allowed the Trust to attract a solid level of inows into the We are never prepared Witan products.
James A. Michener Jump inflows rose once more year on year as the plan cemented itself as the leading investment medium on behalf of children.
Across all products the number of plans continued to rise while inflows remained some 40% higher than in 1999 when the A pension based on Witan comes with a generous contribution from the government.
Although Witans marketing strategy is a process designed to build momentum over the longer term, several initiatives stood out during 2002. investment trusts Witan continued to build brand recognition through its engaging use of cartoons.
These topical takes on events appeared in a range of magazines throughout the year.
Illustrated by Larry, the award winning cartoonist, they have helped establish Witan as a credible investment name within a target market of professional and perceptive individuals.
The programme continues to attract favourable comment and interest from commentators as well as potential investors.
Late in 2002 Witan launched a pension product to fit with the suite of savings products provided by the Trust.
The Witan Simple Contribution Pension is a stakeholder type pension.
Invest 2,808 in any tax year, subject to stakeholder restrictions, and the Inland Revenue will gross this up by 792 to 3,600.
In addition this pension can be opened on behalf of non-earners such as a spouse, partner or child.
The investment vehicle is Witan and all administration is effected by Alliance Trust Savings.
The transaction based charges can work out less than 1% and there is no annual management fee.
This product is innovative, allows Witan to be held directly within a pension wrapper and is a highly respectable alternative to similar pensions offered by large insurance companies.
In May 2002 Witan announced its sponsorship of the young British Olympic skier, Chemmy Alcott.
Although this arrangement may appear to be unusual for an investment trust it has already proved successful in marketing terms.
An independent tracking process showed that the exposure achieved through this sponsorship when quantified in advertising terms has outweighed its cost.
Miss Alcotts profile will continue to build as her career progresses and along with it recognition of the Witan brand will increase.
Such recognition allows potential investors to be more easily attracted to the Trusts products.
46 Sales of Jump, the savings plan for children, continued to The marketing budget is xed annually and expenditure is kept grow during 2002 as the market for this type of under close review.
The budget for 2003 is 1.25 million.
investment became cluttered with competitor products.
Some of these products are proving to be poor imitations, Witanwisdom attempting to attract business with childrens gimmicks There are a variety of ways to invest in Witan.
Naturally, and juvenile product endorsements.
In contrast, Witan Witans shares can be traded easily on the stock market.
produced a seminal guide to the financial problems and However, bearing in mind the benets of income reinvestment, vicissitudes of bringing up children.
Written by a leading regular savings and tax free wrappers, one of Witans financial journalist, Sally Hamilton, in an easy and investment plans may be the answer.
approachable style, Money: your children, their future Witan Share Plan is a straightforward savings scheme attacks this wide ranging subject with sense and clarity.
with minimum lump sum investment from 500 and The book was made available nationally in all good regular savings from 50 per month.
It can be purchased via www.
Priced at 5.99, royalties Witan ISA enables investors to save tax free up to a are being donated to Tommys, the baby charity.
The book limit of 7,000 per annum.
The minimum lump sum proved to be an excellent incentive for attracting new investment is 2,000 with regular savings from investment into Jump during 2002.
These are tangible examples of Witans marketing activity.
Witan Transfer PEP allows investors to transfer all However, it is the cumulative effect of its marketing process or any number of their existing PEP holdings into Witan.
that adds value to shareholders investments.
Such activity The transfer is free except for 0.5% stamp duty and stimulates and sustains demand for Witan shares.
This in turn investments retain their tax free status during and guarantees a level of liquidity which boosts the share price and after transfer.
allows shareholders to purchase and sell shares at a price Witan Simple Contribution Pension provides the reflecting the performance of the Trust.
The presence of opportunity to claim up to 792 in tax benefit from the liquidity for investment trust shares is increasingly important in Inland Revenue.
It is a stakeholder type pension which can a difficult environment where demand can drop, discounts slip be opened on behalf of another person, including and price spreads widen.
Witans marketing programme exists non-earners.
to help maintain a high level of liquidity in the Trusts shares.
Jump gives parents, grandparents or other adults the Additionally, Witans marketing activity continues to cover the chance to save effectively for children over the long term.
following areas: Minimum lump sum investment is set at 100 and regular Advertising the share price and net asset value in national contributions can be made from as little as 25 a month or papers and journals quarter.
Publishing the net asset value daily Call free on 0800 21 22 56 for product information and guidance.
Facilitating the involvement of nominee shareholders Visit www.
com for all the Membership of the AITC latest news and views and the opportunity to access plan application forms.
Support of AITC marketing initiatives Please remember that the value of an investment and the Marketing Strategy 2003 income from it can fall as well as rise as a result of market and The Board of directors once more approved key performance currency uctuations and you may not get back the amount indicators for 2003 as measurement of the progress of Witans originally invested.
These have been identied as follows: Tax assumptions may change if the law changes and the value Increased inows into Witan product plans of tax relief will depend upon your individual circumstances.
Growth in the number of Witan product plans opened by Henderson Global Investors is the name under which Henderson new investors Global Investors Limited, Henderson Investment Funds Limited, Henderson Fund Management plc and Henderson Uplift in Witans market share of investment trust industry Administration Limited all regulated by the Financial Services savings plan subscriptions Authority provide investment products and services.
The strategy employed to achieve these targets will involve creative application of the marketing mix as in 2002.
will be placed on ensuring cost effective response within all Telephone 020 7818 1818. marketing activities.
47 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the ninety-fifth Annual General London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five Meeting of Witan Investment Trust plc will be held at business days immediately preceding the day on which the Drapers Hall, Throgmorton Avenue, London EC2 on Monday Ordinary Share is purchased, or such other amount as may 24 March 2003 at 2.30 pm for the following purposes: be specified by the UK Listing Authority from time to time: d the authority hereby conferred will expire at the Ordinary Business conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company 1 To approve the directors remuneration report for the year in 2004 or, if earlier, on the expiry of 18 months from the ended 31 December 2002. passing of this resolution, unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: and 2 To receive the directors report and the audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2002. e the Company may make a contract to purchase Ordinary 3 To declare a final dividend.
Shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed 4 To re-elect Mr A W Jones as a director of the Company.
wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and 5 To re-elect Mr R H McGrath as a director of the Company.
may make a purchase of Ordinary Shares pursuant to any such contract.
6 To elect Mr R A Bruce as a director of the Company.
7 To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche as auditors to the Company at a fee to be determined by the directors.
By order of the Board G S Rice For and on behalf of Special Business Henderson Secretarial Services Limited, To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as Secretary a special resolution: 3 February 2003 8 THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 166 Registered Office of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market 4 Broadgate purchases within the meaning of section 163 of the Act of London EC2M 2DA ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company Telephone: 020 7638 5757 Ordinary Shares, provided that: Registered as an investment company in England and Wales a the maximum number of Ordinary Shares hereby No.
101625 authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99% of the Ordinary Shares in issue at 24 March 2003, the date of the Annual General Meeting, equivalent to approximately 52,515,679 Ordinary Shares at 3 February 2003, the date of this Notice of Annual General Meeting : b the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is 25p: c the maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is an amount equal to 105% of the average middle market quotations for an Ordinary Share taken from the 48 PRINCES STREET F I N S POULTRY B GRESHAM ST. WORMWOOD STREET LIVERPOOL STREET U LONDON WALL R LOTHBURY CORNHILL Y LEADENHALL STREET Notes 1 Only those ordinary shareholders registered in the register of members of the Company at 2.30 pm on 22 March 2003 shall be entitled to attend and vote at the annual general meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the relevant register of securities after 2.30 pm on 22 March 2003 will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
2 An ordinary shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote on his or her behalf.
Such proxy need not be a member of the Company.
Every ordinary shareholder who is present in person at a general meeting of the Company, and every person not being himself or herself a member entitled to vote who is present as proxy for a member entitled to vote, shall have one vote on a show of hands.
On a poll, every ordinary shareholder who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every 1 nominal value of shares held by him or her.
Accordingly, on a poll each ordinary shareholder has one vote for every four shares held.
3 A form of proxy is enclosed.
To be valid the form of proxy must be completed and deposited at the office of the Companys Registrar not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
The return of the form of proxy duly completed will not preclude a member from attending and voting in person at the meeting.
4 This notice is sent for information only to holders of the preference shares and the debenture stock who are not entitled to attend or vote at the meeting.
5 The register of directors interests, kept by the Company in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985, will be available for inspection at the meeting.
6 By attending the meeting, members and their proxies and representatives are understood by the Company to have confirmed their agreement to receive any communications including communications relating to the Companys securities made at the meeting.
Annual General Meeting Venue Location of Drapers Hall Liverpool St Moorgate Drapers Hall is located in the City of London, in Throgmorton Avenue close to the London Stock Exchange.
It is a few minutes walk from Liverpool Street Drapers Station and from Bank and Moorgate Hall Underground Stations.
Please use the Throgmorton Street THROGMORTON STREET entrance.
Bank The Annual General Meeting will be held on Monday 24 March 2003 at 2.30 pm.
C T E I E R R THREADNEEDLE STREET C T S U S L E L T O L D B R O A D T S T R E A E G A S BISHO P H IRONMONGER LANE OLD JEWRY MOORGATE COLEMAN STREET BLOMFIELD STREET G N THROGMORTON AVE I S A B Witan Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2002 HGI9232 2002 Witan Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2002 Printed by Perivan, London
