Information for shareholders Financial calendar Direct dividend payments Ex-dividend date for 2002 final dividend 30 April 2003 The two dividends each year see Financial calendar can be Record date for 2002 final dividend 2 May 2003 paid automatically into your bank or building society account.
Annual general meeting, This service has a number of benefits: International Convention Centre, Birmingham 12 May 2003 Final dividend payment date 18 June 2003 there is no risk of the dividend cheque going missing 2003 interim results announced 31 July 2003 in the post: Interim dividend payment date 12 November 2003 the dividend payment is received more quickly as the cash is paid directly into the account on the payment date without Centrica shareholder helpline the need to pay in the cheque and wait for it to clear: and Centricas shareholder register is maintained on our behalf a single consolidated tax voucher is issued at the end of the by Lloyds TSB Registrars who are responsible for making tax year in March, in time for your self-assessment tax return.
dividend payments and updating the register, including details of changes to shareholders addresses and purchases Arranging your dividend payment in this way also helps or sales of Centrica shares.
If you have a question about your Centrica improve its efficiency by reducing postage and shareholding in Centrica, you should contact: cheque clearance costs.
If you wish to register for this service, call the Centrica shareholder helpline to request Centrica shareholder helpline: 0870 600 3985 a direct dividend payment form.
The form is also available Text phone: 0870 600 3950 to download from our website.
Write to: Lloyds TSB Registrars The Causeway, Worthing The Centrica website West Sussex BN99 6DA The Centrica website at www.
com provides news and details of the companys activities, plus information Frequent shareholder enquiries on the share price and links to our brand sites.
If you change your address The investor information section of the website contains Please notify Lloyds TSB Registrars, in writing.
If shares up-to-date information for shareholders including the are held in joint names, the notification must be signed companys latest results and key dates such as dividend by the first named shareholder.
The form is also available payment dates.
It also holds details such as past dividend to download from our website.
payment dates and amounts, and a comprehensive share price information section.
If you change your name Please notify Lloyds TSB Registrars in writing and enclose Electronic communications a copy of your marriage certificate or change of name deed Shareholders who prefer to receive communications from as evidence.
Centrica electronically are encouraged to register their email address via the investor section of our website.
The companys Lost Centrica share certificate annual report is available on the Centrica website and, by If your share certificate is lost or stolen, you should call the registering, shareholders will receive an electronic notification Centrica shareholder helpline immediately.
A letter of indemnity when the companys annual reports and notices of general will be sent to you to sign.
Lloyds TSB Registrars will charge meetings become available.
Shareholders are also able to for this service.
complete and return voting papers for the companys AGM electronically.
Registration is free and easy to complete.
Duplicate shareholder accounts All that is required for registration is the shareholder reference Shareholders who receive more than one copy of Centrica number which is shown on your tax vouchers and share communications may have shares registered inadvertently certificates.
Once you are registered, you may also look in at least two accounts.
This happens when the registration up a range of information including the number of Centrica details of separate transactions differ slightly.
If you wish to shares you hold, the registered name and address details combine your accounts, call the Centrica shareholder helpline and information held for dividend payment instructions.
to request an account combination form.
The form is also available to download from our website.
Share price information The Centrica share price, and historical details, may be viewed Buying and selling shares in the UK on our website.
Shareholders can find share prices listed in most If you wish to trade in Centrica shares, you will need to use national newspapers.
Ceefax and Teletext pages also display a stockbroker or High Street bank which trades on the London share prices that are updated regularly throughout the trading Stock Exchange.
There are many telephone and online services day.
For an accurate buying or selling price, you should contact available.
If you are selling, you will need to present your share a stockbroker or High Street bank.
certificate at the time of sale.
ShareGift Transferring Centrica shares ShareGift is a charity share donation scheme for shareholders Transferring shares to someone else requires the completion administered by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation.
It is especially of a stock transfer form.
This form, and details of the procedure you for those who may wish to dispose of a small parcel of shares need to follow, are available from the Centrica shareholder helpline.
whose value makes it uneconomic to sell on a commission Stamp duty is not normally payable if the transfer is to a relative basis.
Further information can be obtained at www.
org or if there is no money being paid in exchange for the shares.
or from the Centrica shareholder helpline.
70 Centrica plc report 2002 Useful historical information Analysis of shareholders at 31 December 2002 Demerger Distribution of shares by the type of shareholder Holdings Shares Centrica plc traded on the London Stock Exchange for the Nominees and institutional investors 13,164 3,690,106,609 first time on 17 February 1997, the date of demerger from British Individuals 1,237,668 562,749,805 Gas plc.
Shares were acquired in Centrica on the basis of one Total 1,250,832 4,252,856,414 Centrica share for every British Gas plc share held at demerger.
Shares in Centrica, acquired at demerger, are treated as having Number of a base cost for Capital Gains Tax purposes calculated Size of shareholding holdings Shares in accordance with taxation legislation of 64.25 pence each.
The consolidation was linked to the payment 100,001 1,000,000 852 294,018,102 of a special dividend of 12 pence per share on 23 June 1999.
1,000,001 and above 401 3,326,024,093 Total 1,250,832 4,252,856,414 Shareholder benefits A series of updated benefits on selected products and services from across the group has recently been introduced.
Our major brands British Gas, Scottish Gas, The AA, Goldfish and One.
Tel are all featured in these offers.
To request a brochure, please call the Centrica shareholder helpline or visit the shareholder benefits page of our website.
If you have not previously registered, you will be asked to give your shareholder reference number in order to participate.
Overseas dividend payments A service has been established to provide shareholders in over 30 countries worldwide with the opportunity to receive Centrica dividends in their local currency.
For a small flat rate fee, shareholders can have their dividends automatically converted from Sterling and paid into their bank account, normally within five working days of the dividend payment date.
For further details, please contact the Centrica shareholder helpline on 44 0 121 415 7061.
American Depositary Receipts Centrica has an American Depositary Receipt ADR programme.
The ADRs, each of which is equivalent to 10 ordinary Centrica shares, trade under the symbol CNTCY.
For enquiries, please contact: ADR Depositary The Bank of New York Investor Relations PO Box 11258, Church Street Station New York, NY 10286-1258 email: shareowner-svcs@bankofny.
com Telephone: 1 888 BNY ADRs in the US or 00 1 601 312 5315 from outside the US.
