AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F 2002 AstraZeneca Code of Conduct www.
com 137 AstraZeneca Code of Conduct Introductory Message from the Chief the Group assures individual employees who people participating in government bodies, Executive raise issues that they will be protected from employees of state organisations or any adverse impact on their employment as a representatives of political parties, for unlawful The reputation of the AstraZeneca Group and result.
the trust and confidence of those with whom it deals are of great importance to its Standards of Conduct Equal opportunities business.
It is essential that AstraZeneca All employees should be treated with equal maintains high ethical standards in its Business practices respect and dignity and should be provided dealings with all those with whom it is Group companies, and their employees, with equality of opportunity to develop involved.
All employees are required to should comply with the laws of all countries themselves and their careers.
comply with the letter and spirit of the Code of in which they operate, with appropriate Conduct and with the detailed standards international and national industry codes of AstraZeneca values the individuality, diversity issued in support of it.
Taken together, the practice and with the high ethical standards and creative potential that every employee policy and standards comprise the Groups specified by the Group.
brings to its business and supports the Code of Conduct which was approved by the continuous development of their skills and Board of Directors in April 2000.
It is the responsibility of all employees to abilities.
ensure, by taking advice where appropriate, Tom McKillop that they are fully aware of all relevant laws, Judgements about people for the purpose of practices and codes of practice.
While this recruitment, development or promotion standard applies without exception, particular should be made solely on the basis of a Policy areas where compliance must be ensured are persons ability and potential in relation to the laws concerned with competition, needs of the job and should take no account The Group requires its companies, and their employment, new product research and of any matter not relevant to the performance employees, to observe high standards of development, manufacturing, marketing and of that job.
Overall, success and integrity and honesty and act with due skill, selling and safety, health and the advancement within the Group should care, diligence and fairness in the conduct environment.
depend solely on personal ability and work of business.
To this end all Group performance.
companies, and their employees, are Employees should ensure that, within their required to comply with the laws of all sphere of business activity, Group companies In some countries these principles may be countries in which they operate and with the carry out their contractual obligations in a modified by national legal requirements for high ethical standards detailed by the proper and timely manner and are not in positive discrimination.
Group in support of this policy.
Personal harassment Compliance Business practice, and what amounts to Conduct involving the harassment of any improper conduct, varies from country to employee of the Group, its suppliers or It is the responsibility of management to country and from industry to industry.
In particular, ensure that the Group Code of Conduct and employees will comply with a the high ethical sexual harassment will not be tolerated.
standards are communicated, understood standards specified by the Group b any and acted upon.
They must positively overall AstraZeneca Code published relating Any person who believes they have been promote them by personal example and are to business practices and c any international personally harassed should report the not entitled to permit exceptions to the and national codes of practice applicable to incident and circumstances to their required behaviour.
the conduct of business in each environment.
immediate manager or personnel manager or other senior manager who will arrange for it to All employees should familiarise themselves Gifts, entertainment and personal favours be investigated impartially and confidentially.
with the Code of Conduct and must comply may only be offered to a third party if they are with it.
Failure to act in compliance with the consistent with customary business practice AstraZeneca is fully supportive of the Code is likely to result in disciplinary action and not in contravention of any applicable law principles set forth in the UN Declaration of against both the employee committing the or code of practice.
These include freedom from breach and others who condone it.
torture and arbitrary arrest, the right to a fair No employee should seek or accept a gift, trial and equality before the law.
The Standards set out in the Code are general entertainment or personal favour which might and do not address each and every situation reasonably be believed to have a significant Political contributions that may confront employees in markets influence on business transactions.
An offer of Any political contributions by Group around the world.
Guidance on the entertainment must not be accepted unless companies must be lawful and approved application of the Code to particular situations the offer is within the bounds of accepted under procedures laid down by the board or should be sought from management.
Gifts which do not meet governing body of the company addition, Legal Department and Group the above criteria should be reported to concerned.
Internal Audit are available on a confidential management who shall determine how they basis as independent sources of advice.
Approval should not be given to any political Where confidential phone lines are available, contributions which, by their scale or these should be used to raise issues of Group funds should not be used in payments, affiliation, might embarrass the Group.
So long as this is done in good faith, direct or indirect, to government officials, Groups accounting procedures require any AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F 2002 AstraZeneca Code of Conduct www.
com 138 AstraZeneca Code of Conduct continued political contributions to be reported to Group Group property and resources require reference to another authority, the headquarters as part of the annual Group resources should be kept securely overall substance of the issue must be consolidation of results.
and should only be applied for the proper considered and when sharing an issue with advancement of its business and not for another authority all facts relevant to a Conflicts of interest personal gain.
decision must be fully and fairly presented.
Employees dealing with the Groups business must act in the best interests of Individuals expending Group resources the Group and must disregard any personal should recognise that they owe a duty of care June 2000 preference or advantage.
to the shareholders of the Group, who are its ultimate owners.
Commitments and Employees should avoid entering into expenditure should only be such as could be situations in which their personal, family or justified to shareholders if the facts were financial interests may conflict with those of known.
Where any potential conflict of interest may arise, the employee Group resources include not only tangible should declare that interest and seek advice assets such as materials, equipment and from senior management.
cash, but also intangible assets such as computer systems, trade secrets and Examples of conflict that must be declared confidential information.
Employees must and resolved include: observe Group and local guidelines concerning the classifying and handling of having a family interest in a transaction documents and electronic data.
The storage with AstraZeneca or one of its of personal data in an electronic medium may subsidiaries the Company or any be governed by laws with which relevant supplier or customer: employees should familiarise themselves.
hiring of a family member in any capacity: Information generated within the Group, including research and development and having an interest in a competitor, manufacturing data, costs, prices, sales, supplier or customer of the Company: profits, markets, customers and methods of doing business, is the property of the Group having an interest in an organisation that and should not, unless legally required, be has, or seeks to do business with the disclosed outside the Group without proper Company: authority.
acquiring an interest in property such as Group policies, delegated authorities and real estate, patent rights or securities reserved powers where the Company has, or might have, Group employees are expected to make an interest.
themselves aware of and comply with the letter and spirit of all Group policies and These examples do not extend to normal with the reserved powers and delegated financial investments in publicly quoted authorities established by the Board from companies.
Copies of these are available on the Companys intranet site.
Insider information Employees must not use confidential The freedoms which individuals have to carry information obtained through their out their jobs should be exercised within both employment for personal gain.
the letter and spirit of Group policies and procedures, reserved powers and delegated It is AstraZeneca policy, and in certain authorities.
These are designed to empower countries a legal requirement carrying criminal people to carry out their responsibilities within sanctions, that employees in possession of a necessary framework of corporate control confidential price sensitive information in and legal responsibility but are not so relation to securities must not make use of voluminous as to prescribe appropriate action such information to deal in securities of in every circumstance.
In the exercise of their AstraZeneca or provide such information to authorities individuals must bear Group and third parties for that purpose.
The same legal entity requirements in mind and must considerations apply in relation to confidential surface problems, and consult on issues, price sensitive information relating to other which have significant Group implications.
companies and dealing in their securities.
When considering whether an issue does
