Additional Information for Shareholders Registered Office and Group Headquarters 132 Group Secretary 132 Financial Calendar 132 Dividends 132 Registrars 132 American Depositary Receipts 133 Global Invest Direct 133 SECFilings 133 The Trading Market 133 Exchange Controls and other Limitations affecting Security Holders 135 Exchange Rates 136 Taxation 137 Taxation of Dividends 138 Capital Gains 139 Estate and Gift Tax 139 Stamp Duty 139 Close Company Status 140 Risk Factors 140 Contents Inside Front Cover Glossary 143 Cross reference to Form 20-F 144 Index 146 Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002 Cadbury Schweppes 131 Additional Information for Shareholders Registered Office and Group Headquarters Registrars 25 Berkeley Square Lloyds TSB Registrars London W1J 6HB The Causeway UK Worthing West Sussex BN99 6DA UK Registered in England and Wales No.
0870 600 3959 44 121 415 7036 Group Secretary M A CClark Financial Calendar Final Dividend for 2002 Interim Dividend for 2003 Ordinary shares Announcement of results 12 February 2003 23 July 2003 Ex-dividend date 23 April 2003 17 September 2003 Record date 25 April 2003 19 September 2003 Dividend payment 23 May 2003 17 October 2003 The Annual General Meeting of the Company is on 8 May 2003.
Dividends The interim dividend for 2002 of 3.50 pence per ordinary share was paid on 18 October 2002.
The final dividend for 2002 of 8.00 pence per ordinary share was announced by the Directors on 12 February 2003 and, subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, will be paid on 23 May 2003 to ordinary shareholders on the register at the close of business on 25 April 2003.
The recommended final dividend totals 160 million.
The Company has paid cash dividends on its ordinary shares in respect of every financial year since the merger of Cadbury Group Limited with Schweppes Limited in 1969.
Dividends are paid to holders of ordinary shares on dates which are determined in accordance with the guidelines of the UK Listing Authority.
A final dividend is normally recommended by the Board of Directors following the end of the financial year to which it relates and is paid in the following May, subject to shareholders approval at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
An interim dividend is normally declared by the Board of Directors following the end of the first half year to which it relates.
For 2001 and earlier years, the interim dividend was paid in November.
Since 2002, interim dividends have been paid one month earlier in October.
The dividends for holders of ADRs are normally paid by the Depositary one week after the dividend is paid to ordinary shareholders.
Future dividends to be paid by the Company will be dependent upon the Companys earnings, financial condition and other factors, including the amounts of dividends paid to it by its subsidiaries.
There is no UK governmental restriction on dividend payments to foreign shareholders which is applicable to the Company.
The table below details the amounts of interim, final and total dividends declared in respect of each financial year indicated, translated into US dollars per ADR each representing four ordinary shares at the Noon Buying Rate on each of the respective payment dates for interim and final dividends.
ADSs are represented by American Depositary Receipts, or ADRs, under a sponsored ADR facility with JPMorgan Chase Bank as depositary.
Each ADS represents four ordinary shares.
The ADR Depositary is JPMorgan Chase Bank and shareholder enquiries may be directed to: JPMorgan Chase Bank ADR Service Center PO Box 43013 Providence, RI 02940-3013 USA Telephone: 781 575 4328 www.
com Global Invest Direct Global Invest Direct GID is a program established by JPMorgan Chase Bank to provide a convenient and economical way for investors to increase their ADR investment in the Company.
Further information about GID may be obtained from JPMorgan Chase Bank: Freephone: #1 800 428 4237 US only or at the address above.
For calls from outside the US dial 1 781 575 4328.
SEC Filings In accordance with US legislation, portions of this Report have been incorporated by reference to the Companys Annual Report on Form 20-F, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC in Washington DC, and a copy of this Report has been filed as an exhibit to a Form 6-K filed with the SEC.
This filing is available for public inspection and a copy is available on our web-site.
If you wish to receive a hard copy, please contact the New York office of JPMorgan Chase Bank.
The Trading Market The principal trading market for the ordinary shares of 12.5p is the London Stock Exchange.
ADRs have been traded on the New York Stock Exchange since 2 May 1996 under the ticker symbol CSG.
Previously they were traded on the over-the-counter market in the US from 1984 until 1 May 1996 and were quoted on NASDAQ under the ticker symbol CADBY.
Following the two for one share split in 1999, each ADR represents four ordinary shares of 12.5p.
The ADR price is affected by the exchange rate between the pound sterling and the US dollar.
See Exchange Rates on page 136.
At 29 December 2002, 99.01 million ordinary shares were held as ADRs by 1,945 account holders with registered addresses in the US, representing approximately 4.81% of the outstanding ordinary shares.
Analysis of the share register and of the beneficial ownership of ordinary shares held by nominees through the London Stock Exchange indicated that in total 418.93 million ordinary shares, including those held through ADRs, were held by 2,198 investors with addresses in the US, representing 20.37% of the outstanding ordinary shares.
The 8.625% Cumulative Guaranteed Quarterly Income Preferred Securities, Series A the Preferred Securities liquidation preference $25 per security issued by Cadbury Schweppes Delaware, LP and guaranteed as to certain payments by the Company, are traded on the New York Stock Exchange.
The following table details, for the stated periods, the high and low market prices of the Preferred Securities as reported on the New York Stock Exchange composite tape: 134 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002 Preferred Securities: High and Low market prices High Low Financial Year US$ US$ 1998 27.38 26.13 1999 27.00 22.56 2000 25.19 22.81 2001 First quarter 25.75 25.06 Second quarter 25.85 25.30 Third quarter 26.20 25.31 Fourth quarter 26.01 25.20 Full year 26.20 25.06 2002 First quarter 25.74 25.03 Second quarter 25.84 25.10 September 25.99 25.35 Third quarter 25.99 25.17 October 25.85 25.35 November 25.89 25.55 December 25.93 25.10 Fourth quarter 25.93 25.10 Full year 25.99 25.03 2003 January 25.65 25.30 February 25.70 25.36 March to 3 March 25.58 25.46 Exchange Controls and other Limitations affecting Security Holders There are at present no UK foreign exchange control restrictions on remittance of dividends on the Companys ordinary shares or on the conduct of the Companys operations.
There are no restrictions under the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association or under English law that limit the right of non-resident or foreign owners to hold or vote the Companys ordinary shares.
In the event that a person who is or was interested in ordinary shares fails to give the Company any information required by a notice given pursuant to Section 212 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended the Companies Act which confers upon public companies the power to require information with respect to interests in their voting shares within the time specified in the notice, the Company may apply to the Court for an order, inter alia, that no voting rights be exercisable in respect of such shares and that no shares be issued or except on liquidation payment be made by the Company in respect of such shares.
The holder shall also not be entitled to attend or vote at meetings, and in the case of a person who holds at least 0.25% in number or nominal value of the shares, or any class of shares in issue the Board of Directors of the Company may withhold payment of all or part of any dividends and the holder shall not be entitled to receive shares in lieu of dividend and the Board of Directors of the Company may decline to register a transfer of shares in certain circumstances, if a the Company has given notice to the registered holder requiring the delivery of an ownership declaration by the beneficial owner pursuant to the Articles of Association the Articles of the Company: b no such declaration has been delivered during the period of 14 days since the service of the notice: and c the Company has given a further notice to the registered holder in accordance with the Articles.
Under the Companies Act, any person who acquires alone or, in certain circumstances, with others a material interest in the voting share capital of the Company equal to, or in excess of, 3% or a non-material interest equal to, or in excess of, 10% comes under an obligation to disclose prescribed particulars to the Company in respect of those ordinary shares.
An obligation of disclosure also arises where such persons notifiable interest subsequently falls below the notifiable percentage or, where, above that level, the percentage expressed in whole numbers of the Companys voting share capital in which a person has a notifiable interest, increases or decreases.
Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002 Cadbury Schweppes 135 Additional Information for Shareholders As detailed on page 39, at the date of this Report the Company holds three notifications of interests amounting to 3% or more in the issued share capital of the Company in accordance with sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act.
The table below details notifications of interests, in accordance with the Companies Act, from 1 January 2000 to 3 March 2003.
Notifications of Share Interests Number of shares in which there Interest in issued is an interest share capital Date of notification Interested party in millions in % 2000 24 February Capital Group of Companies, Inc 98.0 Increase to 4.9 25 February Prudential Corporation plc 55.3 Decrease to 2.7 24 March Capital Group of Companies, Inc 101.5 Increase to 5.0 16 August Capital Group of Companies, Inc 101.3 Decrease to 4.9 28 September Capital Group of Companies, Inc 81.1 Decrease to 3.9 6 October Capital Group of Companies, Inc 61.0 Decrease to 3.0 2001 There were no notifications in the year.
2002 18 June Legal & General Investment Management 61.7 Increase to 3.0 12 JulyBarclays PLC63.3Increase to 3.1 19 NovemberBarclays PLC60.6Decrease to 2.9 2003 13 FebruaryBarclays PLC61.8Increase to 3.0 27 February Franklin Resources, Inc. 62.3 Increase to 3.0 This interest was below 3% at 31December 2000, due to the increase in issued share capital between 6 October and 31December 2000.
Exchange Rates The table below details for the stated periods the average or the high and low Noon Buying Rates i. e. the noon buying rate in New York City for cable transfers in foreign currencies as announced for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for pounds sterling expressed in US dollars per 1.00: Exchange Rates Financial Year a High Low Average b US$ US$ 1998 1.66 1999 1.62 2000 1.51 2001 1.44 2002 September 1.57 1.53 October 1.57 1.54 November 1.59 1.54 December 1.61 1.56 Full year 1.51 2003 January 1.65 1.60 February 1.65 1.57 March to 3 March 1.58 1.58 a The Companys financial year ends on the Sunday nearest to 31 December.
Prior to 1999, the financial year ended on the Saturday nearest to 31 December.
b Calculated by using the average of the exchange rates on the last day of each month during the period.
136 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002 On 27 December 2002, the last dealing day of the Companys financial year, the Noon Buying Rate for the pound sterling was 1.00 US$1.6022.
Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the pound sterling and the US dollar will affect the US dollar equivalent of the pound sterling prices of the Companys ordinary shares listed on the London Stock Exchange and, as a result, are likely to affect the market price of the ADRs in the US.
Such fluctuations will also affect the US dollar amounts received by holders of ADRs on conversion by the Depositary of cash dividends paid in pounds sterling on the ordinary shares represented by the ADRs.
Taxation This discussion of UK, Australian and US tax law considerations is intended only as a descriptive summary and does not purport to be a complete technical analysis or listing of all potential tax effects relevant to the ownership of ordinary shares or ADRs.
The summary of UK, Australian and US tax laws set out below is based: i on the laws in force as at 29 December 2002, and is subject to any changes in UK, Australian or US law, in any double taxation convention between the US and the UK or in UK Inland Revenue practice, occurring after 29 December 2002: and ii in part on representations of the Depositary and assumes that each obligation provided for in, or otherwise contemplated by, the Deposit Agreement and any related agreement will be performed in accordance with its terms.
This summary is not exhaustive of all possible tax considerations and holders of ordinary shares or ADRs are advised to satisfy themselves as to the overall tax consequences of their ownership of ordinary shares or ADRs and the ordinary shares represented thereby, by consulting their own tax advisors.
This summary does not deal with the UK tax consequences to a US resident shareholder as defined on page 138 that is resident, or in the case of an individual resident, ordinarily resident, for UK tax purposes in the UK or that carries on business in the UK through a branch or agency.
On 24 July 2001, the US and the UK signed a new double taxation convention the New Convention that, if ratified, would replace the double taxation convention currently in force.
The New Convention would make a number of important changes.
In particular, under the New Convention, US resident shareholders would no longer be entitled to claim the tax credit from the UK Inland Revenue, and there would no longer be a notional withholding tax.
Thus, as the UK does not otherwise impose withholding tax on dividends paid to US resident shareholders, US resident shareholders would include in income only the dividends received and would not have the benefit of any United States foreign tax credits with respect to such dividends.
The New Convention would generally be effective, in respect of taxes withheld at source, for amounts paid or credited on or after the first day of the second month after the New Convention is ratified.
Other provisions of the New Convention would take effect on certain other dates after ratification.
If the New Convention is ratified, the rules of the Income Tax Convention would remain in effect until the effective dates described above.
However, a US resident shareholder would be entitled to elect to have the Income Tax Convention apply in its entirety for a period of twelve months after the effective dates of the New Convention.
In January 2003, President Bush announced a proposed change in US tax law the Proposal that would exempt from US tax certain dividends received by non-corporate US residents from US corporations that had paid US corporate income tax.
Based on statements of the US Treasury Department on 20 January and 7 February 2003, the Proposal would also exempt from US tax certain dividends received by non-corporate US residents from a non-US corporation, such as the Company, but only to the extent such dividends reflect dividends that the non-US corporation itself had received from US corporations including subsidiaries that had paid US corporate income tax.
There can be no assurance of when, if at all, the New Convention might be ratified or when, if at all, or in what form, the Proposal might become law.
For the purpose of the current US-UK double taxation conventions and for the purposes of the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder the Code, discussed below, the holders of ADRs should be treated as the owners of the underlying ordinary shares that are evidenced by such ADRs.
Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002 Cadbury Schweppes 137 Additional Information for Shareholders Taxation of Dividends UK Residents An individual shareholder resident in the UK is treated for UK income tax purposes as having taxable income equal to the sum of the dividend paid and the tax credit attaching to the dividend.
The tax credit is equal to one-ninth of the dividend and may be credited against the shareholders UK income tax liability.
The tax credit is sufficient to satisfy the lower or basic rate income tax liability in respect of the dividend, but further income tax at the higher rate may be payable depending on the shareholders personal circumstances.
Where ordinary shares are held in Personal Equity Plans and Individual Savings Accounts, the tax credit on dividends received into such accounts before 6 April 2004 will generally be repayable.
Australian Residents An individual shareholder, resident in Australia for tax purposes, will be assessable to income tax on the sum of the dividend received and the UK tax credit.
A foreign tax credit is available in Australia for the lesser of the Australian tax payable on the gross dividend or the equivalent of the UK tax credit.
Thus, an Australian resident shareholder receiving a dividend of AUD90, will be treated as receiving taxable income of AUD100, being the sum of the AUD90 dividend and an AUD10 UK tax credit.
A foreign tax credit of up to the UK tax credit of AUD10 will then be available to be offset against the Australian residents liability to tax.
No refund of UK tax will be available.
An Australian tax resident non-individual shareholder will be assessable to income tax on the amount of the dividend received.
The above comments are intended as a general guide only and are based on current legislation and Australian Taxation Office practice.
These comments apply to shareholders who are resident in Australia for tax purposes and who hold their ordinary shares as a capital investment.
References to non-individual shareholders are references to shareholders that are not natural persons and that own less than 10% of the issued share capital of the Company.
It is assumed that Australian resident shareholders do not have a permanent establishment or fixed base in the UK.
US Residents US resident shareholders will be treated as receiving dividend income equal to the sum of the dividend and the tax credit, reduced by UK withholding tax at 10% which will be available as a foreign tax credit subject to the provisions of the Code.
Thus, a US resident shareholder receiving a dividend of 90 will be treated as receiving taxable income of 100 less UK withholding tax of 10.
The gross dividend the sum of the dividend paid by the Company plus the related UK tax credit payable to a holder who is a US citizen or a US resident as defined below will generally be treated as foreign source dividend income for US Federal Income Tax purposes.
The amount of any cash distribution paid in pounds sterling, including UK taxes withheld therefrom, will be the US dollar value of the pounds sterling payment on the date of receipt by the US holder or, in the case of ADRs, by the Depositary, regardless of whether the payment is converted into US dollars.
Gain or loss, if any, recognised on the sale or disposition of pounds sterling generally will be ordinary US source income or loss.
Such dividend will not be eligible for the 70% dividends received deduction allowed to US corporations under Section 243 of the Code.
Special rules apply for the purposes of determining the dividend paid and foreign tax credit available to a US corporation which, either alone or together with one or more associated corporations, controls, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting stock of the Company.
As used herein, the term US resident includes an individual resident in the US for purposes of US tax, a US corporation and a foreign corporation or non-resident alien individual engaged 138 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002 in the conduct of a trade or business within the US with which a dividend or gain, as the case may be, on the ADRs or ordinary shares is effectively connected.
Capital Gains UK Capital Gains Tax The values at 31 March 1982 for the purposes of UK capital gains tax adjusted to reflect the two for one share split in 1999 were: Ordinary Shares of 12.5p each 49.25p 77.535p 77.535p is the adjusted price for shareholders who subscribed for their full entitlements under the rights issues in October 1993 and February 1995.
Taxation of Capital Gains for US Residents Holders of ADRs or ordinary shares who are US resident individuals or US corporations, and who are not resident or ordinarily resident in the UK, will not be subject to UK taxation on capital gains realised on the disposal of their ADRs or ordinary shares, unless the ADRs or ordinary shares are used or held for the purposes of a trade, profession or vocation carried on in the UK through a branch or agency.
A holder of ADRs or ordinary shares who is a US citizen or a US resident as defined above will generally recognise gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes on the sale or other disposition of ADRs or ordinary shares in an amount equal to the difference between the US dollar value of the amount realised and the holders tax basis in the ADRs or ordinary shares.
Such gain or loss will be capital gain or loss if the ADRs or ordinary shares are held as capital assets, and will generally be long-term capital gain or loss if the ADRs or ordinary shares were held for more than one year.
Any such gain or loss will generally be US source gain or loss.
Long-term capital gains of individuals, under certain circumstances, are taxed at preferential rates.
Generally, individuals will be taxed on net capital gains on assets held for more than one year at a maximum rate of 20%.
Estate and Gift Tax The current Estate and Gift Tax Convention between the US and the UK generally relieves from UK Inheritance Tax the equivalent of US Estate and Gift Tax the transfer of ordinary shares or of ADRs where the shareholder or holder of the ADRs making the transfer is domiciled, for the purposes of the Convention, in the US.
This will not apply if the ordinary shares or ADRs are part of the business property of an individuals permanent establishment in the UK or pertain to the fixed base in the UK of a person providing independent personal services.
If no relief is given under the Convention, Inheritance Tax may be charged on the amount by which the value of the transferors estate is reduced as a result of any transfer made by way of gift or other gratuitous transaction by an individual in general within seven years of death or on the death of an individual.
In the unusual case where ordinary shares or ADRs are subject to both UK Inheritance Tax and US Estate or Gift Tax, the Convention generally provides for tax paid in the UK to be credited against tax payable in the US or for tax paid in the US to be credited against tax payable in the UK based on priority rules set forth in the Convention.
Stamp Duty No stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax SDRT will be payable in the UK on the purchase or transfer of an ADR, provided that the ADR and any separate instrument or written agreement of transfer remains at all times outside the UK and that the instrument or written agreement of transfer is not executed in the UK.
Stamp duty or SDRT is, however, generally payable at the rate of 1.5% of the amount or value of the consideration or, in some circumstances, the value of the ordinary shares, where ordinary shares are issued or transferred to a person whose business is or includes issuing depositary receipts, or to a nominee or agent for such a person.
Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002 Cadbury Schweppes 139 Additional Information for Shareholders Stamp Duty continued A transfer for value of the underlying ordinary shares will generally be subject to either stamp duty or SDRT, normally at the rate of 0.5% of the amount or value of the consideration.
A transfer of ordinary shares from a nominee to its beneficial owner including the transfer of underlying ordinary shares from the Depositary to an ADR holder under which no beneficial interest passes is subject to stamp duty at the fixed rate of 5.00 per instrument of transfer.
Close Company Status So far as the Directors are aware the close company provisions of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 do not apply to the Company and there has been no change in that position since the end of the financial year.
Risk Factors Investors in the Company should carefully consider the risk factors described below.
The Companys business, financial condition, results of operations or stock price could be materially adversely affected by any or all of these risks, or by other risks that the Company presently cannot identify.
The information set forth under the headings Treasury Risk Management, Liquidity Risk, Interest Rate Risk, Currency Risk, Commodity Risk and Credit Risk on pages 32 to 34 is incorporated herein by reference.
Dependence on Business Partners A significant part of the Groups business is conducted through licensing arrangements, notably with bottlers of its beverages products in the USA.
In certain countries, such as Canada and the UK there is also a greater concentration of its customer base, generally due to the consolidation of retail trade in such countries.
Changes in bottling arrangements, such as the termination of certain 7 UP licenses in 2002 in the US, or pricing pressures from customers in such countries, could adversely impact the Groups sales or margins in particular market segments for a period of time.
Acquisitions The Group has completed a number of significant acquisitions during recent years and has agreed to acquire the Adams confectionery business which will extend its geographical reach, particularly in the Americas.
While various forms of warranties and indemnities exist with respect to such acquisitions, there can be no assurance that the Group has anticipated all problems of these businesses or that all losses associated with these recently acquired businesses may come to light prior to the expiration of such warranty and indemnity protections.
Furthermore, on the assumption that the acquisition of Adams is completed, significant one-off integration costs will be incurred in 2003 and 2004.
Major unforeseen difficulties in the integration process, or the incurrence of significant additional costs associated with the integration process, could reduce the Groups earnings, which could adversely affect the market price of the Companys shares.
Competition and Demand Both the beverages and confectionery industries are competitive.
In its major markets, the Group competes with other multinational corporations that have significant financial resources to respond to and develop the markets in which both they and the Group operate.
These resources may be applied to change areas of focus or to increase investments in marketing or new products.
This could cause the Groups sales or margins to decrease in these markets.
Furthermore, consumer tastes are susceptible to change.
If the Group is unable to respond to rapid changes in consumer preferences, the Groups sales or margins in individual markets could be materially adversely affected.
140 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002 Information Technology The Group depends on accurate, timely information and numerical data from key software applications to enable day-to-day decision making.
The Group is currently engaged in the development of PROBE, a major enterprise-wide system which will continue to be implemented progressively throughout the world in the next few years.
During 2002, while the majority of the system worked well, there were start-up problems with the logistics and distribution modules that severely impacted the ability of the Asia Pacific business to deliver products at the start of the key summer selling season.
It is estimated that the combination of lost revenues and increased costs was around 10 million, all of which fell in the last quarter of the year.
The problems are now resolved and 2003 has started well.
Any disruption caused by a failure of PROBE or similar applications, of underlying equipment or of communication networks, for whatever reason, could delay such day-to-day decisions or cause the Group material financial losses.
Manufacturing The Groups manufacturing facilities could be disrupted for reasons beyond the Groups control.
These disruptions may include extremes of weather, fire, supplies of materials or services, system failures, workforce actions or environmental issues.
Even though the Group takes measures to limit these risks and any financial consequences, any significant manufacturing disruptions could adversely affect the Groups ability to make and sell products, which could cause the Groups revenues to decline.
Currency Fluctuations The Group operates in many different countries and thus is subject to currency fluctuations, both in terms of its trading activities and the translation of its financial statements: furthermore, approximately 60% of its operating profits are now derived from the Americas.
During 2002, the impact of exchange rate movements on the Group was adverse and therefore turnover and operating profit were 179million, and 34million lower respectively, than would have been the case had the exchange rates prevailing during 2001 been applied.
While the Group uses short-term hedging for trading activities, the Company does not believe that it is appropriate or practicable to hedge long-term translation exposure.
The Group does, however, seek some mitigation of such translation exposure by relating the currencies of trading cash flows to those of its debt by using broadly similar interest cover ratios.
If the Group experiences significant currency fluctuations or is unable effectively to use similar interest cover ratios, then the Groups financial condition could be adversely affected.
Raw Materials The Groups profitability depends to some extent upon the purchase of raw materials from around the world, which exposes the Group to price and supply fluctuation.
Key items such as cocoa, milk, sugar and packaging materials are subject to potentially significant fluctuations in price and availability.
While the Group takes measures to protect itself against the short-term impact of these fluctuations, there is no assurance that in the long-term any increase in costs can be recovered from customers.
A failure to recover these costs from customers could decrease the Groups profitability.
Contamination Despite safety measures adopted by the Group, the Groups products could become contaminated.
The Group uses many ingredients in manufacturing beverages and confectionery, which increases the risk of contamination, either accidental or malicious.
While the Company believes that these incidents are generally localised, any contamination could be expensive to remediate, cause delays in manufacturing and adversely affect the Groups reputation and financial condition.
Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002 Cadbury Schweppes 141 Additional Information for Shareholders Retirement Benefits The Group has various retirement benefit schemes which are funded via investments in equities, bonds and other external assets and the liabilities for which reflect the latest salary levels.
The values of such assets are dependent on, among other things, the performance of the equity and debt markets, which are volatile.
Any shortfall in the Groups funding obligations may require significant additional funding from the employing entities.
Governmental Actions Given the multinational nature of its business, the Group is subject to substantial government regulation which may change dramatically as a result of political, economic or social events.
Such changes may be wide-ranging and cover cross-border trading, taxation, employment practices, environment, health and safety issues.
The effects of such changes are uncertain.
If the Group was unprepared to handle or could not adequately prepare for any such changes, the Groups businesses could suffer.
Banking Credit In its financing activities, the Group deals with many banks and financial institutions and thus is exposed to a risk of loss in the event of non-performance by the counterparties to financial instruments.
While the Group seeks to limit such risk by dealing only with counterparties which have high credit ratings, the Group cannot give assurances that counterparties will fulfil their obligations, failure of which could materially affect the Groups financial position.
142 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002
