For enquiries of a general nature regarding the Company and for Investor Relations enquiries, please contact Investor Relations.
Cadbury Schweppes plc 25 Berkeley Square London W1J 6HB UK Telephone: 020 7409 1313 44 20 7409 1313 Copies of the Better Payment Practice Guide can be obtained from the Department of Trade and Industry, DTI Publications Orderline, Admail 528, London SW1W 8YT, telephone 0870 1502500.
Alternatively, it can be ordered or downloaded from the DTI website, www.
Cadbury Schweppes plc 2003 The Company was incorporated in England as a limited company on 6 May 1897, under the name of Schweppes Limited.
On 28 March 1969 it changed its name to Cadbury Schweppes Limited and on 27 November 1981, it re-registered as Cadbury Schweppes public limited company.
The Company is subject to the laws of England and is domiciled in England.
The Companys commitment to environmental issues has been reflected in the production and despatch of this Report & Accounts and Form 20-F.
The cover and text paper is Mega matt, manufactured in Germany.
Mega matt is a coated paper which has Nordic Swan environmental accreditation.
It comprises 50% totally chlorine-free pulps from plantation forests, generally using forest thinnings, offcuts and surplus timber, and 50% recycled and fide-inked fibres from preand post-consumer waste, without using chlorine in the fide-inking process.
The inks, with the exception of the gold metallic ink on the cover, are all soya based.
The polywrap in which this Report has been despatched to shareholders is totally degradable.
Designed by Addison Typeset by Asset Graphics Printed in England at St Ives Westerham Press 148 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002 Contents Page Description of Business 1 Operating and Financial Review 13 Report of the Directors 35 Report on Directors Remuneration 45 Financial Record 59 Financial Statements 67 Additional Information for Shareholders 131 Glossary 143 Cross reference to Form 20-F 144 Index 146 This is the Report & Accounts and Form 20-F of Cadbury Schweppes public limited company for the year ended 29 December 2002.
It contains the annual report and accounts in accordance with UK generally accepted accounting principles and regulations and a reconciliation to US generally accepted accounting principles.
Together with the Form 20-F to be filed in April 2003 with the US Securities and Exchange Commission, it incorporates the annual report on Form 20-F for the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
The Annual General Meeting will be held on Thursday, 8 May 2003.
The Notice of Meeting, details of the business to be transacted and arrangements for the Meeting are contained in the separate Annual General Meeting booklet sent to all shareholders.
Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002 CADBURY SCHWEPPES PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY REPORT & ACCOUNTS AND FORM 20-F 2002 working together to create brands www.
com investor Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002 p p i e o working o l w rkng e together v og th r e t e lo e how consumers feel about At Cadbury Schweppes we Brands are the essence our brands deliver growth by working of our relationship with together to leverage our Liking is not enough, thats why we consumers strengths around the Globe use love as a quintessentially powerful expression of the way that people feel Working together captures the great about Cadbury Schweppes brands, to create importance that we place on the role capturing the affection, the importance, of our colleagues, the respect we have the character, the unique relationship for the contribution they make to the that consumers have with them.
business, and how well we work together d a br n s as an organisation.
Cadbury Schweppes Whether on the commercial side Our consumers can be anybody, from employs thousands of dedicated people developing and extending brands, any age, anywhere in the world.
Our Values that we communicate and instil around the world who contribute to our working in operations, in procurement consumers needs have to be met, in our products over time make them success, and we recognise this through or manufacturing, communicating with and its then that the relationship they into brands.
Brands that people consume encouraging initiative, investing in our consumers or selling, at Cadbury have formed with a brand through all around the world in their millions.
personal development, providing equal Schweppes were all in the process of experience and implicit trust in quality The role those brands play in our opportunities and rewarding performance, creation.
Its essential to be innovators and taste determines and drives the consumers lives is what distinguishes all within a healthy and safe working in product research and development in brands purchasing decision.
our supply chain, and routes to market, Dr Pepper in the US or Cadburys Dairy with consistent investment to guarantee Milk in the UK, these relationships are unique taste, quality and value.
com o t people love e t cr a e www.
com investor Driving existing brands and creating new ones is at the very heart of our business Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2002 p p e o l i o e w rkng v lo e o og g t th h r r e e t t e e Form 20-F A Form 20-F has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC in Washington DC.
The Form 20-F is available for public inspection and a copy is available to view on the Companys web-site, www.
Alternatively, you may obtain a hard copy from the New York office of JPMorgan Chase Bank.
Forward Looking Statements Forward looking statements, within the meaning of Section 21E of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are made throughout this Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement.
Forward looking statements are based on managements current views and assumptions, and involve risks and uncertainties that could significantly affect expected results.
For example, results may be affected by external factors such as: international d a economic and political conditions including worsening economic conditions in countries in br n s which the Group has operations : currency rate fluctuations: actions of competitors, certain of which have resources greater than the Group: changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards: fluctuations in the cost of funding retirement benefits: difficulties in obtaining governmental approval for intended acquisitions or disposals: distributor and licensee relationships and actions: consumer demand and acceptance of new products: effectiveness of spending and marketing programmes: fluctuations in the cost and availability of raw materials: and unusual weather patterns.
01 Highlights of the Year Comparative Statements 02 Our brands In this Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement, the Company makes certain 04 Chairmans Statement statements with respect to its market position, or its products or brands market position, in 06 Chief Executive Officers Review comparison to third parties.
These statements are based on independent sources, such as 10 Geographic Overview Euromonitor.
These statements are accurate to the best knowledge and belief of the Company.
12 Acquisition of Adams 14 Industry Overview 16 Corporate and Social Responsibility 18 Directors and Group Secretary 20 Summary Report of the Directors o 22 Summary Report on Directors Remuneration t 28 Summary Financial Review and Financial Statements 35 Independent Auditors Statement 36 US GAAP Information e t Cadbury Schweppes plc 2003 cr a e 38 Shareholder Information The Companys commitment to environmental issues has been reflected in the production and despatch of this Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement.
The polywrap in which this Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement has been despatched to shareholders is totally degradable.
Photography: Chris Knaggs, Marcus Lyon.
Designed by Addison Corporate Marketing Limited.
Printed in England at St Ives Westerham Press.
Sunkist is a registered trade mark of Sunkist Growers, Inc. p p e o l i o e w rkng v lo e o og g t th h r r e e t t e e Form 20-F A Form 20-F has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC in Washington DC.
Sunkist is a registered trade mark of Sunkist Growers, Inc. p p i e o working o l w rkng e together v og th r e t e lo e how consumers feel about At Cadbury Schweppes we Brands are the essence our brands deliver growth by working of our relationship with together to leverage our Liking is not enough, thats why we consumers strengths around the Globe use love as a quintessentially powerful expression of the way that people feel Working together captures the great about Cadbury Schweppes brands, to create importance that we place on the role capturing the affection, the importance, of our colleagues, the respect we have the character, the unique relationship for the contribution they make to the that consumers have with them.
com investor Driving existing brands and creating new ones is at the very heart of our business Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2002 p p i e o working o l w rkng e together v og th r e t e lo e how consumers feel about At Cadbury Schweppes we Brands are the essence our brands deliver growth by working of our relationship with together to leverage our Liking is not enough, thats why we consumers strengths around the Globe use love as a quintessentially powerful expression of the way that people feel Working together captures the great about Cadbury Schweppes brands, to create importance that we place on the role capturing the affection, the importance, of our colleagues, the respect we have the character, the unique relationship for the contribution they make to the that consumers have with them.
Sunkist is a registered trade mark of Sunkist Growers, Inc. o i h h a y Hg light f t e r s e Financial Highlights 2002 2001 % Sales m 5,298 4,960 7 Underlying Operating Profit m 1,041 992 5 Underlying Profit Before Tax m 935 886 6 Underlying EPS pence 32.0 30.0 7 Basic EPS pence 27.4 27.0 1 Dividends per share pence 11.5 11.0 5 Free Cash Flow m 315 397 Excludes goodwill amortisation, major restructuring charges and disposal gains losses see page 32 for a reconciliation to operating profit Includes associates Robust performance in 2002 Strong growth from confectionery operations with volumes up 3% Excellent results from Cadbury Trebor Bassett with volumes up 6% Solid beverage performance driven by efficiency improvements and acquisitions Acquisitions continue to strengthen both business streams Underlying earnings per share growth of 11% in constant 1 currency and free cash flow of 315 million Adverse currency movements impact earnings by 4% Basic earnings per share growth of 1% reflecting adverse currency movements, increased amortisation and prior year disposal gains 1 Constant currency growth excludes the impact of exchange rate movements during the year.
2002 Annual Review Cadbury Schweppes 1 u o r ra ds b n 2 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Review 2002 Cadbury Schweppes is a major international beverage and confectionery company, selling much loved brands in almost 200 countries worldwide.
Here we show some of our top selling brands.
2002 Annual Review Cadbury Schweppes 3 Chairmans Statement same level as last year.
Underlying earnings per share at 32.0p were also up 7% on last year.
At constant exchange rates, underlying EPS was up 11% and the business generated free cash flow of 315 million, both in line with our stated targets.
Dividends The Board has recommended a final dividend of 8.0 pence up from 7.65 pence in the prior year.
This brings the total dividend for 2002 to 11.5 pence, an increase of 5% over 2001, which is broadly in line with the growth in underlying earnings per share.
The Board My retirement at the end of my three year term as Chairman marks a Overview Performance new phase in the development of 2002 was another good year for Sales at 5.3 billion were 7% higher your company.
Cadbury Schweppes with the Group than last year or 10% excluding the once again exceeding its financial targets impact of exchange rates.
Like-for-like John Sunderland, currently Chief for both underlying earnings growth and sales grew 3%, with recent acquisitions Executive Officer, will become Chairman free cash flow generation.
A significant contributing 7%, the most notable of in May 2003 and Roger Carr, currently feature of the year was the performance these being Orangina and La Casera, Cadbury Schweppes Senior Independent of our core confectionery operations both in Europe.
Director, will become Deputy Chairman.
which grew strongly, benefiting from John Sunderland will be Executive the high levels of investment in recent Underlying operating profit before Chairman until August 2005 and years in growth and efficiency projects.
restructuring and goodwill amortisation thereafter, Non-Executive Chairman.
Acquisitions continued to strengthen rose 5% and at constant currency the In December, Todd Stitzer, previously the business, and the proposed growth was 9%, with the base business Chief Strategy Officer, was appointed as acquisition of Adams will make Cadbury contributing 4% and acquisitions 5%.
Deputy Chief Executive with immediate Schweppes the worlds leading effect, assuming the role of Chief confectionery business.
The acquisition of lower margin full Executive Officer in May 2003. system businesses impacted Group In December, it was announced that operating margins with margins In addition to this, in mid-February I would retire from the Board at the decreasing from 18.8% to 18.5%.
2003, the Group announced changes AGM in May.
Subsequent Board level Excluding acquisitions, margins increased to its senior management team and appointments have set in train a planned by twenty basis points to 19.0%.
organisational structure which are process of management changes covered in more detail in John which will position the Company Underlying pre-tax profit rose by 7% to Sunderlands review.
935 million with restructuring at the 4 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Review 2002 Left to right: Todd Stitzer, John Sunderland and Derek Bonham The Board is delighted that John and wish him well.
have some impact on our achievement has accepted the role as Chairman.
against targets for the year.
However, We believe it is in the interests of the Colleagues we are confident that, in the acquisition Company and its shareholders that his On behalf of the Board, I would like to of Adams and the management extensive knowledge of the Group and thank everyone at Cadbury Schweppes and organisational changes, we are experience is retained.
Todd Stitzer has for all their contributions in 2002, both laying down firm foundations for an outstanding track record, both as in driving the existing business forward continued growth and the creation of Chief Strategy Officer and prior to that and developing it for the future.
Our core confectionery operations grew strongly, benefiting from high levels of investment in recent years.
as President and Chief Executive Officer DC Bonham of Dr Pepper Seven Up.
Looking Ahead 2003 has started satisfactorily despite Subsequently, John Brock, Chief the broader economic uncertainty.
Operating Officer of Cadbury Schweppes While we expect good performances since 2000, resigned from the Board in from most of our businesses in 2003, December.
On behalf of the Board and the combination of changes to the his colleagues, I would like to thank John distribution arrangements for 7 UP for his significant contribution to the in the US and the consolidation of success of our business over the years the Adams acquisition from March, will 2002 Annual Review Cadbury Schweppes 5 Chief Executive Officers Review 2002 was a good year for Cadbury Schweppes.
It was the sixth successive year in which we exceeded our two key financial targets of double-digit growth in underlying earnings per share and the generation of more than 300m of free cash flow.
In 2002 underlying earnings per share were slightly diluted by trading at constant exchange rates rose 11% performance in two confectionery and free cash flow generation was businesses, namely China and the 315 million.
Underlying operating profit Americas, and the introduction of a also passed 1 billion for the first time.
new IT system Project PROBE into our food and beverage operation in Australia.
Exchange rates have had a significant impact this year and diluted the 11% In confectionery, despite the problems earnings per share growth to 7%, mainly in China and the Americas, our business because of the weakening of the overall grew like-for-like volumes at US dollar against sterling.
It has been really gratifying to see our growth programme starting to Overall, we had an excellent year in deliver throughout our confectionery terms of volume growth from our key portfolio.
confectionery businesses and satisfactory profit delivery.
Our beverage business After years of relatively flat growth our produced solid profit performances, confectionery business in Australia has driven mainly from efficiency.
Our results now recorded three successive years of 6 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Review 2002 increasing volume growth, namely 5, 6 and 7% respectively.
This is a very encouraging trend in its implications for the development of our broader confectionery business.
It has been driven by opening up new channels of distribution, innovation and more focused commercial programmes.
In the United Kingdom, with the integration of Cadbury and Trebor Bassett completed, we saw a truly outstanding performance from the new company with momentum accelerating throughout the year.
Volume growth for the full year was 6% with chocolate up 8% and sugar 4%, driven by the same types of programmes as those adopted in Australia.
We have not seen these levels of growth in decades and they led directly to an increase in our Europe performed well as it absorbed in both beverages and confectionery.
the major acquisitions of La Casera and Orangina in Spain and France On the beverage side: Finally, our European Confectionery and respectively.
Efficiency gains drove in February we acquired Squirt in Africa, India and Middle East businesses a satisfactory set of profit results.
Mexico, adding a major brand to our also performed very well, contributing to soft drinks stable in that market: a very good year for confectionery.
Motts had a strong finish to the year in May the addition of Nantucket with Clamato up 8% in the US.
Hawaiian Nectars further consolidated our US still beverage business and in particular the Snapple Beverage Group: We had an excellent year in volume then finally in November we purchased growth from our key confectionery full control of the Apollinaris & Schweppes business in Germany, businesses.
another step in the development of In beverages we saw solid profit results Punch, the brand which has shown our European beverages business.
from North America and Europe driven outstanding growth since we acquired it, by acquisitions and efficiency performed well again, recording an In our confectionery businesses: improvements.
In the USA we saw increase in 2002 of 26%.
Our Mexico in February we bought out most of the an improving performance from the business also performed extremely well.
minority shareholders in Cadbury India Dr Pepper brand including the successful in what is one of our key developing launch of Red Fusion.
Most other brands Acquisitions markets: performed satisfactorily although Our strategy over the last six years has in May we acquired the majority franchise transfers did impact overall been to focus on developing robust and interest in Kent which, though based volume performance at Dr Pepper sustainable regional positions in the in Turkey, has significant export trade Seven Up.
After a slow first half we markets in which we operate.
2002 with its surrounding countries: it will saw strong second half volume growth saw the further development of this play a major part in our expanding from Snapple of 3%.
programme with a series of acquisitions European confectionery business: 2002 Annual Review Cadbury Schweppes 7 Chief Executive Officers Review regions through organic growth as well functional confectionery and be a strong as acquisition.
Our strategy has been to No.
make our positions in these markets more competitive through developing At the same time our geographic stronger business platforms whilst reliance on Europe and the old simultaneously broadening our Commonwealth markets has reduced participation and thereby reducing our significantly.
We will be a global operator dependence on carbonated beverages in a very strong competitive position and chocolate.
with huge potential to cross-sell our different portfolios in the great variety of Six years ago our beverage business had markets in which we will be operating.
77% of its sales in carbonated beverages and operated on a global basis.
The sale People and Organisation of our minor businesses and the use of In May I become Chairman and Todd those funds for acquisitions has changed Stitzer Chief Executive Officer.
These in September we acquired Dandy in our geographic and market portfolio changes, plus the acquisition of Adams, Denmark, which brought us gum significantly.
We now have a broad have presented an opportunity for us to leadership in several markets and participation in refreshment beverages restructure our management consolidated our position as No.
2 in with still drinks, juices and water organisation.
the overall European gum market.
comprising almost half of our total portfolio alongside carbonated The new organisation we have The total sum expended on these and soft drinks.
announced will be simpler, clarify other value creating acquisitions during accountability and enable swifter the year amounted to 628 million.
Today we operate in three main decision-making.
We have reduced the In their first year all are operating in line geographies North America, Europe and number of our major business units from with expectation, a reflection of the Australia and in key markets we have ten nine Cadbury Schweppes plus Adams considerable acquisition and integration pushed our market shares closer to 20%.
These five will experience which our management team be supported by five staff functions and has developed over the past few years.
The story in confectionery has been this new global leadership team of ten key executives will report to the Chief Executive Officer and drive our growth We now have a broad participation in and efficiency programmes, as well as the various integration programmes in refreshment beverages.
Finally, in December we made a similar.
We have evolved from a The five new regions are: successful offer to purchase the Adams dominant reliance on chocolate to one Americas Beverages, where it is our confectionery business which will make where soon we will have a full range of ultimate intention to combine our Cadbury Schweppes the worlds leading confectionery products encompassing Motts, Snapple and Dr Pepper confectionery company.
Fuller details chocolate, sugar, medicated and Seven Up businesses into one new of this are described on pages 12 functional confectionery and gum.
This and 13. the completion of the Adams acquisition will present considerable cost savings, Cadbury Schweppes will not just be the but also revenue growth opportunities Robust and Sustainable Operations worlds leading confectionery company, as we broaden our distribution reach We have sought to achieve robustness it will also hold the No.
1 position in across the full range of the combined and sustainability in our operating sugar confectionery, the No.
8 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Review 2002 Americas Confectionery: this will planning has engendered promotion combine our existing operations in opportunities throughout our Canada, the US and Argentina with organisation and will energise the new the Adams confectionery companies in team reporting to Todd Stitzer as they the Americas.
Over 70% of Adams take on the challenges of integrating and business comes from this region.
Europe, Middle East and Africa The continuing strength of our Confectionery: this will be our major management team is reflected in confectionery operation combining our Cadbury Schweppes inclusion for the Great Britain & Ireland, European and fifth year in a row as one of the top ten the majority of our current Africa, India best managed companies in the UK, and Middle East business units.
as compiled by Management Today, and seen our promotion to No.
2 in European Beverages: this region will this poll.
Outlook Asia Pacific: this region already 2003 will see an increased level of combines our beverage and integration activity but also create a confectionery operations in this part new platform upon which we can build of the world and will be adding India for the future.
The year has started and Pakistan to it.
satisfactorily and we look forward with confidence to our unceasing challenge to These changes are already effective.
grow the value of Cadbury Schweppes for all our shareowners.
Cadbury Schweppes has always placed great importance on the recruitment, development and promotion of colleagues.
This phase of our succession John Sunderland 2002 Annual Review Cadbury Schweppes 9 Geographic Overview our products continue to sell in their billions around the world and throughout the year of the volume impact programme which drove incremental profit and volume through more focused and North Europe innovative brand marketing programmes America and the launch of Red Fusion in the third confectionery beverages quarter.
Overall, Dr Pepper volumes for the year were flat.
7 UP volumes fell 7% due to continued weakness in the lemonlime category, bottling transfers and North America Beverage sales rose by intense competition.
In the fourth quarter, The integration of recent acquisitions is 3% to 1.8 billion and operating profits dnL was launched with encouraging initial on track, although Oranginas by 1% to 548 million operating profit results.
The still drinks portfolio continued performance in France was impacted by refers to Group operating profit before to show growth 4.4% with strong weak and competitive market conditions.
major restructuring costs, and performances from Hawaiian Punch amortisation of goodwill.
This is the In Europe Confectionery, sales increased measure of profit or loss for each by 7% to 1,546 million and operating reportable segment used by management, profits by 17% to 247 million.
The as analysed in the Analysis of Results on impact of exchange rate movements was page 30. compared to 541 million in Europe negligible.
At constant exchange rates beverages constant exchange rates refer to 2001 Overall performance of the region and 2002 sales or operating profit benefited from the major investments translated at 2002 average exchange made in growth and efficiency initiatives rates, sales and operating profits rose by in recent years.
The Group saw strong 7% and 6% respectively.
Excluding through Motts 26% and from Clamato results from the key markets in the UK, acquisitions and at constant exchange 8%.
Core brand Snapple improved France, Poland and Russia and recovery rates, sales grew 2% and operating profits through the year with full year volumes in the smaller markets, notably Spain.
Cadbury Trebor Bassett in the UK had an Volumes for the region increased by 6% Sales in the Europe Beverages region excellent year with performance exceeding driven by growth in still drinks, innovation grew by 39% to 717 million and expectation.
Branded volumes grew by in carbonated soft drinks primarily operating profits by 54% to 140 million.
6% with strong growth in chocolate led Red Fusion from Dr Pepper and Excluding exchange rate movements, by moulded and a recovery in sugar acquisitions.
On a like-for-like basis, sales increased by 40% and operating volumes in the second half.
Marketing volumes were flat with the second half profits by 56%.
Recent acquisitions were investment was 10% higher with spend seeing a modest increase following a a significant contributor to the increase in focused on a fewer number of core lines 0.6% decline in the first half of the year.
overall sales and operating profit, notably and the highly successful sponsorship of The like-for-like volume performance was Orangina in France, La Casera in Spain the Commonwealth Games.
The business impacted by the termination of certain of and Squirt in Mexico.
performed strongly during the Christmas Dr Pepper Seven Ups distribution season and more innovation is planned arrangements, which primarily affected Like-for-like sales growth of 3% was around core brands in 2003.
7 UP and Hawaiian Punch during the impacted by unseasonably poor summer year.
Excluding the impact of these weather in Southern Europe, while a 22% Elsewhere in Europe, France benefited terminations, it is estimated that likeincrease in operating profits on the same from continued growth in gum, a for-like volume growth would have been basis benefited from efficiency gains in recovery in its chocolate business and around 1% higher in the region in 2002.
Mexico had another excellent year the integration of the previously separate After a slow start to the year, Dr Pepper with strong growth in volumes, sales and gum, sugar and chocolate commercial volumes improved as the year progressed, profits.
Cadbury Wedel in Poland benefiting both from the implementation produced good results in a difficult market through positive movements in 10 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Review 2002 price and mix and efficiency gains.
Russia business to deliver at the start of the key made a modest profit for the full year.
It is estimated that the combination of lost revenues and In September the acquisition was increased costs was around 10 million, Asia completed of Dandy in Denmark, the all of which fell in the last quarter of the pacific No.
These problems are now resolved.
integration of Dandy into the Group is proceeding as planned.
to 642 million while operating profits Africa, india were 9% lower at 99 million.
Positive exchange rate movements contributed 1% and middle americas to sales and operating profits.
Another east confectionery record year for our Australian and New Zealand confectionery businesses was diluted by weaker performances in the chocolate business in China and the food Sales and operating profits in the Africa, Americas Confectionery operating profits and beverages business in Australia.
India and Middle East region AIM fell by 54% to 20 million.
Sales fell by increased by 8% and 27% to 320 million 19% from 312 million in 2001 to 252 Our confectionery business in Australia and 44 million respectively or by 23% million in 2002.
Adverse currency and New Zealand continued to perform and 46% at constant exchange rates.
movements, most notably the well with a double-digit increase in Argentinean peso against sterling, had a operating profit driven by a 7% increase in 2002 was another outstanding year in significant impact on overall sales 59 volumes.
Performance was driven by the AIM region with all major markets million and operating profit 5 million.
moulded chocolate with encouraging performing strongly.
In South Africa, the At constant exchange rates sales fell by results in the sugar business following the turnaround seen in the confectionery less than 1% and operating profits by 43%.
launch of Trebor 24 7 and Pascalls brand business continued, driven by recovery in rejuvenation.
2002 is the third the sugar business.
In India, increased 2002 was a challenging year for the consecutive year of mid-single digit distribution and availability combined with Americas Confectionery region with volume gains seen in ANZ confectionery the launch of Chocki liquid chocolate in significant shortfalls seen in the Canadian as it continues to reap the benefits of a tube drove both category growth and and Argentinean businesses.
sustained investment in brand market share.
The launch of a low cost development and increased availability.
range of moulded Cadbury countlines in In the US, while Jarets sales grew by Egypt contributed to double-digit sales 1%, margins fell as a result of higher trade Cadbury China had a difficult year with and profits growth.
a significant reversal in profits after a In Canada, Cadbury Trebor Allans CTAI number of very successful years of growth.
In May, the acquisition of a majority volumes fell 7% as a result of significant The shortfall was principally related to interest in Kent was completed for 70 destocking in the trade during the year, the combination of falling consumer million.
Kent is the leading sugar most notably in the last quarter.
However, demand for chocolate confectionery confectionery business in Turkey.
Profits sales by retailers to consumers were and the trade reducing levels of stock were in line with expectations.
ahead year-on-year and CTAI gained holdings.
The combination of these factors share in both chocolate and sugar.
was estimated to have cost the business Central and Other Together, profits from Jaret and CTAI nearly 8 million.
Central costs increased to a net 115 were 12 million lower year-on-year.
million in 2002, compared with 101 In October, the new business processes million in 2001.
This reflected the In Argentina, the economic crisis led to a and systems programme PROBE was continued investment in a number of 13% shortfall in volumes and a halving of implemented in the food and beverage central initiatives including Project profits in local currency.
However, the business in Australia, the first in a staged PROBE with the first business unit business performed ahead of expectation roll-out programme around the Group.
implementing the system in late 2002.
In for the year as a whole and remains in While the majority of the system worked addition, the Group continues to expand profit.
well, there were start-up problems with its global procurement team which was the logistics and distribution modules that created in 2001 to better leverage the In the Asia Pacific region sales grew by 3% severely impacted the ability of the Groups purchasing power.
2002 Annual Review Cadbury Schweppes 11 i u s tion acq i o f d m a a s Adams brings scale, access to faster growing confectionery sectors and substantial value creation opportunities.
Scale North, Central and South America We will be the world No.
1 in overall constitute 75% of Adams sales.
It is also confectionery, the world No.
1 in sugar represented in a number of developing confectionery, the world No.
1 in markets, principally Latin America, but functional confectionery and a very strong also Europe, Africa, the Middle East No.
Our combined product and Asia.
This strongly complements portfolios will create the only global our leading confectionery businesses confectionery business able to meet the in the Commonwealth and Europe.
full range of consumers confectionery Maximising our combined distribution needs chocolate, sugar and gum.
power will significantly benefit sales.
12 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Review 2002 Adams Has a Powerful Brand Portfolio 2001 Contribution to Adams Sales 1 Halls 27% 7 2 Trident 22% 3 Bubbas 11% 6 4 Dentyne 11% 5 1 5 Clorets 9% 4 6 Chiclets 6% 3 2 7 Other 14% Source: Euromonitor, Management Information.
Adams Has a Broad Geographic Footprint 2001 Sales Growth 1 US 33% 6 Four power brands account for over The Bubbas range is particularly 5 2 Canada 7% 70% of Adams sales: Halls, Trident strong in Latin America.
Bubbaloo 3 Mexico Caribbean 20% and Dentyne gum and the Bubbas gum is the number one bubblegum 4 Latin America 15% 4 1 5 Europe Mid East 14% bubblegum range give us the No.
2 3 6 Asia 11% confectionery brand in the world, the No.
1 chewing gum brand and the No.
1 Value Creation Source: Management Information.
These brands have Adams also brings clear value creation been growing on a constant currency opportunities.
By improving underlying basis at 9% for the last two years.
trends in the base business, extracting Halls, the leading global sugar significant cost reduction synergies and confectionery brand, is also the number growing incremental sales through the one medicated confectionery brand, cross-selling of our respective portfolios with retail sales of nearly $700 million.
where each has the strongest route Trident is currently the best selling to market, we expect to be earning chewing gum and sugarfree gum in a positive return on the capital invested the world.
With the US accounting in this acquisition by 2006. for over a third of its $861 million sales, it has been growing at 15% p. a.
We have chosen to fund the acquisition during 2000 and 2001.
The strongly include Recaldent, a gum which cash generative qualities of our business remineralises teeth and Trident White, and ability to pay down this debt a tooth whitening product.
relatively quickly make this the most The Dentyne brand has been growing effective method of enhancing value for at 18% p. a. during 2000 and 2001, our shareowners.
Dentyne Ice is the leading intense-flavoured Integration chewing gum in North America.
In preparation for the completion of It capitalises on an increasing trend Adams, we have been working for some among young consumers for strong time on the integration process required flavours as a way of achieving fresh to ensure a smooth transition.
2002 Annual Review Cadbury Schweppes 13 Industry Overview We are privileged to live in what is, by and large, an increasingly democratic world.
Democracies empower individuals with the freedom to choose the way they live, the way they work, what they consume.
Business is an essential and vibrant part The consumers freedom of choice is a only in the minds of our consumers.
of any democratic society and that same particularly important driver in the fastThey are old friends with whom they freedom of choice enables business to moving and highly competitive consumer have special relationships.
This makes play its critical role in wealth creation.
goods industry in which Cadbury protection of their reputation an essential Business produces goods in relation to Schweppes operates.
Our products are ingredient of our long-term success.
which consumers express choices, it purchased daily in their millions around provides employment and earned wealth the world and unless we consistently New experiences are the domain of for its employees, it pays taxes, which offer quality, value and satisfaction we innovation.
All manufacturers are support governments agendas.
And know that our consumers will switch constantly seeking new ways to satisfy ultimately, it rewards its shareowners, allegiance.
the consumers willingness to try new many of which are the large institutions, things, to experiment, to seek fresh which provide life insurance, look after Our products fulfil a broad range of pleasures.
Failure to perform in the arena our savings and provide for our needs.
Our beverages satisfy the of innovation can have consequences as retirement.
physiological need for liquid severe as the failure to maintain the replenishment, they quench thirsts, integrity of established brands.
provide refreshment and taste, and reflect the lifestyles of our consumers.
Consequently, whenever we develop a Our confectionery offers energy new product we have to build consumer replenishment, taste indulgence, reward awareness through advertising and and gifting opportunities.
Consumers want to be informed, whether to be reminded of These fundamental needs are catered their feelings about established favourites for in a range of products, which offer a or to be told of the new delights huge variety of ingredients and packaging available for their delectation!
In our business, freedom of choice means the After choice comes access to our freedom to seek new combinations of products.
Our job is to make our old favourites but also new experiences.
products as widely available as possible, to ensure that they are always within an Old favourites are those products which, arms reach of an impulse as much as through familiarity, use, and our own a considered decision to buy.
To achieve communication with consumers about this, we work with our customers in them have become brands.
Brands exist many trade channels.
14 14 Cadbur Cadbury y Schweppes Schweppes Annu Annual al R Re eview view 2 20 00 02 2 How well we do all of the above determines It says who we are and spells out our how successful we are.
How successful core purpose, our governing objective, we are, in turn, translates into long-term our financial targets, our strategy, our value creation for our shareowners.
management process, our obligations to all our stakeholders and our values If the consumers right to choose is a and behaviours.
given, so too is our responsibility to that consumer.
This operating framework enables our colleagues to respond to all day-to-day Businesses do not operate in a vacuum: business issues within a consistent and they have wider obligations.
As coherent set of business principles.
responsible members of the community, they are ideally placed to help in societys Whatever the challenge eradicating evolution, through education, through harmful working practices in the involvement in and support for the cocoa-growing industry and providing communities in which they operate, agri-guidance and improving community through a positive environmental impact.
infrastructure in the cocoa-growing regions: or working with governments Just as we recognise the primacy of our and other interested bodies to recognise shareowners, so are we conscious of our the importance of education and responsibilities to our other stakeholders.
information in promoting a healthy lifestyle and sensible diets in combating It is often said that companies that the growing tendency to obesity all dont stand for anything will fall for these can be addressed in the knowledge anything.
Good businesses, on the other that they will be applied within a clear hand, have clear values determining set of operating guidelines.
everything they do, and are characterised by good governance.
Our active involvement in a wide range of initiatives proves that freedom and The Cadbury Schweppes Statement of responsibility are no more mutually Purpose and Values provides the contradictory in the food and drink operating framework for our strategic industry than they are in any other part intent and the manner in which we of our complex lives.
conduct our business in todays world.
2002 Annual Review Cadbury Schweppes 15 Corporate and Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility remains Ethical Trading We continue to work with our supply and has always been a core part chain partners, sharing knowledge and of our business philosophy.
We are technical advice to help them assure quality and ethical standards.
During enabled, not hindered, by our heritage.
2002 our pilot study programme visited Indonesia and China to meet As we grow our business around the Working Together local suppliers of raw materials, as world, in markets new and old, we face The active involvement of people is key well as other local stakeholders and greater international competition, risk to delivering that promise.
Both within international agencies, to review and uncertainty, as well as increasing our company and across stakeholder potential ethical risks.
expectations for the highest standards communities, inclusivity, engagement of business integrity.
and communication are defining On an industry-wide basis, good characteristics of our approach.
progress was made in addressing Our challenge is to show that growth reported issues of harmful child labour in economic value for our shareowners Corporate and Social Responsibility on cocoa farms in West Africa.
is compatible with an increased Board Committee: established two Following independent surveys in the accountability for social and years ago and chaired by Non-Executive region, the global industry coalition is environmental performance.
Director, Baroness Wilcox, it provides now working with local organisations policy guidance and clarity of purpose in Cote dIvoire, Ghana and neighbouring To meet this, we are actively implementing in managing our impacts on society.
countries to assist farming communities.
policies and processes that clearly align Cadbury Schweppes serves on the board business growth with a strong sense Our management teams and their of the multi-stakeholder International of our obligations to society.
We are people: these provide leadership and Cocoa Initiative which is putting in clear about our fundamental values as inspire others.
During 2002, all place a system of public certification a foundation of enduring business businesses have affirmed their for the growing of cocoa without standards around the world.
commitment to Our Business harmful child labour.
Principles, our updated Code of Values Neil Makin, External Affairs Director, visiting an Just as important are action and and the framework for behaviour Indonesian cocoa farm.
innovation: including broadening across the Group.
stakeholder engagement and communication: identifying appropriate Our bottlers, customers and other performance indicators: and supply chain partners: all are important professionalism in implementation.
in helping create brands that people love.
Consumers and wider stakeholders: have high expectations of us and the ways in which we manage our environmental and social impacts.
16 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Review 2002 Community stakeholders, create value for our consumer advice, information and Our tradition of community investment business.
The confirmation of the Core labelling are of the highest industry remains grounded in a conviction that Purpose has provided a new opportunity standards.
prosperous, educated and socially inclusive to engage with colleagues building on our communities are good for business.
tradition of consulting on developments For that reason our CSR agenda now and changes within the business.
reflects a growing consumer interest A new programme, Growing on issues of diet, nutrition and healthy Community Value Around the World It is our people who make all the lifestyle, and the way our brands are encourages all our businesses, large and difference to our success and we place marketed, especially to children.
small, to build community activity as a great emphasis on encouraging their part of mainstream business activity.
contribution and helping individuals We always demonstrate a willingness Our priority theme is encouraging realise their full potential.
The Cadbury to listen and engage with concerns.
enterprise in education, because we Schweppes team has grown significantly With bodies such as the International know that an enterprising culture helps this year as a result of our acquisitions Business Leaders Forum, we are all parts of society.
and we welcome the varied talents of helping build partnerships with health organisations to contribute to a more integrated approach to diet, physical Our progress has been recognised by our activity and good health.
continuing inclusion in FTSE4Good and the Measuring Progress Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes.
We are keen to track progress based the people in these new businesses.
on key CSR performance indicators and We encourage colleagues to become We look forward to the diversity and work with industry bodies such as the involved in a wide range of education, fresh perspectives they will bring.
Food and Drink Federation and partner health and welfare, or environmental organisations such as the Global activities.
This year we are again Environment Reporting Initiative, the Institute of recognising outstanding employee Across our operations, good business Business Ethics, Business in the achievement through our Chairmans performance and responsible Community and the Centre for Community Award.
environmental management go hand in Tomorrows Company to seek out best hand.
Our approach covers every aspect practice and opportunities for During 2002, the value of our UK of our business: from manufacturing continuous improvement.
community contributions was around processes to the distribution, sale and 2.2% of our UK pre-tax profits.
consumption of our products: as well as the raw materials and the ecosystems People that provide them.
Our Core Purpose working together to create brands people love We regularly measure ourselves against reinforces our belief that our people, performance targets, and look for We are pleased that our progress has through their engagement with other continuous improvement, particularly in been recognised by our continuing the key areas of air emissions: water, inclusion in FTSE4Good and the energy and materials conservation: Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes.
John Sunderland, Chair of the CS Foundation, and Gary wastewater treatment: solid waste and We continue to make good progress in Ridgeway, a CTB employee, visit a school participating in the Young Enterprise Primary Programme.
packaging management: and soil and the Business in the Environment groundwater protection.
Index, and were voted Britains Most Admired Company for Community This year we have updated our and Environmental Responsibility in Environmental, Health and Safety Management Today magazine.
We look forward to being able to report Brands People Love further progress in our next CSR Report, Our confectionery, beverages and other to be published in 2004.
Further products are safe and wholesome, updates are made available on our delicious and enjoyable.
com 2002 Annual Review Cadbury Schweppes 17 Directors and Group Secretary 4 1 3 2 5 1 D C Bonham 3 H T Stitzer 4 D J Kappler Chairman until 8 May 2003 Deputy Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Appointed a Director in March 2000 and Chief Executive Officer designate Appointed as Group Finance Director in January Chairman in May 2000.
He is also Chairman of Appointed to the Board as Chief Strategy Officer 1995 and as Chief Financial Officer in March Imperial Tobacco Group PLC and CamAxys Group in March 2000 and appointed as Deputy Chief 2000.
He worked for the Group between 1965 plc and is a non-executive director of Marconi plc Executive Officer in December 2002.
He joined and 1984 and rejoined in 1989, following the and TXU Corporation.
He joined Hanson plc in Cadbury Schweppes North America in 1983 acquisition of the Trebor Group of which he was 1971, where he held the post of Deputy after practising law for several years in a large Finance Director.
From 1989 to 1995 he held a Chairman between 1993 and 1997.
Between New York law firm, becoming Vice President and number of senior positions related to the Groups 1995 and 1999 he also held senior positions General Counsel in 1988.
From 1991 to 1993 confectionery interests, including Director of with The Energy Group plc and Newsquest plc.
he was Group Development Director responsible Corporate Finance.
He is also a non-executive Age 59. for strategic planning and external development.
director of HMV Group plc.
He subsequently held a number of senior sales, 2 J M Sunderland marketing and general management roles, 5 R J Stack Chief Executive Officer culminating in his appointment as President and Chief Human Resources Officer Executive Chairman designate Chief Executive Officer of Dr Pepper Seven Up, Appointed to the Board as Group Human Appointed as Chief Executive Officer in March Inc from 1997 to 2000.
Will succeed Resources Director in May 1996.
He joined 2000 having served as Group Chief Executive J M Sunderland as Chief Executive Officer in Cadbury Beverages in the US in 1990, following since September 1996.
Age 50. appointments with Bristol-Myers and the May 1993.
Joined Cadbury Schweppes in 1968 American Can Company.
In 1992 he was and held a succession of senior positions in the appointed Group Director, Strategic Human UK and overseas.
In 1987 he was a founding Resources Management and led executive Director of Coca-Cola & Schweppes Beverages development for the Company.
In March 2000 he Ltd and in 1989 was appointed as Managing was appointed as Chief Human Resources Officer, Director of the UK Sugar Confectionery Division.
and corporate external affairs were added to his He is also a non-executive director of the Rank responsibilities.
Since October 2002, he has also Group Plc, President of both The Incorporated been responsible for corporate communications.
Society of British Advertisers and The UK Food & Age 52.
Drink Federation and a trustee of Industry in Education.
Will succeed D C Bonham as Chairman in May 2003.
18 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Review 2002 9 6 10 7 8 11 6 R M Carr 8 D A R Thompson 10 R S Braddock Senior Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Deputy Chairman designate Appointed a Director in March 1998.
He joined Appointed a Director in June 1997.
He is Appointed a Director in January 2001.
He is the The Boots Company PLC in 1966 where he held Chairman of Priceline.
com and a director of senior independent director of Six Continents a number of senior finance positions, including Eastman Kodak Company and Lincoln Center for PLC, a non-executive director of Centrica plc and Deputy Chief Executive and Finance Director, the Performing Arts.
He held a number of senior a Senior Advisor to Kohlberg Kravis Roberts Co. before his retirement in September 2002. positions with Citicorp Citibank, NA and Medco Ltd.
He is also a member of the Industrial Appointed Deputy Chairman of the Nottingham Containment Services, Inc. between 1973 and Development Advisory Board, a member of the Building Society in May 2002.
CBI Council and a Fellow of the Royal Society for the encouragement of Arts, Manufactures and 9 Dr W C G Berndt Group Secretary and Chief Legal Officer Commerce.
He was Chairman of Chubb plc until Non-Executive 11 M A C Clark December 2002 and between 1984 and 2000, Appointed a Director in January 2002.
He is also Appointed as Group Secretary and Chief Legal he held a number of senior positions with a director of GfK AG, a German-based global Officer in May 1988.
He joined the Group Williams PLC and Thames Water Plc.
Age 56. market research company, and non-executive in 1980 and served as Senior Vice-President, Chairman of Institute for the Future, a US-based General Counsel and Secretary of Cadbury 7 Baroness Wilcox think tank.
He joined The Procter & Gamble Co. Schweppes Inc. prior to his current appointment.
Non-Executive in 1967, holding a number of increasingly senior He is also a director of Camelot Group plc.
She is also brand and general management positions in Age 55. a non-executive director of Carpetright plc, a Europe, North and South America, culminating Member of the House of Lords, President of both in his appointment as President, North America the National Federation of Consumer Groups and in 1995 and President, Global Fabric & Home the Institute of Trading Standards, a member of Care in 1999.
He retired in September 2001. the Governing Body of the Institute of Food Age 60 Research and is on the Council of the Foundation for Science and Technology.
She was Chairman of the National Consumer Council between 1990 and 1995.
2002 Annual Review Cadbury Schweppes 19 Summary Report of the Directors Principal Activities The principal activities of the Group are the manufacture and distribution for sale of branded beverages and confectionery and related foods, supplied through wholesale and retail outlets of the confectionery, licensed, catering and grocery trades in almost 200 countries worldwide.
The Group is focused on the beverages and confectionery businesses, two closely related consumer markets, and manages an extensive portfolio of brands.
Business Review The Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executive Officers Review, and the Summary Financial Review and Financial Statements on pages 4 and 5, 6 to 9 and 28 to 34 inclusive, report on the Groups activities during the year, its position at the yearend and during the first part of 2003 and the Groups likely future development.
Acquisitions, disposals and changes in investments are detailed in the Operating and Financial Review in the Report & Accounts and Form 20-F.
Turnover and Profit Turnover amounted to 5,298 million 2001: 4,960 million.
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation amounted to 830 million 2001: 813 million.
Dividends The Directors recommend a final dividend of 8.00p per ordinary share 2001: 7.65p to be paid on 23 May 2003 to ordinary shareholders on the register on 25 April 2003.
An interim dividend of 3.5p was paid on 18 October 2002, which makes a total of 11.5p net per ordinary share for the year 2001: 11.0p.
Ordinary dividends paid and recommended amount to 230 million 2001: 222 million.
A Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP is in operation, details of which appear on page 39.
Directors The names of the Directors, together with brief biographical details, are set out on pages 18 and 19.
The changes to the Board of Directors during the year were as follows: Dr W C G Berndt was appointed as a Director on 16 January 2002 Dr F B Humer resigned as a Director on 17 January 2002 J F Brock resigned as a Director on 19 December 2002 At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 8 May 2003, D C Bonham, R J Stack and H T Stitzer will retire by rotation in accordance with Article 90 of the Articles of Association.
R J Stack and H T Stitzer, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-appointment.
R J Stack and H T Stitzer have service contracts with the Company 20 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Review 2002 which are terminable by the Company giving one years notice.
Such contracts terminate automatically at the normal retirement age of 60 years.
D C Bonham does not intend to seek re-appointment as a Director at the Annual General Meeting.
Directors' Share Interests and Substantial Shareholdings The interests of the Directors holding office during the year in the share capital of the Company at the beginning of the year, 31 December 2001 or date of appointment if later, and the end of the year, 29 December 2002 or date of resignation if earlier, are detailed in the Report on Directors Remuneration.
Charitable and Political Contributions The Company is a member of The PerCent Club and during the year contributions within the UK to charities or equivalent organisations through corporate giving or as part of the activity of UK operating companies amounted to 2.6 million 2001: 1.8 million.
In accordance with the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000, the Company did not make any political contributions in 2002.
Employees The Group has developed a number of employment policies to enable it to achieve its commercial objectives and to meet the needs of its customers.
These policies, which include recruitment, learning and development, employee involvement and consultation, pay and benefits and financial participation, are adapted to ensure that they achieve local ownership by the business units through sensitivity to the culture and society of each country in which the Group operates.
The Group values diversity and is committed to provide equal opportunities to individuals within its businesses worldwide, in all aspects of employment.
Corporate Governance Statement The Board's policy is to manage the affairs of the Group in accordance with the most appropriate standards of good corporate governance.
In 2002 and up to the date of this report, the Company fully complied with the provisions of the Code of Best Practice set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
A detailed statement of how the Company applies the principles and complies with the provisions of the Combined Code is set out in the Report & Accounts and Form 20-F. 2002 Annual Review Cadbury Schweppes 21 Summary Report on Directors Remuneration Remuneration Policy The policy of the Remuneration Committee is to ensure that the remuneration practices of the Company are competitive, thereby enabling the Company to attract and retain high calibre executives and at the same time protect the interests of shareholders.
These policies apply for 2003 and are expected to apply for subsequent financial periods subject to the proposed review of reward arrangements mentioned below.
The percentage of each of the Executive Directors overall pay which is dependent on performance is substantial and has increased over recent years and the overall reward structure is designed to be competitive for an international confectionery and beverages company.
The reward structure for Executive Directors now provides: a basic salaries which are competitive against the appropriate comparators: b annual incentives which directly support the achievement of Managing for Value MFV operating targets and, through the Bonus Share Retention Plan, encourage Directors shareholdings: c long-term incentives which are directly aligned with the MFV objective as: rewards from executive share options only arise from increases in value: the Long Term Incentive Plan rewards Directors only when shareholder returns are in the top half of the comparator group: d a contract notice period of one year under Directors service agreements: and e pension arrangements.
The ways in which these components apply to the Executive Directors, collectively and individually, are summarised in the sections of this Report set out below.
The Company has adopted voluntary guidelines to encourage share ownership by senior managers.
These guidelines call for Executive Directors to hold shares in the Company equivalent to four times annual basic salary.
The current remuneration policy was last reviewed in 2000 and it has served the Company well in enabling it to attract, motivate and incentivise senior executives of the calibre required to drive the business forward.
One of the key principles established in 2000 was that the Company should have a reward structure in place that would be appropriate and competitive in all of the locations in which Cadbury Schweppes operates.
This is important to the business because, although the top team comprises executives from a number of different national backgrounds, the senior executive group should be encouraged to perform and also be incentivised as a cohesive team.
Since the remuneration policy was last reviewed, the extent of the Companys activities outside the UK has increased and continues to increase.
In 2002, the Americas contributed over 60% of operating profit and we expect this to increase in the future, following the completion of the acquisition of Adams.
There are also aspects of the existing package which some shareholders may consider to be out of line with their preferred practices and, consequently, the Board and Committee are undertaking a thorough review of the total reward arrangements in place for Executive Directors and other senior executives of the Group during 2003.
Our intention is to consult with shareholders during the latter half of this year and present proposals for change at the 2004 Annual General Meeting.
In the meantime, the current reward arrangements described in the balance of this report will continue to apply.
Salaries for Executive Directors In setting the basic salary of each Director, the Remuneration Committee takes into account market competitiveness and the performance of each individual Director, 22 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Review 2002 together with any changes in position or responsibility.
This structure is consistent with the reward structure in place for executives below board level, and that paid by comparable companies.
Annual Incentive Plan Annual incentive targets are set each year to take account of current business plans and conditions, and there is a threshold performance below which no award is paid.
Awards are based on financial tests subject to appropriate adjustments as determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The 2002 Annual Incentive Plan awards reflected the growth in Group Economic Profit, which was the key performance measure, and in Group Net Sales Value.
The target incentive award for an Executive Director is 60% of basic salary.
However, in the case of exceptional results the annual incentive payment may increase up to a maximum of twice the target.
Incentive awards to Executive Directors for 2001 and 2002 averaged 56% and 49%, respectively of basic salary.
Annual incentive awards to Directors are pensionable up to 20% of basic salary for UK Directors and up to 100% for US Directors.
Bonus Share Retention Plan The Bonus Share Retention Plan BSRP enables participants to invest all or part of their Annual Incentive Plan award and receive such award in the form of Cadbury Schweppes ordinary shares deferred shares rather than cash.
All shares under the BSRP are purchased in the market and held in trust until the end of the three year period.
At the end of the period the Company will provide participants with three additional shares for every five deferred shares.
If a participant leaves the Company during the three year period, the participant forfeits part of the additional shares and in certain cases it is possible that all of the additional shares and the deferred shares may be forfeited.
The BSRP is available to a group of approximately 180 senior executives and aims to encourage participants to reinvest a cash award into the Companys shares.
Long Term Incentive Plan The Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP was introduced in 1997 and revised in 2000 to be better aligned with the Company's reward philosophy.
In particular, because of the reintroduction of share options, the maximum value of an award was reduced from 100% to 80% of basic salary.
Participation in the LTIP is at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
In 2002, grants for the 2002-2004 performance cycle were made to 31 senior executives, including five Executive Directors.
Details of the Executive Directors LTIP interests are set out in the Report on Directors Remuneration contained in the Companys Report & Accounts and Form 20-F.
The LTIP operates over a three year performance cycle with a new cycle starting each year.
An award consists of the contingent right to receive an amount equal to the market value, at the end of each performance cycle, of a designated number of ordinary shares.
The maximum number of ordinary shares which can be released in respect of each performance cycle is calculated using 80% of the participants basic salary at the start of the performance cycle and the share price at that time.
Each award is subject to objective performance criteria determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The current performance criteria are based on total shareholder return that is, share price growth plus re-invested dividends TSR and a minimum requirement that the growth in the Companys underlying earnings 2002 Annual Review Cadbury Schweppes 23 Summary Report on Directors Remuneration per share over the performance cycle exceeds the rate of inflation over the same period by at least 2% per annum compound.
A relative TSR measure ensures executives will only be rewarded if the Companys market performance is greater than the median of comparable companies.
Earnings per share was chosen as it ensures awards vest when underlying performance of the business is sound.
For LTIP cycles prior to that for 2001-2003, meeting the performance criteria for the TSR measure and earnings per share measurement of 2% growth resulted in the vesting of Part I of the award, and meeting the requirement for growth in the Companys earnings per share of 4% resulted in the vesting of Part II of the award.
For the 2001-2003 cycle onwards, the whole award depends only on meeting the TSR and earnings per share performance criteria for Part I.
If the performance criteria are not satisfied in the initial 3-year performance period, the vesting of the award will be deferred on an annual basis for up to three years.
The same performance tests would be applied over four, five or six years for example, comparing the performance in 2000 with that in 2004, 2005 or 2006 and if the performance test is not met after year six the award will lapse.
The Companys TSR over each performance cycle is compared with a weighted average TSR performance of a peer group of both UK and non-UK fast moving consumer goods companies weighted 75% and 25% respectively.
These companies have been selected to reflect the global nature of the Companys business.
TSR performance must be at the 50th percentile of the peer group to earn the minimum of 50% of the award.
Above this percentile the awards increase on a straight line basis.
For performance at or above the 80th percentile the award will be earned in full.
All of the LTIP award is paid in ordinary shares at the end of the performance cycle.
One half of these shares is placed in trust and released two years later, assuming that the participants employment with the Group has not been terminated for cause during that period.
During the deferral period, participants accumulate dividend equivalents on shares held in trust which are paid at the end of the deferral period.
Share Options Under the Share Option Plan 1994, 1,750,000 option grants over ordinary shares of 12.5p each were made to Executive Directors in 2002, details of which are set out in the Report & Accounts and Form 20-F.
Consistent with best practice, it is the Remuneration Committees intention that grants will continue to be made annually, including to Executive Directors, in the future.
Such grants will normally be within a range equivalent to between two times and four times salary.
The Remuneration Committee, in making option grants, sets the performance target to be achieved before such options can be exercised.
Options cannot be exercised unless and until the percentage growth in the Companys underlying earnings per share over a period of three consecutive financial years has exceeded the rate of inflation over the same period by at least 2% per annum compound.
This criterion was chosen to ensure options can only be exercised when the underlying performance of the business is sound.
Retirement Benefits The Company operates a number of retirement programmes throughout the world.
Pension benefits reflect local competitive conditions and legal requirements.
J M Sunderland and D J Kappler participate in the UK pension arrangements.
J F Brock, who resigned as a Director on 19 December 2002 and as an employee 24 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Review 2002 on 29 December 2002, R J Stack and H T Stitzer participate in the US pension arrangements.
In the UK, annual incentive awards of up to 20% of basic salary are pensionable.
Given the large proportion of total remuneration which is variable pay, the Remuneration Committee considers that it is appropriate for a proportion of such pay to be pensionable.
Pension arrangements in the US provide that all of any incentive awards under the Annual Incentive Plan are pensionable and the pensionability of such incentive awards in the UK and US is consistent with long standing arrangements for the Companys other senior executives.
Service Contracts The Companys policy on the duration of Directors service contracts which are only entered into with Executive Directors is that such contracts should expire in the year in which the Executive Director reaches sixty years of age.
Notice periods do not exceed one year.
If any Executive Directors employment is terminated without cause, or if the Director resigns for good reason as defined in the contract other than following a change of control, payment of twice basic salary would be made.
Such payment would be less than one years total remuneration on which a termination payment would otherwise be based.
Termination payments of twice total remuneration would be made if within two years of a change of control, the Executive Directors employment was terminated without cause, or if the Director resigned for good reason as defined in the contract.
Service contracts are an important part of the overall remuneration package and change in control provisions are common for major US public companies.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the current form of contract, which incorporates these terms, will assist the Company in motivating and retaining key executives and also in attracting other senior executives from an increasingly global and competitive marketplace.
The Committee will, however, keep this and further developments under review.
All the Executive Directors who served during the year have service contracts with the Company on these terms.
These contracts can be terminated by the Company at any time on twelve months notice or will otherwise expire in the year in which the Director reaches sixty years of age.
The service contracts of R J Stack and H T Stitzer, who are proposed for re-election at the next Annual General Meeting, contain the terms outlined above.
In addition, under their secondment arrangements, R J Stack and H T Stitzer are entitled to six months employment with their employing company in their home country if there are no suitable opportunities for them when their secondments end.
Performance Graph The following graph showing the Company's performance measured by total shareholder return TSR for the five years to 29 December 2002, compared with the TSR performance of the FTSE 100 companies over the same period, has been prepared in accordance with the Directors' Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
Total shareholder return is share price growth plus reinvested dividends.
The FTSE 100 has been selected for this comparison because this is the principal index in which the Companys shares are quoted.
2002 Annual Review Cadbury Schweppes 25 Summary Report on Directors Remuneration Five-Year Historical TSR Performance Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding over five years FTSE 100 comparison based on 30 trading day average values 170 160 150 140 130 120 110 100 90 80 3 Jan 1998 2 Jan 1999 2 Jan 2000 31 Dec 2000 30 Dec 2001 29 Dec 2002 Cadbury Schweppes FTSE 100 2002 2001 Directors Remuneration Summary 000 000 Total remuneration: Fees as Directors 450 452 Salaries and other benefits 3,710 3,980 Annual Incentive Plan BSRP 1,944 2,326 LTIP awards a 589 1,550 Gains made on exercise of share options 1,224 215 Payments for former Directors or their dependants: Compensation for loss of office and other benefits b 701 Payments for accrued benefits on cessation of employment b 632 LTIP award paid in shares a 16 394 Pensions 26 25 The highest paid Director was J F Brock: 3,092,000 2001: J F Brock: 2,320,000. a The LTIP awards for 2002 relate to Part II of the 2000-2002 cycle which was earned in 2002. b J F Brock resigned from the Board on 19 December 2002. c The Directors entitlement to retirement benefits are referred to on page 24.
Full details are contained in the Report & Accounts and Form 20-F on pages 49 and 54.
Emoluments and Compensation for Loss of Office Compensation Payments Total for loss of for accrued Annual office and benefits on Basic Incentives Cash Other other cessation 2002 2001 Salary Fees BSRP f Allowances Benefits benefits h of employTotal Total 000 000 000 000 000 ment h 000 000 D C Bonham a 225 225 225 J M Sunderland 793 645 28 18 1,484 1,418 J F Brock b g 643 305 198 201 701 632 2,680 1,770 D J Kappler 451 364 28 1 844 826 R J Stack g 383 289 132 112 916 899 H T Stitzer g 450 341 137 135 1,063 1,393 Dr W C G Berndt c 31 31 R S Braddock 79 79 71 R M Carr 33 33 29 Dr F B Humer d 2 2 41 D A R Thompson 40 40 38 Sir John Whitehead e 11 Baroness Wilcox 40 40 37 Total 3,170 1,944 523 467 701 632 7,410 6,758 26 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Review 2002 a In addition, the Company contributed 23,000 in relation to office and secretarial costs for D C Bonham.
b J F Brock resigned on 19 December 2002. c Dr W C G Berndt was appointed on 16 January 2002. d Dr F B Humer resigned on 17 January 2002. e Sir John Whitehead retired on 3 May 2001. f These awards cover the Annual Incentive Plan BSRP.
All the participating Directors have elected to receive their awards under the Annual Incentive Plan in the form of shares under the terms of the BSRP, as described on page 23. g Allowances and benefits include housing and other expatriate allowances.
Such arrangements are necessary to ensure that the Companys senior management is not penalised financially by accepting roles of an international nature which result in higher costs and taxation than could have been the case if they had remained in their home country.
h The Company agreed to a payment of $985,000 655,714 to J F Brock equal to one year's basic salary as compensation for loss of office.
Also included under Compensation for loss of office and other benefits is an amount of 45,485 for accommodation costs and legal fees paid on his behalf.
Under his service contract J F Brock is entitled to liquidated damages equal to twice his basic salary if his contract is terminated without cause or if he resigns for good reason.
The Remuneration Committee considered that the payment of one year's basic salary represented reasonable mitigation under the circumstances.
See page 25 for a description of Service Contracts.
Following the cessation of his employment the Company also provided J F Brock with 161,538 shares in satisfaction of his LTIP awards under Part I of the 2000-2002 cycle, the 2001-2003 cycle and the 2002-2004 cycle.
The share awards for the 2001-2003 and 2002-2004 cycles were pro-rated based on his leaving date.
The value of all these shares at the mid-market price of 3.91 per share on 30 December 2002 is included under the column above entitled Payments for accrued benefits on cessation of employment.
In accordance with the BSRP rules following his resignation the Company also released to him 364,661 shares with a value of 1,425,824 based on the mid-market price of 3.91 per share on 30 December 2002 in satisfaction of his basic and matching awards, such matching shares being calculated on a pro-rata basis up to his date of leaving, and 86,918 shares with a value of 339,849 based on the mid-market price of 3.91 per share on 30 December 2002 in satisfaction of his LTIP awards held in trust.
The BSRP shares are based on his Annual Incentive Plan awards for 1999, 2000 and 2001 and were disclosed as part of his remuneration in the Companys report and accounts for each of those years.
The LTIP awards held in trust were similarly disclosed in the report and accounts for 2000 and 2001.
In addition, J F Brocks award of 132,000 under Part II of the 2000-2002 cycle of the LTIP will vest in March 2003 and he will receive the whole of the award, paid in shares, immediately.
The transfer value of J F Brocks accrued pension is 5.431 million.
The actuary of the US Retirement Plans has confirmed that there has been no augmentation to his retirement benefits on his leaving the Company.
Directors' Shareholdings As at As at 31 December 2001 29 December 2002 Interests of the Directors in the Companys ordinary shares or date of or date of of 12.5p each appointment if later resignation if earlier Dr W C G Berndt a 30,476 D C Bonham 12,000 20,652 R S Braddock 16,000 22,424 J F Brock b 811,290 896,038 R M Carr 2,000 4,634 Dr F B Humer c 2,086 2,086 D J Kappler 574,858 738,368 R J Stack 513,229 602,406 H T Stitzer 243,612 336,366 J M Sunderland 925,894 1,069,435 D A R Thompson 13,639 16,884 Baroness Wilcox 8,673 10,682 3,123,281 3,750,451 a Dr W C G Berndt was appointed on 16 January 2002. b J F Brock resigned on 19 December 2002. c Dr F B Humer resigned on 17 January 2002. d Directors holdings of ordinary shares include shares held in trust under both the LTIP and the BSRP.
2002 Annual Review Cadbury Schweppes 27 Summary Financial Review and Financial Statements David Kappler, chief financial officer, summarises the operating and financial performance of the group in 2002.
Performance Measurement The Group has defined three key medium term financial performance targets under the Managing for Value MFV agenda.
Two of these are measures of the internal results of the Group.
The first of these measures is based on earnings per share EPS.
The table below isolates the impact of major restructuring costs, goodwill amortisation and profits and losses on disposals on EPS.
The result is a 7% increase in underlying EPS.
Excluding the impact of exchange rate movements, underlying EPS growth was 11%.
This exceeded the Groups performance target of at least 10% earnings growth for the period 2001 to 2004.
Earnings per share 2002 2001 % pence pence increase Basic EPS 27.4 27.0 1 Adjust for: Goodwill amortisation 3.2 2.3 Profit on disposal of fixed assets, investments and subsidiaries, net of tax and minorities 0.5 1.4 Major restructuring costs, net of tax 1.9 2.1 Underlying EPS 32.0 30.0 7 28 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Review 2002 Free cash flow was 315 million in 2002 and exceeded the Groups second performance target of 300 million free cash flow see table below.
Free cash flow is the amount of cash generated by the business after meeting all its obligations for interest, tax and dividends and after all capital investment excluding share sales or purchases by the Employee Trust.
Although free cash flow was lower than in the previous year, the Group remains strongly cash generative, reflecting the high margin and cash generative nature of the Groups business.
The decrease in the Groups free cash flow in 2002 compared with 2001 was largely driven by the impact of adverse exchange rate movements and a higher level of capital expenditure.
The Group believes that by maintaining controls on working capital it will be able to maximise cash delivery.
Free Cash Flow 2002 2001 m m Cash flow from operating activities and associates 1,109 1,139 Net capital expenditure a 251 233 Taxation, returns on investments and servicing of finance 320 295 Ordinary dividends 223 214 Free cash flow 315 397 a excluding sale or purchase of shares by the Employee Trust.
The Groups third target relates to Total Shareholder Return TSR.
In 2002, the Group changed the target from an absolute measure of doubling TSR every four years, to a relative measure of top quartile TSR performance against a range of international consumer goods companies over a rolling four year period.
The relative measure of TSR growth is considered more appropriate given the significant influence of macro economic and political factors on the performance of the world stock markets and thus Cadbury Schweppes share price.
In 2002 the Groups TSR performance was second quartile relative to the stated peer group, over this rolling four year period.
This performance puts Cadbury Schweppes in line with, or above, our closest peers in the international consumer foods group.
An overview of the Groups results is given in the following table, which highlights the effects of acquisitions and disposals and exchange rates to show turnover and operating profit growth of 3% and 4% respectively from continuing operations.
The Groups operating profit in 2002 was 983 million, a 6% increase in operating profit over 2001 of 930 million.
This increase was driven by the solid profit performance in North America Beverages and strong growth in Europe Confectionery, particularly Cadbury Trebor Bassett, Asia Pacific confectionery and several emerging markets.
The Groups overall operating margin was 18.5% which was marginally below last years 18.8% due to the increase in proportion of non-franchise business.
On a like-for-like basis the operating margin would have been 19.0%.
2002 Annual Review Cadbury Schweppes 29 Summary Financial Review and Financial Statements Operating profit by region m Analysis of Results Exchange Acquisitions Organic 2001 effects disposals a growth 2002 m m m m m 1 North America Beverages 6 5 4 2 Europe Beverages 3 Turnover Continuing Operations 4,960 179 364 153 5,298 3 Europe Confectionery 4 Americas Confectionery Change % 3 7 3 7 5 Asia Pacific 2 6 Africa, India and Middle East 1 Operating profit b North America Beverages 541 23 9 21 548 Europe Beverages 91 1 30 20 140 Europe Confectionery 212 3 32 247 Americas Confectionery 44 5 19 20 Asia Pacific 109 1 11 99 Africa, India and Middle East 34 6 6 10 44 Central and Other 101 14 115 Operating profit b 930 34 48 39 983 Change % 3 5 4 6 Goodwill amortisation 46 18 64 Restructuring costs 53 53 Group operating profit 831 34 30 39 866 a Includes full year impact of prior year and current year acquisitions b From continuing operations and before major restructuring costs and goodwill amortisation The Groups reported results have been affected by changes in the exchange rates used to translate the results of non-UK operations.
In 2002 compared with 2001, the biggest exchange rate impact on the Groups results was the 4% weakening of the US dollar.
The Canadian dollar also weakened 5%, the South African rand by 26%, and the Mexican peso by 7%.
These were very slightly offset by the 1% improvement in the value of the euro.
Overall the impact of exchange rate movements on the Group was adverse and therefore turnover and operating profit were 179 million, and 34 million lower respectively than would have been the case had the exchange rates prevailing during 2001 been applied.
General price inflation in countries where the Group has its most significant operations remained at a low level throughout the year and in general terms was within the 1% to 3% range.
In certain developing markets the rate of inflation was higher than this range, but the impact was generally not significant to the Group results.
Acquisitions and Disposals The Group continued to acquire businesses in 2002.
The largest of these acquisitions was Dandy, a Danish chewing gum company with operations in Denmark, Scandinavia, the Benelux Countries and Russia.
The Group completed this acquisition in September 2002 for 222 million.
30 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Review 2002 There were four other large acquisitions during the year.
Squirt, a Mexican soft drinks brand in February 2002: a 65% equity share in Kent, a Turkish sugar confectionery company for 70 million in May 2002: Nantucket Allserve, Inc. a US premium beverage company in May 2002: and the remaining 72% of Apollinaris & Schweppes, the Groups German beverage associate, for 115 million in November 2002.
The Group also increased its share holding in two existing group companies.
The Group purchased 44% of the outstanding shares of Cadbury India throughout the year for 111 million, which increased the Groups ownership to over 94%, and acquired a further 6% of its associate, Cadbury Nigeria.
The Group now owns 46% of Cadbury Nigeria.
Overall 518 million of goodwill and intangible assets arose on acquisitions during the year.
The disposals during the year were beverage brands in Indonesia and 25% of the Groups holding in Camelot Group plc, to reduce the overall Group ownership to 20%.
The net profit on disposals of subsidiaries and investments was 3 million In addition the Group announced on 17 December 2002 that it had signed an agreement to purchase the Adams confectionery business from Pfizer Inc. for US$4.2 billion 2.7 billion.
The acquisition price includes US$450 million for expected tax benefits.
The acquisition is expected to close by the end of the first quarter 2003.
Group Profit and Loss Account for the 52 weeks ended 29 December 2002 2002 2001 m m Turnover 5,298 4,960 Operating costs Trading expenses 4,315 4,030 Goodwill amortisation 64 40 Major restructuring costs 53 53 4,432 4,129 Group Operating Profit 866 831 Share of operating profit in associates 58 57 Total Operating Profit including associates 924 888 Profit on disposal of fixed assets 9 Profit on sale of subsidiaries and investments 3 31 Profit on Ordinary Activities before interest 936 919 Net interest 106 106 Profit on Ordinary Activities before Taxation 830 813 Taxation On operating profit, associates and interest 253 240 On profit on sale of fixed assets, subsidiaries and investments 2 1 255 241 Profit on Ordinary Activities after Taxation 575 572 Equity minority interests 3 5 Non-equity minority interests 24 25 Profit for the Financial Year 548 542 Dividends paid and proposed to ordinary shareholders 230 222 Profit Retained for the Financial Year 318 320 The total remuneration, including gains on exercises of executive options, of the Directors was 9,250,000 2001: 8,523,000.
2002 Annual Review Cadbury Schweppes 31 Summary Financial Review and Financial Statements A reconciliation of the Total Operating Profit to Underlying Operating Profit is provided below: 2002 2001 m m Total Operating Profit including associates 924 888 Add: major restructuring costs 53 53 Add: share of major restructuring costs in associates 5 Add: goodwill amortisation 64 46 Underlying operating profit including associates 1,041 992 Major Restructuring Costs The 2002 results included 53 million in expenditure on major restructuring activities, 42 million of which related to integrating acquired businesses into the Group and 11 million of which related to the ongoing business.
The main acquisition integration restructuring schemes during 2002 were the integration of Orangina into Schweppes France 13 million, the integration of La Casera into Schweppes Spain 10 million and the integration of Hollywood into Cadbury France 10 million.
The costs of these three restructuring schemes were mainly redundancy related.
The costs of the other acquisition restructuring schemes were the integration of Nantucket into Snapple which were a mixture of redundancy and production transfer costs 5 million, and acquisition-related restructuring projects in respect of the Lion Nathan, Mother Earth, and Dandy acquisitions 4 million.
The 11 million of restructuring in the ongoing business related mainly to redundancy costs in certain operations.
Included within the total restructuring charge of 53 million are 38 million of redundancy costs.
Interest & Taxation The overall interest charge for the Group in 2002 remained the same as 2001 at 106 million.
This consists of the interest charge arising in Group companies, and the Groups share of interest in associates.
In 2002 the net interest charge arising in Group companies increased slightly by 3 million to 86 million.
This reflected the increased borrowings as a result of the Groups ongoing acquisition programme, mitigated by falls in global interest rates.
This increased Group charge was offset by a fall in the Groups share of associate interest, which fell by 3 million to 20 million, as a result of exchange rate movements.
Overall interest cover rose slightly from 8.4 times in 2001 to 8.7 times in 2002.
Interest cover is defined as total operating profit divided by net interest charge.
The Groups effective tax rate excluding tax on disposals of fixed assets, subsidiaries and investments increased to 30.9% from 30.6% in 2001.
2 million tax was payable on the disposal gains in 2002.
Dividends The total dividend for 2002 of 11.5 pence per share was 5% higher than in 2001 and represents underlying dividend cover of 2.8 times.
Further dividend information for shareholders is given in Shareholder Information on pages 38 and 39.
32 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Review 2002 Marketing and Capital Expenditure Total marketing expenditure in 2002 was 547 million 2001: 505 million : at constant exchange rates this was an increase of 12% over total marketing spend in 2001.
The Groups marketing to sales ratio increased to 10.3% 2001:10.2%, the sixth consecutive year of increase in this key indicator of marketing investment, despite the continuing acquisition of lower marketing to sales ratio businesses.
Capital expenditure in 2002 was 279 million 2001: 240 million, an increase of 16% over the level of expenditure in 2001.
The Group continued to implement a major project to standardise business systems and processes Project PROBE using an SAP platform.
This project was a significant contributor to the increased level of capital expenditure in 2002.
The Group also carried out specific projects to increase production capacity in Motts, Schweppes Spain and Cadbury Trebor Bassett.
All these projects were funded from internal resources.
Accounting Policy Changes There have been no new Financial Reporting Standards adopted in this financial year.
The Group has adopted for UK reporting purposes recently issued US pronouncements on classification of certain sales incentives and marketing promotion programmes as a reduction to turnover, rather than as a trading expense.
The pronouncements adopted were EITF 00-14, EITF 00-25 and EITF 01-09.
The impact of adoption has been to reduce reported turnover by approximately 10% but with no effect on operating profit or net earnings.
Comparative turnover figures have been restated for 2001 by 559 million.
Group Balance Sheet at 29 December 2002 2002 2001 m m Fixed Assets Intangible assets and goodwill 3,919 3,721 Tangible assets, associates and investments 1,896 1,764 5,815 5,485 Current Assets 2,052 1,940 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 2,585 2,389 Net Current Liabilities 533 449 Total Assets less Current Liabilities 5,282 5,036 Non-Current Liabilities Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 1,577 1,461 Provisions for liabilities and charges 419 392 Net Assets 3,286 3,183 Total Shareholders Funds 3,020 2,880 Minority Interests 266 303 Total Capital Employed 3,286 3,183 Net borrowings 1,846 1,637 2002 Annual Review Cadbury Schweppes 33 Summary Financial Review and Financial Statements Capital Structure and Resources During 2002 the Groups market capitalisation decreased by nearly 1.2 billion to 7.9 billion, due to a 63 pence decrease in the share price during the year to 382 pence at 29 December 2002 445 pence at 30 December 2001.
Net borrowings rose during the year from 1,637 million at the end of 2001, to 1,846 million at the end of 2002, representing 23% of total market capitalisation.
Movements in Shareholders Funds 2002 2001 m m Shareholders Funds at beginning of year 2,880 2,545 Profit retained for the Financial Year 318 320 Currency translation differences 217 Writedown on previously revalued assets 3 Goodwill written back on disposal of subsidiary 13 New share capital subscribed 26 18 Net increase in Shareholders Funds 140 335 Shareholders Funds at end of year 3,020 2,880 DJ Kappler The summary financial statements on pages 28 to 34 and the amounts disclosed relating to Directors remuneration on pages 26 and 27 were approved by the Board of Directors on 3 March 2003 and signed on its behalf by D C Bonham and D J Kappler.
The Auditors opinion on the full financial statements was unqualified and did not contain a statement under either Section 237 2 or Section 237 3 Companies Act 1985.
34 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Review 2002 Independent Auditors Statement to the Members of Cadbury Schweppes plc We have examined the Summary Financial Statement which includes the Summary Report of the Directors, Summary Report on Directors Remuneration and Summary Financial Review and Financial Statements.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the Summary Financial Statement with the full Financial Statements, the Report of the Directors and the Report on Directors Remuneration, as contained in the Report & Accounts and Form 20-F, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement as described in the contents section, and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Summary Financial Statement.
Basis of Opinion We conducted our work in accordance with bulletin 1999 6 The Auditors Statement on the Summary Financial Statement issued by the United Kingdom Auditing Practices Board.
Opinion In our opinion, the Summary Financial Statement is consistent with the full Financial Statements, the Report of the Directors, and the Report on Directors Remuneration of Cadbury Schweppes plc for the year ended 29 December 2002 and the Companies Act 1985, and the regulations made thereunder.
Deloitte & Touche Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 3 March 2003 This Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement is only a summary of information in the Report & Accounts and Form 20-F of Cadbury Schweppes plc.
It does not contain sufficient information to allow as full an understanding of the results and state of affairs of Cadbury Schweppes plc as would be provided by the Report & Accounts and Form 20-F which contain more detailed information.
Members who wish to elect to obtain, free of charge, the Companys Report & Accounts and Form 20-F instead of the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement for 2002 or for all future years, should contact the Companys Registrars, the address for whom is on page 39.
2002 Annual Review Cadbury Schweppes 35 US GAAP Information Summary of significant UK GAAP to US GAAP differences All UK to US GAAP differences applicable to the Group are explained in Note 31 in the Report & Accounts and Form 20-F.
There are three major differences between UK and US GAAP that are highlighted below.
a Under UK GAAP goodwill is amortised over 20 years.
Under US GAAP goodwill is not amortised for 2002 onwards, but is reviewed for impairment annually.
b Under UK GAAP hedge accounting is adopted to account for commodity and financial instrument hedges.
For US GAAP purposes the Group has not designated its commodity and financial instruments as hedges, and all profits and losses on hedges are recorded in the profit and loss account annually.
c Under UK GAAP, the costs of providing pension benefits may be calculated by the use of a recognised actuarial method which is appropriate and whose assumptions reflect the long-term nature of the assets and liabilities involved.
Under US GAAP, the costs of providing these benefits are calculated using the projected unit credit method and a discount rate being the rate of interest at which pension liabilities could be effectively settled which reflects current market rates.
Effects on profit of differences between UK and US generally accepted accounting principles 2002 2001 2000 m m m Profit for the Financial Year from continuing operations, net of tax per UK GAAP 548 542 496 US GAAP adjustments: Amortisation of goodwill and intangibles 53 109 102 Restructuring costs 1 1 9 Interest capitalised 6 75 Depreciation of capitalised interest 2 2 2 Pension costs 10 97 Disposal gain adjustments 7 22 Derivatives Impact of transition adjustment 1 41 Derivatives 9 12 SAYE LTIP 4 4 9 Other items 3 3 Taxation on above adjustments 4 11 Deferred taxation 48 15 4 Profit for the Financial Year from continuing operations, net of tax, before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 565 478 383 Cumulative effect on prior years to 31 December 2000 of implementation of SFAS 133, net of tax 15 Profit for the Financial Year from continuing operations, net of tax, per US GAAP 565 493 383 36 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Review 2002 Earnings per ADR under US GAAP 2002 2001 2000 per ADR per ADR per ADR Total earnings per ADR before cumulative effect of accounting change Basic 1.13 0.95 0.77 Diluted 1.12 0.94 0.76 Total earnings per ADR after cumulative effect of accounting change Basic 1.13 0.98 0.77 Diluted 1.12 0.97 0.76 2002 2001 2000 million million million Average number of ADRs Basic 501 501 500 Average number of ADRs Diluted 504 507 505 Cumulative effect on Shareholders Funds of differences between UK and US generally accepted accounting principles 2002 2001 2000 m m m Shareholders Funds per UK GAAP, 3,020 2,880 2,545 Goodwill and intangibles cost 1,510 1,618 1,527 accumulated amortisation 648 749 631 Recognition of additional minimum pension liability 113 Pension costs 19 15 33 Interest capitalisation cost 105 99 92 accumulated depreciation 84 81 80 Property revaluations 59 59 62 Dividends 161 153 146 Derivatives 19 98 Other items 2 1 2 Taxation on above adjustments 32 25 4 Deferred taxation 57 42 37 Shares held in Employee Trust 226 240 153 Shareholders Funds before cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle 3,643 3,686 3,386 Cumulative effect on prior years to 31 December 2000 of implementation of SFAS 133 56 Shareholders Funds per US GAAP 3,643 3,630 3,386 2002 Annual Review Cadbury Schweppes 37 Shareholder Information Registered Office and Group Headquarters 25 Berkeley Square London W1J 6HB UK Registered in England and Wales No.
52457 Group Secretary M A C Clark Financial Calendar Final Dividend for 2002 Interim Dividend for 2003 Ordinary shares Announcement of results 12 February 2003 23 July 2003 Ex-dividend date 23 April 2003 17 Sept 2003 Record date 25 April 2003 19 Sept 2003 Dividend payment 23 May 2003 17 October 2003 The Annual General Meeting of the Company is on 8 May 2003.
Dividends The interim dividend for 2002 of 3.50 pence per ordinary share was paid on 18 October 2002.
The final dividend for 2002 of 8.00 pence per ordinary share was recommended by the Directors on 12 February 2003 and, subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, will be paid on 23 May 2003 to ordinary shareholders on the register at the close of business on 25 April 2003.
The final dividend will be paid to ADR holders on 2 June 2003.
For 2001 and earlier years, the interim dividend was paid in November.
From 2002 onwards, interim dividends will be paid one month earlier in October.
The dividends for holders of ADRs are normally paid by the Depositary one week after the dividend is paid to ordinary shareholders.
Dividends Payable in Foreign Currencies Shareholders who were registered on the Australian Register, when it closed on 29 September 2000, will continue to receive their dividends in Australian dollars, unless they have notified Lloyds TSB Registrars that they wish to receive dividends in sterling.
In addition, the Registrars are now able to pay dividends in 35 foreign currencies.
This process is called TAPS and there is a cost of 2.50 deducted from each dividend payment to cover the costs involved.
Please contact the Registrars to request further information or visit our website at www.
com investor 38 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Review 2002 Dividend Payments Directly into Bank Building Society Accounts Dividends for shareholders are paid through BACS and can be paid directly into a UKbank or building society account with the tax voucher sent direct to the shareholders registered address.
Dividends in foreign currencies have to be paid directly into a bank or building society account.
Please contact the Registrars for a dividend mandate form.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan A Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP is in operation.
The DRIP enables shareholders to apply the whole of their cash dividends to buy additional ordinary shares in the Company in the market at competitive dealing rates.
Full details of the DRIP can be obtained from the Registrars or from our website at www.
Completed Application Forms for the DRIP, to apply to the final dividend 2002, must be returned to the Registrars by 1 May 2003.
Registrars The Companys share register is maintained by Lloyds TSB Registrars.
All communications should be addressed to: The Registrar Cadbury Schweppes plc, Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA, UK Telephone: 0870 600 3959 44 121 415 7036 Please include your reference number, which starts with 0303, as detailed on the dividend tax voucher.
At the moment instructions cannot be given by e-mail.
The Registrars should be notified in writing of changes to name or address, loss of a share certificate or dividend warrant or a change to or notification of a dividend mandate.
Shareholders with more than one account, arising from inconsistencies in name or address details, may avoid receipt of duplicate mailings by asking the Registrars to amalgamate their holdings.
Information about the Registrars is available at www.
co. uk and up-to-date information about current holdings on the Register is also available at www.
Shareholders will need their reference number, as detailed above, to obtain access.
2002 Annual Review Cadbury Schweppes 39 Low Cost Share Dealing Service Hoare Govett Limited operates a Low Cost Share Dealing Service in the ordinary shares of the Company, which enables individual investors to buy or sell certificated shareholdings in a simple, economic manner.
The basic commission is 1% of the value of the transaction with a minimum charge of 10.
Transactions are executed and settled by Pershing Securities Limited.
Settlement is in sterling only.
The service is subject to the detailed terms and conditions set out in the Hoare Govett leaflet, which can be obtained by telephoning 020 7678 8300 or by writing to: Hoare Govett Limited 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA, UK ShareGift Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which makes it uneconomic to sell them, may wish to consider donating them to charity through ShareGift, a registered charity administered by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation.
The relevant share transfer form can be obtained from the Registrars.
Further information about ShareGift is available at www.
org or by writing to: ShareGift The Orr Mackintosh Foundation, 24 Grosvenor Gardens, London, SW1W 0DH, UK Telephone: 020 7337 0501 American Depositary Receipts Cadbury Schweppes ordinary shares are quoted on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American Depositary Shares, or ADSs.
ADSs are represented by American Depositary Receipts, or ADRs, under a sponsored ADR facility with JPMorgan Chase Bank as depositary.
Each ADS represents four ordinary shares.
The ADR Depositary is JPMorgan Chase Bank and shareholder enquiries may be directed to: JPMorgan Chase Bank, ADR Service Center, PO Box 43013, Providence, RI 02940-3013, USA Telephone: 781 575 4328 www.
com Global Invest Direct Global Invest Direct GID is a program established by JPMorgan Chase Bank to provide a convenient and economical way for investors to increase their ADR investment in the Company.
Further information about GID may be obtained from JPMorgan Chase Bank: Freephone: #1 800 428 4237 US only or at the address above.
For calls from outside the US dial 1 781 575 4328.
40 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Review 2002 p p e o l i o e w rkng v lo e o og g t th h r r e e t t e e Form 20-F A Form 20-F has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC in Washington DC.
com investor Driving existing brands and creating new ones is at the very heart of our business Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2002
