Financial Statements Statement of directors responsibilities 63 Annual accounts Internal and disclosure controls and procedures The directors are required by Title 9, Book 2 of the Unilever has a well established control environment, which is Civil Code in the Netherlands and the United Kingdom well documented and regularly reviewed.
This incorporates Companies Act 1985 to prepare accounts for each financial risk management, internal control procedures and disclosure year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs controls and procedures which are designed to provide of the Unilever Group, NV and PLC as at the end of the reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded, the risks financial year and of the profit or loss for that year.
facing the business are being controlled and all information required to be disclosed is reported to the Groups senior The directors consider that in preparing the accounts, management, including where appropriate the Chairmen the Group, NV and PLC have used the most appropriate and Financial Director, within the required timeframe.
accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by Our procedures cover financial, operational, social and reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and environmental risks and regulatory matters.
The Boards that all United Kingdom accounting standards which they of NV and PLC have also established a clear organisational consider to be applicable have been followed, except as structure, including delegation of appropriate authorities.
noted under Accounting standards on page 66.
The Groups control environment is supported through a Code of Business Principles, which sets standards of The directors have responsibility for ensuring that NV and professionalism and integrity for its operations worldwide.
PLC keep accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy their financial position and which enable the The Boards have overall responsibility for establishing directors to ensure that the accounts comply with the key procedures designed to achieve systems of internal relevant legislation.
They also have a general responsibility control and disclosure control and for reviewing and for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to evaluating their effectiveness.
The day-to-day responsibility safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and for implementation of these procedures and ongoing detect fraud and other irregularities.
monitoring of risk and the effectiveness of controls rests with the Groups senior management at individual operating This statement, which should be read in conjunction with company and Business Group level.
Business Groups, each the Report of independent auditors set out on page 65, of which has its own Risk Committee, review, on an is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the ongoing basis, the risks faced by their group and the related respective responsibilities of the directors and of the auditors internal control arrangements and provide written reports to in relation to the accounts.
This is comprised mainly of Board members and chaired by the Financial Director.
The A copy of the financial statements of the Unilever Group Corporate Risk Committee is a committee of the Board and is placed on our website at www.
The maintains oversight, on behalf of the Boards, of the controls maintenance and integrity of the website is the responsibility in place to identify, evaluate and manage risk.
It reports of the directors, and the work carried out by the auditors regularly to the Boards, which retain ultimate responsibility, does not involve consideration of these matters.
Accordingly, and to the Audit Committee.
the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they Unilevers corporate internal audit function plays a key role were initially placed on the website.
Legislation in the United in providing an objective view and continuous reassurance Kingdom and the Netherlands governing the preparation of the effectiveness of the risk management and related and dissemination of financial statements may differ from control systems throughout Unilever to both operating legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Group has an independent Audit Committee, entirely comprised of Going concern Advisory Directors.
This Committee meets regularly with The directors continue to adopt the going concern basis corporate internal audit and the external auditors.
This is because the directors, after making enquiries and following a review of the Unilever has a comprehensive budgeting system with an Groups budget for 2003 and 2004, including cash ows annual budget approved by the Boards, which is regularly and borrowing facilities, consider that the Group has reviewed and updated.
Performance is monitored against adequate resources to continue in operation for the budget and the previous year through monthly and foreseeable future.
The Group reports to shareholders quarterly.
Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002 64 Statement of directors responsibilities Unilevers system of risk management has been in place throughout 2002 and up to the date of this report, and complies with the recommendations of Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, published by the Internal Control Working Party of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales in September 1999.
The Boards have carried out an annual review of the effectiveness of the systems of risk management and internal control during 2002, and have ensured that the necessary actions have been taken to address any weaknesses or deficiencies arising out of that review.
Based on an evaluation by the Board, which comprises the Chairmen, the Financial Director and the Groups senior management, each Chairman and the Financial Director concluded that the design and operation of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures as at 31 December 2002 were reasonably effective and that subsequently there have been no significant changes in the Groups internal controls or in other factors that could signicantly affect those controls.
It is Unilevers policy to bring acquired companies within the Groups governance procedures as soon as is practicable and, in any event, by the end of the first full year of operation.
Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002
