138 Control of Unilever Share capital then its own free reserves NVs issued share capital on 31 December 2002 was made then the free reserves of the other company.
up of: If either company could not pay its ordinary dividends, we 291 503 709 split into 571 575 900 ordinary shares would follow the same procedure, except that the current of 0.51 each profits of the other company would only be used after it 1 089 072 split into 2 400 ordinary shares numbered had paid its own ordinary shareholders and if the directors 1 to 2 400, known as special shares thought it appropriate.
130 854 115 split into several classes of cumulative preference shares.
So far NV and PLC have always been able to pay their own dividends, so we have never had to follow this procedure.
PLCs issued share capital on 31 December 2002 was made If we did, the payment from one company to the other up of: would be subject to any United Kingdom and Netherlands tax and exchange control laws applicable at that time.
40 760 420 split into 2 911 458 580 ordinary shares The Equalisation Agreement also makes the position of the of 1.4p each shareholders of both companies, as far as possible, the same 100 000 of deferred stock.
as if they held shares in a single company.
To make this possible we compare the ordinary share capital of the two For NV share capital, the euro amounts quoted in this companies in units: a unit made up of 5.445 nominal of document are representations in euros on the basis of NVs ordinary capital carries the same weight as a unit made Article 67c of Book 2 of the Civil Code in the Netherlands, up of 1 nominal of PLCs ordinary capital.
For every unit rounded to two decimal places, of underlying amounts in 5.445 you have of NV you have the same rights and Dutch guilders, which have not been converted into euros benets as the owner of a unit 1 of PLC.
NVs ordinary in NVs Articles of Association or in the Equalisation shares currently each have a nominal value of 0.51, Agreement.
Until conversion formally takes place by and PLCs share capital is divided into ordinary shares of amendment of the Articles of Association, the entitlements 1.4p each.
This means that a 5.445 unit of NV is made to dividends and voting rights are based on the underlying up of 10.7 NV ordinary shares of 0.51 each and a 1 unit Dutch guilder amounts.
of PLC is made up of 71.4 PLC ordinary shares of 1.4p each.
Consequently, one NV ordinary share equates to Unity of management 6.67 ordinary shares of PLC.
In order to ensure unity of management, NV and PLC have the same directors.
We achieve this through our nomination When we pay ordinary dividends we use this formula.
Only the holders of NVs special shares can On the same day NV and PLC allocate funds for the dividend nominate candidates for election to the NV Board, and only from their parts of our current profits and free reserves.
the holders of PLCs deferred stock can nominate candidates We pay the same amount on each NV share as on 6.67 PLC for election to the PLC Board.
The current directors, who shares calculated at the relevant exchange rate.
For interim have agreed to act on the recommendations of the dividends this exchange rate is the average rate for the Nomination Committee, can ensure that both NV and PLC quarter before we declare the dividend.
For final dividends shareholders are presented with the same candidates for it is the average rate for the year.
In arriving at the equalised election as directors, because the joint holders of both the amount we include any tax payable by the company in special shares and the deferred stock are NV Elma and respect of the dividend, but calculate it before any tax United Holdings Limited, which are subsidiaries of NV deductible by the company from the dividend.
In principle, issues of bonus shares and rights offerings NV and PLC both act as directors of NV Elma and of can only be made in ordinary shares.
Again we would United Holdings Limited.
The Chairmen of NV and PLC ensure that shareholders of NV and PLC received shares are additional directors of United Holdings Limited.
in equal proportions, using the ratio of 5.445 NV nominal share capital to 1 PLC nominal share capital.
The Equalisation Agreement subscription price for one new NV share would have to be To ensure that NV and PLC operate for all practical purposes the same, at the prevailing exchange rate, as the price for as a single company, we have an Equalisation Agreement.
Under the Equalisation Agreement NV and PLC adopt the Under the Equalisation Agreement as amended in 1981 same financial periods and accounting policies.
Neither the two companies are permitted to pay different dividends company can issue or reduce capital without the consent in the following exceptional circumstances: of the other.
If one company had losses, or was unable to pay its preference dividends, we would make up the loss or if the average annual sterling euro exchange rate changed shortfall out of: so substantially from one year to the next that to pay equal dividends at the current exchange rates, either the current profits of the other company after it has paid NV or PLC would have to pay a dividend that was its own preference shareholders unreasonable ie, substantially larger or smaller in its own currency than the dividend it paid in the previous year.
Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002
