Report of the Directors Section 1 Section 2 Section 3 Corporate governance 45 introduce undesirable and unnecessary complexity.
Since Relations with shareholders and other investors the Advisory Directors are not formally members of the We believe it is important both to explain the business Boards, it would be inappropriate for one of them to act developments and financial results to investors and to as Chairman.
Within the Executive Committee, the Financial Director has lead responsibility In all other respects, PLC has complied with the Combined for investor relations, with the active involvement of the Code throughout 2002.
They are supported by an Investor Relations Department which organises presentations for analysts and Auditors institutional investors.
Such presentations are generally made Subject to the annual appointment of auditors by the available on our website.
Briengs on quarterly results are shareholders and in addition to our ongoing process of given via teleconference and are accessible by telephone or monitoring the auditors performance, we undertake a via our website.
Briengs are similarly given to update the formal review every three years.
The most recent review was market between each quarterly announcement.
For further completed in November 2002.
As a result, and on the information visit our website at www.
recommendation of the Audit Committee, the directors will be proposing the re-appointment of  Both NV and PLC communicate with their respective at the AGMs on 7 May 2003 see pages 134 and 137. shareholders through the Annual General Meetings.
At the AGMs, each Chairman gives a full account of the progress Both the Executive Committee and the auditors have for of the business over the last year and a review of the many years had safeguards to avoid the possibility that current issues.
A summary of their addresses is published the auditors objectivity and independence could be on our website and released to stock exchanges and media.
In particular, our procedures in respect of Copies are freely available on request.
other services provided by  are: Our Chairmen, both in communications about the Annual Audit related services This is work that, in their General Meetings and at the actual meetings, encourage position as the auditors, they must or are best placed to shareholders to attend and to ask questions.
It includes formalities relating to borrowings, answer sessions form an important part of the meetings shareholder and other circulars, various other regulatory in both the Netherlands and the United Kingdom.
We are reports and work in respect of acquisitions and disposals.
committed to efforts to establish more effective ways of shareholder communication.
We actively participate in the Tax services In cases where they are best suited, we use Shareholders Communication Channel which facilitates the auditors.
All other significant tax consulting work is proxy voting in the Netherlands.
Electronic communication is becoming an important General consulting Throughout 2002 our policy was medium for shareholders, providing ready access to that our external auditors may not tender for any new shareholder information and reports, and for voting general consulting work.
Previously, they were able to purposes.
Shareholders of PLC in the United Kingdom can tender for general consulting projects.
now choose to receive electronic notication that the Annual Review, Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F These safeguards have been approved by the Audit and Notice of Annual General Meeting have been published Committee and are regularly reviewed and updated in the on our website, instead of receiving printed copies, and can light of internal developments, external requirements and also electronically appoint a proxy to vote on their behalf at best practice.
Non-audit services to be undertaken by our the Annual General Meeting.
Registration for electronic external auditors are now approved in advance by the Audit communication by shareholders of PLC can be made at Committee.
The auditors report to the directors and the Audit Reporting to shareholders Committee on the actions they take to comply with The directors responsibilities are set out formally on the professional and regulatory requirements and best page 63 and 64.
The report to shareholders on directors practice designed to ensure their independence from remuneration and interests is set out on pages 49 to 60.
Unilever, including, for example, the periodic rotation The report of the Audit Committee is set out on page 61. of key team members.
The lead partner in charge of the audit changed in 2001.
The responsibility of the auditors to report on these matters is set out on page 65.
See note 2 on page 77 for the actual payments made to .
Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002
