13 Unilever Annual Review 2001 UNIVERSAL APPEAL Faster growth in the leading brands, strong expansion of operating margin and excellent progress with the integration of Bestfoods and our other acquisitions, were the highlights of a successful year.
Europe: Strong all-round performance with good Our Foods business recorded an underlying sales growth of just growth in both sales and profitability.
The integration of Ben & Jerrys proceeded well and sales grew Sales were ahead in the year by 6% with an underlying sales 8% in the year.
This, together with strong sales of Breyers, growth of 4%.
Growth was broad-based and included a strong Popsicle, Klondike and Good Humor, further strengthened contribution from Central and Eastern Europe.
Slim Fast continued to expand and is In Western Europe, the success of pro activ, Culinesse and Bertolli now close to 11 billion sales globally.
Spreads grew with the in spreads and cooking products, the 4 Salti in Padella range of introduction of calcium variants of the Shedds and I Cant high-quality frozen ready meals and the expansion of Slim Fast, Believe Its Not Butter!
In culinary products, sales were led to a step-up in the growth rate for Foods.
Cornetto and Carte flat due to competitive activity and our focus on integration.
dOr both grew strongly through innovation, whilst in culinary In tea, sales declined as we focused on brand convergence and there was continued momentum in Amora Maille and we transition to our common global positioning.
started to see the strength of the Knorr brand.
Operating margin BEIA of 14.2% reflects the benefits of In personal care, the leading brands maintained their good portfolio change, restructuring, global procurement and rate of growth, led by range extensions in Dove and Signal marketing-support efficiencies.
Dove shampoo was launched in eight countries by the end of the year and the initial response has been very positive.
The success of the Vaporesse ironing aid in fabric conditioners together with a solid response to a more competitive environment in fabric wash helped laundry to grow.
We continued to enjoy good rates of growth in Domestos and Cif through the success of easy-to-use wipes and the launch of Domestos Bi-Actif and Domestos WC Active Mousse.
In Central and Eastern Europe we have seen strong growth, most notably leaf tea and Delmy mayonnaise in Russia, the launch of instant soups and broad-based progress in Home and Personal Care.
Operating margin BEIA increased to 14.7% in Europe due to restructuring, buying and marketing-support efficiencies, and portfolio improvement.
North America: Major portfolio change improves longterm growth and profit profile with the year being one of transition as we integrate our acquisitions.
Sales were ahead by 16% with an underlying growth of 2%.
In our Home and Personal Care mass business underlying sales growth was 2.5%, skewed towards the first half of the year, due to the phasing of innovation.
There were good performances by our brands across the skin, hair and deodorant categories, notably Dove and Suave.
In Prestige fragrance our sales declined, reflecting both the sale of Elizabeth Arden and weaknesses in department stores and Above travel retail following the tragic events of 11 September.
The The successful launch of easy-to-use wipes decline in underlying sales reduced the overall North American contributed to continued good rates of growth growth rate by nearly 1%.
