02 CHAIRMENS STATEMENT Antony Burgmans Niall FitzGerald In 2001, we focused on driving our leading brands towards sustained growth of 5% to 6% and on ensuring the remaining brands created value for shareholders.
MAINTAINING THE MOMENTUM Leading brands grow by 5.3% Operating margin BEIA of 13.9% is a new record Cash flow from operations increases to 5 7.5 4.7, $6.7 billion Bestfoods integration progressing on target Two-divisional structure allows sharper business focus Earnings per share BEIA grows 12.2% 03 Unilever Annual Review 2001 DELIVERING GROWTH In 2001, we continued to make real progress towards the achievement of our strategic ambitions.
Maintaining the momentum A number of important divestments were completed in 2001, It is our pleasure to report to you on a year of substantial notably Elizabeth Arden, Bestfoods Baking Company, Unipath progress towards the goals set in our Path to Growth strategy and the brands sold in connection with the acquisition of announced in February 2000.
Leading brands grew by 5.3% for Bestfoods.
The proposed divestment of DiverseyLever was the year and operating margin BEIA rose to 13.9% compared to announced in November 2001.
We are on track to reach our 2004 goals of Unilever people 5% to 6% overall growth and an operating margin of at least 2000 and 2001 were years when we welcomed a large number 16% of sales.
of talented people into the business but had to part with many The past year has shown the great strength of our business others.
People across the business were engaged in reawakening and demonstrated our ability to execute substantial change.
the spirit of enterprise, in which trust and transparency form the We have made excellent progress with the integration of foundation of team building.
Throughout Unilever those teams Bestfoods, implemented our new divisional structure and dealt were challenged to identify key areas where we must progress effectively with a more challenging business environment.
to successfully meet our targets.
Remuneration systems were reOur performance is a testimony to the strength of our brands designed to reward exceptional achievement and delivery of and particularly to the excellence of our people.
Our new divisional structure of Foods and Home & Personal This was a year which made enormous demands on our people.
Care is already accelerating the execution of our business plans.
They responded magnificently, remaining focused on markets The integration of research into the divisions has strengthened and customers, and growing the business.
Moreover, we our capability to deliver more and bigger innovations to fuel integrated the businesses acquired in 2000 and coped with brand growth.
organisational change and restructuring programmes.
This was an exceptional challenge to which our colleagues responded in There was a strong focus on increased cash generation an outstanding manner.
Without exceptional team work, this throughout the business.
Cash from operations increased to could not have been achieved successfully and we thank 17.5 billion 4.7 billion, $6.7 billion compared with everyone for showing a real spirit of enterprise.
The divestment programme generated a further 13.6 billion 2.2 billion, Brands and regions $3.2 billion in the year.
Net debt was reduced by 13.3 billion In Foods we have seen a marked increase in both growth and 2.3 billion, $4.1 billion.
This has been broad-based across brands and geography, with notable performances coming from Earnings per share BEIA grew by 12.2%.
On a one-year basis, Europe and our global ice cream business.
There were excellent our Total Shareholder Return TSR put us into the top third of contributions from the businesses acquired in 2000 and the our peer group of 21 companies.
However, over a three-year integration of Bestfoods has proceeded well with the synergy period we were positioned 15th in this group.
Our target benefits being delivered ahead of plan.
remains a sustained top third TSR ranking.
In Home & Personal Care there was good progress in our mass Path to Growth progress businesses with particularly strong contributions from We can report good progress on all aspects of our Path to skin, hair and deodorants and a robust performance from Growth strategy.
We are focused increasingly on driving the laundry.
These were partly offset by a decline in Prestige growth of our leading brands and dealing with other brands in fragrances.
ways which will create value for shareholders.
We are finding innovative ways of pleasing the consumer and stretching our Underlying sales grew by 4% in Europe.
Growth was broadleading brands into new categories to create space to grow based and included a strong contribution from Central and them faster.
Leading brands now account for 84% of total Eastern Europe.
It was particularly pleasing to see sales of turnover and are expected to account for 95% by 2004. spreads and cooking products growing by 4.6% fuelled by the success of pro activ, Bertolli and the roll-out of Culinesse.
In 2001, exceptional restructuring costs of 11.6 billion 1.0 billion, $1.4 billion have been charged.
Further progress In North America there were excellent performances from ice has been made in reshaping the supply chain to support our cream and Slim Fast.
Our Home and Personal Care brands across brands and increase margins.
Since the inception of Path to the skin, hair and deodorant categories all performed strongly.
Growth, 59 plants have been sold or closed and our global In Asia and Pacific sales grew by 6% with a strong performance buying programme has produced incremental savings of in Japan, including the successful launch of Dove hair care.
04 CHAIRMENS STATEMENT In India, the more focused brand portfolio delivered improved growth and profitability.
In Africa, Middle East and Turkey and in Latin America, a key feature of the year has been our determination to move prices to recover devaluation-driven cost increases.
Underlying sales grew by more than 5% in these regions.
Responsible corporate behaviour In 2001, Unilever published its first Social Review spelling out our approach to corporate social responsibility.
We encourage all our people to play a positive part in the communities in which they live and work.
A number of significant examples are described throughout this Review.
We updated Unilevers Code of Business Principles because we believe that our reputation for high corporate standards is a key asset which needs to be fresh and living throughout our business.
The Code is printed in full on the following page.
Our environmental strategy is publicly available and we are committed to tracking our performance against specific targets.
We made significant progress in developing guidelines for sustainable production of crops which are key to our foods business and are working towards the sourcing of all fish for our business from sustainable sources by 2005.
The number of Above our local partnerships in the Global Nature Funds Living Lakes Unilever Indonesia has committed, together with initiative grew to 11. the government and the people who live around the river, to clean up the Brantas river over the next The way ahead five years.
Chairman Antony Burgmans inaugurated In 2001 a step-up in the growth of our leading brands, a the Clean Brantas project during his visit to Indonesia record operating margin, strong cash flow and the continued in August 2001. reshaping of our portfolio all provide confidence about the strategy we have put in place and our ability to deliver on time and in full.
Our task in the year ahead is to maintain the momentum notwithstanding a weaker world economy.
In 2002 we are planning to sustain the growth of the leading brands reinforced by those of Bestfoods and to again deliver low double-digit earnings growth.
Our confidence comes from the momentum developed in 2001, and from the energy and enthusiasm which is alight in the Unilever team.
Above An international team of 58 employees, including Chairman Niall FitzGerald, raised $1 million for childrens charities around the world when they completed the New York Marathon.
Antony Burgmans Niall FitzGerald Chairmen of Unilever
