Report of the Directors Remuneration report 49 Report to shareholders In addition a comparison is made with the remuneration This report sets out the policy and disclosures on directors arrangements for other senior employees within Unilever.
remuneration, as required by legislation in the Netherlands and the United Kingdom.
It also takes into account the In line with the Path to Growth strategy it is the recommendations of the Committee on Corporate Remuneration Committees policy to link a significant Governance in the Netherlands Peters Committee.
proportion of directors remuneration to a number of key In addition, full consideration has been given to measures of company performance.
As will be seen from the Combined Code of the United Kingdom Listing the descriptions below, the three main measures underlying Rules the Combined Code.
our annual and longer-term incentive plans are earnings per share growth BEIA, underlying sales growth in the leading The Remuneration Committee brands and the total shareholder return generated by The Remuneration Committee is responsible for making Unilever in comparison with a group of 20 relevant recommendations to the Boards on the remuneration policy competitors.
In broad terms, if the Group achieves its target for directors.
The Committee consists of Advisory Directors levels of performance the variable elements will account for who are chosen for their broad experience, international about 60% of the directors total remuneration.
The variable outlook and independence.
In 2002 the Committee elements would, of course, result in no incentive awards if comprised F H Fentener van Vlissingen Chairman, performance is unsatisfactory.
By the same token, if the B Collomb, Lord Simon of Highbury and, with effect from Group clearly achieves outstanding results the overall value May 2002, J van der Veer.
Professor W Dik was a member of the incentive awards could increase to more than threeof the Committee until April 2002. quarters of the directors total remuneration.
The Committee meets at least three times a year and, NV and PLC and their group companies operate as nearly on behalf of the Boards, sets the remuneration packages as possible as a single entity.
Directors serve both companies for directors, including base salary, pension rights, bonus as executives and therefore receive remuneration from both.
and long-term incentive awards, grants of share options Whenever we refer to remuneration, this includes payments and any compensation payments.
The Committee is assisted from both NV and PLC.
The remuneration for the US-based by the Secretary to the Remuneration Committee, director is paid mainly by Unilever United States, Inc. UNUS J AA van der Bijl, Joint Secretary of Unilever.
A Burgmans to reect the fact that a major proportion of his duties is and N W A FitzGerald attend part of the Committee performed in the US.
He does, however, also receive part meetings in their capacity as Chairmen of NV and of his remuneration from NV and PLC to cover his executive PLC respectively.
responsibilities as a director of these companies.
In this report his total remuneration from all three sources is The Remuneration Committee does not retain remuneration shown in full.
consultants but seeks professional advice from external advisors as it sees t. During the year professional advice on All remuneration and fees earned by directors from outside remuneration matters was sought from an independent rm directorships and similar sources are required to be paid over of remuneration specialists, Towers Perrin.
This rm also to, and retained by, Unilever.
provides general consultancy advice to Unilever Group companies on pension, communications and other human The Remuneration Committee keeps its remuneration resource matters.
policies under review in the light of company and market developments.
However it has no plans, at present, to Directors remuneration policy materially alter the framework of the current remuneration The objective of Unilevers remuneration policy for arrangements, as described below, during 2003. directors is to attract, motivate and retain top class business executives who are able to direct and lead a large global company and to reward them accordingly based on performance.
Levels of remuneration are reviewed annually by the Remuneration Committee in the light of external expert advice which assesses competitive levels of remuneration paid by other major international companies.
In particular, remuneration arrangements for comparable companies based in Continental Europe and the UK are taken into account.
For our US-based director the Committee also reviews remuneration packages applicable in the US market.
Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002
