140 Control of Unilever If you are a holder of NV New York shares or PLC American The Articles of Association of NV and PLC do not require Depository Receipts of shares, you will receive a proxy form directors of NV, or full-time employed directors of PLC, to enabling you to authorise and instruct ABN AMRO N. V. or hold shares in NV or PLC.
Directors of PLC who are not JPMorgan Chase Bank respectively to vote on your behalf employed full-time by NV or PLC must hold either 1 000 at the shareholders meeting of NV or PLC.
in nominal value of PLC ordinary shares, or 5 445 in nominal value of NV ordinary shares.
The remuneration Resolutions are usually adopted at NV and PLC shareholder arrangements applicable to directors as employees contain meetings by an absolute majority of votes cast, unless there requirements for the holding and retention of shares see are other requirements under the law or the NV or PLC Remuneration report on page 55.
There are special requirements for resolutions relating to the alteration of NV or PLCs Articles of Mutual guarantee of borrowings Association or the Equalisation Agreement, or to the There is a contractual arrangement between NV and PLC liquidation of NV or PLC.
under which each will, if asked by the other, guarantee the borrowings of the other.
They can also agree jointly to According to NVs Articles, shareholders who together guarantee the borrowings of their subsidiaries.
We use this represent at least 10% of the issued capital of NV can arrangement, as a matter of financial policy, for certain propose resolutions for inclusion in the agenda of any significant public borrowings.
The arrangements enable General Meeting.
They can also requisition Extraordinary lenders to rely on our combined financial strength.
General Meetings to deal with specic resolutions.
However, following the recommendations of the Committee of Combined earnings per share Corporate Governance, the board of directors has confirmed Because of the Equalisation Agreement and the other that shareholders may propose resolutions if: arrangements between NV and PLC we calculate combined earnings per share for NV and PLC see note 7 on pages 79 they individually or together hold 1% of the issued and 80. capital: or they hold shares or depository receipts worth at least We base the calculation on the average amount of NV and 226 890.
PLCs ordinary capital in issue during the year.
For the main calculation we exclude shares which have been purchased They must submit the request at least 60 days before the to satisfy employee share options.
We also calculate a date of the General Meeting, and it will be honoured unless, diluted earnings per share gure, where we include these in the opinion of the Board of Directors, it is against the shares, as well as certain PLC shares which may be issued interests of the company.
in 2038 under the arrangements for the variation of the Leverhulme Trust see below.
Under United Kingdom company law, The process by which we calculate earnings per share shareholders who together hold shares representing is as follows.
First we convert the average capital of NV at least 5% of the total voting rights of PLC: or and PLC into units using the formula contained in the at least 100 shareholders who hold on average Equalisation Agreement: one unit equals 10.7 NV shares 100 each in nominal value of PLC capital or 71.4 PLC shares.
We add these together to nd the total number of units of combined share capital.
Then the amount can require PLC to propose a resolution at a of net profit in euros which is attributable to ordinary capital General Meeting.
is divided by this total number of units to nd the amount per combined unit.
Finally we convert the combined unit There are no limitations on the right to hold NV and back into NV and PLC ordinary shares, to show the amount PLC shares.
The amount per unit is divided by 10.7 to nd the amount per 0.51 share, and by 71.4 to Directors nd the amount per 1.4p share.
The directors of NV are able to vote on transactions in which they are materially interested so long as they are acting in Despite the Equalisation Agreement, NV and PLC are good faith.
In general PLC directors cannot vote in respect independent corporations, and are subject to different of contracts in which they know they are materially laws and regulations governing dividend payments in the interested, unless, for example, their interest is shared with Netherlands and the United Kingdom.
We assume in other shareholders and employees.
our combined earnings per share calculation that both companies will be able to pay their dividends out of their The borrowing powers of NV directors are not limited by part of our profits.
This has always been the case in the the Articles of Association of NV.
PLC directors have the past, but if we did have to make a payment from one to power to borrow up to three times the Adjusted Capital the other it could result in additional taxes, and reduce and Reserves of PLC without the sanction of an our combined earnings per share.
Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002
