52 Remuneration report Details of the companies which formed the reference group Directors pensions of comparator companies, and a ranking table showing The aim of the Remuneration Committee is that retirement Unilevers position relative to this peer group over the last benets should be in line with good practice of major five years are given on page 41. companies in continental Europe and the United Kingdom, bearing in mind the need to make the retirement benefit By using the TSR table as a performance indicator for our position of the various directors, who have different Long-Term Incentive Plan there is a clear link between the nationalities, reasonably comparable.
reward given to directors and the investment growth enjoyed by our shareholders in comparison with that In accordance with this policy, directors are covered by a enjoyed by investors in the dened peer group of final salary dened benefit arrangement and can retire with companies.
It will be noted from the table that there is retirement benets broadly equivalent to two-thirds of final no award if Unilevers performance is ranked at less than pensionable pay at age 60.
Final pensionable pay includes position 11 of the peer group and an award in excess of the average annual performance bonuses paid in the last the full conditional award will only be made if Unilever is three years, up to a maximum of 20% of base pay.
This is ranked in the top four of the group.
similar to the current Group practice for senior executives.
It is the view of the Remuneration Committee that a Unilevers position relative to broad based significant part of directors remuneration should be equity indices performance related, and that therefore part of the annual Under the UK Directors Remuneration Report Regulations performance related bonus should be pensionable.
2002 we are also required to show Unilevers relative share The Committee reconsiders this topic from time to time in performance against a holding of shares in a broad based the light of the recommendations of the Combined Code equity index for the last five years.
The Remuneration and continues to take the view that these arrangements Committee has decided to show Unilevers performance should be kept in place.
against two indices Euronext AEX Index, Amsterdam and FTSE 100 Index as these are the most generally used The tables on page 53 give details of the directors pensions indices in the Netherlands and the UK, where we have our values for the year ended 31 December 2002. principal listings.
