24 SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Introduction Kingdom Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made This Summary Financial Statement is a summary of information thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in contained in Unilevers full annual accounts and directors report the Annual Review 2001 and consider the implications for our set out in the Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or 2001.
This Statement does not contain sufficient information to material inconsistencies with the Summary Financial Statement.
allow as full an understanding of the results and state of affairs of Unilever as would be provided by the full report.
Basis of opinion We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 Copies of the Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F The Auditors Statement on the Summary Financial Statement 2001, which is produced in both English and Dutch, may be issued by the United Kingdom Auditing Practices Board.
obtained free of charge from Unilevers Corporate Relations Department.
It can also be viewed on our website at Opinion www.
Shareholders In our opinion the Summary Financial Statement is consistent may also elect to receive it for all future years by request to the with the full annual accounts and directors report of the appropriate Share Registrars.
Unilever Group for the year ended 31 December 2001 and complies with the applicable requirements of section 251 of The auditors have issued an unqualified audit report on the full the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 and the regulations accounts.
The United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 requires made thereunder.
the auditors to report if the accounting records are not properly kept or if the required information and explanations are not  N. V.  received.
Their report on the full accounts contains no such Registeraccountants Chartered Accountants statement.
Rotterdam, and Registered Auditors The Netherlands London, England The following summarised financial statement should be read together with the narrative set out earlier in this Review, which As auditors of Unilever N. V. As auditors of Unilever PLC mentions, to the extent applicable, any important future developments or post-balance sheet events.
6 March 2002 Auditors statement to the shareholders of Unilever N. V. Unilever website and Unilever PLC The maintenance and integrity of the Unilever website is the We have examined the Summary Financial Statement in euros responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors set out on pages 24 to 27. does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review presented on the website.
2001 in accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to Legislation in the Netherlands and the United Kingdom governing report to you our opinion on the consistency of the Summary the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may Financial Statement within the Annual Review 2001 with the differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
full annual accounts and directors report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the United
