10 HOME & PERSONAL CARE DIVISION In 2001, we rolled out our common packaging and advertising for Omo, in Africa, Middle East and Turkey: Asia and Pacific: and Latin America.
This was part of our strategy of aligning all our laundry products and fabric conditioners behind Unilevers leading brands.
HOME & PERSONAL CARE: FINANCIAL OVERVIEW 5 billion billion $ billion 2001 at 2001 at 2000 at Change at 2001 at 2000 at 2001 at 2000 at 2001 rates 2000 rates 2000 rates 2000 rates 2001 rates 2000 rates 2001 rates 2000 rates 22.8 23.6 22.9 3% Total turnover 14.2 13.9 20.4 21.1 2.8 2.9 1.5 91% Total operating profit 1.8 0.9 2.5 1.4 3.1 3.2 3.0 9% Total operating profit BEIA 1.9 1.8 2.8 2.7 Calculated using unrounded numbers 11 Unilever Annual Review 2001 FOCUS AND INNOVATION During the year, our Home & Personal Care business singleIn oral care, we again saw good growth from Signal in Europe minded focus on leading brands led to an improved performance and Close-up in Asia and Pacific.
However, in China, Zhonghua in most categories and regions.
These brands are our engines toothpaste had a disappointing year.
for growth and are expected to represent around 90% of our Our Prestige fragrance business faced difficult economic portfolio in 2002. conditions, and overall sales declined.
Following the disposal of While overall sales grew by 3%, our leading brands grew by Elizabeth Arden, we integrated the designer fragrance portfolio some 6.5% over the year a clear demonstration that our into Unilever Cosmetics International.
We expanded the Nautica strategy is working.
Overall operating profit BEIA rose by 9% fragrance range into Europe and launched fragrances under the and operating margin reached 13.7%.
Hand in hand with focus comes innovation.
During the year our In November 2001, we announced that we had agreed to sell new network of Global Technology Centres enabled us to bring DiverseyLever, our institutional and industrial cleaning business, bigger innovations to more markets, more quickly.
which had a strong year with growth in both sales and operating profit.
In December, we sold our womens health The effect can be seen in our laundry business where we built diagnostics business, Unipath.
We wish both these businesses on our success in laundry tablets by launching liquid capsules.
These provide the convenience and efficiency of tablets for consumers who prefer liquid detergents.
In south Latin America, we demonstrated the enduring appeal of our laundry brands, emerging after two years of intense competition with significantly improved profitability.
We made significant progress in aligning all laundry detergent and fabric conditioners behind a limited number of our leading brands.
We rolled out standardised Omo packaging and advertising in Africa, Middle East and Turkey: Asia and Pacific: and Latin America and relaunched Surf in India.
As part of a strategy of developing our brands, we extended the Comfort fabric conditioner brand, launching Comfort Vaporesse in Europe.
Vaporesse, used in steam irons, makes fabrics smell fresher and prevents limescale.
We also expanded the Domestos brand, reaching new consumers in Asia with products tailored for low-income families.
In personal care, Dove surged ahead, recording its third consecutive year of over 25% growth.
It successfully moved into hair care in Asia, reaching number three position in the Japanese shampoo and conditioner market and contributing to the worldwide growth of our hair care business.
The launch has projected Unilever into a clear number one position in Japan, the second largest hair care market, with Lux, mods hair and now Dove.
Sunsilk, our leading hair care brand, also performed strongly, growing in excess of 20%.
In the US, Suave captured an 11% value share of the shampoo sector for the first time.
Our deodorant business continued to grow.
Dove consolidated its position in the category with a strong performance in the US and an encouraging launch in Mexico.
We refreshed the Axe male deodorant range, marketed as Lynx in the UK, with two new fragrances and, in Europe, introduced an upgraded Axe shower gel range.
Rexona also made progress in the male antiperspirant market.
We introduced harmonised packaging for our roll-on Above deodorants, achieving significant supply-chain efficiencies.
In face care, Ponds Perfect was launched in Japan and reached a leading position in the mass sector of Our innovations continued to meet consumer needs around the anti-ageing market, while the launch of Ponds the world.
In face care, Ponds Perfect was launched in Japan RenAscent achieved outstanding success in Mexico.
and achieved a leading position in the mass sector of the antiageing market, while the launch of Ponds RenAscent achieved outstanding success in Mexico.
