66 Accounting information and policies Unilever from United States generally accepted accounting principles The two parent companies, NV and PLC, together with their are set out on pages 118 to 127. group companies, operate as nearly as is practicable as a single entity the Unilever Group, also referred to as Unilever United Kingdom Urgent Issues Task Force Abstracts 13 and or the Group.
NV and PLC have the same directors and are 17 UITFs 13 and 17 require that NV or PLC shares held by linked by a series of agreements, including an Equalisation employee trusts to satisfy options should be classied by the Agreement, which are designed so that the position of the sponsoring company as xed assets, and, as explained in shareholders of both companies is as nearly as possible the note 29 on page 111, that certain costs in relation to these same as if they held shares in a single company.
shares be recognised in the profit and loss account.
Netherlands law requires such shares and certain related The Equalisation Agreement provides for both companies costs to be accounted for within capital and reserves.
In to adopt the same accounting principles and requires as order to comply with Netherlands law and the Equalisation a general rule the dividends and other rights and benets Agreement, the requirements of UITF 13 and certain aspects including rights on liquidation attaching to each Fl.
12 of UITF 17 have not been followed.
All shares held internally 5.445 nominal of ordinary share capital of NV to be are accounted for in accordance with Netherlands law.
The equal in value at the relevant rate of exchange to the effects of this departure are shown in note 23 on page 98 dividends and other rights and benets attaching to each and note 29 on page 111.
1 nominal of ordinary share capital of PLC, as if each such unit of capital formed part of the ordinary capital of one United Kingdom Financial Reporting Standard 17 and the same company.
For additional information please Retirement Benets FRS 17 mandates that certain refer to Control of Unilever on page 138. disclosures relating to retirement benets be made in financial statements for accounting periods ending on or Basis of consolidation after 22 June 2001.
These disclosures are shown in note 17 Because of the operational and contractual arrangements on page 89.
Unilever will adopt the full requirements of the referred to above and the internal participating interests set standard, which will change the basis of accounting for out in note 21 on page 97, NV and PLC and their group retirement benets, from 1 January 2003.
This will have companies constitute a single group under Netherlands and a significant impact on Unilevers reported results.
United Kingdom legislation for the purposes of presenting consolidated accounts.
Accordingly, the accounts of the United Kingdom Financial Reporting Standard 19 FRS 19 Unilever Group are presented by both NV and PLC as Deferred Tax requires that full provision be made for most their respective consolidated accounts.
These accounts are timing differences between the recognition of profits for supplemented in notes 22 and 23 on page 98 and note 30 accounting purposes and the recognition of profits for tax on page 112 by additional information for the NV and PLC purposes.
Prior to the implementation of the standard, parts of the Group in which group companies are Unilever used a form of full provisioning for such timing consolidated according to respective ownership.
differences and therefore the standard has been adopted by the Group for the year ended 31 December 2002 with Companies legislation no material impact on reported net profit.
The effect of The consolidated accounts of the Unilever Group comply the implementation of this standard on the balance sheet with Book 2 of the Civil Code in the Netherlands and the is shown in note 18 on page 94 and note 20 on page 96.
The consolidated accounts of the Unilever Group also comply with accounting Recent changes in reporting requirements under US GAAP standards generally accepted in the United Kingdom, as are discussed on page 122. allowed by Article 362.1 of Book 2 of the Civil Code in the Netherlands, unless such standards conict with the Civil OECD Guidelines Code in the Netherlands which would in such case prevail.
In preparing its Annual Review and Annual Report & The company accounts, the notes to those accounts and Accounts and Form 20-F Unilever adheres to the disclosure the further statutory information given for each of NV recommendations of the OECD Guidelines for and PLC comply with legislation in the Netherlands and the Multinational Enterprises.
As explained under Group companies below and on page 67, in order to give a true Group companies and fair view, the presentation of the consolidated capital Group companies are those companies in whose share and reserves differs from that specified by the United capital NV or PLC holds an interest directly or indirectly, Kingdom Companies Act 1985. and whose consolidation is required for the accounts to give a true and fair view.
Accounting standards The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention In order that the consolidated accounts should present and comply in all material respects with legislation in the a true and fair view, it is necessary to differ from the Netherlands and with United Kingdom Accounting Standards.
presentational requirements of the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 by including amounts attributable The accounting policies of the Unilever Group are set out to both NV and PLC shareholders in the capital and reserves on pages 66 to 68.
Our accounting policy for the treatment shown in the balance sheet.
The Companies Act would of exceptional items is given on page 77.
Material variations require presentation of the capital and reserves attributable Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002 Financial Statements Accounting information and policies 67 to NV and PLC shareholders as minority interests in the The treatment of goodwill and intangibles under US GAAP is respective consolidated accounts of PLC and NV.
This discussed on pages 118 to 120. presentation would not give a true and fair view of the effect of the Equalisation Agreement, under which the Goodwill and intangible assets are subject to review for position of all shareholders is as nearly as possible the impairment in accordance with United Kingdom Financial same as if they held shares in a single company.
Reporting Standard FRS 11 Impairment of Fixed Assets and Goodwill and United States Statement of Financial Net profit and result for the year retained are presented on Accounting Standards SFAS 142 Goodwill and Other a combined basis on page 69, with the net profit attributable Intangible Assets.
Any impairment is charged to the profit to NV and PLC shareholders shown separately.
Movements and loss account as it arises.
in profit retained are analysed between those attributable to NV and PLC shareholders in note 22 on page 98.
Tangible xed assets Tangible xed assets are stated at cost less depreciation.
Foreign currencies Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis at Exchange differences arising in the accounts of individual percentages of cost based on the expected average useful companies are dealt with in their respective profit and loss lives of the assets.
Estimated useful lives by major class of accounts.
Those arising on trading transactions are taken assets are as follows: to operating profit: those arising on cash, current investments and borrowings are classied as interest.
Freehold buildings 33-40 years no depreciation on freehold land In preparing the consolidated accounts, the profit and loss Leasehold land and buildings 33-40 years account, the cash ow statement and all other movements Plant and equipment 3-20 years in assets and liabilities are translated at annual average rates Motor vehicles 3-6 years of exchange.
The balance sheet, other than the ordinary or life of lease if less than 33 years share capital of NV and PLC, is translated at year-end rates of exchange.
In the case of hyper-inationary economies, Tangible xed assets are subject to review for impairment the accounts are adjusted to remove the inuences of in accordance with FRS 11 and United States SFAS 144 ination before being translated.
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.
Any impairment is charged to the profit and loss The ordinary share capital of NV and PLC is translated account as it arises.
at the rate contained in the Equalisation Agreement of 1 Fl.
The difference between Current cost information is given in note 10 on page 81. this and the value derived by applying the year-end rate of exchange is taken to other reserves see note 23 on Fixed investments page 98.
Joint ventures are undertakings in which the Group has a long-term participating interest and which are jointly The effects of exchange rate changes during the year on controlled by the Group and one or more other parties.
net assets at the beginning of the year are recorded as a Associated companies are undertakings in which the movement in profit retained, as is the difference between Group has a participating interest and is able to exercise profit of the year retained at average rates of exchange significant inuence.
and at year-end rates of exchange.
Interests in joint ventures and associated companies are Goodwill and intangible assets stated in the consolidated balance sheet at the Groups No value is attributed to internally generated intangible share of their aggregate assets and liabilities.
Goodwill being the difference between the fair value of consideration paid for new interests in group companies, Other xed investments are stated at cost less any amounts joint ventures and associated companies and the fair value written off to reect a permanent impairment.
of the Groups share of their net assets at the date of acquisition and identiable intangible assets purchased after Current assets 1 January 1998 are capitalised and amortised in the profit Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and estimated net and loss account over the period of their expected useful realisable value.
Cost is mainly average cost, and comprises life, up to a maximum of 20 years.
Periods in excess of five direct costs and, where appropriate, a proportion of years are used only where the directors are satisfied that the production overheads.
life of these assets will clearly exceed that period.
Goodwill and intangible assets purchased prior to 1 January 1998 Debtors are stated after deducting adequate provision for were written off in the year of acquisition as a movement doubtful debts.
Current investments are liquid funds temporarily invested On disposal of a business acquired prior to 1 January 1998, and are stated at their realisable value.
The difference purchased goodwill written off on acquisition is reinstated between this and their original cost is taken to interest in arriving at the profit or loss on disposal.
in the profit and loss account.
Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002 68 Accounting information and policies Retirement benets Research, development and market support costs The expected costs of providing retirement pensions under Expenditure on research and development and on market dened benefit plans, as well as the costs of other postsupport costs such as advertising is charged against the retirement benets, are charged to the profit and loss profit of the year in which it is incurred.
account over the periods benefiting from the employees services.
Variations from expected cost are normally Group turnover and Turnover spread over the average remaining service lives of Group turnover comprises sales of goods and services after current employees.
deduction of discounts and sales taxes.
It includes sales to joint ventures and associated companies but does not Contributions to dened contribution pension plans are include sales by joint ventures and associated companies charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
or sales between group companies.
Turnover includes the Group share of the turnover of joint ventures, but does not Liabilities arising under dened benefit plans are either include our share of the turnover of associates.
externally funded or provided for in the consolidated balance sheet.
Any difference between the charge to Revenue is recognised when the risks and rewards of the the profit and loss account in respect of funded plans and underlying products and services have been substantially the contributions payable to each plan is recorded in the transferred to the customer.
balance sheet as a prepayment or provision.
Transfer pricing Deferred taxation The preferred method for determining transfer prices for Full provision is made for deferred taxation on all significant own manufactured goods is to take the market price.
timing differences arising from the recognition of items for Where there is no market price, the companies concerned taxation purposes in different periods from those in which follow established transfer pricing guidelines, where they are included in the Group accounts.
Full provision is available, or else engage in arms length negotiations.
made at the rates of tax prevailing at the year end unless future rates have been enacted or substantively enacted.
Trademarks owned by the parent companies and used by Deferred tax assets and liabilities have not been discounted.
operating companies are, where appropriate, licensed in return for royalties or a fee.
Provision is made for taxation which will become payable if retained profits of group companies and joint ventures are General services provided by central advisory departments, distributed to the parent companies only to the extent that business groups, divisions and research laboratories are we are committed to such distributions.
charged to operating companies on the basis of fees.
Provisions Leases Provisions are recognised when either a legal or constructive Lease payments, which are principally in respect of operating obligation, as a result of a past event, exists at the balance leases, are charged to the profit and loss account on a sheet date and where the amount of the obligation can be straight-line basis over the lease term, or over the period reasonably estimated.
between rent reviews where these exist.
Derivative financial instruments Shares held by employee share trusts The types of derivative financial instruments used by The assets and liabilities of certain PLC trusts, NV and group Unilever are described in note 15 on pages 85 and 86 and companies which purchase and hold NV and PLC shares to in the Financial review on pages 37 to 39.
Hedge satisfy options granted are included in the Group accounts.
accounting, as described below, is applied.
The book value of shares held is deducted from capital and reserves, and trust borrowings are included in the Groups Changes in the value of forward foreign exchange contracts borrowings.
The costs of the trusts are included in the are recognised in the results in the same period as changes results of the Group.
These shares are excluded from the in the values of the assets and liabilities they are intended calculation of earnings per share.
Interest payments and receipts arising from interest rate derivatives such as swaps and forward rate agreements are matched to those arising from underlying debt and investment positions.
Payments made or received in respect of the early termination of derivative financial instruments are spread over the original life of the instrument so long as the underlying exposure continues to exist.
Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002
