Shareholder information Taxation for US residents 145 The following notes are provided for guidance.
US residents Under the Convention, qualifying United States should consult their local tax advisers, particularly in organisations that are generally exempt from United States connection with potential liability to pay US taxes on taxes and that are constituted and operated exclusively to disposal, lifetime gift or bequest of their shares: administer or provide pension, retirement or other employee benets may be exempt at source from withholding tax Netherlands on dividends received from a Netherlands corporation.
An agreement published by the US Internal Revenue Service Taxation on dividends on 20 April 2000 in release IR-INT-2000-9 between the Dividends of companies in the Netherlands are subject United States and the Netherlands tax authorities describes to dividend withholding tax of 25%.
Where a shareholder the eligibility of these US organisations for benets under is entitled to the benets of the current Income Tax the Convention.
Convention the Convention concluded on 18 December 1992 between the United States and the Netherlands, when A United States trust, company or organisation that is dividends are paid by NV to: operated exclusively for religious, charitable, scientific, educational or public purposes, is now subject to an initial a United States resident: 25% withholding tax rate.
Such an exempt organisation a corporation organised under the laws of the is entitled to reclaim from the Netherlands Tax Authorities a United States or any territory of it having no permanent refund of the Netherlands dividend tax, if and to the extent establishment in the Netherlands of which such shares that it is exempt from United States Federal Income Tax and form a part of the business property: it would be exempt from tax in the Netherlands if it were or any other legal person subject to United States Federal organised and carried on all its activities there.
income tax with respect to its worldwide income, having no permanent establishment in the Netherlands of which If you are a Unilever shareholder resident in any country such shares form a part of the business property: other than the United States or the Netherlands, any exemption from, or reduction or refund of, the Netherlands these dividends qualify for a reduction of Netherlands dividend withholding tax may be governed by the Tax withholding tax on dividends from 25% to 15% to 5% Regulation for the Kingdom of the Netherlands or by the if the beneficial owner is a company which directly holds tax convention, if any, between the Netherlands and your at least 10% of the voting power of NV shares and to 0% country of residence.
if the beneficial owner is a qualied Exempt Organisation as dened in Article 36 of the Convention.
Taxation on capital gains Under the Convention, if you are a United States resident or The entire dividend including the withheld amount will corporation and you have capital gains on the sale of shares be dividend income to the United States shareholder not of a Netherlands company, these are generally not subject eligible for the dividends received deduction allowed to to taxation by the Netherlands.
An exception to this rule corporations.
However, the Netherlands withholding tax will generally applies if you have a permanent establishment in be treated as a foreign income tax that is eligible for credit the Netherlands and the capital gain is derived from the against the shareholders United States income taxes.
sale of shares which form part of that permanent establishments business property.
Where a United States resident or corporation has a permanent establishment in the Netherlands, which has Succession duty and gift taxes shares in NV forming part of its business property, Under the Estate and Inheritance Tax Convention between dividends it receives on those shares are included in that the United States and the Netherlands of 15 July 1969, establishments profit.
They are subject to the Netherlands United States individual residents who are not Dutch citizens income tax or corporation tax, as appropriate, and the who have shares will generally not be subject to succession Netherlands tax on dividends will generally be applied at the duty in the Netherlands on the individuals death, unless the full rate of 25%.
This tax will be treated as foreign income shares are part of the business property of a permanent tax eligible for credit against the shareholders United States establishment situated in the Netherlands.
A gift of shares of a Netherlands company by a person who Under a provision of the Netherlands Dividend Tax Act NV is not a resident or a deemed resident of the Netherlands is is entitled to a credit up to a maximum of 3% of the gross generally not subject to Netherlands gift tax.
A non-resident dividend from which dividend tax is withheld against the Netherlands citizen, however, is still treated as a resident amount of dividend tax withheld before remittance to the of the Netherlands for gift tax purposes for ten years and Netherlands tax authorities.
For dividends paid on or after any other non-resident person for one year after leaving 1 January 1995, the United States tax authority may take the Netherlands.
the position that the Netherlands withholding tax eligible for credit should be limited accordingly.
Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002 146 Taxation for US residents United Kingdom However, US shareholders may elect to remain subject to all the provisions of the current Convention for a period of Taxation on dividends 12 months after the date on which the New Convention Under United Kingdom law income tax is not withheld from would otherwise be applicable.
It is uncertain when the dividends paid by United Kingdom companies.
Shareholders, New Convention will be ratied.
whether resident in the United Kingdom or not, receive the full amount of the dividend actually declared.
Taxation on capital gains Under United Kingdom law, when you sell shares you may If you are a shareholder resident in the United Kingdom be liable to pay capital gains tax.
However, if you are either: you are entitled to a tax credit against your liability for United Kingdom income tax, equal to 10% of the aggregate an individual who is neither resident nor ordinarily amount of the dividend plus tax credit or one-ninth of the resident in the United Kingdom: or dividend.
For example, a dividend payment of 9.00 will a company which is not resident in the United Kingdom: carry a tax credit of 1.00. you will not be liable to United Kingdom tax on any capital If you are a shareholder resident in the US, the dividend gains made on disposal of your shares.
actually declared is taxable in the US as ordinary income and is not eligible for the dividends received deduction allowable The exception is if the shares are held in connection with to corporations.
The dividend is foreign source income for a trade or business which is conducted in the United US foreign tax credit purposes.
Kingdom through a branch or an agency.
In addition, under the current income tax Convention Inheritance tax between the US and the UK the Convention, a US Under the current estate and gift tax convention between shareholder eligible for the benets of the Convention the United States and the United Kingdom, ordinary shares may elect to be treated for US tax purposes only as having held by an individual shareholder who is: received an additional taxable dividend.
The additional deemed dividend is equal to one-ninth of the actual cash domiciled for the purposes of the convention in the dividend received an additional dividend of 1 in the above United States: and example.
The shareholder will be eligible to claim a US is not for the purposes of the convention a national of foreign tax credit in the amount of the additional deemed the United Kingdom: dividend.
The tax credit may, subject to certain limitations and restrictions, reduce the shareholders US Federal income will not be subject to United Kingdom inheritance tax on: tax liability.
The procedure for making this election is described in IRS Revenue Procedure 2000-13. the individuals death: or on a gift of the shares during the individuals lifetime.
On 24 July 2001, the US and the UK signed a new income tax Convention the New Convention.
Under the New The exception is if the shares are part of the business Convention, US shareholders would not be entitled to property of a permanent establishment of the individual make the election described in the preceding paragraph.
in the United Kingdom or, in the case of a shareholder who These provisions of the New Convention will apply to US performs independent personal services, pertain to a xed shareholders beginning on the first day of the second month base situated in the United Kingdom.
following the date on which the New Convention is ratied by the US and the UK.
Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002
