21 Unilever Annual Review 2001 OUR STRUCTURE In 2001, Unilever launched its two-divisional organisation.
This allows an improved focus on Foods and Home and Personal Care activities at both a regional and global level.
Legal structure Reporting to their respective division directors are the Foods and NV and PLC are the twin parent companies of the Unilever the Home & Personal Care Business Presidents, responsible for Group, having separate legal entities and separate stock the profitability of their regional and global businesses.
These exchange listings for their shares.
However, with their group businesses remain the driving force behind Unilever, comprising companies they operate, as far as is practicable, as a single as they do the operating companies which provide the key entity and constitute a single group for the purposes of interface with customers and consumers, allowing quick presenting consolidated accounts.
Also, they have the same response to the needs of local markets.
directors and are linked by a number of agreements which Top management structure mean that all shareholders, whether of NV or PLC, share in Antony Burgmans and Niall FitzGerald, the Chairmen of NV the prosperity of the whole business.
and PLC respectively, jointly head Unilevers Executive Committee, NV and PLC are holding and service companies.
Unilevers which is responsible for overall business performance and businesses are carried out by their group operating companies setting global strategy.
The other members of the Executive around the world, most of which are ultimately owned by Committee are the Financial Director, the Foods Director, the either NV or PLC.
The main exception is that US companies Home & Personal Care Director, the Personnel Director and the are owned by both.
Corporate governance Directors and Board changes The Chairmen and all of the directors are full-time executives The current directors are shown on page 22. and directors of both NV and PLC and, as well as holding All directors held office throughout the year and all directors specific management responsibilities, they are responsible for will be offering themselves for re-election at the 2002 Annual the conduct of the business as a whole.
Directors are elected General Meetings.
by shareholders at the Annual General Meetings of NV and PLC and submit themselves for re-election each year.
Advisory Directors The current Advisory Directors are shown on pages 22 and 23.
The Boards have direct responsibility for a number of designated areas but control NV and PLC on a day-to-day basis through an Onno Ruding will retire as an Advisory Director with effect from Executive Committee.
the Annual General Meetings in 2002.
The directors wish to record their appreciation of his substantial contribution to Advisory Directors, although neither non-executive directors Unilever during the past twelve years.
nor members of a supervisory board, are the principal external presence in the governance of Unilever, providing a strong independent element.
They are chosen for their broad experience, international outlook and independence.
Advisory Directors give advice to the Boards in general, and to the Executive Committee in particular, on business, social and economic issues.
One of their key roles is to assure the Boards LEGAL STRUCTURE that our corporate governance provisions are adequate and reflect, as far as possible, best practice.
They form the Audit Shareholders Shareholders Committee, the External Affairs and Corporate Relations Committee, the Remuneration Committee, and the majority Directors of the Nomination Committee.
A more detailed corporate governance statement is contained NV Equalisation and PLC other agreements in the Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2001. Business structure NV Owned Jointly Owned PLC Owned Since 1 January 2001 our operations have been organised into Operating Companies Operating Companies Operating Companies two global divisions Foods and Home & Personal Care headed by division directors.
This structure allows improved focus on Foods and Home and Personal Care activities at both the regional and global levels.
It allows for faster decision making and strengthens our capacity for innovation by more effectively integrating research into the divisional structure.
