08 FOODS DIVISION Our passion for food and our understanding of local tastes help us to bring new flavour to mealtimes around the world.
Knorr Sazonisimo, for example, was specially developed to suit Mexican menus, preferences and eating habits.
The dry seasoning is used by consumers to spice up all types of meat, fish and vegetable dishes.
FOODS: FINANCIAL OVERVIEW 5 billion billion $ billion 2001 at 2001 at 2000 at Change at 2001 at 2000 at 2001 at 2000 at 2001 rates 2000 rates 2000 rates 2000 rates 2001 rates 2000 rates 2001 rates 2000 rates 28.8 29.2 24.3 20% Total turnover 17.9 14.8 25.8 22.3 2.4 2.4 1.8 33% Total operating profit 1.5 1.1 2.1 1.6 4.1 4.2 2.8 49% Total operating profit BEIA 2.6 1.7 3.7 2.6 Calculated using unrounded numbers 09 Unilever Annual Review 2001 SATISFYING THE GLOBAL APPETITE In 2001, we made excellent progress in building and transforming Consumers of our culinary and frozen products also demand our Foods business.
new twists on traditional favourites, as well as solutions to meet their desire for high-quality foods that are tasty and quick We rapidly integrated Bestfoods, together with Slim Fast, to prepare.
We drove strong performance in Knorr, our biggest Ben & Jerrys and Amora Maille, delivering all our target synergy global brand, with products such as Knorr Meal Kits, Quick savings for the year.
Soups and Sazonisimo dry seasonings.
We successfully rolled The new business delivered solid growth, thanks to a more out high-quality frozen meal ranges based on the Italian 4 Salti focused portfolio of leading brands and despite challenging in Padella concept, including Birds Eye enjoy!
economic conditions in many of our key markets.
Overall sales The Hellmanns brand had a good year with increased sales and grew by 20%, with a significant increase coming from the profit and Amoras performance was excellent, demonstrating recent acquisitions of Bestfoods, Slim Fast, Ben & Jerrys and how our recently acquired brands are thriving as part of the Amora Maille.
Excluding the impact of acquisitions and Unilever family.
disposals, underlying sales grew by 3%.
Operating profit BEIA rose by 49% and operating margin reached 14.3% reflecting Slim Fast, which we market as a nutritionally responsible way the benefits from the Path to Growth restructuring programme to achieve and maintain a healthy weight, delivered excellent and the Bestfoods synergy savings.
growth in 2001, proving its great potential.
We successfully expanded the brand beyond its US heartland, with launches Our scale and strength in the fast-growing foodservice arena in Australia and the Netherlands, relaunches in the UK and and in developing and emerging markets demonstrate our Canada and by extending the range to include soups.
increased potential in these sectors.
Greater size, scope and global reach enhance our ability to deliver benefits of scale A profitable year for Annapurna in India and a successful and to achieve our vision of becoming the worlds leading African roll-out from Cte dIvoire to Ghana shows how we food company.
meet a very different consumer need: for  staples at an affordable price.
Sales of AdeS soydrinks in Latin Successful innovation in meeting consumers changing tastes America were hit, however, by the economic crisis in the region.
and needs was key to revitalising and growing our strong global and regional core brands.
In spreads, we very successfully The integration of Bestfoods into Unilever created one of the fulfilled consumer demand for healthy food with pro activ, worlds leading foodservice businesses, providing solutions for which includes ingredients that can help to reduce levels of chefs, restaurateurs, caterers and fast-food retailers.
Sales of Blue Band and I Cant Believe Its sales in foodservice during the year, we improved profit and Not Butter!
also grew during 2001, continuing to build our margin.
Sales performance rallied towards the end of 2001 and world leadership of the category.
we are confident that foodservice will fulfil its potential as a major growth and innovation driver for the Foods division.
We developed our Bertolli brand to appeal to consumers taste for Mediterranean-style food, launching pasta sauces, spreads and dressings.
Our major ice cream brands performed well during 2001, with progress sparked by such innovations as Magnum snack-sizes, Cornetto miniature and multi-packs and Cornetto branded soft ice cream.
However, underlying sales in Europe were flat due to declining wrapped impulse sales in Germany and the UK.
In North America, our Canadian and US businesses delivered excellent sales growth and much improved profits.
The strength of our portfolio was demonstrated by the success of Ben & Jerrys in the US super-premium market, in its first full year as a Unilever business.
Our Paint the World Yellow with Lipton campaign drove another good year for our global Lipton brand.
This was led by ready-to-drink tea, which grew by 10% worldwide, with a strong contribution from our partnership with Japanese drinks manufacturer Suntory.
Our recent innovation, Lipton Cold Brew cold infusion tea bags, grew well but overall sales and profits declined in the US.
In India, fierce competition from loose tea competitors made our beverage sales decline, but a major cost Above effectiveness drive resulted in higher profits.
Lipton Ice Tea sponsored the Portuguese national youth beach volleyball championships as part of Liptons international Paint the World Yellow marketing campaign.
In 2001, the global Lipton brand grew by 6%.
