05 Unilever Annual Review 2001 OUR CODE OF BUSINESS PRINCIPLES Standard of Conduct longer-term goal of developing a sustainable business.
Unilever We conduct our operations with honesty, integrity and will work in partnership with others to promote environmental openness, and with respect for the human rights and interests care, increase understanding of environmental issues and of our employees.
We shall similarly respect the legitimate disseminate good practice.
interests of those with whom we have relationships.
Innovation Obeying the Law In our scientific innovation to meet consumer needs we will Unilever companies and employees are required to comply with respect the concerns of our consumers and of society.
We the laws and regulations of the countries in which we operate.
will work on the basis of sound science, applying rigorous standards of product safety.
Employees Unilever is committed to diversity in a working environment Competition where there is mutual trust and respect and where everyone Unilever believes in vigorous yet fair competition and supports feels responsible for the performance and reputation of our the development of appropriate competition laws.
companies and employees will conduct their operations in accordance with the principles of fair competition and all We will recruit, employ and promote employees on the sole applicable regulations.
basis of the qualifications and abilities needed for the work to be performed.
We are committed to safe and healthy working Business Integrity conditions for all employees.
We will not use any form of forced, Unilever does not give or receive, whether directly or indirectly, compulsory or child labour.
We are committed to working with bribes or other improper advantages for business or financial employees to develop and enhance each individuals skills and gain.
No employee may offer, give or receive any gift or payment capabilities.
We respect the dignity of the individual and the right which is, or may be construed as being, a bribe.
Any demand of employees to freedom of association.
We will maintain good for, or offer of, a bribe must be rejected immediately and communications with employees through company based reported to management.
Unilever accounting records and supporting documents must Consumers accurately describe and reflect the nature of the underlying Unilever is committed to providing branded products and transactions.
No undisclosed or unrecorded account, fund or services which consistently offer value in terms of price and asset will be established or maintained.
quality, and which are safe for their intended use.
Products Conflicts of Interests and services will be accurately and properly labelled, advertised All Unilever employees are expected to avoid personal activities and communicated.
and financial interests which could conflict with their Shareholders responsibilities to the company.
Unilever employees must not seek Unilever will conduct its operations in accordance with gain for themselves or others through misuse of their positions.
internationally accepted principles of good corporate Compliance Monitoring Reporting governance.
We will provide timely, regular and reliable Compliance with these principles is an essential element in our information on our activities, structure, financial situation business success.
The Unilever Boards are responsible for and performance to all shareholders.
ensuring these principles are communicated to, and understood Business Partners and observed by, all employees.
Unilever is committed to establishing mutually beneficial Day-to-day responsibility is delegated to the senior management relations with our suppliers, customers and business partners.
of the regions and operating companies.
They are responsible In our business dealings we expect our partners to adhere for implementing these principles, if necessary through more to business principles consistent with our own.
detailed guidance tailored to local needs.
Community Involvement Assurance of compliance is given and monitored each year.
Unilever strives to be a trusted corporate citizen and, as Compliance with the Code is subject to review by the Boards an integral part of society, to fulfil our responsibilities to supported by the Audit Committee of the Boards and the the societies and communities in which we operate.
Public Activities Any breaches of the Code must be reported in accordance with Unilever companies are encouraged to promote and defend the procedures specified by the Joint Secretaries.
The Boards of their legitimate business interests.
Unilever will co-operate with Unilever will not criticise management for any loss of business governments and other organisations, both directly and through resulting from adherence to these principles and other bodies such as trade associations, in the development of mandatory policies and instructions.
proposed legislation and other regulations which may affect legitimate business interests.
Unilever neither supports political The Boards of Unilever expect employees to bring to their parties nor contributes to the funds of groups whose activities attention, or to that of senior management, any breach or are calculated to promote party interests.
suspected breach of these principles.
The Environment Provision has been made for employees to be able to report Unilever is committed to making continuous improvements in confidence and no employee will suffer as a consequence in the management of our environmental impact and to the of doing so.
