01 Unilever Annual Review 2001 OUR CORPORATE PURPOSE Our purpose in Unilever is to meet the everyday needs of people everywhere to anticipate the aspirations of our consumers and customers and to respond creatively and competitively with branded products and services which raise the quality of life.
Our deep roots in local cultures and markets around the world are our unparalleled inheritance and the foundation for our future growth.
We will bring our wealth of knowledge and international expertise to the service of local consumers a truly multilocal multinational.
Our long-term success requires a total commitment to exceptional standards of performance and productivity, to working together effectively and to a willingness to embrace new ideas and learn continuously.
We believe that to succeed requires the highest standards of corporate behaviour towards our employees, consumers and the societies and world in which we live.
This is Unilevers road to sustainable, profitable growth for our business and long-term value creation for our shareholders and employees.
The two parent companies Unilever N. V. each of these currencies.
Until conversion formally NV and Unilever PLC PLC, together with effect, the commentary throughout this takes place by amendment of the Articles their group companies, operate as nearly as Review is based, unless otherwise stated, of Association the entitlements to is practicable as a single entity the Unilever on trends at constant exchange rates that dividends and voting rights are based on Group, also referred to as Unilever or the is, the same rates as the preceding year.
the underlying Dutch guilder amounts.
This Annual Review therefore deals For each two-year period, the year-onWherever used in this Review, the with the operations and the results of the year comparisons in euros are the same as abbreviation BEIA refers to profit measures Unilever Group as a whole.
those which would arise if the results before exceptional items and amortisation were shown in sterling or US dollars at The brand names shown in italics in this of goodwill and intangibles.
Annual Review are trademarks owned by otherwise stated, the commentary is also or licensed to companies within the For NV share capital, the euro amounts on a BEIA basis.
shown in this document are The exchange rates used in the representations in euros on the basis of From 1 January 2000, Unilever adopted preparation of this Annual Review are Article 67c Book 2 Dutch Civil Code, the euro as its principal reporting currency.
given on page 25. rounded to two decimal places, of The figures in this Review are expressed in underlying amounts of share capital in euros with translations into sterling and Dutch guilders, which have not been US dollars.
Changes in exchange rates can converted into euros in NVs Articles of cause different trends in results reported in
