Shareholder information Control of Unilever 139 the governments of the Netherlands or the United For PLC, the necessary approval must be given by: Kingdom could in some circumstances place restrictions on the proportion of a companys profits which can be the holders of a majority of all issued shares voting paid out as dividends: this could mean that in order to pay at a general meeting: and equal dividends one company would have to pay out an the holders of the ordinary shares, either by three amount which would breach the limitations in place at the quarters in writing, or by three quarters voting at a time, or that the other company would have to pay a general meeting where the majority of the ordinary smaller dividend.
shares in issue are represented.
In either of these rare cases, NV and PLC could pay different The Articles of NV establish that any payment under the amounts of dividend if the Boards thought it appropriate.
Equalisation Agreement will be credited or debited to the The company paying less than the equalised dividend profit and loss account for the financial year in question.
would put the difference between the dividends into a reserve: an equalisation reserve in the case of exchange The PLC Articles state that the Board must carry out the rate uctuations, or a dividend reserve in the case of a Equalisation Agreement and that the provisions of the government restriction.
The reserves would be paid out to Articles are subject to it.
its shareholders when it became possible or reasonable to do so, which would ensure that the shareholders of both We are advised by Counsel that these provisions oblige companies would ultimately be treated the same.
the Boards to carry out the Equalisation Agreement, unless it is amended or terminated with the approval of the If both companies go into liquidation, NV and PLC will each shareholders of both companies.
If the Boards fail to enforce use any funds available for shareholders to pay the prior the agreement shareholders can compel them to do so claims of their own preference shareholders.
Then they will under Netherlands and United Kingdom law.
use any surplus to pay each others preference shareholders, if necessary.
After these claims have been met, they will General Meetings and voting rights pay out any equalisation or dividend reserve to their own General Meetings of shareholders of NV and PLC are held shareholders before pooling the remaining surplus.
at times and places decided by the Boards.
NV meetings This will be distributed to the ordinary shareholders of both are held in Rotterdam and PLC meetings are held in London.
companies, once again on the basis that the owner of 5.445 nominal NV ordinary share capital will get the same To be entitled to attend and vote at NV General Meetings as the owner of 1 nominal PLC ordinary share capital.
If you must be a shareholder on the Record Date, which may one company goes into liquidation, we will apply the same be set by the directors and must be not more than 7 days principles as if both had gone into liquidation simultaneously.
In addition you must, within the time specified in the Notice calling the meeting, either In addition to the Equalisation Agreement, NV and PLC have agreed to follow common policies, to exchange all relevant if you have registered shares advise NV in writing that business information, and to ensure that all group you intend to attend: or companies act accordingly.
They aim to co-operate in all if you have bearer shares deposit your share certicates areas, including in the purchase of raw materials and the at the place specified in the Notice.
exchange and use of technical, financial and commercial information, secret or patented processes and trade marks.
You can vote in person or by proxy, and you can cast one vote for each 0.05 nominal amount you hold of More information about our constitutional documents NV preference shares, ordinary shares or New York registry Under the Articles of Association of NV and the shares.
NV Elma and United Holdings Limited, the holders of Memorandum and Articles of Association of PLC both the special shares, and other group companies of NV which companies are required to carry out the Equalisation hold preference or ordinary shares, are not permitted to Agreement with the other.
Both documents state that the vote, by law.
agreement cannot be changed or terminated without the approval of both sets of shareholders.
For information on the rights of Nedamtrust certicate holders see page 141.
For NV the necessary approval is as follows: To be able to vote by proxy at PLC General Meetings you at least one half of the total issued ordinary capital must must lodge your Form of Appointment of Proxy with PLCs be represented at an ordinary shareholders meeting, Registrars 48 hours before the meeting, either in paper where the majority must vote in favour: and or electronic format.
You can cast one vote for each PLC if they would be disadvantaged or the agreement is to ordinary 1.4p share you hold.
United Holdings Limited, be terminated, at least two thirds of the total issued which owns half of the deferred stock, is not permitted preference share capital must be represented at a to vote at General Meetings.
preference shareholders meeting, where at least three quarters must vote in favour.
Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002
