Shareholder information Information about exchange controls 143 affecting security holders Unilever N. V. Unilever PLC Under the Dutch External Financial Relations Act of None.
28 May 1980 the Government, the Minister of Finance and the Central Bank of Netherlands are all authorised to issue regulations relating to financial transactions involving Dutch residents, if a non-Dutch resident is also involved, or if the transactions are conducted in a foreign currency.
If regulations are issued in the future, we could be in need of a licence for this type of transaction.
To date no regulations of this type have been issued.
Nature of the trading market The principal trading markets upon which Unilever shares NV and PLC are separate companies with separate stock are listed are the Euronext Stock Exchange for NV ordinary exchange listings and different shareholders.
You cannot shares and the London Stock Exchange for PLC ordinary convert or exchange the shares of one for shares of the other and the relative share prices on the various markets shares.
NV ordinary shares trade in the form of Nedamtrust can, and do, uctuate.
This happens for various reasons, Certicates and almost all the shares are in bearer form.
including changes in exchange rates.
However, over PLC ordinary shares are all in registered form.
time the prices of NV and PLC shares do stay in close relation to each other, in particular because of our In the United States, NV ordinary shares in registered form equalisation arrangements.
and PLC American Depositary Receipts, representing four PLC ordinary shares, are traded on the New York Stock If you are a shareholder of NV, you have an interest Exchange.
JPMorgan Chase Bank of New York acts for in a Netherlands legal entity, your dividends will be paid in NV and PLC as issuer, transfer agent and, in respect of euros converted into US dollars if you have shares registered the American Depositary Receipts, depositary.
in the United States and you will be subject to Netherlands tax.
If you are a shareholder of PLC, your interest is in a The NV ordinary shares are also listed on the stock United Kingdom legal entity, your dividends will be paid in exchanges in London, France, Germany and Switzerland.
sterling converted into US dollars if you have American These shares were also listed in Belgium until 31 December 2002 and in Luxembourg until 24 January 2003.
Depositary Receipts and you will be subject to United Kingdom tax.
Nevertheless, the Equalisation Agreement At 28 February 2003 there were 7 963 registered holders means that as a shareholder of either company you of NV ordinary shares and 901 registered holders of PLC effectively have an interest in the whole of Unilever.
American Depositary Receipts in the United States.
We You have largely equal rights over our combined net profit estimate that approximately 21% of NVs ordinary and capital reserves as shown in the consolidated accounts.
shareholdings were in the United States approximately See Taxation for US residents on pages 145 and 146 and 33% in 2001, based on the distribution of the 2002 interim Equalisation Agreement on pages 138 and 139. dividend payments, whilst most holders of PLC ordinary shares are registered in the United Kingdom approximately 99% in both 2002 and 2001.
The high and low trading prices for the separate stock exchange listings are shown in the tables on the following page.
Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002 144 Nature of the trading market Share prices at 31 December 2002: The share price of the ordinary shares at the end of the year was for NV 58.55 and $61.71 and for PLC 591p and $38.25.
2.20371 that became effective on 1 January 1999.
Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2002
