96 THE BRITISH LAND COMPANY PLC Sponsorship The Royal Ballet School is one of a large The West Euston Partnership involves number of organisations and institutions that Camden Council, the Health Authority, the British Land supports through sponsorship police, community associations, tenants, and other funding initiatives.
The company the church, the Crown Estate, British Land is strongly committed to investing in the and the Prudential with a brief to unite the future through education, the arts and sport.
British Land Particular emphasis is given to helping contributes to the Partnerships work young people improve their prospects and and supports community regeneration the quality of life.
This year nearly 56,000 schoolchildren The Companys commitment to the future from 1,670 schools are taking part in also includes being a corporate partner of Chris Nash has an instantly recognisable style The British Land UK Chess Challenge, the London Business School and publishing that has no equal in the demanding field of dance the largest chess tournament in the world.
an award-winning series of Educational photography.
BBC2s The Late Show called him one of the most creative photographers of his The tournament is designed for all standards Broadsheets for schools.
His ability to capture the crucial moment of play and all ages from 18 down to 6 supports the Investment Property Forums the climax of a sequence of steps, the precise years old.
Schools build their reputations, Educational Trust, Barnardos, the British and defining gesture is partly his photographers while children benefit from constructive Red Cross, Mencap and the NSPCC.
intuition and partly his profound knowledge of the enjoyment as they develop qualities of British Land has contributed to the Tate mechanics of dance.
After graduating with an honours degree concentration, forward planning, resilience Gallery and sponsored the Museum of in Fine Art from Goldsmiths, he assisted portrait and flexibility.
The British Museum, the Victoria photographer Geg Germany for two years and Partners in Leadership is a highly and Albert Museum, the Wallace Collection, then began working freelance.
Since then he has successful project organised by Business the London Philharmonic Orchestra, the held over fifty exhibitions in 15 different countries.
Over 600 business Royal Opera House, the Royal Academy He is the recipient of a Dance Umbrella Time Out Award, the inscription of which reads For helping partners are matched to head teachers of Music, the London Mozart Players, the to make the face of dance more recognisable, this throughout the country, providing a valuable Monteverdi Choir, the English National award goes to Photographer Extraordinaire Chris sounding board as well as a link between Opera, the National Theatre, the Wigmore Nash.
The Independent On Sunday speaks of the school and the business community.
Hall and the Regents Park Open Air Theatre his vital, gravity-defying images'.
British Land sponsors the Partners in have also received support.
The Company Away from his dance photography, Chris Nashs work can be found on advertising billboards, in Leadership Newsletter and encourages is a founding exhibition patron of the Royal fashion catalogues and on album covers.
More and supports its own employees Academy of Arts.
recently he has turned to installation, video projection involvement as business partners.
British Land has been sole sponsor of and computerised image manipulation, and is The Princes Trust helps young people The British Land National Ski Championships currently touring a new exhibition, Stopmotion, which to succeed, focusing on 14-30 year olds for 24 consecutive years and also sponsors has been seen at the National Theatre, London.
who lack the opportunity or means to The British Land Alpine Ski Team.
The make the most of their lives.
British Land Company is presenting sponsor of the 2002 Designed by: CDT Design is currently helping six young people to Super Series Squash Finals at Broadgate.
Photography by: Chris Nash realise their full potential by starting their The British Land British Open and Amateur Copywriting by: Tim Shackleton own businesses.
Championships for Real Tennis are now in Typesetting by: New Leaf their ninth year.
Printed by: The Beacon Press The paper used in this Annual Report is made from pulp where for every tree felled 3-4 are planted.
The mill recycles the water and millbroke or offcuts and rejects used in the papermaking process.
RECYCLABLE British Land would like to thank everyone involved in the photographic shoot for this years annual report, especially the students featured in these pages: Cornell Callende, Nutnaree Pipithsuksunt, William Moore, Amy Hadley, Shevelle Dynott, Louise Bennett, Claire Tilley, Claire Calvert, Tracey Jones, Antoinette Brooks, Samara Downs, Pietra Mello-Pittman, Nandita Shankardass, Jenna Roberts, Zachary Faruque, Guy Burden, Kenta Shimizu, Daniel Morrison, Kumiko Tsuji, Katy Harvey, and James Hay.
