72 THE BRITISH LAND COMPANY PLC Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies A summary of the principal accounting Current asset investments are stated at amortised to the profit and loss account policies is set out below.
The policies have the lower of cost and net realisable value.
over the life of the instrument and are been applied consistently, in all material Investments in subsidiaries are stated included in interest payable.
respects throughout the current and the at cost or directors valuation.
Amounts payable or receivable under previous year save for the adoption of interest rate derivatives are matched with Financial Reporting Standard 19 Deferred Properties the interest payable on the debt which the Tax FRS 19 and Urgent Issues Task Force i Investment properties are independently derivatives hedge.
In the course of the Abstract 28 Operating Lease Incentives valued each year on an open market basis.
Groups investment and financing activity UITF 28, which now have effect.
Any surplus or deficit arising is transferred underlying debt may be retired or redeemed The effect of adopting these accounting to revaluation reserve, unless a deficit is such that an interest rate derivative policies is detailed in the taxation and the expected to be permanent, in which case becomes surplus.
In these circumstances operating lease incentives sections: it is charged to the profit and loss account.
the derivative is marked to market or closed The profit on disposal is based on book value.
Any deficit surplus arising is charged Accounting basis In accordance with Statement of credited to the profit and loss account.
The accounts are prepared in accordance Standard Accounting Practice 19 no with applicable Accounting Standards and amortisation or depreciation is provided Leased assets under the historical cost convention as in respect of freehold or long leasehold Payments under finance leases are modified by the revaluation of investment properties.
The directors consider that this treated as consisting of capital and interest properties and fixed asset investments.
accounting policy, which represents a elements.
The interest element of rental departure from the statutory accounting obligations is charged to the profit and Consolidation rules, is necessary to provide a true and fair loss account over the period of the lease The consolidated accounts include the view.
The financial effect of the departure in proportion to the balance of capital accounts of the parent and all subsidiaries.
from these rules cannot reasonably be repayments outstanding.
Subsidiaries or joint ventures acquired quantified as depreciation or amortisation or disposed of during the year are included is only one of the many factors reflected in Taxation from the date of acquisition or to the date the annual valuation and the amount which Corporation tax payable is provided on of disposal and accounted for under the might otherwise have been shown cannot taxable profits at the current rate.
Accounting practices of be separately identified or quantified.
On disposal of an investment property subsidiaries and joint ventures which differ Where properties held for investment are the element of tax relating to the profit in from Group accounting policies are adjusted appropriated to trading stock, they are the year is charged to the profit and loss on consolidation.
account and the element relating to earlier In accordance with Section 230 3 of the ii Trading properties are stated at revaluation surpluses is included in the Companies Act 1985 a separate profit and the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Statement of Total Recognised Gains loss account for the Parent is not presented.
Disposals are recognised on completion: and Losses.
profits and losses arising are dealt with Deferred tax assets and liabilities arise Joint ventures and other investments through the profit and loss account.
If from timing differences between the In accordance with FRS 9 joint ventures are properties held for trading are appropriated recognition of gains and losses in the included under the gross equity method.
As to investment, they are transferred at financial statements and their recognition a result the Groups balance sheet discloses book value.
Previously, the Groups the Groups share of the gross assets iii Development properties are stated accounting policy was only to provide for and gross liabilities of the joint ventures.
at the lower of cost and net realisable deferred tax to the extent that liabilities or The Groups share of joint venture operating value.
The cost of properties in course of assets were expected to be payable or profit, net interest payable and taxation are development includes attributable interest receivable in the forseeable future.
included at the relevant point in the Group and other outgoings having regard to the In accordance with FRS 19, deferred profit and loss account.
development potential of the property.
tax is now provided in respect of all timing Where the Group participates in a joint Interest is calculated on the development differences that have originated, but not arrangement that is not an entity, it accounts expenditure by reference to specific reversed, at the balance sheet date that for its own assets, liabilities and cash flows, borrowings where relevant and otherwise may give rise to an obligation to pay more measured according to the terms of the on the average rate applicable to shortor less tax in the future.
Deferred tax is not agreement governing the arrangement.
recognised when fixed assets are revalued Other fixed asset investments are stated A property ceases to be treated as a unless by the balance sheet date there is at market value when listed and at directors development on practical completion.
a binding agreement to sell the revalued valuation when unlisted.
Any surplus or assets and the gain or loss expected to deficit arising on revaluation is taken to Debt instruments and interest rate arise on sale has been recognised in the the revaluation reserve, unless a deficit is derivatives financial statements.
expected to be permanent, in which case Debt instruments are stated at their net Deferred tax is measured on a nonit is charged to the profit and loss account.
Issue costs are discounted basis.
Notes to the Financial Statements
