Notes to the Financial Statements THE BRITISH LAND COMPANY PLC 73 1 Accounting policies continued Foreign currency Pensions to lessees on entering into lease agreements.
Transactions in foreign currencies are The pension cost charged to the profit and Previously, the Groups accounting policy recorded at the rate of exchange at the loss account is such as to spread the cost was to recognise income as the rent fell due date of the transaction or, if hedged, at the of pensions over the average remaining and to capitalise appropriate incentives.
Monetary assets and working lives of employees who are scheme In accordance with UITF 28 rent liabilities denominated in foreign currencies members.
receivable in the period from lease at the balance sheet date are reported at commencement to the earlier of the first rent the rates of exchange prevailing at that date Sharesave schemes review to the prevailing market rate and the or, if appropriate, at the forward contract rate.
The group operates an Inland Revenue lease end date, is now spread evenly over The results and balance sheets of approved employee share option scheme that period.
The cost of other incentives is overseas operations are translated at and has taken advantage of the exemption spread on a straight-line basis over a similar the closing rates ruling at the balance given in UITF Abstract 17 Employee share period.
scheme from recognising a charge in the This has been applied to all lease Exchange differences arising on translation profit and loss account for the discount on incentives for leases commencing on or of the opening net assets and on foreign the option.
after 1 April 2000. currency borrowings, to the extent that they hedge the groups investment in such Operating lease incentives operations, are dealt with through reserves.
Operating lease incentives include rent All other exchange differences are included free periods and other incentives such as in the profit and loss account.
The effect of accounting for the conversion of convertible bonds has been excluded in 2001 as it is anti-dilutive.
