Appendix to the Notice of Annual General Meeting Summary of the principal features of the Chrysalis Group plc 2003 Long Term Incentive Plan the LTIP Exercise of Awards A Performance Share Award will not normally be exercisable before the third anniversary of its grant and only then to the extent a specified performance condition is satisfied and the individual remains employed.
Matching Share Awards become exercisable on the same basis but, in addition, Matching Share Awards will only become exercisable to the extent that the related Investment Shares have not been sold by the executive.
Performance Share Awards and Matching Share Awards may never be exercised later than 10 years from grant or such earlier date as the Remuneration Committee may specify at the time of grant.
Initially, the performance condition for the Performance Share Awards and Matching Share Awards will be based on the performance of the Company in terms of its TSR compared to a peer group comprising 12 media and publishing companies excluding the Company over a three year period.
These are: Bloomsbury Publishing Capital Radio Daily Mail and General Trust EMAP EMI GWR Quarto Sanctuary Scottish Radio Holdings SMG Television Corporation The Wireless Group The extent to which a Matching Share Award will vest is calculated by multiplying the number of shares which could have been acquired had the amount of bonus been initially invested on a pre-tax basis by the following matching ratio which depends on the Companys TSR performance: TSR Performance Ranking Matching Ratio Below Median 0 Median 1:1 Upper Quartile 2.5:1 Between Median and Upper Quartile Pro rata between 1:1 and 2.5:1 The percentage of Performance Shares that will vest is as follows: TSR Performance Vesting Percentage Below Median 0% Median 25% Upper quartile 100% Between Median and Upper Quartile Pro rata between 25% and 100% The performance period will begin on the first date of the financial year prior to the grant date and end three years later.
TSR will be averaged over the six month periods, beginning three months prior to the beginning and end of the performance period.
The performance condition may be varied in certain circumstances to take account of technical changes following the grant of the award so as to achieve its original purpose.
The Remuneration Committee may set different conditions for future awards, but future conditions must be considered by the Committee as no less challenging in the circumstances than the initial condition and will be disclosed in the Companys annual report and accounts.
Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2002 85 Appendix to the Notice of Annual General Meeting Provisions Common to the Option Scheme and the LTIP Operation The operation of the Option Scheme and the LTIP will be supervised by the Companys Remuneration Committee which consists of three nonexecutive directors.
Eligibility All employees of the Company and its subsidiaries including directors who are required to devote substantially the whole of their working time to the business of the Group who are not within six months of their anticipated retirement ages will be eligible to be granted options, Performance Share or Matching Awards, at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Source of Shares Shares for the Option Scheme and the LTIP may be sourced either through the issue of new shares or the purchase of shares on the market.
Currently, the Company intends to use new issue shares for the Option Scheme and the LTIP to the extent permitted by the rules.
The number of new shares that may be issued under all of the Companys employee share schemes is restricted to 10% of the Companys issued share capital over any 10 year period.
The number of new shares that may be issued under the Option Scheme, LTIP or any other future executive incentive scheme over the next ten years is restricted to 5% of the Companys issued share capital.
To preserve operational flexibility, there are no other internal dilution limits.
Rights attaching to Shares Any shares allotted under the Option Scheme or LTIP will rank pari passu with all other ordinary shares of the Company for the time being in issue except for rights arising by reference to a record date prior to their allotment.
Application will be made to the London Stock Exchange for the shares to be admitted to the Official List.
Termination of Employment and Change of Control Options, Performance Share Awards and Matching Share Awards lapse if an executive ceases employment before vesting in circumstances justifying summary dismissal or if the executive ceases employment voluntarily.
If cessation occurs in any other circumstances other than upon reaching contractual retirement age options Performance Share Awards and Matching Share Awards become exercisable for a limited period six months, or twelve months following death to the extent that the performance condition has been satisfied from the beginning of the performance period up until cessation of employment.
If the executive ceases employment upon reaching contractual retirement age, options and awards become exercisable at the end of the normal three year performance period based on performance up to that point.
Investment Shares will always be retained by the executive following cessation of employment.
In the event of an amalgamation, take-over, reconstruction or winding up of the Company, options and awards become exercisable for a limited period, based on performance up to the event.
An internal reorganisation will not trigger early exercise of options or awards.
Adjustment of Options and Awards In the event of any increase or variation of share capital, or on a demerger, payment of a capital dividend or similar event involving the Company, adjustments considered to be appropriate may be made to the total number of shares subject to options or awards and to the price payable on the exercise of options.
Alterations The Option Scheme or LTIP may at any time, on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee, be amended or added to by the directors in any respect, provided that the prior approval of the Company in general meeting has been obtained for alterations or additions to the rules of the Option Scheme or LTIP to the advantage of participants in respect of the rules governing eligibility, individual limits on participation, the terms on which options or awards may be exercised, the overall Option Scheme or LTIP dilution limit and the adjustment of options or awards as described above.
Minor amendments to benefit the administration of the Option Scheme or LTIP to take account of a change in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for participants or group companies would not require approval in general meeting.
The right is also reserved up to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to make such amendments to the Option Scheme or LTIP as are considered appropriate provided they do not conflict in any material respect with this summary of the rules of the Option Scheme or LTIP.
86 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Directors and advisors Board of directors as at Advisors 10th December 2002 Auditors Registrars C N Wright BA KPMG Audit Plc Computershare Investor Services plc Executive Chairman and Founder 8 Salisbury Square Registrars Department London EC4Y 8BB PO Box 82 R N L Huntingford FCA The Pavilions Group Chief Executive Brokers and Corporate Finance Advisors Bridgwater Road Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein Bristol BS99 7NR N R A Butterfield FCA 20 Fenchurch Street Group Finance Director London EC3P 3DB Property Advisors Lambert Smith Hampton Bankers Regent Arcade House Lisa J Gordon MA The Royal Bank of Scotland 19-25 Argyll Street Director Corporate Affairs 135 Bishopsgate London W1V 1AA London EC2M 3UR PA Lassman Bollingbrook Limited Chief Executive Lasgo Chrysalis Limited Mortimer House and Books Division National Westminster Bank 230-236 Lavender Hill 30 North Audley Street London SW11 1LE P S Riley MBA London W1A 4UQ Chief Executive Radio Division Corporate PR Registered and Head Office Buchanan Communications The Chrysalis Building C J C Levison MA, LL.
M 107 Cheapside Bramley Road Non-Executive Director Deputy Chairman London EC2V 6DT London W10 6SP Telephone 020 7221 2213 G Howard-Spink Solicitors Facsimile 020 7221 6455 Non-Executive Director Clifford Chance Email: enquiries@chrysalis.
com 200 Aldersgate Street Website: www.
com Sir George Martin CBE London EC1A 4JJ Non-Executive Director Company Registered in England and Wales No.
946978 Harbottle & Lewis D B Murrell FCA Hanover House Non-Executive Director 14 Hanover Square London W1S 1HP C R Potterell ACIS Company Secretary Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2002 87 88 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Designed by Bostock and Pollitt Ltd Chrysalis Group PLC The Chrysalis Building Bramley Road London W10 6SP Telephone: 020 7221 2213 E-mail: enquiries@chrysalis.
