Corporate social responsibility As previously reported, the Group recognises the importance of its responsibility to the environment, the community, its employees and shareholders.
This report sets out how The Group deals with its environmental, social and corporate responsibilities.
Environment The majority of the Groups businesses have little impact on the environment but, where they do, they take a responsible approach to their obligations at all times.
However some of the Groups suppliers, particularly in the Books and Music divisions do and, therefore, wherever possible these divisions ensure that their suppliers maintain a high standard of environmental responsibility.
Chrysalis Books impacts upon the environment through its relationships with its printers and paper suppliers.
The Company undertakes to work towards ensuring that it has a minimal adverse impact on the environment and, wherever possible, purchases materials from sustainable sources and disposes of any waste responsibly.
Its stated policies are to work with suppliers that share the above goals and encourage them to implement working practices of their own that reflect them if they do not already do so.
The Company endeavours to work with suppliers who are environmentally aware, preferably with ISO14001 accreditation.
In terms of book manufacturing, this global standard covers working practices such as waste disposal, limits to the chemical content of inks and paper, restricts certain pollutants from the manufacturing process and encourages regular reviews of environmental policies.
The Echo Label impacts on the environment primarily through the production of CDs.
It chooses manufacturers for its CDs who are environmentally aware.
The current release from its artist Feeder is a carbon neutral product with a contribution from the sales of their latest album, Comfort in Sound, going to Future Forests who contribute to the planting of trees to maintain the CO2 balance.
The Group as a whole encourages recycling of waste products wherever possible and is about to introduce a Group-wide initiative in conjunction with Worktwice to ensure the recycling of as much waste as practicable.
Community Chrysalis businesses operate their own community programmes and the Groups radio stations in particular pride themselves on their strong link to the communities which they serve.
All of the Chrysalis radio stations have carried out many community focused activities over the year and have contributed to numerous charitable causes.
Some of the highlights have been 100.7 Heart FMs First Steps Charitable Appeal, which raised over 165,000 for the Heart of England Radio Charitable Trust, of which over 150,000 was raised by the annual Run For Home fundraising event which involved over 1000 local listeners and Heart 106.2s Race for Life.
Galaxy 105-106, in conjunction with the Princes Trust, were the promoters of the successful Galaxy Out There for the Princes Trust concert in Gateshead.
The concert was attended by over 17,000 people and helped to raise the profile of the Princes Trust.
The concert was supported by the Gateshead Council and many free tickets were made available to children in the North East.
The Galaxy Network continued its Radio Academy courses in Bristol, Birmingham and Leeds giving young hopefuls from their local communities a 10 week introduction to working in radio.
Employees The Groups success is very much dependent on the people it employs and Chrysalis takes its responsibility in its relationship with its employees extremely seriously.
The Groups employer practices are based upon best industry practice and legislation, however, the Group strives to surpass these standards to reach our corporate goal of being an employer of first choice.
The Group employees are selected purely upon their ability to fulfil the demands of the role.
The Group actively encourages adherence to equal opportunity codes of practice and promotes diversity within the workplace.
It is the Groups policy to give every consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons and to afford them full opportunity for appointment to and training for positions within their capabilities.
Should an employee become disabled during his or her employment with the Group every effort is made to continue employment within his or her existing capacity where practicable, or failing that, in some suitable alternative capacity.
The Group believes that learning and development should be available to all employees regardless of their status and the Companys performance management system ensures that such activities are primarily aligned to the business objectives of the Group and, where possible, personal development.
The Group is very aware of its responsibilities in relation to the welfare of its employees and offers a range of benefits designed to support this.
Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2002 77 Corporate social responsibility The Group strives to create an environment in which its employees have the opportunity to communicate on the performance of and share in the success of the Group.
The Group encourages the development of employee involvement in each of its operating companies through both formal and informal meetings.
It is the Groups policy to ensure that employees are made aware of significant matters affecting the performance of the Group in writing or by informal briefings and via the Groups intranet site.
All employees receive a monthly update of the Groups performance from the Group Chief Executive.
Annual employee surveys and local communications forums also provide vehicles to facilitate this.
The Company operates an executive share option scheme, a SAYE share option scheme, a restricted share scheme operated through the Chrysalis Employee Share Ownership Plan and various performance related bonus schemes for its management and staff as incentives for their participation in the businesses in which they are employed.
Health and Safety The Group meets its health and safety responsibilities by ensuring that each business complies with the health and safety policy set by the Group.
The Group takes all practical measures possible to ensure the health and safety of its employees, contractors and the members of public with whom it interacts.
The Radio division in particular prides itself on its health and safety policies when organising events at which members of the public attend and the staff who are responsible for organising such events regularly undertake specific health and safety training.
The divisions health and safety policy contains a direct chain of responsibilities so that all staff who are involved in organising events are aware of their and their colleagues responsibilities.
78 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the thirty fourth Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at Screen West Limited, John Brown Publishing, The New Boathouse, 136-142 Bramley Road, London W10 6SR at 11:00 am on Tuesday 4th February 2003 for the following purposes: Ordinary Business 1To receive and adopt the annual accounts of the Company for the year ended 31st August 2002, together with the reports of the Directors and Auditors thereon..................................................................................................................................................................................
Resolution 7 Special Business To consider, and, if thought fit, pass Resolutions 8, 11, 12 and 13 as Ordinary Resolutions and Resolutions 9 and 10 as Special Resolutions: 8 That the Directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised, pursuant to Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of that section up to an aggregate nominal amount of 647,446 for a period expiring unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in general meeting 15 months after the date of the passing of this resolution or at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company following the passing of this resolution, whichever first occurs, but the Company shall be entitled before the expiry of this authority to make an offer or agreement which requires or might require relevant securities to be allotted after expiry of this authority and the Directors shall be entitled to allot relevant securities in pursuance of that offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.....................................................................
Resolution 8 9 That, subject to the passing of Resolution 8, the Directors be and are hereby generally empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Act during the period from the date of the passing of this resolution until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or 15 months after the date of the passing of this resolution whichever first occurs to allot equity securities as defined in Section 94 2 of the Act pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 8 as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to such allotment, save that the Company shall be entitled before the expiry of this authority to make an offer or agreement which requires or might require such securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors shall be entitled to allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired, provided that this power shall be limited to: a allotments of equity securities where such securities have been offered whether by way of a rights issue, open offer or otherwise to holders of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company made in proportion as nearly as may be to their existing holdings of ordinary shares, but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements in connection with the offering as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems arising under the laws of any territory or the requirements of any recognised regulatory body or any Stock Exchange in any territory: and b the allotment otherwise than pursuant to paragraph a above of equity securities under this authority up to an aggregate nominal amount of 167,627 equal to approximately 5% of the nominal value of the issued share capital as at 10th December 2002.....................................................................................................................................................................................................
Resolution 9 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2002 79 Notice of Annual General Meeting 10 That in accordance with Article 39 of its Articles of Association the Company be and is hereby granted general and unconditional authority, pursuant to Section 166 of the Act, to make one or more market purchases as defined in Section 163 3 of the Act of its ordinary shares of 2p each in the capital of the Company ordinary shares on such terms and in such manner as the Board of Directors of the Company may from time to time determine, provided that: i this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or 15 months from the date of the passing of this resolution, whichever first occurs: ii the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares authorised to be purchased shall be limited to 16,762,769 10% of the issued ordinary share capital, as at 10th December 2002 : iii the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is 2p: iv this authority shall not permit the payment per share of more than 5% above the average of the middle market prices shown in the quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days prior to the purchase being made: v the Company shall be entitled to enter into any contract for the purchase of its own ordinary shares which might be completed wholly or partly after the expiry of this authority, and shall be entitled to make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract as if the power conferred hereby had not expired: and vi save as expressed herein, this authority shall only be capable of variation, revocation or renewal by the Company in General Meeting...................................................................................................................................................................................................
Resolution 10 11 That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make donations to EU political organisations and to incur EU political expenditure in an aggregate amount not exceeding 50,000 during the period expiring 15 months after the date of the passing of this resolution, or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in General Meeting.
Such authority shall extend to enable any such donation to be made or expenditure to be incurred either by the Company or by its wholly-owned subsidiary, Chrysalis Radio London Limited.
Resolution 12 13 That the Directors be and are hereby authorised to: i adopt the Chrysalis Group plc 2003 Executive Share Option Scheme the Option Scheme, the main terms of which are summarised in the Appendix to this notice of Annual General Meeting, and to do all acts and things necessary to give effect to the same: ii adopt the Chrysalis Group plc Long-Term Incentive Plan the LTIP, the main terms of which are summarised in the Appendix to this notice of Annual General Meeting, and to do all acts and things necessary to give effect to the same: and iii establish further schemes or plans based on the Option Scheme or LTIP or schedules thereto, but modified to take account of local tax, exchange control or securities law in overseas territories, provided that any shares made available under such schemes or plans are treated as counting against the limits on individual and overall participation contained in the Option Scheme or the LTIP...................................................................................................................................................................................................
Resolution 14 By order of the Board C R Potterell ACIS Registered Office: Secretary The Chrysalis Building 17th December 2002 Bramley Road London W10 6SP 80 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2002
