Notice of Annual General Meeting Notes General a Any member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A form of proxy is enclosed with this notice.
Completion and return of the form of proxy does not preclude a shareholder from attending the meeting and voting in person.
To be effective the form of proxy and any power of attorney, or notarially certified copy thereof, under which it is executed must be completed and lodged with Computershare Investor Services PLC, PO Box 1075, Bristol, BS99 3FA not later than 48 hours before the meeting.
b In accordance with Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, only those members entered on the relevant register of members of the Company as at 11:00 am on 2nd February 2003 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the register of members after 11.00 am on 2nd February 2003 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
cA statement of any transactions in the shares of the Company by Directors and their family interests and copies of Directors service contracts are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excluded and will be available for inspection at the place of the meeting for a period of 15 minutes prior to the meeting and during the meeting.
Resolutions d The Directors recommend a final dividend of 0.65p per ordinary share of 2p Resolution 2. e Authority to allot shares.
At the Annual General Meeting held on 5th February 2002, the Directors were given authority to allot ordinary share capital of the Company up to an aggregate nominal amount of 656,009 being the maximum amount permitted under institutional guidelines.
That authority is due to lapse at the conclusion of this Annual General Meeting.
The Directors are seeking to renew their authority to allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to the Companys authorised but unissued share capital.
The amount in respect of which authority is sought represents 19.31% of the Companys ordinary share capital in issue as at 10th December 2002 and is an amount within the maximum amount permitted under institutional guidelines.
The proposed authority will expire on the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or 15 months after the date of approval, whichever first occurs.
The Directors have no present intention of utilising the authority Resolution 8. f Disapplication of pre-emption rights.
If new ordinary shares are to be allotted under the authority granted by Resolution 8 and are to be paid for in cash, Section 89 1 of the Act requires that those new ordinary shares be offered first to existing shareholders in proportion to the number of shares they each hold at that time.
There may be circumstances, however, when it is in the interests of the Company for the Directors to be able to allot some of the new ordinary shares for cash otherwise than to existing shareholders in such proportions.
This cannot be done under the Act unless the shareholders have waived their pre-emption rights.
Resolution 9 seeks such a waiver, but only a in respect of new ordinary shares offered largely in proportion to existing holders of ordinary shares, subject to exclusions or arrangements deemed expedient by the Directors for example, the Directors may decide not to offer new ordinary shares to existing holders in jurisdictions outside England and Wales where to make such an offer would or might constitute an offence in such jurisdiction and b for new ordinary shares having a maximum nominal value of 167,627, which is equivalent to 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 10th December 2002.
The authority given by Resolution 9 will continue until the next Annual General Meeting or 15 months after the approval of the Resolution, whichever first occurs Resolution 9. g Purchase of own shares.
The Company is seeking at the Annual General Meeting to renew the authority of the Directors given on 5th February 2002 and in previous years to take advantage, if appropriate and subject to the constraints set out in Resolution 10, of stock market conditions to purchase its own shares.
The Directors have no present intention of utilising the authority and will, in assessing whether to purchase the Companys own shares, take account of all relevant factors including the effect on earnings per share and assets per share and other benefits to long term shareholders.
As at 10th December 2002 there were in total 3,021,855 options outstanding to subscribe for shares of the Company which together represent 1.80% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
If the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares were to be exercised in full, these options would represent 2.0% of the Companys issued share capital Resolution 10. h Political Donations.
At the Annual General Meeting held on 5th February 2002, the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Chrysalis Radio London Limited, were given authority to make donations to EU political organisations and to incur EU political expenditure in an aggregate amount not exceeding 50,000 pursuant to the enactment of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
The Directors are seeking to renew authority for the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Chrysalis Radio London Limited, to make donations to EU political organisations and to incur EU political expenditure in an aggregate amount not exceeding 50,000 in the forthcoming year.
This authority will not be used to make political donations as they are normally understood Resolution 11.
Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2002 81 Notice of Annual General Meeting i Remuneration Report.
The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the DRR Regulations came into force on the 1st August 2002 with effect as respects companies financial years ending on or after 31st December 2002.
The DDR Regulations amend the Act to require that each year an ordinary resolution is proposed at the general meeting where the annual accounts for that financial year are laid to approve the Boards remuneration report for that financial year.
Although the Company does not have to comply with the DRR Regulations as yet as its financial year ended 31st August 2002 the Board consider it appropriate to do so.
The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 72 to 76 of the Report and Accounts Resolution 12. j The Company is seeking approval of new long-term incentive arrangements at the Annual General Meeting.
Historically the Company has operated a variety of long-term incentive arrangements for its senior executives.
Group based executives have received options under an executive share option scheme a traditional scheme with a 4 x remuneration limit and cash related equivalent arrangements.
Options have been subject to performance targets on exercise.
The Company has also operated various bespoke long-term bonus arrangements to enable those executives with divisional responsibilities to participate in the growth in value of their division, rather than the Group as a whole.
The targets are specific to each individual and are aligned with their divisions business plan.
Recently, the Remuneration Committee has reviewed the Companys long-term incentive programmes and has decided that it wishes to make several changes to them to bring them into line with best practice and to align them more strongly with the Companys objectives.
In particular, the Remuneration Committee wishes to: i Make awards under the Option Scheme and another form of long-term incentive plan, the LTIP, so that executives are rewarded for growing the share price, delivering total shareholder return TSR performance superior to the Companys peers and improving the Companys earnings per share.
ii Align executives interests more strongly with shareholders by linking rewards under long-term incentives partly to the willingness of executives to invest annual bonus in the Companys shares.
iii Make regular annual awards to participants, rather than in blocks.
Initially, the Remuneration Committee intends to confine participation in these new arrangements to senior executives with Group responsibilities and, to reflect the importance of the Radio business to the Group, to certain senior executives in the Radio division.
In due course, the Remuneration Committee may extend participation to executives in other divisions, but for the moment they will continue to take part in plans based on divisional performance.
No further awards will be made under the Companys existing Group related arrangements once the new arrangements are adopted.
The main terms of the Option Scheme and the LTIP are set out in the Appendix to this Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Copies of the Rules of the Option Scheme and LTIP are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company and at the office of New Bridge Street Consultants, 20 Little Britain, London EC1A 7DH during usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excluded from the date of this Notice of Annual General Meeting up to and including the date of the Annual General Meeting and will be available for inspection at the place of the meeting.
82 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Appendix to the Notice of Annual General Meeting Summary of the principal features of the Chrysalis Group Plc 2003 Executive Share Option Scheme The Option Scheme General There are two parts to the proposed Option Scheme and the Company intends to seek Inland Revenue approval of the Approved part.
The Unapproved part of the Option Scheme, which is not designed for Inland Revenue approval, is intended to be used primarily where executives have more than 30,000 worth of outstanding approved options.
Except to the extent required to obtain Inland Revenue approval, the Approved and Unapproved parts of the Option Scheme are in all material respects identical.
Grant of Options Options may be granted within the six weeks following the approval of the Option Scheme by shareholders or the date the Approved part of the Option Scheme is approved by the Inland Revenue: thereafter within the six weeks following the announcement by the Company of its results for any period or the removal of any statutory or regulatory restriction which had previously prevented an option being granted: and at other times in circumstances considered by the Remuneration Committee to be exceptional.
No options may be granted later than 10 years after the approval of the Option Scheme by shareholders, although the appropriateness of the Scheme will be reviewed by the Remuneration Committee within five years.
No payment will be required for the grant of an option.
Options are neither pensionable nor transferable.
Individual Limit on Participation No option may be granted to an individual if it would cause the aggregate exercise price of shares put under option to him her in any year under the Option Scheme to exceed 150 per cent of base salary.
Initially, however, the Remuneration Committee does not intend to grant in excess of 100 per cent of base salary per annum to any individual.
In exceptional circumstances, higher grants can be made up to a limit of 300 per cent.
Exercise Price The price per ordinary share payable upon the exercise of an option will not be less than the higher of: a the middle-market quotation of an ordinary share on the London Stock Exchange on the dealing day prior to the grant date or such day or days as may be agreed with the Inland Revenue, provided that no such dealing day or days may fall prior to the date on which the Company last announced its results for any period: and b the nominal value of an ordinary share unless the option is expressed to relate only to existing shares.
Exercise of Options An option will normally be exercisable between three and ten years following its grant, but only if the optionholder remains in employment and a specified performance condition has been satisfied.
Initially, the performance condition will be based on Headline Earnings per Share as defined by the Institute of Investment Management and Research EPS.
For any options to become exercisable, growth in EPS must be at least 20% p. a. compound.
At this level of growth 40% of the options will become exercisable.
For all of the options to become exercisable, growth in EPS must be at least 30% p. a. compound.
There will be straight-line vesting of options between 20% and 30%.
The performance of the Company will initially be measured over three financial years, measuring from the base financial year being the year ended immediately prior to the grant.
If the target has not been met at the end of this period, it can be re-tested for a further two years, from a fixed base.
The Remuneration Committee will regularly review the performance condition for future option grants, but future conditions must be considered by the Committee to be no less challenging in the circumstances than the initial condition.
The performance condition will be disclosed in the Companys annual report and accounts.
The condition may be varied in certain circumstances following the grant of an option to take account of technical changes so as to achieve its original purpose.
Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2002 83 Appendix to the Notice of Annual General Meeting Summary of the principal features of the Chrysalis Group plc 2003 Long Term Incentive Plan the LTIP General The plan provides for two types of award: Performance Share Awards.
These are conditional awards of shares, the vesting of which depends upon the satisfaction of performance conditions and remaining in employment.
These are conditional awards of shares, which are linked to the investment by the executive of annual bonus in the Companys shares.
The vesting of the Matching Share Awards depends upon the continued holding of the shares purchased by the executive, the satisfaction of performance conditions and remaining in employment.
Grant of Awards A Performance Share Award or a Matching Share Award may be granted within the six weeks following shareholders approval of the LTIP or the announcement by the Company of its results for any period or the removal of any statutory or regulatory restriction which had previously prevented an award being granted: and at other times in circumstances considered by the Committee to be exceptional.
Other than in 2003, a Matching Share Award will be made as soon as is reasonably practicable following the notification of the annual bonuses payable to executives.
No awards may be granted later than 10 years after approval of the LTIP by shareholders, although the appropriateness of the LTIP will be reviewed by the Remuneration Committee within five years.
Awards normally will be made in the form of rights to receive shares in the Company in the future for a nominal consideration of 1 in total or where rights to subscribe for shares are granted, the nominal value of the relevant shares.
No payment will be required for the grant of an award.
Awards are neither pensionable nor transferable.
Individual Limit on Participation An individual may not receive in any year Performance Share Awards over shares whose aggregate market value based on the middle market quotation of an ordinary share on the London Stock Exchange on the dealing day prior to the grant date exceeds 50% of his annual rate of base salary, other than in exceptional circumstances where a 100% limit applies.
Initially, however, the Remuneration Committee does not intend to make Performance Share Awards in excess of 37.5% of base salary per annum to any individual.
In addition, eligible executives may receive Matching Share Awards each year.
An executive may choose to invest up to 50% of his annual bonus in the Companys shares.
Currently, the most senior executives can receive a bonus worth up to a maximum of 100% of base salary, based on demanding financial and business targets set by the Committee at the beginning of each financial year.
The net amount of bonus invested will be used to acquire shares Investment Shares which will be beneficially owned by the executives.
The participants will be entitled to receive all dividends declared on the Investment Shares and vote the Investment Shares.
To the extent that Investment Shares are acquired by participants, they may receive a Matching Share Award.
The maximum number of shares in a Matching Share Award will be two and a half times the number of shares the executive would have acquired using the pre-tax amount of bonus actually used in the acquisition of Investment Shares.
84 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2002
