Report of the directors Charitable and political contributions During the year the Group contributed 21,154 2001: 28,699 to charitable organisations and nil 2001: nil to political parties in the UK.
The Groups New Zealand based subsidiary made a donation of the equivalent of 1,200 to the New Zealand Labour Party 2001: nil.
Creditor payment policy In the United Kingdom, the Group agrees payment terms with individual suppliers when it enters into binding purchase contracts.
The Group seeks to abide by the payment terms agreed with suppliers whenever it is satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods or services in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
The Group seeks to treat all its suppliers fairly, but it does not have a standard or code which deals specifically with the payment of suppliers.
The Company had 24 days purchases outstanding at 31st August 2002 based on the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers during the year ended 31st August 2002 2001: 26 days.
Special Business Proposals will be put at the Annual General Meeting to: i renew the authority of the Directors pursuant to Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 647,446: ii renew the authority of the Directors to allot shares other than pro rata to existing shareholders generally up to a maximum of 8,381,384 shares: iii renew the authority of the Directors to take advantage, if appropriate, of Stock Market conditions to purchase the Companys shares.
The authority will allow the Company to purchase up to a maximum of 10% of its issued share capital during the next year at a minimum price of 2 pence and a maximum price of 5% above the market price of the Companys shares at the relevant time: iv authorise the Company to make political contributions as defined in the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000. v approve the Remuneration Report.
vi approve new share options and LTIP arrangements.
Please also refer to the notice of the Annual General Meeting on page 79.
Auditors KPMG Audit Plc have expressed their willingness to continue in office for the ensuing year and a resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting for their reappointment at a remuneration to be agreed by the Directors.
By order of the Board C R Potterell ACIS Secretary 17th December 2002 Statement of Directors responsibilities Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and Group and of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those accounts, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2002 35
