50 Statement of Directors Responsibilities The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the report of the auditors set out opposite, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the directors and of the auditors in relation to the financial statements.
The directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss for the financial year.
The directors consider that in preparing the financial statements on pages 53 to 84 the company has used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates and that all accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The directors have responsibility for ensuring that the company keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the company and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
COBHAM PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 51 Independent Auditors Report To the members of Cobham plc We have audited the financial statements which comprise the profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the cash flow statement, the statement of total recognised gains and losses and the related notes and the accounting policies set out in the statement of accounting policies.
We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the directors remuneration report the auditable part.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the directors remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises the chairmans statement, the chief executives review, the business and financial reviews, the directors report including the corporate governance statement, and the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the companys or groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors remuneration report are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
52 Independent Auditors Report continued Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group at 31 December 2002 and of the profit and cash flows of the group for the year then ended: the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and those parts of the directors remuneration report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Southampton 20 March 2003 Notes a The maintenance and integrity of the Cobham plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
