COBHAM PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 53 Accounting Policies Accounting Convention The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain fixed assets.
Compliance with SSAP 19 Accounting for Investment Properties requires departure from the requirements of the Companies Act 1985 relating to depreciation and an explanation of the departure is given in the tangible fixed assets accounting policy note below.
Basis of Consolidation The group financial statements include the financial statements of the parent company and of all its subsidiaries made up to the end of the financial year.
Joint ventures are accounted for using the gross equity method in accordance with FRS 9 Associates and Joint Ventures.
Associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Businesses acquired are accounted for as acquisitions, with effect from the date control passes.
Turnover Turnover represents sales value exclusive of value added tax together with the sales value of work done on long term contracts.
Sales within the group are excluded.
Deferred Taxation The company has changed its accounting policy in accordance with FRS 19 Deferred Tax.
Deferred tax is now recognised on a full provision basis on all timing differences which have originated, but not reversed, at the balance sheet date calculated at rates of tax expected to apply, based on current tax rates and law.
Timing differences represent accumulated differences between the companys taxable profit and its financial profit and arise primarily from the difference between accelerated capital allowances and depreciation.
Deferred tax liabilities are not discounted.
Intangible Fixed Assets Goodwill arising on acquisitions of subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures made after 1 January 1998 and expenditure on other intangible fixed assets comprising patents, licences and trade marks is capitalised and amortised on a straight line basis over estimated useful lives of up to 20 years.
These periods have been determined after taking into account the nature of the intangible assets acquired and the markets in which these intangible assets operate.
In accordance with the groups accounting policy prior to the introduction of FRS 10, goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 January 1998 has been written off to reserves, but will be charged to the profit and loss account on any subsequent disposal of the business to which it is related.
Tangible Fixed Assets Freehold land and investment properties are not depreciated.
Other fixed assets are depreciated on a straight line basis to their estimated residual values over their estimated useful lives.
These lives are as follows: Freehold buildings 50 years Leasehold properties The period of the lease Other fixed assets 3 to 15 years Investment properties are included in the balance sheet at open market value.
In accordance with SSAP 19, investment properties are revalued annually and the aggregate surplus or deficit is transferred to revaluation reserve, and no provision is made for depreciation of freehold properties.
This departure from the requirements of the Companies Act 1985, which requires all properties to be depreciated, is, in the opinion of the directors, necessary for the financial statements to show a true and fair view in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
The depreciation which would, had the provisions of the Act been followed, have reduced profit for the year is only one of the factors reflected in the annual valuation and the amount attributable to this factor cannot reasonably be separately identified or quantified.
54 Accounting Policies continued Investments Investments are stated at cost less any provision for permanent diminution in value.
Investment in Own Shares Investment in own shares represents shares held in the Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust QUEST, which are shown at their estimated recoverable amount, being the option price of the shares payable by the employee.
The amounts contributed to the QUEST in excess of the option price are charged against reserves.
The excess of the option price over the nominal value of the shares has been taken to the share premium account.
Aircraft Engine Overhaul Expenditure Expenditure is capitalised when it is incurred on aircraft engine overhauls and this fixed asset addition is depreciated over its useful economic life.
Research and Development Research and development expenditure not chargeable to customers is written off as incurred.
Finance Leases Where assets are financed by lease agreements that give rights approximating to ownership finance leases, the assets are treated as if they had been purchased outright and the corresponding leasing commitments are shown as an obligation under finance leases.
The relevant assets are depreciated on the basis of expected utilisation over the shorter of the life of the contract on which they are employed or the life of the lease.
Lease payments are treated as consisting of capital and interest elements and the interest is charged to the profit and loss account.
Operating Leases Operating lease payments for assets leased from third parties are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
Stocks Stocks and work in progress are stated at the lower of cost, which includes an appropriate proportion of productive overheads, and net realisable value.
Payments received and receivable on account of work in progress are deducted from the cost of the work carried out at the balance sheet date to the extent of the valuation of the work done.
Foreign Currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction or, where forward cover contracts have been arranged, at the contracted rate.
Monetary assets and liabilities denoted in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date or at a contractual rate if applicable and any exchange differences arising are taken to the profit and loss account.
For consolidation purposes the assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures are translated at the closing exchange rates.
Profit and loss accounts of such undertakings are consolidated at the average rates of exchange during the year.
Exchange differences arising on these translations are taken to reserves.
Pensions The cost of pensions in respect of the groups defined benefit schemes is charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the cost of pensions over the service lives of employees.
Actuarial surpluses and deficits are spread forward over the average remaining service life of employees.
The pension cost is assessed in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries.
Financial Instruments The group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposures to fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates.
Derivative instruments utilised by the group include currency and interest rate swaps, interest rate caps, forward rate agreements and forward currency contracts.
Receipts and payments on interest rate instruments are recognised on an accruals basis, over the life of the instruments.
Finance costs associated with debt issuances are charged to the profit and loss account over the life of the instruments.
The more significant financial instruments of the group are disclosed in note 30 of the financial statements.
