OPERATING DATA Kingston infrastructure As at As at 31 March 31 March 2002 2001 Route km national 1,267 1,074 Route km regional 957 897 Leased lines Voice grade equivalent, 64 kbits 230,571 124,974 Kingston inbusiness As at and for period Year Year ended ended 31 March 31 March 2002 2001 Buildings connected 1,210 917 Number of network customer accounts 2,983 2,269 Number of lines 76,600 65,115 Number of minutes PSTN millions 3,942 1,526 Other millions 1,332 1,297 TOTAL MILLIONS 5,274 2,823 Kingston Communications As at and for period Year Year ended ended 31 March 31 March 2002 2001 Number of lines Residential lines 000 168 164 Business lines 000 96 93 TOTAL 000 264 257 Number of calls Local millions 196 205 Out of area millions 186 160 TOTAL MILLIONS 382 365 Number of minutes Local millions 858 1,022 Out of area millions 1,265 777 TOTAL MILLIONS 2,123 1,799 40 Kingston Communications HULL PLC Report and accounts 2001 2002 STRATEGIC INTENT GLOSSAR GLOSSARY Y OF TERMS OF TERMS Financial Intangible assets Data Items of value that cannot be physically touched, Information sent across communications Amortisation such as goodwill, patents, licences or specic networks from computer to computer.
The allocation of cost of goodwill or other development costs.
DSL Digital Subscriber Line Investments DSL is a technology that transforms ordinary Auditor Ownership interests held in other companies phone lines also known as twisted copper An independent individual qualied to examine either for income or capital appreciation.
pairs into high-speed digital lines.
ADSL and verify a companys financial and accounting uses digital coding techniques to squeeze up records and supporting documents.
IPO Initial Public Offering to 99 per cent more capacity out of a phone The first sale of stock by a company to the public line without interfering with regular telephone Balance sheet the otation of Kingston Communications on service.
Can be used to transmit voice and data Our ambition is to be the number one choice A statement of the assets and liabilities of the London Stock Exchange on 19 July 1999. simultaneously and provide a continuous an organisation at a point in time the year connection for data services.
for the provision of networked communications end of the Kingston Communications Group Ordinary shares is 31 March.
The principal type of shares bought by investors, E-commerce solutions in our target markets in the UK.
and representing part ownership of a company.
The buying and selling of goods and services Cashow statement over the Internet.
A summary of the money received and spent Operating assets by the Company during the year.
Items of value owned by a company that Intelligent network IN contribute to the regular income from A network that allows the fast and exible Capital expenditure capex its operations.
introduction of new services and customisation Money spent to purchase new or upgrade capabilities for users of that network.
existing physical assets such as equipment profit and loss account or property.
A financial document showing the income, IP Internet Protocol expenses and net profit or loss generated by A standard specication for transmitting voice Creditor an organisation over a given period of time.
and data over the Internet.
Amounts payable to suppliers and other organisations providing services to the Company.
Retained profit ISP Internet Service Provider The final result for the year, after deducting A company which provides users with access Current assets tax, minority interests and dividends, which to the Internet.
Assets held by the Company other than for long is then added or taken away if it is a loss term use such as stocks, debtors and cash.
to shareholders funds at the end of the year.
Leased line A reliable, dedicated network connection Debtor Tangible xed assets offered at various speeds depending on the Amounts which we have billed customers but A long-term asset held for business use such as customers requirements.
property, network and exchange equipment.
Mbps Depreciation Turnbull report Megabits per second a measure of bandwidth.
The allocation of cost of an asset such as A report giving guidance to company directors Contents 25 Report of the auditors equipment or property because of general on implementing Stock Exchange rules on OFTEL Ofce of Telecommunications wear and tear over time.
internal controls and risk management.
OFTEL is the regulator for the UKs 1 Corporate and financial summary 26 Consolidated profit and loss account telecommunications industry.
2 Our Group at a glance 27 Balance sheets Dividend Technology The income from a share investment that is POP Point Of Presence 4 Our national presence 28 Consolidated cashow statement given to shareholders out of a companys Backbone network This refers to a point through which an internet 5 Chairmans statement 28 Reconciliation of net cashow retained earnings.
A major transmission path that can carry a very user can connect to an ISP.
POPs are usually to movement in net debt high volume of trafc.
It ensures that all smaller established to avoid long distance telephone 6 Chief Executives questions and answers Earnings loss per share networks that are connected to the backbone charges.
The user calls to the point of presence 29 Consolidated statement of total 10 Operating and financial review This gure is calculated by dividing profits are also connected to each other.
via their telephone line and the call is then recognised gains and losses or losses attributable to members of the relayed to the ISP by a third party.
16 Board of Directors 29 Reconciliation of movements in Company by the number of shares in issue.
Bandwidth 17 Environmental, social and ethical policies consolidated shareholders funds A measurement of the quantity of information SME EBITDA earnings before interest, tax, that can be transmitted via communications Small to Medium Sized Enterprise typically, a 18 Corporate governance 30 Notes to the financial statements depreciation and amortisation channels such as bre.
This is measured in business employing between 100 and 500 staff.
20 Remuneration report 39 Five year summary of consolidated gures A measure of profitability, favoured by megabits per second.
companies undergoing major investment Voice 23 Directors report 40 Operating data programmes.
It shows the profits before interest, Broadband Fixed line or mobile telephone calls.
Front cover quotes with thanks to 24 Secretary and advisers Glossary of terms tax, depreciation and amortisation are deducted.
Network technology that allows the transmission clockwise from top left : of large amounts of data.
Exceptional items The Independent Transactions included in a companys profit and Broadband internet 29 05 02 loss account, which are outside the ordinary Technology that enables faster internet access, course of business such as profit or losses and as a result allows services such as interactive Simon Mellon on the sale of an operation or costs of a digital TV, video conferencing and video e-mail.
Ian Clease CPI Comparable Performance Indicators Technology Systems Operations Manager Goodwill Statistics compiled by OFTEL that allow MM Group The difference between what a company pays customers to compare the performance for another company and the fair value of the of different telecommunications companies Adrian Buttree acquired assets of that company.
Communications Manager Bracknell Forest Borough Council Financial Times 29 05 02 Rod Hall Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein KINGSTON COMMUNICATIONS HULL PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2001 2002 Designed and produced by Addison KINGSTON COMMUNICA GLOSSARY OF TERMS TIONS HULL PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2001 2002 Kingston Communications is, at this rate, in danger Kingston has been of nding itself among the survivors of the current telecoms shake-out.
a steady player in a volatile sub-sector.
Kingston is our favourite new entrant provider.
We have forged a strong partnership with Kingston Communications over the last two years, due to Kingstons quality service and can do attitude.
They have managed costs and scoffed at the more ambitious risk-taking that has proved the undoing of so We are committed to securing many of the Groups rivals.
best value and improving service standards for the benefit of our residents.
Kingston inbusiness helps us on both fronts and I am delighted that we are working with them.
Kingston Communications HULL PLC, 37 Carr Lane, Kingston upon Hull HU1 3RE Website address: www.
