Accounting Policies Basis of accounting Property valuation These financial statements have been prepared on the basis The Groups completed investment properties and land held of historical costs but incorporating property valuations, and for or under development were externally valued as at 31 December by Insignia Richard Ellis or Colliers Conrad in accordance with applicable Accounting Standards and, Ritblat Erdman or C B Hillier Parker in the United Kingdom, except for the depreciation of investment properties, with in the USA by Walden-Marling, Inc. previously Realty Services the Companies Act 1985.
An explanation of the departure International, Inc., in Canada by Altus Group previously from the requirements of the Act is given below in the known as Nilsen Realty Research Ltd, in Belgium by fide depreciation note.
Crombrugghe & Partners s. a. and in France by Insignia The value of investments in subsidiaries, associate and joint Bourdais Expertises s. a. ventures has been adjusted to reflect the underlying net The valuations have been prepared on the basis of open asset values see note 12. market value in accordance with the relevant guidance notes The company has taken advantage of the exemption on the valuation of property assets applicable to each provided by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 from country.
The valuers have made the normal deductions for presenting its own profit and loss account.
hypothetical purchasers costs in arriving at their valuations in the UK.
Each property has been valued individually and Accounting Standards not as part of a portfolio.
No account has been taken of any The Group has implemented the transitional disclosure intercompany leases or arrangements, nor of any mortgages, requirements of FRS17 Retirement Benefits.
These debentures or other charges, and no allowance has been disclosure requirements, together with the requirements of made for any expenses of realisation, nor for any taxation SSAP24, are set out in note 21. which might arise in the event of a disposal.
The figures also FRS 19 Deferred Tax requires full provision to be made for do not reflect any element of special purchaser value following future tax consequences of past transactions and events.
The a merger of interests or sale to an owner or occupier of an timing differences are recognised as deferred tax liabilities or adjoining property.
assets in the financial statements, measured at expected The valuations have been prepared on the basis of future tax rates.
The Group has adopted this standard in information provided to the respective valuers by the Group 2002 and the impact is set out in note 1 of the financial relating to title, tenure, lettings, site and floor areas, planning statements.
consents and other relevant information.
Valuers were instructed to assume that no deleterious materials or Consolidation techniques had been used in the construction of any of the The consolidated financial statements comprise the results buildings and not to carry out structural surveys.
The valuers of the company and its subsidiaries, made up to 31 December, were also instructed to assume that, unless informed to the together with the Groups share of net profits and losses and contrary, the properties are not, or likely to be, affected by reserves of associate and joint ventures.
land contamination and have assumed that the cost of any decontamination work would be immaterial unless advised Foreign currencies to the contrary.
In addition, the valuers have assumed that there are no ground conditions which would affect the Assets and liabilities expressed in foreign currency and profits present or future uses of the properties.
and losses of overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling at year end exchange rates.
Exchange differences arising on The surpluses and deficiencies arising attributable to the revenue items are reflected in the profit and loss account, Group are reflected in unrealised capital reserves.
To the extent together with any translation differences arising on currency that projects have not been included in the valuation review, borrowings which are not covered by translation differences they are included at cost or at the directors assessment of arising on investments in currency assets.
All other translation open market value.
Buildings under construction are valued differences are reflected in reserves.
66 SLOUGH ESTATES Annual Report 2002 including finance costs, and market value.
Pre-sold properties Depreciation are stated at cost plus attributable profits less losses, where a Properties: In accordance with SSAP19, no depreciation the outcome can be assessed with reasonable certainty, less is provided in respect of freehold investment properties or progress payments receivable.
Attributable profit consists of leasehold investment properties with over 20 years to run.
the relevant proportion of the total estimated profit This treatment may be a departure from the requirements of appropriate to the progress made in construction and letting.
the Companies Act concerning depreciation of fixed assets.
Cost includes direct expenditure and interest, less any relevant However, these properties are not held for consumption but income.
for investment and the directors consider that systematic annual depreciation would be inappropriate.
Stocks The accounting policy adopted is therefore necessary for Stocks, excluding trading properties, are valued at cost, on a the financial statements to give a true and fair view.
first in, first out basis, or market value, whichever is the Depreciation or amortisation is only one of the many factors lower.
reflected in the annual valuation and the amount which might otherwise have been shown cannot reasonably be Investments separately identified or quantified.
Investments held as current assets are stated at the lower of b Plant and equipment: No depreciation is charged where cost and directors assessment of current market value.
plant and equipment is provided in the Groups premises for the use of its tenants, as it is covered by the full repairing Deferred taxation covenant embodied in the respective leases.
Other plant and Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences which equipment operated by the Group in the normal course of result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more business is depreciated after an initial commissioning period tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates in the case of Utilities on a straight line basis over its estimated expected to apply when they crystallise based on current tax useful life: mainly 10-25 years.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of Capitalisation of interest items of income and expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from those in which they are included in Interest costs incurred in funding land for or under developthe accounts.
Deferred tax is not provided on timing ment, construction work in progress and major construction programmes for the Utilities plant are capitalised during the differences arising from the revaluation of tangible fixed period of development.
assets where there is no commitment to sell the asset.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is Trading properties regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Unless pre-sold, properties are held at the lower of cost, Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
