25 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Corporate governance INTERNAL CONTROL The Code principle D. 2.1 on internal control requires the directors to conduct, at least annually, a review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, including financial, operational, compliance and risk management controls, and report to the shareholders that they have done so.
In order to discharge this responsibility, the directors have utilised an organisational structure with clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility, and delegated authority.
In particular there are clear procedures for ncapital investment, with detailed appraisal, authorisation and post-investment review nfinancial reporting, within a comprehensive financial planning and accounting framework nmonitoring of business risks.
During the year the Company has continued its formal procedures for the assessment and review of all business risks under the direction of the risk management committee which reports regularly to the Board.
Such procedures have been embedded into the system of internal control.
There are also clear procedures for monitoring the system of internal financial control.
This is a process which involves nreports from relevant senior executives and divisional directors concerning the operation of those elements of the system for which they are responsible, and a report from the Group Financial Controller concerning the operation of the system as a whole nreports from the Group Financial Controller on the work carried out under the annual internal audit plan.
The internal audit work is carried out by both our own employees and personnel seconded from  LLP who report through the Group Financial Controller to the audit committee nreports from the external auditors.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control in operation during the financial year.
It must be recognised that such a system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance.
GOING CONCERN The financial statements, which appear on pages 32 to 56, have been prepared on a going concern basis as, after making appropriate enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the report of the auditors set out on page 57, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the directors and of the auditors in relation to the financial statements.
The directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss for the financial year.
The directors consider that, in preparing the financial statements on pages 32 to 56 inclusive, the Company has used appropriate accounting policies, applied in a consistent manner and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company and the Group and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
