37 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Accounting policies Accounting policies ACCOUNTING BASIS The Group accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the previous revaluation of properties, in compliance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, the requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards.
The disclosures required under the transitional arrangements of Financial Reporting Standard 17 in respect of pensions can be found in note 13.
Following the implementation of FRS 19 prior years have been restated to include full provision for deferred tax.
This change in accounting policy results in a prior year adjustment, reducing shareholders funds at 1 January 2001 by 10.6m, increasing the pre-exceptional tax charge for the year ended 31 December 2001 by 1.7m and reducing the exceptional tax charge by 2.4m.
For the year ended 31 December 2002 the pre-exceptional tax charge has increased by 0.1m and the tax credit on exceptional items has increased by 3.9m due to the change in accounting policy.
GROUP ACCOUNTS The Group profit and loss account consolidates the results of Croda International Plc and its subsidiary undertakings and includes the Groups share of the results of associated undertakings.
On the acquisition of a business, fair values are attributed to the net assets acquired.
Goodwill arises where the fair value of the consideration given for businesses exceeds such net assets.
For goodwill arising on acquisitions made after 31 December 1997 goodwill is capitalised and amortised through the profit and loss account over a period of 20 years unless the directors consider it has a materially different useful economic life.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions made prior to 31 December 1997 was written off directly to reserves in the year of acquisition, and on subsequent disposal or termination is included in the calculation of profit or loss on disposal.
Associated undertakings are those companies in which the Group has a beneficial interest of between 20% and 50% in the equity capital and where the Group exercises significant influence over commercial and financial policy decisions.
The consolidated balance sheet includes the Groups share of the underlying net tangible assets of associated undertakings.
REVENUE RECOGNITION Group sales are recognised as turnover in the period in which goods are despatched.
LAND AND BUILDINGS In the past the Groups principal properties have been valued periodically by professional valuers on an open market, existing use basis.
Following the Groups adoption of Financial Reporting Standard 15, no further revaluations will be carried out and previous surpluses will be retained.
Notwithstanding the requirements of FRS 15 all fixed assets are written down to their recoverable amount in the event that any impairment review carried out in accordance with FRS 11 indicates that the recoverable amount is less than the carrying value.
The profit or loss on the disposal of land and buildings included in the profit and loss account represents the difference between the net proceeds of sale and the net book amount.
DEPRECIATION Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost or valuation less depreciation.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write down the cost of all tangible fixed assets, except freehold land, over their estimated useful lives on a straight line basis.
The estimated average life for each major asset category is Freehold buildings 15 to 40 years Computers and office equipment 3 to 5 years Leasehold land and buildings lesser of term of lease and 40 years Cars 3 years Plant and machinery 10 to 15 years Lorries and other vehicles 5 years LEASED ASSETS Assets acquired under finance leases are included in the balance sheet under tangible fixed assets at an amount reflecting the fair value of the asset.
Depreciation is provided in accordance with the Groups accounting policy for the class of asset concerned.
The capital element of future lease rentals is included in creditors.
Finance charges are allocated to the profit and loss account each year in proportion to the capital element outstanding.
The cost of operating leases is charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
38 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Accounting policies Accounting policies PENSIONS The pension obligations of the Company and its major subsidiaries are financed by contributions to separate funds.
The cost of accrual of benefits, which is determined on the basis of actuarial advice, together with the surpluses or deficits quantified in actuarial valuations, are taken to the profit and loss account so as to spread the cost of pensions over the expected remaining service lives of current employees.
STOCKS Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable amount on a first in first out basis.
Cost comprises all expenditure, including related production overheads, incurred in the normal course of business in bringing the stock to its location and condition at the balance sheet date.
Profits arising on inter Group sales are eliminated in so far as the product remains in Group stock at the year end.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROVISIONS The Group is exposed to environmental liabilities relating to its operations.
Provisions are made immediately where a constructive or legal obligation is identified and can be quantified.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Expenditure on R&D, other than on tangible fixed assets, is written off against profits as incurred.
CURRENCY TRANSLATIONS Profit and loss accounts in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the average rates for the period unless local economic conditions make the closing rate more appropriate.
Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the end of the financial period.
Exchange profits or losses on trading transactions are included in the Group profit and loss account.
Other exchange differences arising from non-trading items and from the translation of the opening net investment in subsidiaries are dealt with through reserves.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rates and short-term currency rate fluctuations.
Receipts and payments on interest rate instruments are recognised on an accruals basis in the profit and loss account over the life of the instrument.
Instruments accounted for as hedges are designated as a hedge at the inception of the contract.
Gains or losses are recognised on maturity of the underlying transaction.
EMPLOYEE SHARE OWNERSHIP TRUSTS Shares acquired by the trustees, funded by the Company and held for the continuing benefit of the Company, are classified as fixed asset investments until such time as employees exercise their options over the shares.
If the cost of the shares held in the trusts is greater than the option price the excess is charged to the profit and loss account over the period of the option.
Any permanent diminution in value of shares held in the trusts is immediately charged to the profit and loss account.
Administration expenses of the trusts are charged to the Companys profit and loss account as incurred.
DEFERRED TAXATION Deferred tax is provided in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of profits and losses in the accounts in different periods from which they are recognised in tax assessments and primarily arise as a result of the difference between tax allowances on tangible fixed assets and the corresponding depreciation charge, and upon the pension fund prepayment.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised when it is regarded as more likely than not that there will be future taxable profits from which the deduction of the reversal of the underlying timing difference can be made.
The deferred tax balance is not discounted.
