84 Daily Mail and General Trust plc 85 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Principal Subsidiaries Principal Subsidiaries continued continued Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 71% Publication of Euromoney, other financial magazines and related activities DMG World Media Limited continued Adhesion et Associes SA 71% Organiser of business conventions in the European Union dmg world media Dubai Limited formerly DMG Index Exhibitions Limited Organisers of trade exhibitions Incorporated in France Incorporated in Jersey: managed and operating in Dubai Business Traveller Holdings Limited 67% Publishing in the business travel industry dmg world media Australia Pty Limited Organisers of consumer and trade exhibitions Incorporated and operating in Australia Coaltrans Conferences Limited 67% Conferences in the coal and energy industry dmg world media Vic Pty Limited Organisers of trade exhibitions Engel Publishing Partners 64% Publishing in the pharmaceutical industry Incorporated and operating in Australia Registered in the USA dmg world media New Zealand Limited Organisers of consumer and trade exhibitions Euromoney Publications Jersey Limited 71% Financial and legal publishing and training in Asia Incorporated and operating in New Zealand Incorporated in Jersey: operating in Hong Kong DMG Information Limited Holding company Euromoney Training, Inc. 71% Financial training in the Americas Incorporated in the USA DMG Information, Inc. Holding company Incorporated in the USA Gulf Publishing Company 71% Publishing in the energy industry Incorporated in the USA Study Group US, Inc.
Academic and language provider Incorporated and operating in the USA Institutional Investor, Inc. 71% Publication of Institutional Investor, newsletters and journals: Incorporated in the USA conferences and membership organisers Dolphin Software Inc. 71% Provider of electronically delivered information Incorporated and operating in the USA on hazardous chemicals Internet Securities, Inc. 60% An internet based provider of emerging markets financial, Incorporated in the USA economic and company information Environmental Data Resources, Inc.
Provider of geographic based real estate Incorporated and operating in the USA information services Latin American Financial Publications, Inc. 71% Financial publishing in the Americas Incorporated in the USA EDR Landmark Information Limited Provider of property and mapping information MIS Training, Inc. 71% Training and conferences in the management information, Hobsons plc Careers and education information publishing and services Incorporated in the USA audit and security industries Risk Management Solutions Inc.
Provider of risk management information on Mondiale Corporation Limited 70% Publishing and conferences in the office products industry Incorporated and operating in the USA natural and other related perils The Petroleum Economist Limited 71% Publishing and training in the energy industry RMSI Pty Limited Information technology service provider, specialising in Incorporated and operating in India G. I. S. and special solutions, and software development DMG Broadcasting Limited Holding company Sanborn, Inc.
Provider of GIS and photogrammetric mapping services Teletext Limited 90% Provision of teletext services Incorporated and operating in the USA for government and engineering markets DMG Television Limited Holding company Study Group Australia Pty Limited Academic and language provider Arts and Entertainment Programming Limited Production of Performance: The Arts Channel Incorporated and operating in Australia British Path Limited Newsreel archive Study Group International Limited Academic and language training provider New Era Television Limited Production of television commercials Central activities DMG Radio Investments Pty Limited Radio investment holding company Daily Mail and General Investments plc Financing company Incorporated in Australia Daily Mail and General Holdings Limited Holding company DMG Radio Australia Pty Limited Radio operating holding company DMG Investment Holdings Limited Holding company Incorporated in Australia DMG Media Investments Limited Holding company DMG Regional Radio Pty Limited Radio operating holding company for regional radio network Incorporated, managed and controlled in Jersey Incorporated in Australia Festival City Broadcasters Pty Limited Commercial radio broadcaster of 5AA, Adelaide i Unless stated otherwise the whole of the ordinary share capital of subsidiary undertakings is held directly by Daily Mail and General Incorporated in Australia Trust plc where marked or indirectly by one of the Companys subsidiaries.
Nova 96.9 Pty Ltd Commercial radio broadcaster of Nova 969, Sydney Incorporated in Australia ii All subsidiaries, except where indicated, operate principally within the United Kingdom.
Nova 100 Pty Limited formerly Nova 91.5 Pty Limited Commercial radio broadcaster of Nova 100, Melbourne iii All principal subsidiaries have been included in the Group financial statements.
Incorporated in Australia DMG World Media Limited Exhibition holding company DMG World Media UK Limited Trade publishing and exhibition management DMG Angex Limited Organisers of public exhibitions and magazine publishers DMG Antique Fairs Limited Organisers of antiques and collectors fairs Metropress Limited Publisher of Antiques Trade Gazette dmg world media Canada Inc. Organisers of consumer and trade exhibitions Incorporated and operating in Canada dmg world media USA Inc. 97% Organisers of consumer exhibitions Incorporated and operating in USA
