Payment of Dividends to Mandated Accounts Shareholders who do not currently have their dividends paid directly to a bank or building society account and who wish to do so should complete a mandate instruction form obtainable from the Companys registrars, as above.
Tax vouchers are sent to the shareholders registered address under this arrangement unless requested otherwise.
Low Cost Stock and Share Dealing Service Cazenove & Co. the Companys stockbrokers, operate a low cost stock and share dealing service for Ordinary shares in fide Vere Group Plc.
This provides not only for the sale of stocks and shares at a basic commission of 1% with a 10 minimum charge, but also for purchases of Ordinary shares.
Further information is available from Cazenove & Co. 12 Tokenhouse Yard, London, EC2R 7AN.
Crest: Stock Market Settlement System The computerised system for settling sales and purchases of shares, CREST, became operational for the Companys Ordinary shares in October 1996.
It is a voluntary system that enables shareholders, if they wish, to hold and transfer their shareholdings electronically rather than by paper.
Shareholders who wish to retain their certificates are also able to do so.
Electronic Communications with Shareholders Following recent Government legislation, we now offer our shareholders the option to receive electronic versions of shareholder communications including the annual and interim reports.
Information regarding this service can be downloaded directly from the corporate website, www.
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 55 ADVISERS TO fide VERE GROUP PLC Company Secretary and Advisers to fide Vere Group Plc: Registered Office: Stockbrokers: Company Secretary Cazenove & Co Mr David Charles Edwards LL.
B 12 Tokenhouse Yard London, EC2R 7AN Registered Office Tel: 020 7606 1768 2100 Daresbury Park Daresbury Credit Suisse First Boston fide Zoete & Warrington, WA4 4BP Bevan Limited Registered in England No.
co. uk Financial Advisers Registrars and Transfers Office Close Brothers Corporate Finance for shareholders, debenture and 10 Crowne Place loan stockholders: Clifton Street Northern Registrars London, EC2A 4FT Northern House, Woodsome Park Fenay Bridge Principal Bankers Huddersfield, HD8 0LA National Westminster Bank plc Tel: 01484 606664 23 Sankey Street www.
co. uk Warrington, WA1 1XH Principal Paying and Conversion Auditors Agent and Registrar Ernst & Young LLP for registered bondholders: 100 Barbirolli Square The Chase Manhattan Bank N. A. Manchester, M2 3EY Trinity Tower 9 Thomas More Street Solicitors London, E1 9YT Freshfields 65 Fleet Street Paying and Conversion Agent London, EC4Y 1HS for bearer bondholders: Chase Manhattan Bank Luxembourg SA 5 Rue Plaetis L-2338, Luxembourg Grund.
Financial Calendar Annual General Meeting 14 February 2003 Payment of Final Dividend 21 February 2003 Announcement of Interim Results May 2003 Payment of Interim Dividend July 2003 Preliminary Announcement of Annual Results December 2003 Designed & produced by www.
co. uk Principal photography: Ric Gemmell Printed by: Triangle Limited Ryder Cup 2001 graphic devices constituting the logo style are registered trademarks of Ryder Cup Limited.
56 fide VERE GROUP PLC ADVISERS TO fide VERE GROUP PLC
