ACCOUNTING POLICIES which form an integral part of the Accounts Basis of Accounts Tangible Fixed Assets and Depreciation The value attributed to timeshare stock is The Accounts have been prepared in The cost of tangible fixed assets represents the cost of building the lodges apportioned accordance with applicable United the actual purchase price paid.
Cost to each week on the basis of the selling Kingdom accounting standards under the includes gross interest on capital invested price for that week.
historical cost convention with the in major property development and directly exception of hotel and health & fitness attributable costs.
Certain operating supplies are treated as a properties which, under the transitional base stock and renewals and replacements provisions of FRS 15 Tangible Fixed Fixtures and fittings contains items of of such stock are written-off to the profit Assets, are included at their 1999 plant, machinery, fixtures and fittings, and and loss account as incurred.
Since 1999 it has been Group equipment including computers.
policy not to revalue fixed assets.
Deferred Taxation Depreciation is not provided on freehold FRS 19 Deferred Tax has been adopted FRS 19 Deferred Tax has been adopted land.
The standard requires this year and has resulted in the prior year full provision to be made for deferred tax adjustment detailed in Note 18.
Depreciation is provided to write-off the assets and liabilities arising from timing cost or valuation of all other fixed assets differences, between the recognition of As disclosed in Note 2 certain expenditure over their useful lives to their estimated gains and losses in the financial statements has been reclassified between cost of sales residual values and is calculated by the and their recognition in tax computations, and other operating expenses.
straight-line method at the following rates: with the exception of timing differences arising from the revaluation of, or gains Per annum Basis of Consolidation rolled over into fixed assets for which there The consolidated profit and loss account is no binding agreement to sell or on the Hotels and and balance sheet combine the Accounts undistributed profits of overseas health & fitness buildings 2% of the Company and its subsidiary subsidiaries.
Deferred tax is calculated at Other properties 2% undertakings which are prepared up to the rates at which it is estimated the tax Production plant 5% 20% 29 September 2002 and represent the will arise.
The deferred tax provision has Motor vehicles 10% 50% operations of the Group for a period of 52 not been discounted to net present values.
In accordance with Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, no separate Deferred tax assets are recognised only to profit and loss account is presented for the the extent that the Directors consider that Leasehold properties are depreciated over Company.
it is more likely than not that there will be the shorter of 50 years or their remaining suitable taxable profits from which the useful lives.
Results of subsidiary undertakings and future reversal of the underlying timing businesses acquired or sold during the year differences can be deducted.
The carrying values of tangible fixed assets are included from or up to their respective are reviewed for impairment in periods if dates of acquisition or disposal.
Previously provision was made for events or changes in circumstances indicate deferred taxation on timing differences that the carrying value may not be Entities in which the Group holds an which were not expected to continue in recoverable.
interest on a long-term basis are jointly the future.
No provision was made for controlled by the Group and one or more taxation on chargeable gains arising from Assets under construction are not other ventures under a contractual disposals of properties because any depreciated until they are ready for use.
arrangement are treated as joint ventures.
liability would be postponed by the In the Group accounts, joint ventures are application of rollover relief.
When an asset is fully depreciated and no accounted for using the gross equity longer in use both the gross amount and method.
Turnover the aggregate depreciation are eliminated Turnover is the value of goods and services from the Accounts.
For acquisitions prior to September 1998, sold to third parties, including excise the difference between the purchase duties, as part of the Groups trading Stock consideration and the fair value of activities, after deducting discounts and Stock is valued at the lower of cost and net identifiable net assets at the date of sales based taxes.
Cost comprises expenditure acquisition was dealt with as a movement directly incurred in purchasing or on reserves.
On subsequent disposal of Joining fees in respect of health and fitness manufacturing stock and includes an such businesses such goodwill is taken into memberships are accounted for when appropriate amount of overhead.
account in determining the profit or loss received.
All other fees and subscriptions on sale or closure.
are recognised over the membership period.
26 fide VERE GROUP PLC ACCOUNTING POLICIES ACCOUNTING POLICIES which form an integral part of the Accounts Continued Sales of timeshares are recognised at the later of the time of sale or the date building work on the lodge is complete.
Pensions Pension costs relating to the Group defined benefit scheme are charged to the profit and loss account in accordance with the advice of independent qualified actuaries based on an assessment of the current and expected future pensionable payroll.
Actuaries assessments of the pension scheme are carried out every three years and surpluses or deficiencies disclosed by the valuations are amortised over the remaining service lives of the members except where there is a significant reduction in the number of employees in the scheme.
Differences between the amount charged in the profit and loss account and the payments made to the schemes are treated as provisions or prepayments in the balance sheet.
Payments to money purchase pension schemes are charged as incurred.
Leases Assets, which are subject to finance leases, are capitalised and the related depreciation charged to the profit and loss account.
Lease payments are treated as consisting of interest and capital, interest being charged to the profit and loss account over the term of the lease on an actuarial basis.
Rental payments in respect of operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis.
Provision has been established for future anticipated costs related to leased premises no longer occupied by the Group.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 27
