IP Convergence Our IP Convergence solutions enable organisations to achieve productivity enhancements, support mobility and realise infrastructure efficiencies by creating customised business applications that integrate into and take advantage of consolidated voice, fax, video and data IP networks.
IP Telephony Our IP Telephony Solution enables voice, video, faxes and applications to be transported over traditional data networks any IP-based LAN, WAN, Intranet or Internet, eliminating the need for separate voice and data networks.
IP Telephony delivers next generation, standards-based applications that increase productivity and offer advanced services, which the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN cannot provide.
Our IP Telephony solution includes enterprise telephony services as well as pre-packaged XML applications.
IP VPN Our IP Virtual Private Network Solution provides a secure transport layer over physical infrastructure, IP connectivity and routing between physical locations.
By employing innovative and proven technologies, our IP VPN Solution addresses communications provider issues such as the cost oflegacy systems, network growth and service level management.
Multi-Sourcing Multi-Sourcing coordinates a combination of local, onshore and offshore resources to deliver Dimension Data solutions to clients.
By matching resources and locations.
Multi-Sourcing brings together best skills and proven expertise to create competitive advantages for Dimension Data regions and their clients.
Perimeter Security Our perimeter security solution secures the perimeter of an organisations' internal network from unauthorised access and use by external users and applications.
It also enables the organisation to control their employee's access to the external internet.
It is comprised of a firewall, an intrusion detection system, an URL filtering system, a content inspection system, a strong authentication mechanism and a reporting facility which are all integrated into a highly available and scalable system.
Security Our Security solutions and services enable organisations to realise the true value of their information currency, by ensuring it flows in a secure, trusted, and controlled environment without contamination.
Bringing together best-of-breed technologies and extensive expertise, we provide clients with the highest level of security through services ranging from assessment through solution build to operational services.
Service Provider Solutions SPS Our Service Provider Solutions address the technology and business needs of communications service providers and other organisations that manage networks.
These solutions address network build-out and management, operational and business support systems and customer-focused value added services.
Our solutions enable communications service providers to develop more valuable customer interactions and services.
Speech Self-Service Our fully automated speech self-service solutions provides an enhanced user experience by blending speech recognition, speech synthesis, speaker authentication and VoiceXML initiatives.
Surveyor A Surveyor engagement analyses and assesses a specific IT and business environment and provides the client with a report.
Dimension Datas Surveyors can be more business oriented i. e. using a standard approach to gather relevant information which will be analysed by a business analyst and then reported back to the client, or technically focused, i. e. using a suite of technology tools that extracts the raw data and forms the basis of the analysis and the reportback to the client.
Uptime Uptime is Dimension Datas support and maintenance service.
The service consists of different levels of support and hence provides the flexibility to the client on service choices.
Uptime is made up of the following: parts, labour, operations and systems.
VoIP Voice over Internet Protocol.
98 DIMENSION DATA contacts and corporate information Dimension Data Holdings plc Incorporated in Great Britain under the Companies Act 1985 with registered number 3704278 UK Company Secretary South African Company Secretary JM Duck ML Taylor judy.
com Registered Office Head Office Fleet Place House The Wanderers 2 Fleet Place The Campus London EC4M 7RT 57 Sloane Street, Bryanston United Kingdom Sandton, 2125, South Africa Telephone: 27 11 575 0000 Postal Address P O Box 56055 Pinegowrie, 2123, South Africa Auditors Deloitte & Touche 180 Strand London WC2R 1BL United Kingdom UK Transfer Secretaries South African Transfer Secretaries Computershare Investor Services PLC Computershare Investor Services Ltd P O Box 82, The Pavilions 70 Marshall Street Bridgwater Road Johannesburg, 2001, South Africa Bristol BS99 7NH P O Box 61051, Marshalltown, 2107 United Kingdom UK Legal Advisers South African Legal Advisers Linklaters & Alliance Routledge-Modise One Silk Street 2 Pybus Road Cnr Rivonia Road London EC2Y 8HQ Sandton, South Africa United Kingdom UK Investor Relations South African Investor Relations Karen Cramr Bronwyn Goller karen.
com 44 20 7651 7000 27 11 709 1000 Dimension Data Website On-line annual report www.
