Notice of Annual General Meeting 2002 Notice is hereby given that the Annual b for the purposes of paragraph 1 b d the authority hereby conferred shall, General Meeting of DS Smith Plc will be of Article 7 of the Articles of Association unless previously varied, revoked or held at the Great Eastern Hotel, Liverpool of the Company, the nominal amount renewed, expire on 2 March 2004 or, Street, London EC2M 7QN, on Tuesday to which this power is limited other than if earlier, at the conclusion of the next 3 September 2002 at 12 noon to consider in connection with a rights issue is Annual General Meeting of the Company, and, if thought fit, pass the following 1,606,475: save that the Company shall be entitled resolutions, of which resolutions 1 to 7 will under such authority to make at any time be proposed as ordinary resolutions and c this power shall expire on 2 September before the expiry thereof any contract resolutions 8 and 9 will be proposed as 2007 save that the Company shall be to purchase its ordinary shares which will special resolutions: entitled under such authority to honour or might be concluded wholly or partly at any time before expiry thereof any after the expiry of such authority.
1 To receive and adopt the Directors commitment to allot its ordinary shares Report and the financial statements for which will or might be concluded wholly By Order of the Board the year ended 30 April 2002. or partly after the expiry of such authority: and 2 To declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares.
d all previous authorities under Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 be 3 To re-elect Mr A P Hichens as a Director revoked.
Carolyn Cattermole of the Company.
Secretary 9 That in accordance with Article 11 of the 4-16 Artillery Row 4 To re-elect Mr D F Buttfield as a Director Articles of Association of the Company London SW1P 1RZ of the Company.
and the Companies Act 1985, the 15 July 2002 Company is generally and unconditionally 5 To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors authorised to make market purchases of the Company.
within the meaning of the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares of 10p 6 To authorise the Directors to determine each in the capital of the Company the remuneration of the Auditors.
in such manner and on such terms as the Directors may from time to time 7 That: determine provided that: a in accordance with Article 6 of the Articles of Association of the Company, a the maximum number of ordinary the Directors be authorised to allot shares hereby authorised to be purchased relevant securities up to a maximum is 32,129,398 ordinary shares: nominal amount of 8,996,258: b the minimum price which may be b this authority shall expire on paid for each ordinary share is 10p 2 September 2007 save that the exclusive of expenses payable by Company shall be entitled under such the Company : authority to honour at any time before expiry thereof any commitment to allot c the maximum price which may be its ordinary shares which will or might paid for each ordinary share is an amount be concluded wholly or partly after the equal to 105% of the average of the expiry of such authority: and middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock c all previous authorities under Section Exchange Daily Official List for the five 80 of the Companies Act 1985 be business days immediately preceding the revoked.
date of any such purchase exclusive of expenses payable by the Company : and 8 That: a in accordance with Article 7 of the Articles of Association of the Company, the Directors be given power to allot equity securities for cash: 78 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2002 Notes Explanatory Notes on the Resolutions Resolutions 5 and 6: i Only those members registered in the Resolution 1: Reappointment of Auditors Register of Members of the Company Report and financial statements The auditors of a company must be as at 6 pm on 1 September 2002 shall The Directors present to shareholders at reappointed at each general meeting at be entitled to attend and vote at the the AGM the Reports of the Directors and which accounts are presented.
Resolution 5 Meeting in respect of the number Auditors and the financial statements of the proposes the reappointment of the of shares registered in their names Company for the year ended 30 April 2002.
Companys existing Auditors, KPMG Audit at that time.
These are contained in the Annual Report.
Resolution 6 gives authority to the Directors to determine the ii A member entitled to attend and vote Resolution 2: Auditors remuneration.
at the Meeting is entitled to appoint Declaration of a Final Dividend one or more Proxies to attend and, on Final dividends declared by shareholders Resolution 7: a poll, to vote instead of him.
A Proxy must not exceed the amount recommended Directors Authority to Allot Shares need not be a member of the Company.
By passing Resolution 2, Authority was granted to the Directors at shareholders will declare a final dividend.
last years AGM, pursuant to Section 80 iii A Form of Proxy is enclosed.
To be The amount of the final dividend of the Companies Act 1985, to allot shares effective, Forms of Proxy must reach the recommended by the Directors is 6.0p in the Company without the prior consent Registrars at the address shown on the net per ordinary share.
of shareholders for a period of five years.
Form not later than 48 hours before the Resolution 7, which will be proposed as time of the Meeting.
Completion and Resolutions 3 and 4: an ordinary resolution, will, if passed, give return of the Form will not, however, Re-election of Directors.
the Directors renewed authority to allot prevent a member from attending and The Articles of Association of the Company shares up to a maximum nominal value voting at the Meeting.
require that all Directors retire every three of 8,996,258 representing 28% of the years but are eligible to submit themselves issued share capital of the Company at iv Copies of the Directors service for re-election by the shareholders.
The 26 June 2002. contracts with the Company or any of Directors who retire at each AGM are those its subsidiaries, other than contracts who would otherwise have served for over Other than in connection with any exercise expiring, or terminable by the employing three years by the date of the following AGM.
of options under the Groups employee company without compensation, within share option schemes, the Directors have no one year, will be available for inspection Mr Buttfield, Mr Hichens and Mr Williams present intention of exercising the allotment at the registered office of the Company will retire and Mr Buttfield and Mr Hichens authority proposed by this Resolution.
The during normal business hours on any will offer themselves for re-election at authority will expire on 2 September 2007, weekday Saturdays, Sundays and Public this years AGM whilst Mr J P Williams will except in so far as commitments to allot Holidays excepted from the date of this retire at the close of the AGM.
shares have been entered into before that Notice until the conclusion of the date.
It is the present intention of the Meeting and on 3 September 2002 at A short biography of each Director Directors to seek a similar authority annually.
the Great Eastern Hotel, Liverpool Street, appears on page 30 of the Annual Report.
London EC2M 7QN, from 11.45 am Mr Buttfield has a service contract with until the conclusion of the Meeting.
the Company which can be terminated by the Company on giving two years v Mr A P Hichens is a member of the written notice.
Nomination and Audit Committees of the Board.
Mr D F Buttfield is a member of the General Purposes Committee of the Board.
vi The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees will be available to answer relevant questions at the Meeting.
79 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2002 Notice of Annual General Meeting 2002 continued Resolution 8: would be to increase earnings per share, and Important notes about Directors Power to Disapply that the purchases were in the interests of the Annual General Meeting Pre-emption Rights shareholders generally.
The Directors would Date This Resolution, which will be proposed also give careful consideration to gearing Tuesday 3 September 2002. as a special resolution, supplements the levels of the Company and its general Directors authority to allot shares in the financial position.
The purchase price would Location Company proposed by Resolution 7. be paid out of distributable profits.
Any Great Eastern Hotel shares purchased under this authority will be Liverpool Street Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 cancelled and the number of shares in issue London EC2M 7QN.
requires a company proposing to allot will be reduced accordingly.
equity securities for cash to offer them first Timing to existing shareholders pro rata to their Resolution 9 specifies the maximum The Meeting will start promptly at existing shareholdings.
Authority was granted number of shares which may be purchased 12 noon and shareholders wishing to to the Directors at last years AGM and the representing 10% of the Companys issued attend are advised to be in the venue Directors propose to seek shareholders share capital at 30 April 2002, the minimum no later than 11.50 am.
The reception approval to renew this authority, pursuant and maximum prices at which they may be area will be open from 11.30 am, to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985, bought and when the authority will expire, from which time refreshments will to allot such securities, notwithstanding reflecting the requirements of the Companies be served.
the requirement imposed by Section 89, Act 1985 and the Listing Rules of the UK in two cases: Listing Authority.
Travel information See map on the reverse of Admittance Card in connection with a rights issue: and The maximum price at which the shares for the location of the Great Eastern Hotel, may be purchased is 5% above the average and the nearest underground and railway allotments of shares for cash up to of the middle market values of those station.
The venue is less than five minutes a total nominal value of 1,606,475 shares for the five business days before the walk from Liverpool Street station.
There representing 5% of the Companys purchase is made.
are no car parking facilities at the venue.
issued share capital at 26 June 2002.
This gives the Directors flexibility to take Purchases of shares under the proposed Admission advantage of business opportunities authority are required by the UK Listing Please bring the Admittance Card with as they arise, whilst the 5% limit ensures Authority to be made in compliance with you to the Meeting.
You may be asked to that existing shareholders interests are The Model Code for securities transactions show the Card before being admitted to the protected, and is in line with guidelines by directors of listed companies.
Shareholders and proxy holders may issued by institutional investors bodies.
the Company would not exercise the also be required to provide proof of identity.
authority at a time when the Directors would The registration process may take longer This authority will expire on 2 September be precluded from dealing in the Companys without these documents.
2007, except in so far as commitments to shares.
Specifically, purchases would not be allot shares have been entered into before made within the two months preceding the Facilities that date.
It is the present intention of announcement of the interim or final results.
The Great Eastern Hotel has wheelchair the Directors to seek a similar authority This proposal should not be taken as an access.
If you are planning to come to the annually.
indication that the Company would purchase Meeting and are a wheelchair user, it would shares at any particular price or to imply any be helpful if you would telephone the venue Resolution 9: opinion on the part of the Directors as to the in advance on 020 7618 5623.
Companys Authority to market or other value of the Companys Purchase Shares ordinary shares.
Enquiries and questions This Resolution, which will be proposed Shareholders who intend to ask a question as a special resolution, seeks to renew The authority will expire on 2 March 2004 related to the business of the Meeting are the existing authority for the Company or at the conclusion of the next AGM asked to provide their name, address and to purchase its own shares in the market.
It is the present question at the Registration desk.
Staff from This authority gives the Company greater intention of the Directors to seek a similar Lloyds TSB Registrars will be on hand to flexibility in managing its capital resources.
The Directors have no specific intention of using this authority and would do so only when, in the light of market conditions, they believed that the effect of such purchases 80 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2002
