38 Enodis annual report and accounts 2002 Accounting policies Basis of accounting The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention modified to include the revaluation of certain assets and comply in all respects with applicable Accounting Standards in the UK.
The profit for the period on a historical cost basis, excluding the effect of the revaluation of certain assets, was not materially different from the profit reported on page 34.
Basis of consolidation These accounts consolidate the accounts of the Company and all its subsidiary companies and undertakings subsidiary entities made up to the period end.
The results of the subsidiary entities are included in the Group profit and loss account from the date of acquisition to the date of disposal.
Investments a Subsidiary entities In the accounts of the Company, up to 2 October 1999, investments in subsidiary entities were valued at cost plus post-acquisition retained profits, unless there was evidence of an impairment in value in which case the lower value is adopted.
The valuations have not been updated since 2 October 1999.
Following the corporate restructuring described on page 48, investments are now held at cost less permanent diminution in value.
b Other fixed asset investments These are shown at cost less amounts written off.
Income is recognised upon receipt.
Acquisitions and disposals On the acquisition of a business, including an interest in an associated undertaking, fair values are attributed to the Groups share of net separable assets.
Where the cost of the assets exceeds the fair values attributable to such net assets, the difference is treated as purchased goodwill.
Following the implementation of FRS10, goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries is capitalised in the Group balance sheet in the year of acquisition.
Goodwill arising on associates is included with the carrying value of the associate.
Goodwill and intangible fixed assets Goodwill arising on acquisitions has been capitalised and is amortised over a period of 20 years: the Directors regard 20 years as a reasonable maximum for the estimated useful life of goodwill since it is difficult to make projections exceeding this period.
When it is apparent that the carrying value of goodwill exceeds the estimated net present value of future cash flows less operating assets, an impairment provision is charged against the profit for the period.
FRS10 does not require reinstatement of goodwill previously eliminated against reserves: in accordance with FRS10 such goodwill has been offset against the profit and loss account reserves.
Goodwill previously taken to reserves is charged in the profit and loss account when the related business is sold.
Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less depreciation.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write-off the cost or valuation of each asset, predominantly on a straight line basis, over its expected useful life as follows: Freehold land: nil.
Freehold and long leasehold buildings: 1%2%.
Short leasehold properties: over the unexpired period of the lease.
Leases Assets acquired under finance leases are capitalised and depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and the expected useful life of the asset.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
Stocks Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost of work-in-progress and finished goods includes an appropriate portion of manufacturing overheads.
Turnover Turnover is the invoiced value of sales excluding value added tax.
Research and development Research and development expenditure is written off as it is incurred.
Taxation Corporation tax payable is provided on taxable profits at the current rate.
Credit is taken for Advance Corporation Tax written-off in previous years when it is recoverable against current corporation tax liabilities.
Deferred taxation is provided on timing differences that result in obligations at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based on current tax rates and law.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from those in which they are included in financial statements.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised in full.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is considered more likely than not that the asset will be recovered.
No provision has been made for any potential taxation liability that would arise were the earnings of foreign subsidiary entities to be remitted to the UK Pension costs It is the general policy of the Group to fund pension liabilities, on the advice of professionally qualified actuaries, by payments to independent trusts or to insurance companies.
Independent actuaries valuations are carried out at regular intervals, on a projected unit funding or attained age basis.
In addition, the impact of any significant related events, such as major changes in stock market values, are assessed through a formal review process.
Charges in respect of defined benefit schemes are made to the profit and loss account so as to spread the costs of pensions at a substantially level percentage of payroll costs over employees estimated service lives within the Group.
Contributions to defined contribution schemes are charged to the profit and loss account on a payment basis.
Foreign currency translation Translation differences arising from exchange rate variations on trading transactions are included in operating profit.
Overseas profits remitted to the United Kingdom during the period are dealt with at actual rates of exchange.
The balance sheets of overseas subsidiary entities are translated into sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the year end.
Profit and loss accounts are translated at the average rate for the month in which the profits were earned.
Differences arising from the restatement of opening foreign currency net investments and net overseas profits or losses are dealt with through reserves, as are differences on long-term foreign currency borrowings used to finance overseas investment.
Other translation differences are dealt with in the profit and loss account.
