NOTICE OF MEETING Notice is hereby given that the Annual General 7.
THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 6, Meeting of Enterprise Inns plc will be held at the the directors be and they are hereby offices of the Company, Enterprise Inns plc, empowered pursuant to section 95 of the Act 3 Monkspath Hall Road, Solihull, West Midlands, to allot equity securities within the meaning B90 4SJ at 11.00 a. m. on Thursday, 23 January 2003 of section 94 of the Act for cash pursuant to for the following purposes: the authority conferred by the previous resolution as if section 89 1 of the Act did 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors Report and the audited financial statements for the not apply to any such allotment, provided year ended 30 September 2002. that this power shall be limited: 2.
a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an issue or offer by 3.
To re-elect Mr H V Reid as a director of the way of rights or other pre-emptive Company.
issue open for acceptance for a period 4.
To re-elect Mr G W Harrison as a director of fixed by the directors, to holders of the Company.
ordinary shares on the register on any 5.
To reappoint Messrs Ernst & Young LLP as record date fixed by the directors in auditors and to authorise the directors to fix proportion to their holdings of the remuneration of the auditors.
ordinary shares subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as Ordinary Resolution the directors may deem necessary or To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution which will be proposed as an ordinary expedient in relation to fractional resolution: entitlements or legal or practical problems arising under the laws of, or 6.
THAT the directors be and are hereby the requirements of, any regulatory generally and unconditionally authorised in body or stock exchange in any substitution for all subsisting authorities to territory or otherwise howsoever : and the extent unused pursuant to and in accordance with section 80 of the Companies b to the allotment, otherwise than Act 1985 the Act to allot relevant pursuant to sub-paragraph a above, securities as defined in that section up to an of equity securities having, in the case aggregate nominal amount of 5,658,249 of relevant shares, an aggregate provided that this authority shall expire, nominal value or, in the case of other unless previously renewed, revoked or varied equity securities, giving the right to by the Company in general meeting, fifteen months after the passing of this resolution, or, subscribe for or convert into relevant if earlier, at the conclusion of the Annual shares having a nominal sum not General Meeting next following the passing exceeding in aggregate the sum of of this resolution save that, before such 848,737, expiry, the Company may make any offer or and shall expire, unless previously renewed, agreement which would or might require revoked or varied by the Company in general relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and notwithstanding such expiry, the meeting, at such time as the general authority directors may allot relevant securities in conferred on the directors by resolution 6 pursuance of any such offer or agreement.
expires, save that, before the expiry of such power, the Company may make any offer or Special Resolutions agreement which would or might require To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following equity securities to be allotted after such resolutions which will be proposed as special resolutions: expiry and the directors may allot equity 52 ENTERPRISE INNS ANNUAL REPORT 2002 NOTICE OF MEETING securities in pursuance of such an offer or Notes agreement as if the power conferred hereby 1.
A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at had not expired.
the meeting may appoint one or more 8 THAT the Company be authorised to make proxies to attend and on a poll vote instead market purchases as defined in section 163 of him.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of of the Act in accordance with the provisions the Company.
The form of proxy and power of attorney or ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the other authority if any under which it is capital of the Company at prices not less than signed, or a notarially certified copy of such 10 pence per share nor more than a price per power of attorney, must be deposited at the share being not more than 5% above the offices of the Companys registrars, average of the middle market quotations Computershare Investor Services PLC, taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Registrars Department, PO Box 1075, Official List for the five business days before The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, the purchase is made, such authority to BS99 3FA, by not later than 11.00 a. m. on expire on the date being eighteen months Tuesday 21 January 2003.
A form of proxy is after the date of this resolution, or, if earlier, at set out at the end of this document for use by the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting shareholders.
of the Company in 2004 but so that the Company may, pursuant to the authority 3.
Completion and return of a form of proxy granted by this resolution, enter into a will not preclude a shareholder from contract to purchase such shares which attending and voting at the meeting.
would or might be executed wholly or partly 4.
Copies of the directors service contracts and after such expiry.
the register of directors shareholdings are available for inspection during usual business hours on any weekday public holidays By order of the Board Registered Office: excepted at the Companys registered office D C George 3 Monkspath Hall Road Secretary Solihull and they will also be available at the place of 26 November 2002 West Midlands the Annual General Meeting from fifteen B90 4SJ minutes prior to the meeting until its close.
As permitted by Regulation 41 of the To Birmingham Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, only those shareholders who are registered on the Companys share register at 11.00 a. m. Enterprise Inns plc 3 Monkspath Hall Road A34 on Tuesday 21 January 2003, shall be entitled to attend the Annual General Meeting and Approx Birmingham vote in respect of the number of shares 1 2 mile International Airport To Solihull & Railway Station NEC registered in their names at that time.
M42 M42 Changes to entries on the share register after J4 J5 J6 11.00 a. m. on Tuesday 21 January 2003 shall M40 be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and or vote at the To London To Stratford South Upon Avon Annual General Meeting.
Light refreshments tea, coffee and biscuits will be available prior to the meeting.
