Please indicate with a cross in the relevant box how you wish your votes to be cast.
On receipt of this Form of Proxy duly signed but without specific directions, the proxy will vote or abstain at his discretion.
To receive and adopt the Directors Report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2002.
To re-elect Mr H V Reid as a director.
To re-elect Mr G W Harrison as a director.
To reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration.
To give authority to the directors to allot shares.
To approve the disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights.
To authorise the directors to approve purchases of own shares by the Company.
A shareholder who wishes to appoint a proxy of his own choice should delete the words the Chairman of the meeting and complete, in the space provided above, the name and address of the person so appointed.
2 Any alteration to this form of proxy should be initialled.
To be valid, this form of proxy and the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed, or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority, must be deposited at the office of the registrars of the Company, Computershare Investor Services PLC, PO Box 1075, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 3FA, by not later than 11.00 a. m. on 21 January 2003.
In the case of joint holders, this form of proxy may be signed by any one of such joint holders, but the names of all the joint holders must be stated.
The vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, will be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority will be determined by the order in which the names stand in the register of members in respect of the joint holding.
If the shareholder is a corporation, this form of proxy should be executed either under its common seal or under the hand of its attorney or an officer duly authorised for that purpose.
The completion and return of this form of proxy will not prevent a shareholder from attending the meeting and voting in person.
55 ENTERPRISE INNS ANNUAL REPORT 2002 Second fold BUSINESS REPLY SERVICE Licence No.
SWB 1002 2 2 Computershare Investor Services PLC PO Box 1075 BRISTOL BS99 3FA Third fold and tuck in flap opposite First fold Saxon, Shirley Five minutes from our head office, this former Scottish & Newcastle originally Greenalls community pub has been completely refurbished and upgraded, to build on the hugely popular local franchise developed by ex-managers and licensees, Malcolm and Gerry Robinson.
Mayflower, Lymington Forming part of the Laurel Pub Partnerships acquisition, the Mayflower occupies a superb location in Lymington Yacht Haven.
Under licensee Chris Troup, the pub has undergone a 250,000 transformation to create a high quality bar and restaurant with six en-suite rooms.
Turnover has more than doubled since the refurbishment.
The Company continues to invest substantial capital, alongside our licensees, to further enhance the estate quality.
Airman, Feltham A former managed house, the Airman is now being operated by the Top Dog Pub Company on a 21 year lease.
Following a major refurbishment at their own expense, Top Dog have created a high quality community local which is proving highly successful.
Castle, Tonbridge Acquired in 2001, the Castle is situated on Tonbridge High Street and faced stiff competition from several branded managed houses.
Over 100,000 has been invested to Ruby Lounge, London create a light stylish venue, with the result that beer The London Bar Company created the Ruby bar concept volumes have more than doubled since the refurbishment.
and have three Enterprise sites in central London.
The Ruby Lounge is the latest addition to their portfolio, where a 200,000 refurbishment scheme has transformed this former karaoke bar into a highly popular music and DJ venue.
Enterprise Inns plc 3 Monkspath Hall Road, Solihull, West Midlands, B90 4SJ Tel: 44 0 121 733 7700 Fax: 44 0 121 733 6447 www.
