EXPLANATORY NOTES TO THE NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The notice of the Annual General Meeting to be held Resolution 7 on Thursday, 23 January 2003 is set out on pages 52 Disapplication of statutory pre-emption and 53.
The following notes provide an explanation rights as to why the resolutions set out in the notice are to This resolution contains an authority for the be put to shareholders.
directors to allot shares without regard to the statutory pre-emption rights in relation to future Resolution 1 offers of securities, and for issues of up to 5 per cent Adoption of accounts of the amount of the issued share capital of the English company law requires the directors present Company as at the date of this Notice.
The directors the accounts to a general meeting of the consider this necessary in order to give them shareholders.
flexibility to deal with opportunities as they arise, subject to the restrictions as contained in the Resolution 2 resolution.
Declaration of final dividend An interim dividend of 4.7 pence net has already Resolution 8 been paid in respect of the 2001 2002 financial year.
Purchase of own shares by the Company The directors are recommending a final dividend of This resolution grants the Company authority for a 9.4 pence net per ordinary share, payable on period of up to 18 months to buy its own shares in 24 January 2003 to shareholders on the register as at the market, limits the number of shares which could 31 December 2002.
The final dividend will not be be purchased to up to 14.99 per cent of its issued paid without shareholder approval.
share capital and sets minimum and maximum prices.
This authority would only be exercised if Resolutions 3 and 4 market conditions made it advantageous to do so.
Re-election of directors The effect of any such purchases would be to reduce Under the Companys Articles of Association, onethe number of shares in issue and the directors third of the directors must retire each year although would accordingly make such purchases after they may offer themselves for re-election.
considering the effect on earnings per share and the Accordingly, Mr H V Reid and Mr G W Harrison are benefits for shareholders generally.
As was the case in retiring and seeking re-election.
the previous financial year, the Company has decided to obtain maximum flexibility by seeking to buy up Resolution 5 to 14.99 per cent of its issued share capital.
Auditors By this resolution, the Companys auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, seek reappointment and the directors are seeking shareholder approval to determine the amount of their fees.
Resolution 6 Authority to the directors to allot shares Under the Companies Act 1985 section 80, the directors of a company may only allot shares if authorised to do so.
This resolution gives the directors authority to allot shares.
Passing this resolution will continue the directors flexibility to act in the best interests of shareholders, when opportunities arise, by issuing new shares.
The directors will be able to issue new shares up to a nominal value of 5,658,249, which is equal to approximately one-third of the issued share capital of the Company as at the date of this Notice.
