Exel plc Annual report 2002 60 Financials Accounting policies A summary of the more important creditors relating to such transactions are The carrying values of tangible fixed accounting policies adopted by the Group included in the group balance sheet.
assets are reviewed for impairment if is set out below.
The policies are consistent circumstances indicate that they may not with the previous year, except for the Goodwill berecoverable.
adoption of FRS 19 Deferred tax.
The Purchased goodwill is capitalised and phased transitional disclosure requirements amortised by equal annual instalments Leased assets of FRS 17 Retirement benefits have been through the profit and loss account over its Assets held under finance leases are included in these financial statements.
estimated life of up to 20 years.
The carrying capitalised and treated as tangible fixed value of goodwill is reviewed for impairment assets at fair value.
Depreciation is charged The impact of adopting FRS 19 has been to at the end of the first full year after an over the shorter of the lease period or the increase deferred tax assets within debtors: acquisition and at other times if circumstances useful life of the asset.
The deemed capital amounts falling due after more than one indicate that it may not be recoverable.
The element of future rentals is included in year by 13.4m, decrease provisions for Groups policy up to 1 January 1998 was to borrowings.
Deemed interest, calculated on liabilities and charges by 4.4m, and increase eliminate goodwill arising on acquisitions the reducing balance method, is charged as reserves by 17.8m at 1 January 2001 against reserves.
Under the provisions of interest payable over the period of the lease.
The impact of this FRS 10 such goodwill will remain written off Operating lease rentals are charged against change in accounting policy on tax on profit to reserves until disposal or termination of operating profit as incurred.
on ordinary activities for both the current the previously acquired business, when the and previous year was immaterial.
profit or loss on the disposal or termination Investments will be calculated after charging the gross The Groups investment in associated Basis of consolidation amount of any such goodwill.
undertakings and joint ventures is its The group financial statements consolidate interest in their net assets plus loans.
Other the results and financial position of the Tangible fixed assets and depreciation investments are stated at cost less provision Company and its subsidiary undertakings Fixed assets are stated at cost less for impairment.
and include, using the equity method of depreciation and provision for impairment.
accounting, the Groups share of associated Cost includes interest on the funding of Investment in own shares and joint venture undertakings, the financial major assets until the construction of the Investments in own shares, held through statements for all of which are made up to asset is complete.
The Groups minimum various trusts, are shown as fixed asset 31 December.
Their results are included for unavoidable cost in relation to landfill site investments in accordance with FRS 5 and the period during which they are members restoration is capitalised as a fixed asset.
Investments are stated at cost less of the Group.
The financial statements are accumulated amortisation, unless there is prepared under the going concern concept Depreciation of tangible fixed assets seen to have been a permanent diminution and the historical cost convention and are excluding freehold and long leasehold land in value when the investments are written in accordance with applicable UK and assets in course of construction, which down to realisable value.
are not depreciated is charged evenly over their estimated useful lives as follows: The Group has taken advantage of the Turnover exemption in UITF 17 from applying that Turnover comprises the value of charges Freehold and long Abstract to Inland Revenue approved SAYE for the sale of services and goods to third leasehold buildings 35 to 50 years.
schemes or equivalent overseas schemes.
Turnover is recognised when Short leasehold land services have been completed.
Turnover and buildings over the life of Under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, excludes value added tax and equivalent thelease.
shares in the Company are held in trust taxes, duty and other disbursements made Landfill sites over the operational pending vesting of any awards.
The cost of on behalf of customers and intercompany life of the site.
the shares acquired by the trustees for the transactions.
Plant and equipment 2 to 20 years.
LTIP is charged to the profit and loss account based on an assessment of the probability Logistics contracts Assets that are not expected to be held for of the performance conditions of the LTIP Under certain logistics contracts the Group the whole of their useful lives are written being met.
The charge is allocated on a purchases goods from third parties on down to estimated residual values at disposal.
straight line basis over the performance instructions from customers and sells them period of the LTIP.
to those customers at cost.
The Group Disposals of land and buildings are taken receives income for handling and storing into account when a binding contract to sell Stocks the goods but as the sale and purchase of has been entered into prior to the balance Stocks, principally raw materials and the goods have no impact on operating sheet date, provided that the disposal has consumables, are stated at the lower of profit they are excluded from turnover and been completed before the financial cost and net realisable value.
Stocks, debtors and statements are approved.
Exel plc Annual report 2002 Financials 61 Deferred taxation Foreign currency translation by converting a variable rate to a fixed rate Deferred taxation is provided in full on all All transactions denominated in foreign or vice versa.
Interest rate swaps are not timing differences which have originated currencies are translated at the rate of revalued to fair value or shown on the but not reversed at the balance sheet date exchange on the day the transaction occurs group balance sheet at the year end, except where an event has occurred that results or at the contracted rate if the transaction for FRS 13 disclosures note 20.
The results in an obligation to pay more tax, or a right is covered by forward foreign currency of interest rate hedges are released to the to pay less tax, in the future, except that: contracts.
Assets and liabilities denominated profit and loss account over the life of the a no provision is made in respect of the in foreign currencies are translated at the hedging instrument.
If they are terminated unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries, exchange rate ruling on the balance sheet early, the gain or loss is spread over the associates and joint ventures unless dividends date or if appropriate at a forward foreign remaining maturity of the original instrument have been accrued as receivable: and currency contract rate.
Exchange differences where the original instrument or a similar b no provision is made where fixed assets arising on foreign currency transactions are replacement exists.
are sold and it is more likely than not that included in the profit and loss account.
the resulting taxable gain will be rolled over, being charged to tax only if and when the The results and cash flows of overseas replacement assets are sold.
subsidiary and associated undertakings and joint ventures are translated at average rates Deferred tax is provided at the rates expected of exchange for the year.
The assets and to apply in the accounting periods in which liabilities of subsidiary undertakings and the the underlying timing differences are investments in associated undertakings and expected to reverse.
Deferred tax balances joint ventures are translated at rates ruling are not discounted.
on the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on translation of the Pensions net investment in overseas subsidiary and The Group maintains UK and overseas associated undertakings and joint ventures defined benefit pension schemes for the are dealt with through reserves, together funding of retirement benefits for scheme with exchange differences on the translation members during their working lives in order of foreign currency borrowings and forward to pay benefits to them after retirement and foreign currency contracts used to hedge to their dependants after their death.
cost of providing these benefits is assessed by external professional actuaries and is Derivatives and other financial charged to the group profit and loss account instruments so as to spread the cost of retirement benefits The Group uses instruments to hedge the over the period during which the employer risks associated with interest rates, foreign derives benefit from the employees services.
currency cash flows, and overseas net For defined contribution schemes, costs are assets.
Financial instruments, principally charged to operating profit as incurred.
The forward exchange contracts, are stated at Group does not maintain any other postfair value at the balance sheet date.
or losses on hedges are recognised in the period to which they relate.
Insurance provisions The Group maintains insurance policies with Currency hedges taken out to hedge cash significant excesses, below which claims are flows are matched to the cash flows and are borne by the Group.
Full provision is made included in the profit and loss account.
for the estimated costs of claims or losses arising from past events falling outside the Gains and losses on hedging overseas net limits of these policies, based on advice from assets, together with the related tax where the Groups external insurance advisers.
applicable, are taken to reserves and included in the statement of total recognised gains Surplus properties and losses.
When properties become surplus to requirements, a provision for holding Interest rate hedges primarily interest rate costs through to estimated disposal swaps and forward rate agreements are dates is charged to the group profit and related to a financial asset or liability and loss account.
change the character of the interest rate
