Accounting Policies Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis of accounting and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards.
Consolidation The financial statements consolidate the results and net assets of the company and all of its subsidiaries.
Sales Sales represents amounts receivable, excluding value added tax and overseas sales taxes, in respect of goods provided in the ordinary course of business.
Research and development expenditure Research and development expenditure is charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
Operating leases Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Share compensation Share compensation due to employees is charged to the profit and loss account over the vesting period of the shares.
Debt issue costs Costs incurred in issuing debt are amortised over the term of the loan.
Government grants Government grants which are related to revenue expenditure are recognised in the profit and loss account so as to match the expenditure to which they relate.
Capital grants are shown as deferred income and credited to the profit and loss account over the expected useful economic life of the related asset in line with the depreciation policy set out below.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised in the consolidated balance sheet as intangible fixed assets.
Goodwill is amortised in equal instalments over the lower of 20 years or its estimated useful life.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at the end of the first full financial year following the acquisition, and in other periods if there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Goodwill that arose on acquisitions prior to 1 June 1998 was set off directly against reserves.
This goodwill will be taken into account in the event that these businesses are disposed.
22 Annual Report 2002 Accounting Policies Tangible fixed assets Fixed assets are included in the financial statements at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is provided in order to write off the cost of tangible fixed assets in equal instalments over their useful lives as follows: Freehold land Not depreciated Freehold buildings 50 years Plant and machinery 310 years Fixtures and fittings 710 years Motor vehicles 35 years The carrying values of tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment if there are indications that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
Stocks and work in progress Stocks and work in progress are stated at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value.
Cost comprises the weighted average cost of raw materials and components together with direct labour and attributable overheads.
Estimated net realisable value is based on the estimated selling price less further costs expected to be incurred to completion and sale.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax is recognised as a liability or an asset if the transactions or events that give rise to an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is not provided on unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries where there is no commitment to remit these earnings.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Foreign currency The financial statements of overseas subsidiaries are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Currency exchange movements arising on overseas subsidiaries net assets, long term intra group loans and intra group dividends are taken directly to reserves.
Sales and purchases in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the time of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the year end rate of exchange.
Currency exchange movements are included in the profit and loss account for the year, except for those arising on long term loans.
The currency exchange movements on long term loans are taken directly to reserves to the extent that they are offset by the currency exchange movements arising on the net assets of overseas subsidiaries and long term intra group loans that they finance.
Any currency exchange movements which are not offset are included in the profit and loss account for the year.
Pension schemes The company operates a defined benefits pension scheme for United Kingdom employees.
The contributions to the scheme are charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the cost over the employees working lives with the company.
The companys overseas subsidiaries operate defined contribution pension schemes for their employees.
Contributions are charged to the profit and loss account as they become payable.
