702350 pp52-pp57 22 4 03 4:50 pm Page 52 52 Alfred McAlpine PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Accounting policies Basis of accounting and consolidation The Group accounts are prepared on the historical cost basis except for the revaluation of certain tangible fixed assets and include the financial statements of the Company and all of its subsidiary undertakings made up to 31st December, together with the Groups share of the results up to 31st December of: i Joint ventures A joint venture is an entity in which the Group holds a long-term interest and which is jointly controlled by the Group and one or more other venturers under a contractual arrangement.
The results of joint ventures are accounted for using the gross equity method of accounting.
ii Associates An associate is an entity in which the Group holds a long-term interest and over whose operating and financial policies the Group exercises a significant influence.
The results of associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting in accordance with FRS 9. iii Joint arrangements that are not entities The Group has certain contractual arrangements with other participants to engage in joint activities that do not create an entity carrying on a trade or business of its own.
The Group includes its share of assets, liabilities and cash flows in such joint arrangements, measured in accordance with the terms of each arrangement, which is usually pro-rata to the Groups interest in the risks in the joint arrangement.
Any subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures, associates and joint arrangements that are not entities sold or acquired during the year are included up to, or from, the dates of change of control.
Accounting standards The Group has adopted UITF 34 Pre-contract costs and FRS 19 Deferred Tax in these financial statements.
The adoption of these standards gives rise to changes in accounting policy and the comparative figures have been restated accordingly.
Details of the effect of adopting UITF 34 and FRS 19 are given in note 22.
The Group has adopted the transitional provisions of FRS 17 Retirement Benefits.
Turnover and profit recognition Turnover comprises the value of work performed, goods sold and services provided outside the Group excluding Value Added Tax.
Amounts in respect of contracts included in turnover, net of payments received on account, are shown in debtors as amounts recoverable on contracts.
Cash received in excess of the value of work done is shown in creditors as payments on account.
An appropriate proportion of the anticipated contract profit is recognised in the profit and loss account.
Provision is made for anticipated contract losses.
Pre-contract costs incurred before it is virtually certain that a contract will be awarded are charged to the profit and loss account.
Once virtually certain of contract award, costs are held as amounts recoverable on contracts and form part of the accounting for the contract as a whole.
Depreciation Depreciation, based on estimated useful lives, is charged on a straight line basis as follows: freehold properties 2% per annum: leasehold properties over the lease term: plant and equipment at rates between 10% and 33% per annum.
Slate reserves minerals are depreciated by reference to production, where the quarry life is less than ten years.
Stocks Stock and work in progress, including land held for and in the course of development, is valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes, where appropriate, labour and production overheads.
Deferred taxation Full provision is made at anticipated rates for taxation deferred as a result of the pensions prepayment, accelerated capital allowances and other timing differences.
No provision is made for UK or overseas taxation that might become payable on the remittance of profits from overseas.
Rates of exchange Profit and loss accounts of overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling at average rates of exchange for the year.
Assets and liabilities are translated into sterling at the closing rate of exchange.
The difference arising from the re-translation at the closing rate of the opening net assets and the retained profits and losses for the current year, is taken to reserves.
Financial instruments Foreign currency assets and liabilities covered by forward contracts are translated at the contract rates of exchange.
Other assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated at closing rates.
Pensions The Group operates nine defined contribution pension schemes.
The contributions paid by the Group and the employees are invested within the individual pension funds in the month following the month of deduction.
The employer contribution rates are determined by reference to either an age or service related scale or are at a fixed, level percentage.
The amount contributed by the Group is charged to the profit and loss account as the contributions fall due.
The Group also operates a defined benefit pension scheme and participates in the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme ESPS.
Both of these schemes are administered by trustees, the funds being independent of the Groups finances and not included in the Group accounts.
Each scheme is valued by an independent actuary at least every three years, and funded by contributions from both the Group and employees at rates determined on the advice of the actuary.
Contributions to the schemes are charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the cost of pensions over employees service lives within the Group.
Leases and hire purchase contracts Rentals under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Assets held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are included in fixed assets and capital elements of the commitments are shown as obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts.
Payments are treated as consisting of capital and interest elements.
The capital element is applied to reduce the outstanding obligations and the interest element is charged against profit in proportion to the reducing capital element outstanding.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the lease terms and their useful lives.
Operating lease income is credited to the profit and loss account as it is earned.
Purchased goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration for shares in subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates over the fair value to the Group of the net assets acquired.
i To 31st December, 1997: Goodwill was written off to reserves in the year of acquisition.
The profit or loss on the disposal of a business acquired before 31st December, 1997 takes into account the attributable value of purchased goodwill relating to that business.
ii From 1st January, 1998: Goodwill has been recognised within fixed assets in the year in which it arises and amortised on a straight line basis over its useful economic life.
Negative goodwill represents the excess of the fair value to the Group of net assets acquired over the fair value of purchase consideration and is amortised over the periods in which the underlying assets to which it relates are recovered.
