GlaxoSmithKline 153 Shareholder information Ordinary shares Annual General Meeting 2003 The company's shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, 19th May 2003 Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, Registrar London SW1P 3EE The company's share register is administered by Lloyds TSB Registrars, who also provide the following services: The Annual General Meeting is the company's principal forum for communication with private shareholders.
In addition to the formal GlaxoSmithKline Investment Plan resolutions to be put to the meeting, there will be a presentation The plan enables shareholders to reinvest quarterly dividends by the Chief Executive Officer on the performance of the business and or make monthly investments in the company's ordinary and its future development.
There will be opportunity for questions shares using a special dealing arrangement.
to the Board, and the Chairmen of the Board's committees will GlaxoSmithKline Individual Savings Account take questions on matters relating to those committees.
The GlaxoSmithKline Individual Savings Account ISA is a Investors holding shares in the company through a nominee service tax-efficient way to invest in the company's ordinary shares.
should arrange with that nominee service to be appointed as a GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Sponsored Nominee corporate representative or proxy in respect of their shareholding The corporate sponsored nominee provides a facility for in order to attend and vote at the meeting.
shareholders to hold shares without the need for share ADR holders wishing to attend the meeting must obtain a proxy certificates.
Shareholders' details will not be held on the main from The Bank of New York which will enable them to attend the share register, and so will remain confidential.
meeting and vote on the business to be transacted.
ADR holders Shareview service may instruct The Bank of New York as to how the shares The shareview portfolio service provides shareholders with represented by their ADRs should be voted by completing and information on their investment in the company.
Shareholders returning the voting card provided by The Bank of New York in may register for this service at www.
accordance with the instructions given.
Share dealing facility Financial reporting NatWest Stockbrokers Limited offers a share-dealing service on Financial reporting calendar 2003 behalf of the company to shareholders wishing to buy or sell the Announcement of 1st Quarter Results 30th April 2003 company's shares.
Announcement of 2nd Quarter Results 23rd July 2003 Share price information Announcement of 3rd Quarter Results 22nd October 2003 Share price information is available on the company's website at Preliminary Announcement of Annual Results 12th February 2004 www.
Information is also available on Ceefax, Teletext, Publication of Annual Report Review March 2004 and from FT Cityline by calling 0906 003 5694 or 0906 843 5694 calls charged at 60p a minute plus VAT at all times.
Results Announcements The Results Announcements are issued to the London Stock American Depositary Shares Exchange LSE, and made available on the LSE news service, and The company's shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange at the same time, or shortly afterwards, are issued to the media, in the form of American Depositary Shares ADSs and these are are made available on the website and are filed in the USA with evidenced by American Depositary Receipts ADRs, each one of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock which represents two ordinary shares.
ADR programme administrator Financial reports The ADR programme is administered by The Bank of New York, The company publishes an Annual Report and, for the investor not who also provide the following service: needing the full detail of the Report, an Annual Review.
These are Global BuyDIRECT available from the date of publication on the GlaxoSmithKline Global BuyDIRECT is a direct ADS purchase sale and dividend website.
reinvestment plan for ADR holders.
The Annual Review is sent to all shareholders on the date of publication.
Shareholders may elect to receive also the Report by Publications writing to the companys registrars.
Alternatively shareholders may elect to receive notification by email of the publication of financial This year GlaxoSmithKline has again produced a separate report reports by registering on www.
covering the Groups contribution to society.
The 2002 Corporate and Social Responsibility Report covers the issues that are of Copies of previous financial reports are available on the company's primary interest to stakeholders, including the contribution to website.
Printed copies can be obtained from the registrar in the society, business ethics and integrity, access to medicines, R&D, UK and from the Customer Response Center in the USA.
community investment, the environment and health and safety.
The report is available from the Secretariat at the companys head office and the website at www.
