156 GlaxoSmithKline Taxation information for shareholders Information for shareholders US shareholders A summary of the principal tax consequences for holders of The following is a summary of certain United Kingdom taxation shares and ADRs who are citizens or residents of the United and United States federal income tax considerations that may be Kingdom or the United States is set out below.
It is not a relevant to a US holder of shares or ADRs.
This summary only complete analysis of all the possible tax consequences of applies to a shareholder that holds shares or ADRs as capital purchase or ownership of these securities.
assets, is a citizen or resident of the United States or a domestic corporation or that is otherwise subject to United States federal Shareholders who are subject to special rules or who are in any income taxation on a net income basis in respect of the shares or doubt about their taxation position should consult their own ADRs, and is not resident in the United Kingdom for UK tax professional advisors.
purposes and does not hold shares for the purposes of a trade, The new UK US Income Tax Convention was signed on profession or vocation that is carried on in the United Kingdom 24th July 2001.
However no date has yet been set for ratification.
The statements regarding the United Kingdom and the United States tax laws and practices set out below are based on those Taxation of dividends laws and practices in force on the date of this report.
The gross amount of dividends received including amounts in respect of associated tax credit and UK withholding tax is treated US holders of ADRs generally will be treated as the owners of the as foreign source dividend income for US tax purposes.
It is not underlying shares for the purposes of the current United eligible for the dividend received deduction allowed to US States United Kingdom double taxation conventions relating to corporations.
Dividends on ADRs are payable in US Dollars: income and gains Income Tax Convention, estate and gift taxes dividends on shares are payable in pounds Sterling.
Dividends Estate and Gift Tax Convention and for the purposes of the US paid in pounds Sterling will be included in income in the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended the Code.
Dollar amount calculated by reference to the exchange rate on The following analysis deals with dividends paid after the day the dividends are received by the holder.
Advance Corporation Tax ACT was abolished for benefits under the current income tax convention between for dividends paid on or after that date.
the United States and the United Kingdom, they may be eligible, subject to generally applicable limitations, to receive a special US UK shareholders foreign tax credit equal to one-ninth of the amount of cash dividends that they receive on the shares, so long as they make Taxation of dividends an election to include in their income, as an additional notional From 6th April 1999, the rate of tax credits was reduced to one dividend, an amount equal to the tax credit.
As a result of compensating reductions in the rate of tax tax position will determine whether effective use can be made of on dividend income, there is no increase in the tax borne by UK special US foreign tax credits against the US tax liability.
Tax credits are, however, no longer repayable to shareholders with a tax liability of less than From 6th April 1999, the rate of tax credits was reduced to one the associated tax credit.
ninth and ACT was abolished.
Consequently, claims for refunds of tax credits on dividends paid on or after this date are now of Taxation of capital gains negligible benefit to US shareholders.
UK shareholders may be liable for UK tax on gains on the disposal of shares or ADRs.
They may also be entitled to Taxation of capital gains indexation relief and taper relief on such sales.
Indexation relief is Generally, US holders will not be subject to UK capital gains tax, calculated on the market value of shares at 31st March 1982 and but will be subject to US tax on capital gains realised on the sale on the cost of any subsequent purchases from the date of such or other disposal of shares or ADRs.
Indexation relief for individual shareholders ceased on Estate and gift taxes 5th April 1998.
Taper relief is available to individual shareholders Under the Estate and Gift Tax Convention, a US shareholder is who hold or are deemed to hold shares for at least three years not generally subject to UK inheritance tax.
Inheritance tax Stamp duty Individual shareholders may be liable to inheritance tax on the UK stamp duty or, as the case may be, SDRT will, subject to transfer of shares or ADRs.
This tax may be charged on the certain exemptions, be payable on any issue or transfer of shares amount by which the value of the shareholder's estate is reduced to the ADR custodian or depository at a rate of 1.5 per cent of as a result of any transfer by way of gift or other disposal at less their price if issued, the amount of any consideration provided than full market value.
Exceptionally, such a gift or other disposal if transferred on sale, or their value if transferred for no is subject to both UK inheritance tax and US estate or gift tax.
The Estate and Gift Tax Convention would generally provide for No SDRT would be payable on the transfer of an ADR.
No UK tax paid in the United States to be credited against tax payable in stamp duty should be payable on the transfer of an ADR provided the United Kingdom.
that the instrument of transfer is executed and remains at all times outside the UK.
Any stamp duty on the transfer of an ADR Stamp duty would be payable at a rate of 0.5 per cent of the consideration UK stamp duty or, as the case may be, stamp duty reserve tax for the transfer.
Any sale of the underlying shares would result in SDRT will, subject to certain exemptions, be payable on the liability to UK stamp duty or, as the case may be, SDRT at a rate purchase of shares at a rate of 0.5 per cent of the purchase price.
There is a minimum charge of 5 where a stamp There is a minimum charge of 5 where a stamp duty liability duty liability arises.
GlaxoSmithKline 157 Cross reference to Form 20-F This table has been provided as a cross reference from the information included in this Annual Report to the requirements of Form 20-F.
Item Page Item Page 1 Identity of directors, senior management and advisors n a 8 Financial information A Consolidated statements and other financial information 2 Offer statistics and expected timetable n a Financial statements See Item 18 3 Key information Legal proceedings 103-107 A Selected financial data 71 B Significant changes n a D Risk factors 64-65 9 The offer and listing 4 Information on the company A Share price history 154 A History and development of the company 06 C Markets 154 B Business overview 10 Additional information Products 07-09 B Memorandum and Articles of Association Footnote i Competition 10-11 C Material contracts n a Regulation 11-12 D Exchange controls 155 Marketing and distribution 13 E Taxation 156 Manufacture and supply 13-14 H Documents on display 38 Research and development 14-22 Intellectual property 23 11 Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk Information technology 24 Treasury policies 62-63 Environment, health and safety 26 Note 32 - Financial instruments and related disclosures 110-113 Access to medicines in the developing world 27 12 Description of securities other than equity securities n a Global community partnerships 27-29 13 Defaults, dividend arrearages and delinquencies n a C Organisational structure 139-141 14 Material modifications to the rights of security holders D Property, plant and equipment 25 and use of proceeds n a Environmental responsibility 26 Note 6 Segment information 86-88 15 Controls and procedures 35-38 Note 17 Tangible fixed assets 96 16 Reserved 5 Operating and financial review and prospects 17 Financial statements n a A Operating results 18 Financial statements 2002 and 2001 53-65 Directors statements of responsibility 74 2001 and 2000 66-70 Independent auditors report 75 Under US accounting principles 72 Consolidated statement of profit and loss 76-77 B Liquidity and capital resources 60-65 Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses 76-77 C Research and development, patents and licenses, etc.
14-22,52 Consolidated statement of cash flow 78-79 D Trend information 52 Consolidated balance sheet 80 6 Directors, senior management and employees Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders funds 80 A Directors and senior management 32-33 Company balance sheet 81 B Compensation Notes to the financial statements 82-141 Remuneration report 39-50 19 Exhibits C Board practices Corporate governance 34-38 Footnote i D Employees Information responsive to this item is incorporated by reference GlaxoSmithKline people 24-25 to Memorandum and Articles of Association of GlaxoSmithKline Note 33 Employee costs 114-118 at pages 3536 of the Groups Annual Report on Form 20-F for Financial record 142-150 the year ended 31st December 2000.
E Share ownership GlaxoSmithKline people 24-25 Note 34 Employee share schemes 118-121 Share options 48 Incentive plans 49 Directors interests 47,50 7 Major shareholders and related party transactions A Major shareholders 155 B Related party transactions 38,121
