74 GlaxoSmithKline Directors statements of responsibility Directors statement of responsibility in relation Internal control to the financial statements The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed the The Directors are: assessment of risks and the internal control framework that operates in GlaxoSmithKline and has considered the effectiveness responsible for ensuring the maintenance of proper accounting of the system of internal control in operation in the Group for records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial the year covered by this report and up to the date of its approval position of the Group at any time and from which financial by the Board of Directors.
statements can be prepared to comply with the Companies Act 1985 The Combined Code required by law to prepare financial statements for each financial period which give a true and fair view of the state The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the principles of affairs of the company and the Group as at the end of of the Combined Code, as described under Corporate governance the financial period and of the profit or loss for that period pages 31 to 38, and has complied with the requirements of the responsible also for ensuring the operation of systems of Combined Code, with the exception of the provisions relating to internal control and for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the Executive Directors service contracts, pensionable bonuses the assets of the Group and for preventing and detecting and termination commitments, where the companys position is fraud and other irregularities.
described in the Remuneration report.
The Financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2002, As required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, comprising principal statements and supporting notes, are set out the auditors have considered the Directors statement of in Financial statements pages 76 to 141 of this report.
compliance in relation to those points of the Combined Code which are specified for their review.
The Directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been consistently applied in the preparation of the financial statements, Annual Report supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates as necessary: applicable accounting standards have been followed, The Annual Report for the year ended 31st December 2002, and the Financial statements have been prepared on the going comprising the Report of the Directors, the Directors Remuneration concern basis.
Report, the Financial statements and additional information for investors, has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the financial on its behalf by statements are set out in the Independent Auditors report page 75 opposite.
Sir Christopher Hogg, The financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2002 Chairman are included in the Annual Report 2002, which is published in 10th March 2003 hard-copy printed form and on the website.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report on the website in accordance with UK legislation governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
Access to the website is available from outside the UK, where comparable legislation may be different.
Directors remuneration The Remuneration report pages 39 to 50 of this report sets out the remuneration policies operated by GlaxoSmithKline and disclosures on Directors remuneration and other disclosable information relating to Directors and ofcers and their interests.
It has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, as amended by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and complies with Section B of the Combined Code.
Going concern basis After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial statements.
