Reconciliation to US accounting principles continued for the 12 months ended December 31, 2002 2002 2001 2002 2001 Restated Restated Statement of comprehensive income m m $m $m Net loss income as adjusted to accord with US GAAP 628.6 302.3 943.9 453.9 Other comprehensive income: Translation adjustment for the period 86.2 0.9 129.4 1.3 Change in fair value of derivatives, net of tax of nil 2.3 3.4 Cumulative effect of prior year on adoption of SFAS133 continuing operations 0.2 0.5 0.3 0.7 Unfunded accumulated benefit obligation and additional minimum liability net of tax of 80.3m 126.1 189.3 Total comprehensive income 840.7 301.4 1,262.3 452.5 Above are summaries of the adjustments to profit, ordinary shareholders equity and comprehensive income which would be required if US generally accepted accounting principles US GAAP had been applied.
The exchange rate used to translate the profit and loss gures and the statement of comprehensive income for 2002 and 2001 was the average rate for the 12 months to December 31, 2002 of $1.5016 to the.
The exchange rate used to translate the balance sheet gures for 2002 and 2001 above was the December 31, 2002 rate of $1.6016 to the.
Comparison of UK and US accounting principles The groups Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom UK GAAP, which differ in certain significant respects from those applicable in the United States US GAAP.
These differences relate principally to the following items, and the effect of each of the adjustments to profit available for appropriation and shareholders equity that would be required under US GAAP is set out above.
The 2001 numbers have been restated as required by APB20 to reect changes to the provisions for deferred taxes totalling 197.6m which were identied in the year ended December 31, 2001 and previously reected as a movement in shareholders equity, with consequential adjustments to goodwill and goodwill amortisation.
Goodwill Under UK GAAP prior to January 1, 1998, goodwill arising on acquisitions was written off directly to reserves.
Since January 1, 1998, all acquired goodwill has been capitalised and amortised over a period not exceeding 20 years.
On disposal of a business, the profit or loss on disposal is determined after incorporating the attributable amount of any purchased goodwill, including any previously written off to reserves.
Under US GAAP prior to January 1, 2002, goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to July 1, 2001, was capitalised and amortised over its estimated useful life, not exceeding 40 years.
Under the transition provisions of SFAS142 Goodwill and other intangible assets, goodwill which arose during the period subsequent to July 1, 2001 is capitalised, however, has not been amortised.
From January 1, 2002, goodwill is no longer amortised, but is reviewed annually for impairment.
As a result of the implementation of SFAS142, the group has recognised a charge net of tax of 8.1m of 900.4m as the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle.
Employee Share Option Plans ESOPs Under UK GAAP, shares held by ESOPs are recorded as xed asset investments at cost.
Under US GAAP, these shares would be treated as treasury stock and deducted from shareholders equity.
Asset recognition Under UK GAAP contingent assets become recognisable in accordance with the criteria set out in Financial Reporting Standard 12 Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets.
However, there are certain circumstances under US GAAP where an asset can only be recognised if additional criteria are met.
Pensions The cost of post-retirement benets is based on consistent percentages of employees pensionable pay as recommended by independent actuaries.
Under US GAAP, the pension cost or credit is determined by reference to the pension liability and the market value of the underlying plan assets, after adjustment to reect any previously unrecognised pension obligations or assets.
For certain pension plans within the USA, the accumulated benefit obligation at December 31, 2002 exceeded the fair value of related plan assets.
Where a pension plan has an unfunded accumulated benefit obligation, US GAAP requires such amount to be recognised as a liability in the balance sheet.
The adjustment resulting from the recognition of any such minimum liability, including the elimination of amounts previously recognised as a prepaid benefit cost, is reported as an intangible asset to the extent of unrecognised prior service cost with the remaining amount reported in comprehensive income.
Experience surpluses or deficiencies, which may result where the actual performance of the scheme differs from previous actuarial assumptions, are dealt with on an aggregate basis.
The group applies the 10% corridor test at the beginning of the year, to determine whether amortisation of the gain or loss is necessary.
Where the gain or loss exceeds 10% of the greater of the projected benefit obligations or the market related value the schemes assets, this is amortised over the active participants average remaining service periods.
The group also provides post-retirement healthcare and life insurance benets, mainly in the USA, under plans to certain groups of its retired and active employees.
The group conforms with the provisions of the UITF6 Accounting for post-retirement benets other than pensions, which require accruals of these costs over the period during which employees become eligible for such benets.
UITF6 permits UK parent undertakings with US subsidiaries to adopt the cost of post-retirement benets calculated for SFAS106 Employers accounting for post-retirement benets other than pensions in their SSAP24 calculations under UK GAAP, therefore there is no reconciling item in respect of the groups US post-retirement benets.
76 Reconciliation to US accounting principles Comparison of UK and US accounting principles Comparison of UK and US accounting principles continued Deferred tax Deferred taxation is provided on all timing differences, except those that relate to revaluations where no sale is in process, or where it is probable that rollover relief or losses will be applied to the gain, and also to the remittance of retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries, except where no dividends have been accrued as receivable at the balance sheet date.
Under US GAAP deferred taxation liabilities are provided on all differences between the book and tax bases of assets and liabilities.
Deferred taxation assets under US GAAP and UK GAAP are recognised only to the extent that it is more likely than not that they will be realised.
Discontinued operations Discontinued operations are those clearly distinguishable operations and activities which either ceased or left the group in the accounting period or soon thereafter.
Under US GAAP, following the implementation of SFAS144 Accounting for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets on January 1, 2002, the group had no differences between UK and US GAAP in respect of discontinued operations.
Acquisition accounting US GAAP requires that a deferred tax asset or liability be raised to reect the difference between the tax basis of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, and their fair values at the time of acquisition.
The recognition of deferred tax assets or liabilities affects the amount of goodwill recognised on acquisition.
Net income under US GAAP will differ from UK GAAP to the extent that the pattern of reversal of the temporary differences acquired differs from the pattern of goodwill amortisation.
Under UK GAAP, on acquisition, provisions for reorganisation costs are not included in the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired, but are included in post-acquisition costs.
Certain reorganisation provisions under US GAAP are allowed to be included within the fair value at the time of acquisition.
Under UK GAAP, the inventories in acquired companies are valued at the lower of replacement cost and net realisable value.
Under US GAAP, inventories are recognised at the time of acquisition on the basis of expected net sales proceeds, and are amortised over its period of use.
Joint-ventures and associates Operating profit, interest and taxation in respect of joint-ventures and associates are included in the accounts separately under each appropriate heading.
Under US GAAP, profit after tax of joint-ventures and associates are included on a single line within the profit and loss account.
The main adjustments that would have been necessary to reconcile the joint-ventures and associates not domiciled within the United States to US GAAP would have been in respect of deferred tax, pensions and goodwill.
The group has not included a reconciling item for these adjustments, as the effect on net income is not material.
Dividends Under UK GAAP, final ordinary dividends are provided in the year in respect of which they are proposed on the basis of recommendation by the directors, although this requires subsequent approval by the shareholders.
Interim dividends are provided for in the period for which they are declared by the directors.
Under US GAAP, dividends are not provided until the dividend is formally declared.
Accounting for stock-based compensation The group operates an Inland Revenue approved Sharesave Scheme open to all employees, which gives a 20% discount on the fair value of its shares.
Under UK GAAP no cost is recognised on awards under such a scheme.
Under US GAAP, the 20% discount should be expensed over the vesting period.
All plans from 2000 are impacted.
The group also operates two schemes which incorporate performance criteria, the Hanson Share Option Plan and the Long Term Incentive Program LTIP.
Under UK GAAP, the cost is recognised over the performance period, based on a reasonable expectation of the extent to which the performance criteria will be met.
Adjustments to this cost are made as estimates of the final cost are updated.
Under US GAAP, the plans are treated as variable compensatory plans and the expense is based on the intrinsic value at each balance sheet date, spread over the performance period.
Under US GAAP, the group applies the methodologies set out in APB25 Accounting for stock issued to employees and related interpretations, and are permitted to adopt the disclosure only option under SFAS123 Accounting for stock-based compensation.
The pro forma disclosures have been omitted, as the application of SFAS123 effects earnings per share by less than 0.01p per share.
Derivative instruments and hedging activities The group enters into derivative instruments to limit its exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange risks.
Under UK GAAP, these instruments are measured at cost and accounted for as hedges, whereby gains and losses are deferred until the underlying transaction occurs.
Under US GAAP, derivative instruments, whether designated as a hedge or not, are required to be recognised on the balance sheet at fair value.
As the group has elected not to adopt hedge accounting under SFAS133 Accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities, the net income statement fully includes the changes in fair value of the derivatives.
In addition, transition adjustments were required to include the fair value of derivatives on the balance sheet on the adoption of SFAS133 at January 1, 2001.
For those derivatives considered as fair value hedges, the January 1, 2001 opening fair value of 17.1m was shown as current assets and liabilities derivatives and as an adjustment to debt.
The adjustment to debt is being subsequently amortised through the income statement over the residual life of the debt.
For those derivatives considered as cash ow hedges, the January 1, 2001 opening value of 0.5m was shown as current assets and liabilities derivatives and as an adjustment to other comprehensive income.
The amounts in other comprehensive income are recognised as adjustments to interest expense in future periods as the related cash ows are recognised.
Foreign exchange gains and losses on disposal of business Under UK GAAP, cumulative foreign exchange gains and losses on disposal are adjusted within reserves.
Under US GAAP, these gains and losses are included in determining the profit or loss on disposal of the business.
Comparison of UK and US accounting principles 77
