Accounting policies Accounting convention The accounts have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards, using the historical cost convention.
New accounting standards FRS17 Retirement Benets requires the assets of a dened benefit pension scheme to be measured at their market value and the liabilities to be measured using a specified actuarial valuation method and discounted using a corporate bond rate.
Any pension scheme surplus or deficit arising is required to be recognised immediately on the group Balance Sheet.
Any resulting actuarial gains and losses must be recognised immediately in the group Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses.
Adoption of the standard in full is not currently required, however transitional disclosures have been complied with in note 29.
Basis of consolidation The accounting reference date of the Company is December 31.
The consolidated accounts incorporate the accounts of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings subsidiaries together with the groups share of the results of associated undertakings associates and joint-ventures using the equity and gross equity methods respectively.
Acquisitions and disposals The results of companies and businesses acquired during the year are dealt with in the consolidated accounts from the date of acquisition.
Upon the acquisition of a business the fair values that reect their condition at the date of acquisition are attributed to the identiable assets and liabilities acquired.
Adjustments are also made to bring the accounting policies of businesses acquired into alignment with those of the group.
Where the consideration paid for a business exceeds the fair value of the net assets, the difference is treated as goodwill.
Since the adoption of FRS10 on January 1, 1998, goodwill has been carried on the balance sheet and is amortised over the estimated economic life to a maximum of 20 years.
Goodwill written off to reserves prior to January 1, 1998 has not been reinstated.
On disposal of a business the profit or loss on disposal is determined after incorporating the attributable amount of any purchased goodwill, including any previously written off directly to reserves.
Turnover Turnover represents the net amounts charged or chargeable in respect of services rendered and goods supplied.
Value added tax and other sales taxes are excluded from turnover.
Assets held under leases Assets held under finance leases are included within xed assets at the capitalised value of the future minimum lease payments and are depreciated over the shorter of their lease period and their useful life.
The capital element of the future payments is treated as a liability and the interest element is charged to the profit and loss account so as to reect a constant annual rate of interest on the remaining balance of the outstanding obligation.
Rentals paid on operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the shorter of the lease period and the useful life of the leased asset.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future, or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred.
Deferred tax that would arise on remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint-ventures is recognised only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Stocks Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes raw materials, direct labour and expenses, and an appropriate proportion of production and other overheads.
Tangible xed assets Tangible xed assets are shown at cost less depreciation and depletion.
The cost of a tangible xed asset comprises its purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing it into working condition for its intended use.
Costs to develop new commercial aggregate deposits and for major development programmes at existing sites are capitalised and amortised over the life of the quarry.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land except for mineral reserves which are depleted on the basis of tonnage extracted.
Depreciation of other xed assets is calculated to write off their cost over their expected useful lives allowing for estimated residual value.
The majority of xed assets are written off on a straight line basis over the following periods: Plant and equipment 2-30 years Land, building and natural resources up to 50 years Asset impairment Intangible and tangible assets are reviewed for potential impairment where there is some indication that impairment may have occurred, to ensure that assets are not carried at above their recoverable amounts.
An impairment loss is recognised where the carrying amount is not covered by the discounted cash ows resulting from continued use of the assets, or from their disposal.
Research and development Expenditure on development and improvement of new and existing products is written off in the year in which it is incurred.
Accounting policies 49 Accounting policies continued Pensions and other post-retirement benets The cost of providing pension and other post-retirement benets is charged to the consolidated profit and loss account over employee service lives.
Variances arising from actuarial valuations are charged or credited to profit over the estimated remaining service lives of the employees, to the extent that any resulting credit does not exceed the regular cost.
Provisions Provisions for long-term obligations except deferred taxation are discounted at a rate of 2.5% on current prices, except where more appropriate discounting rates have been used having regard to information provided by actuaries or other independent advisers.
Derivatives and financial instruments Financial instruments, in particular, forward currency contracts and currency swaps, are used to manage the financial risks arising from the business activities of the group and the nancing of those activities.
There is no trading activity in financial instruments.
A discussion of how the financial risks are managed is included in the Financial Review on pages 26 to 29.
Financial instruments are accounted for as follows: Forward exchange contracts are used as balance sheet hedging instruments to hedge foreign currency investments and borrowings.
The difference between the spot and forward rate for these contracts is recognised as part of the net interest payable over the period of the contract.
The spot rate of such contracts is revalued to the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date and any aggregate unrealised gains or losses arising on revaluation are included in other debtors other creditors.
Both realised and unrealised gains and losses on these contracts are taken to reserves in the same way as those for the foreign investments and borrowings to which the contracts relate.
Interest rate swaps are used to hedge the groups exposure to movements in interest rates.
The interest payable or receivable on such swaps is accrued in the same way as interest arising on deposits or borrowings.
Interest rate swaps are not revalued to fair value prior to maturity.
Cross currency interest rate swaps currency swaps are used to hedge foreign currency assets and borrowings.
The future currency exchange within such contracts is revalued to the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date and any unrealised gain or loss is matched with that on the underlying asset or liability in reserves.
The interest coupon on such swaps is accrued in the same way as that on borrowings and deposits.
Interest rate options are occasionally used to hedge the groups exposure to movements in interest rates.
Option premiums paid are recognised in the group Balance Sheet as prepayments and amortised over the life of the contract.
Currency options are occasionally used as balance sheet hedging instruments to hedge foreign currency investments and borrowings.
Option premiums paid received are recognised at their historic cost in the group Balance Sheet as prepayments and amortised over the life of the option.
The aggregate fair values at the balance sheet date of the hedging instruments described above are disclosed in note 16 to the accounts.
Foreign currencies Average rates of exchange ruling during the year have been used to translate the profit and loss accounts of overseas subsidiaries and associates.
The balance sheets of overseas subsidiaries and associates are translated at rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Differences on translation arising from changes in the sterling value of overseas net assets, related foreign currency loans, foreign exchange contracts and currency swaps at the beginning of the accounting year, or at the date of any later capital currency conversions, together with the differences between profit and loss accounts translated at average rates and at balance sheet rates, are shown as a movement on reserves and in the Statement of Recognised Gains and Losses.
Other exchange rate differences are dealt with in the profit and Loss Account for the year.
