Glossary Advertising and promotion A&P EBITDA Market capitalisation Expenditure on advertising and Earnings Before Interest, Tax, The price of one of the companys promotion of brands.
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets and ordinary shares multiplied by the number Amortisation of intangible fixed assets.
Associated undertaking An entity in which the group is able to Exceptional items Net brand contribution NBC exercise significant influence, normally Gains or costs that are disclosed A measure of brand profitability before by controlling more than 20% of the separately because they arise outside overhead costs but after A&P has voting rights.
BMC Franchising Net turnover Brand Market Combination.
For Business where individuals and or Gross turnover excluding excise duty.
example, Ballantines in Spain is a BMC.
corporations are provided with the rights to market a specific companys goods Normalised Bulk sales and or services in a designated area for Profits or earnings before exceptional Sales of unbottled unbranded spirit sold a designated fee.
items and goodwill excluding in bulk to other spirits and wine producers.
Free cash flow Constant actual exchange Operating cash less taxation, interest Ready-to-drink RTD Profits or earnings where the prior year and dividends paid to shareholders and These are drinks which are sold in results of operations outside the UK minority interest.
are stated in sterling at the current year weighted average exchange rate to Gearing enterprise value EV Reserves give a constant measure of growth Net debt expressed as a percentage Mainly profits and surpluses retained year on year.
of the total of the groups market within the business.
Core brands Return on investment ROI The global priority brands are Goodwill Trading profit after tax expressed as a Ballantines, Beefeater, Canadian Club, The difference between the price paid percentage of the average and total of Courvoisier, Kahla, Makers Mark, for an acquisition and the fair value of capital and reserves plus net debt and Sauza, Tia Maria and the recently the assets and liabilities acquired.
Liquid resources Same store sales Dividend cover Liquid resources comprise short term Sales from established stores that Earnings per share divided by dividends deposits which have maturity dates have traded for at least two years and per share, to assess the groups ability of less than three months.
therefore the year on year comparison is to pay dividends.
not distorted by openings and closings.
Local market leaders Earnings per share EPS These are brands that have a strong Subsidiary undertaking Profit for the year after tax and minority position in a particular market.
These will An entity in which the group exercises interests Earnings divided by the include such brands as Stolichnaya and a dominant influence, normally by average number of shares.
Hiram Walker Liqueurs in the US: controlling more than 50% of the Mexican brandies: Whisky DYC and voting rights.
EBIT Centenario in Spain: Imperial in Korea: Earnings Before Interest and Tax.
Fundador in the Philippines, Teachers in the UK and Kuemmerling in Germany.
These brands fall into two categories: those that deliver critical mass in key markets and those that provide an opportunity for strong value growth.
Our thanks go to Bed of London, Metronome of NYC, 33 restaurant & lounge of Boston, MA.
Designed and produced by williams and phoa.
Printed in the UK on paper made from 50% pulp, 50% recycled fibres and is biodegradable.
All brands mentioned in this Annual Report are trademarks and are registered and or otherwise protected in accordance with 76 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 applicable law.
