Shareholder Information SHAREHOLDER ENQUIRIES Enquiries relating to the following administrative matters should be addressed to the Companys registrars: Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
Dividend mandate instructions: Dividends may be paid directly into your bank or building society account on completion of a mandate instruction form.
Tax vouchers are sent to the shareholders registered address.
Loss of share certificates dividend warrants tax vouchers.
Notification of change of address.
Transfer of shares to another person.
Amalgamation of accounts: If you receive more than one copy of the Annual Report and Accounts, you may wish to amalgamate your accounts on the share register.
You can access your shareholding details and a range of other shareholder services at the Lloyds TSB Registrars website www.
co. uk For other enquiries relating to shareholder services or general enquiries about the Company, please contact: David Beckley, Group Communications Manager, Hays plc, Hays House, Millmead, Guildford, Surrey GU2 4HJ.
uk SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Information concerning the day-to-day movement of the share price of the Company can be found on our website www.
com or that of the London Stock Exchange www.
Alternatively, information can be found under Reuters RIC code HAS.
L, Bloomberg code HAS LN Equity, TOPIC page number 45326 and short code HAS, Datastream code HAS or by dialling 44 0 906 843 5377 for the FT Cityline share price service.
Calls are charged at 50p per minute at all times.
DEALING SERVICE Cazenove & Co Ltd operates a postal dealing service for Ordinary shares in Hays plc.
This provides for the sale or purchase of shares at a basic commission of 1% subject to a 10 minimum charge.
Further information is available from: Cazenove & Co Ltd, 12 Tokenhouse Yard, London EC2R 7AN.
com CORPORATE INDIVIDUAL SAVINGS ACCOUNT The Hays plc Single Company ISA is available to existing and prospective shareholders in Hays plc.
Further information is available from: Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6UY.
co. uk DIVIDEND RE-INVESTMENT PLAN DRIP The Company has introduced a DRIP to allow shareholders to re-invest the cash dividend that they receive in shares on competitive dealing terms.
Further information is available from: The Share Dividend Team, Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA.
co. uk UNSOLICITED MAIL As the Companys share register is, by law, open to public inspection, shareholders may receive unsolicited mail from organisations that use it as a mailing list.
To reduce the amount of unsolicited mail you receive, contact: The Mailing Preference Service, FREEPOST 22, London W1E 7EZ.
uk FINANCIAL CALENDAR 2002 Interim Statement March Interim Dividend 31 May Preliminary Announcement September Annual Report posted October Annual General Meeting November Final Dividend 29 November Hays plc 27
