Accounting Policies The accounting policies adopted are described below.
AACCOUNTING CONVENTION The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards using the historical cost convention.
BCONSOLIDATION The financial statements consolidate the accounts of Hays plc and all of its subsidiary undertakings subsidiaries.
The results of subsidiaries acquired during the year are included from the effective date of acquisition.
The results of subsidiaries sold are included up to the effective date of disposal.
CINVESTMENTS i Subsidiary undertakings Shares in subsidiaries are valued at cost less provision for impairment.
ii Associated undertakings Investments in associated undertakings associated companies are stated at the amount of the Groups share of net assets.
The consolidated profit and loss account includes the Groups share of associated companies profits after taxation.
iii Other investments Investments in own shares are shown at cost less provision for permanent diminution in value.
All other investments are shown at cost less provision for impairment.
DTANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS AND DEPRECIATION Tangible fixed assets are initially recorded at cost.
Depreciation is provided on a straight line basis over the anticipated useful working lives of the assets, after they have been brought into use, at the following rates: Freehold land No depreciation is provided Freehold buildings At rates varying between 2% and 10% Leasehold properties The book value is written off over the unexpired period of the lease Plant and machinery At rates varying between 5% and 33% Fixtures and fittings At rates varying between 10% and 25% Assets in course of construction No depreciation is provided EGOODWILL Goodwill is the surplus of cost over the fair value attributed to the net assets of subsidiary undertakings acquired.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 July 1998 has been written off against reserves.
Goodwill previously written off to reserves is charged to the profit and loss account when the related business is sold or when the goodwill is considered to be impaired.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions made after 30 June 1998 is capitalised and amortised on a straight line basis over the shorter of its estimated useful economic life and 20 years.
FSTOCKS AND WORK IN PROGRESS Stocks and work in progress are valued at the lower of cost, inclusive of appropriate overheads, and estimated net realisable value.
Hays plc 47 Accounting Policies GLEASED ASSETS i Finance leases Certain items of plant and machinery and certain freehold properties financed by leasing agreements giving rights approximating to ownership are included in the balance sheet as fixed assets at cost less accumulated depreciation.
The capital element of future rentals is treated as a liability.
The interest element is charged to the profit and loss account over the period of the finance leases in proportion to the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
ii Operating leases Lease rentals in respect of operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account in the period in which the leasing expenditure is incurred.
H TURNOVER Turnover represents the amounts receivable for services provided and goods sold excluding trade discounts, value added tax and similar sales related taxes, apportioned over the period to which they relate.
Certain logistics contracts oblige the Group to purchase goods from third parties and sell them on to the customer at cost.
As the Group is rewarded for the logistics service provided, and as the sale and purchase of the goods have no impact on the operating profit, the amounts invoiced on to customers and charged by suppliers for the sale and purchase of these goods are excluded from turnover and cost of sales.
Stocks, debtors and creditors relating to such transactions are included in the consolidated balance sheet.
IDEFERRED TAXATION The Group has adopted FRS 19 Deferred Tax.
Under FRS 19, deferred tax is provided in full on all timing differences which result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from those in which they are included in financial statements.
Deferred tax is not provided on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and associates where there is no commitment to remit these earnings.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
JPENSION COSTS The Group principally operates three pension schemes under which retirement benefits for employees are funded by contributions from Group companies and employees as described in note 6.
The Group accounts for pension costs in accordance with SSAP 24 and has adopted the disclosure requirements under the transitional arrangements for implementing FRS 17 Retirement Benefits.
KFOREIGN CURRENCIES The assets and liabilities, including goodwill, of foreign subsidiaries denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates ruling at the year end.
Profits and losses of foreign subsidiaries are translated into sterling at average rates of exchange for the year.
The differences arising from the retranslation of the opening balance sheets and retained earnings of foreign subsidiaries at the year end rate are dealt with through reserves, as are differences on long-term foreign currency borrowings used to finance overseas investment.
Other translation differences are dealt with in the profit and loss account.
LDERIVATIVES AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS In certain circumstances the Group uses currency swaps to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in exchange rates.
A swap is designated as a hedge to the extent that the notional principal value matches against currency assets.
Gains and losses on hedging swaps are taken to reserves and recorded in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
Any gains and losses on swaps which cannot be classified as hedges are taken to the profit and loss account.
Interest rate swaps are selectively used to manage the frequency of interest payments.
Swaps are not recorded in the balance sheet but fair values are disclosed in the notes to the accounts.
