Notice of Meeting NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the fifteenth Annual General Meeting of Hays plc will be held at the Holiday Inn, Egerton Road, Guildford, Surrey, GU2 7XZ at 12 noon on Wednesday, 20 November 2002, for the following purposes: ORDINARY BUSINESS Resolution No 1 To receive and adopt the Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2002 and the reports of the Directors and Auditors thereon.
Resolution No 2 To declare a final dividend for the year ended 30 June 2002 which, if approved, will be paid on 29 November 2002 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 25 October 2002.
To re-elect the following Directors who, having been appointed since the last Annual General Meeting, will retire in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election: Resolution No 3 Mr P Danon Resolution No 4 Mrs L M S Knox Resolution No 5 Mr C S Matthews To re-elect the following Directors who retire from the Board by rotation: Resolution No 6 Mr R A Lawson Resolution No 7 Mr C S Taylor Resolution No 8 Mr G J Williams Biographical details for the current Directors and Mr C S Matthews are shown on page 25.
Resolution No 9 To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche as Auditors of the Company until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting.
Resolution No 10 To authorise the Directors to agree the remuneration of the Auditors of the Company.
SPECIAL BUSINESS Resolution No 11 Ordinary Resolution THAT the authority conferred on the Directors by Article 7.1 of the Companys Articles of Association be renewed for a period expiring at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the date on which this resolution is passed and for that period the Section 80 amount shall be 5,782,937.
Resolution No 12 Special Resolution THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 11 above the power conferred on the Directors by Article 7.2 of the Companys Articles of Association be renewed for a period expiring at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the date on which this resolution is passed and for that period the Section 89 amount shall be 867,440.
Hays plc 71 Notice of Meeting Resolution No 13 Special Resolution THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended of Ordinary shares of 1p each in the capital of the Company Ordinary shares provided that: a the maximum number of Ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 173,000,000: b the minimum price which may be paid for each Ordinary share is 1p: c the maximum price which may be paid for each Ordinary share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an Ordinary share as derived from the Daily Official List of the UK Listing Authority for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Ordinary share is purchased: and d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or 31 December 2003, whichever is earlier except in relation to the purchase of Ordinary shares the contract for which was concluded before such date and which would or might be executed wholly or partly after such date, unless such authority is renewed prior to such time.
Words and expressions defined in or for the purposes of the Companies Act 1985 as amended shall bear the same meaning herein.
Hays House Millmead Guildford Surrey GU2 4HJ By order of the Board S J Charnock Secretary 4 October 2002 Notes 1A member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and on a poll, vote instead of him or her.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A form of proxy is enclosed which you are invited to complete and return not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting, or any adjournment thereof.
Completion and return of the proxy form in accordance with the instructions thereon will not prevent you from attending and voting at the meeting, instead of your proxy, if you wish to do so.
Those attending the meeting should bring with them the attendance card attached to the form of proxy.
2The register of interests of Directors and their families together with copies of the Directors service contracts will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company on weekdays Saturdays and public holidays excepted during usual business hours from the date of this notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting and will, on the day of the Annual General Meeting, be available for inspection at the place of the meeting from 11.45am until the conclusion of the meeting.
3At the date of the Annual General Meeting the service contracts of Messrs R A Lawson and G J Williams will have a period of two years unexpired.
The service contract of Mr C S Matthews is for an initial period of two years from 1 November 2002 and is terminable on 12 months notice expiring on or after 1 November 2004.
Hays plc 72 Information about Hays plc and a full copy of the Annual Report and Accounts can be found on the Hays website: www.
com Printed on Pages 1-28 on Hello Silk.
Manufactured with virgin wood fibre from sawmill residues, forest thinnings and sustainable forests in Austria.
Cover and pages 29-72 on Storafine.
Manufactured with 100% chlorine free, wood pulp from plantation forests.
Designed by MAGEE Photography by Paul Venning Printed by CTD Capita Pramod P Nair Hays Document Management ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 www.
com Hays is a leader in the growing field of outsourced solutions.
We specialise in complex and critical support services where we can add value to our customers businesses.
Hays House, Millmead Guildford, Surrey GU2 4HJ 44 [0] 1483 302203
