Notice of meeting The forty-first annual general meeting of IMI plc will be held at a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an the Hilton Birmingham Metropole Hotel, National Exhibition offer or issue to or in favour of ordinary shareholders on the Centre, Birmingham, on Friday 16 May 2003 at noon, for the register on a date fixed by the directors, where the equity following purposes: securities respectively attributable to the interests of all those shareholders are proportionate as nearly as A.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following ordinary practicable to the respective numbers of ordinary shares resolutions: held by them on that date but the directors may make such exclusions or other arrangements as they consider 1.
That the directors report and the audited accounts for the expedient in relation to fractional entitlements, shares year ended 31 December 2002 be approved and adopted.
represented by depository receipts, legal or practical problems under the laws in any territory or the 2.
That the remuneration report for the year ended requirements of any relevant regulatory body or stock 31 December 2002 be approved and adopted.
exchange: and b to the allotment other than under a above of equity 3.
That a final dividend at the rate of 9.5p per share on the securities having, in the case of relevant shares as defined ordinary share capital of the Company be declared for the for the purposes of section 89, a nominal amount or, in the year ended 31 December 2002 payable on 27 May 2003 to case of other equity securities, giving the right to subscribe shareholders on the register at the close of business on for or convert into relevant shares having a nominal amount 11 April 2003. not exceeding in aggregate 4,400,000: 4.
That Mr B L Staples be re-elected a director of the Company.
and shall expire fifteen months from the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next annual 5.
That Mr M J Lamb be re-elected a director of the Company.
general meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution, save that the Company may before this power 6.
That Mr J W Leng be re-elected a director of the Company.
expires make offers or agreements which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after it expires.
That KPMG Audit Plc be re-appointed as the Companys auditor until the conclusion of the next annual general 2.
That pursuant to article 8 of its articles of association, the meeting of the Company.
Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of 8.
That the Board be authorised to determine the auditors section 163 of the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares remuneration.
of 25p each in the capital of the Company Ordinary Shares on such terms and in such manner as the directors may from B.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following special time to time determine provided that: resolutions: a the maximum number of Ordinary Shares that may be 1.
That the directors be given power to allot for cash equity purchased under this authority is 35,200,000 representing securities as defined for the purposes of section 89 of the approximately 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share Companies Act 1985 pursuant to the general authority capital : conferred on them by the resolution passed at the annual general meeting of the Company held on 19 May 2000 under section 80 of the Act as if section 89 1 of that Act did not apply to the allotment but this power shall be limited: 72 Notice of meeting Notice of meeting b the maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Notes: Share purchased under this authority shall be 105% of the 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint a proxy or average of the middle market prices shown in the proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote instead of him her.
A proxy need not quotations for Ordinary Shares in the London Stock be a member of the Company.
Any instrument appointing a proxy must be Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days received at Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing BN99 6UP, not less immediately preceding the day on which that Ordinary than forty-eight hours before the time fixed for the meeting.
Share is purchased and the minimum price which may be 2.
If a member has more than one holding registered in his her name he she paid shall be 25p per Ordinary Share in each case exclusive should receive only one copy of the Annual Report.
However, one form of of expenses, if any, payable by the Company : proxy will be valid in respect of all his her holdings.
c the authority hereby conferred shall expire fifteen months 3.
The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities from the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the Regulations 2001, specifies that only those shareholders registered on the register of members of the Company as at 6 p. m. on 14 May 2003 shall be conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares Company after the passing of this resolution save that the registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the register of Company may make a contract or contracts to purchase members made thereafter shall be disregarded in determining the rights of Ordinary Shares under this authority before its expiry which any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of this authority: and 4.
Biographical details of Mr B L Staples, Mr M J Lamb and Mr J W Leng are set out on page 26. d all existing authorities for the Company to make market 5.
The register of the interests of directors and their families in the share capital purchases of Ordinary Shares are revoked, except in relation of the Company and the service contracts of directors will be available for to the purchase of Ordinary Shares under a contract or inspection on the day of the annual general meeting at the venue for that contracts concluded before the date of this resolution and meeting from 11.30 a. m. until the meeting is concluded.
The same which has not yet been executed.
documents are otherwise available for inspection during business hours at the Companys registered office.
By order of the Board John O'Shea Company Secretary 8 April 2003 Registered Office: Kynoch Works Witton Birmingham B6 7BA 73 IMI plc Annual Report 2002
