CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC remains committed to high standards of corporate governance in its management of the affairs of the Group and sees it as a fundamental part of discharging its stewardship responsibilities.
Accordingly, throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report, it has complied with the best practice governance provisions as set out in Section 1 of Part 2 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code.
Corporate governance compliance The Board recognises it is accountable to the Groups shareholders for the Groups standard of governance and this statement, together with the Remuneration Report, seeks to demonstrate how the principles of good governance, advocated by the Code, are applied in practice within Imperial Tobacco Group PLC.
During the course of the financial year there has been a significant change in the scope and scale of the Groups activities, following the acquisition of Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH Reemtsma on 15 May 2002.
Notwithstanding this change, the Board has continued to keep under review the Groups whole system of internal control, including controls relevant to the enlarged business from the completion of the acquisition, encompassing not just financial but also operational controls, compliance and risk management.
For the existing business operations within the Group, formal procedures, blended with well established embedded internal controls, have been in place throughout the current year and these together with the continuation of the regular, formal reporting process to the Audit Committee, have ensured the maintenance of a strong procedural framework for the ongoing identification, evaluation and management of significant areas of risk to the achievement of the Groups strategic objectives.
In addition, prior to the acquisition of Reemtsma, an extensive due diligence review covering financial, operational, legal and environmental matters was performed.
From this and subsequent high level reviews of procedures within this business, the Board is satisfied that appropriate internal controls, providing a framework for the identification, evaluation and management of significant risks, also exist within Reemtsma.
Since the acquisition, and as part of the process of integrating the acquired business, procedures have been, and are being, reviewed to identify any requirements necessary to align Reemtsmas policies and procedures with the Groups standards of corporate governance.
Board and Board committees The Board of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC, which meets at least five times a year, currently comprises seven Non-Executive Directors and three Executive Directors, with a clear separation of the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive to ensure an appropriate balance of power and authority.
Mr A G L Alexander is the recognised senior independent Non-Executive Director to whom any concerns can be conveyed.
All of the Non-Executive Directors, in the opinion of the Board, are independent of management and free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
It should be noted that Mr L W Staby held the position of Chief Executive of Reemtsma until 1998 and became Chief Executive of Tchibo Holding AG, the German holding company of Reemtsma, in February 2001, until his resignation in June 2002.
Directors biographies, appearing on pages 30 and 31, demonstrate a detailed knowledge of the tobacco industry together with a range of business and financial experience, vital to the management of an expanding international company.
The full Board manages overall control of the Groups affairs by the schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
These include responsibility for the Groups commercial strategy, the approval of financial statements, major acquisitions and disposals, authority levels for expenditure, treasury and risk management policies and succession plans for senior executives.
It also has procedures in place to allow Directors to seek both independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, and the advice and services of the Company Secretary in order to fulfil their duties.
All Directors are equally accountable under the law for the proper stewardship of the Groups affairs, with the Non-Executive Directors having a particular responsibility for ensuring strategies proposed for the development of the business are critically reviewed.
This ensures they act in the best long term interest of shareholders, take account of the wider community of interests represented by employees, customers and suppliers and that social, environmental and ethical issues are fully integrated into the Groups risk assessment processes.
The Board regularly reviews the strategy and operating results of the business, as well as approving annual budgets and medium-term plans.
Actual results of the Group are reviewed at each Board meeting, with monthly reports, including detailed commentary and analysis, being provided in the intervening periods.
This ensures the Board is supplied with information on the progress of the business in a timely manner.
Within the financial and overall objectives of the Group, the Board delegates day to day and business control matters to the Chief Executive and Executive Directors who, with the executive management, are responsible for implementing Group policy and monitoring the detailed performance of all aspects of the business, including post event reviews of major projects.
They have full power to act subject to the reserved powers and sanctioning limits laid down by the Board and the Groups standards and policy guidelines.
The Non-Executive Directors also play a leading role in corporate accountability and governance through their membership of the Remuneration Committee, the Nominations Committee and the Audit Committee.
The membership and remit of each Committee is considered overleaf.. 35 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee consisting exclusively of Non-Executive Directors, Mr D C Bonham, Mr S Huismans and the recently appointed Dr P H Jungels, meets at least twice a year under the chairmanship of Mr I J G Napier.
It is responsible for setting salaries, incentives and other benefit arrangements of the Executive Directors and senior management, and overseeing the Groups employee share schemes.
Members of the Remuneration Committee do not participate in decisions concerning their own remuneration.
The Chief Executive is invited to attend for appropriate items, but is excluded when his own performance and remuneration are under review.
Since Listing in 1996, all increases in the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors have been taken in the form of the Companys shares.
However, given their significant shareholding in the Company, this requirement to purchase shares has been waived in respect of the increases granted to Mr D C Bonham and Mr A G L Alexander in October 2002.
The Remuneration Report, which outlines remuneration strategy and policy and includes full details of Directors emoluments, has been approved by the Board and appears on pages 39 to 46.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee comprising all the Non-Executive Directors and the Chief Executive, with Mr D C Bonham as chairman, meets when necessary to formulate succession plans and recommendations to the Board for the appointment of Directors.
New Directors appointed by the Board must submit themselves for re-election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
Thereafter all Directors, in accordance with the Code are subject to re-election at least every three years.
The training needs in respect of new appointments to the Board are assessed and arrangements put in place, as appropriate.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee, consisting exclusively of Non-Executive Directors, Mr A G L Alexander, Mr I J G Napier and the recently appointed Mr L W Staby, meets under the chairmanship of Mr S P Duffy, at least three times a year.
Its terms of reference cover the points recommended by the Code.
Its duties include monitoring internal control throughout the Group, approving the Groups accounting policies and reviewing the interim and annual financial statements before submission to the full Board.
It also reviews and approves the scope and content of the risk assessment and compliance programme implemented by the Control and Compliance function and, as part of the annual assessment of the need for a formal internal audit function, critically reviews the resource allocated to this activity.
The Finance Director, other financial management and the Groups compliance manager attend by invitation.
The Groups Auditors also attend each meeting and have direct access to the Committee without the presence of any Executive Director, or manager, providing a direct line of communication between the Auditors and Non-Executive Directors.
The Audit Committee has carried out six-monthly reviews of the remuneration received by  for non-audit work, with the aim of seeking to balance objectivity and value for money.
The fees for non-audit work have arisen principally as a result of due diligence and tax planning work arising on the acquisition of Reemtsma and acting as reporting accountant.
The outcome of the review was that no conflict of interest exists between  audit and non-audit work and that this was the most cost effective way of conducting the Groups business.
In other situations, proposed assignments are subject to independent tendering and decisions taken on the basis of competence and cost effectiveness.
Internal control The Board acknowledges responsibility for the Groups system of internal control.
The Audit Committee on behalf of the Board, reviews the effectiveness of the system in accordance with the guidance set out in Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull guidance from information and regular reports provided by management, the internally independent Control and Compliance function and external auditors.
However, given the size and complexity of the Groups operations, such a system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance of meeting internal control objectives, by managing rather than eliminating risk.
The Board, either directly, or through the Audit Committee which regularly reports its findings for consideration by the Board, has reviewed the effectiveness of the key procedures which have been established to provide internal control and confirms that an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks has operated, either throughout the year, or in the case of the Reemtsma operations, since acquisition.
The following key features have operated to provide reassurance of both the reliability of information and the safeguarding of assets: Risk assessment: The Group clearly sets out its strategic objectives as part of its medium-term planning process.
These objectives are then incorporated as part of the budgeting and planning cycle and are supported by the use of both financial and non-financial key performance indicators.
A detailed assessment of strategic risks is undertaken by the Executive Directors as part of the medium-term planning, annual budgeting and the monthly reporting and forecasting cycles.. 36
