REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Employees continued The Group is committed to providing an environment which encourages the continuous development of our employees through skills enhancement and comprehensive training programmes.
This commitment has been recognised at Nottingham, our principal UK factory, through the achievement of an Investor in People award.
Each of the Groups businesses is encouraged to make its employees aware of the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of their employing company using their own consultative and communication methods.
To progress this aim further employee representatives are briefed on pan-European issues through a European Employee Forum.
Information concerning employees and their remuneration is given in note 4 to the accounts.
Charitable and political donations During the year the Group made charitable donations in the UK of 663,000 2001: 325,000, much of which was distributed through the Charities Aid Foundation in accordance with the Groups charities policy.
This included, in the Companys centenary year, donations of 300,000 to support museums in Bristol and Nottingham to reflect the contribution made by the Company to the economic prosperity of both cities.
A further 191,000 was distributed by overseas subsidiaries, a significant proportion of which was to aid flood victims in Germany.
No political donations or expenditure were made or incurred by the Company or its subsidiaries, with the exception of Reemtsma, during the year 2001: nil.
Following its acquisition, the Reemtsma group made the following political donations all of which were contracted for, or committed to, prior to acquisition.
Political party 000 Christian Democratic Union of Germany 4.1 Liberal Democratic Party of Germany 1.6 Social Democratic Party of Germany 4.5 Creditor payment policy The Companys current policy concerning the payment of the majority of its trade creditors is to follow the CBIs Prompt Payers Code copies are available from the CBI, Centre Point, 103 New Oxford Street, London WC1A 1DU.
For other suppliers, the Companys policy is to: a settle the terms of payment with those suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction: b ensure that those suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment by inclusion of the relevant terms in contracts: and c pay in accordance with its contractual and other legal obligations.
The payment policy applies to all payments to creditors for revenue and capital supplies of goods and services without exception.
Wherever possible UK subsidiaries follow the same policy and international subsidiaries are encouraged to adopt similar policies, by applying local best practices.
The number of days purchases outstanding at 28 September 2002 for Imperial Tobacco Group was 41 days.
Research and development The Group recognises the importance of investing in research and development, which brings innovative improvements to the Group, both in the products supplied to the consumer and in production and marketing techniques.
Auditors A resolution to reappoint  as Auditors to the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting Full details of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 4 February 2003, and explanations of the resolutions to be proposed at the Meeting, appear in the Notice of Meeting enclosed with this report.
By order of the Board R C Hannaford, Company Secretary 25 November 2002.
