39 h Vacant leasehold property Vacant leasehold property is provided to the extent of the value of the estimated future net cost.
i Stocks and work in progress Stocks and work in progress are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises expenditure incurred in bringing stocks and work in progress to their present location and condition.
j Leases As lessee assets held under finance leases are treated as if they had been purchased at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
This cost is included under tangible fixed assets and depreciation is provided over the shorter of the lease term and the estimated useful life.
The corresponding obligations under these leases are included within borrowings.
The finance charge element of rentals payable is charged to the profit and loss account to produce a constant rate of interest.
Rental payments arising from operating leases are charged on a straight line basis.
As lessor the net investment in finance leases and hire purchase contracts is included under debtors and represents the total amount outstanding under lease agreements and hire purchase contracts less unearned income.
Finance lease and hire purchase income is allocated to accounting periods to give a constant periodic rate of return on the net cash investment.
Rentals receivable from operating leases are credited to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis.
k Deferred taxation Deferred taxation is provided in full without discounting based on current tax rates and law, on timing differences that result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax in future except as otherwise required by FRS 19.
Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences arising from the revaluation of fixed assets where there is no binding commitment to sell the asset.
l Trade finance Trade finance provided by manufacturers, suppliers or related finance houses is treated as a creditor and the cost of such credit is included in cost of sales.
m Post-retirement benefits Liabilities under defined contribution pension schemes are charged when incurred.
The Group has a number of defined benefit pension schemes for which contributions are based on triennial actuarial valuations.
Pension charges in the profit and loss account are calculated at a substantially level percentage of current and expected future pensionable payroll, with variations from regular cost spread over the expected remaining service lives of employees.
Other post-retirement benefits are accounted for on a similar basis to defined benefit pension schemes.
