Directors report The Directors present their annual report and audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2002.
Directors Directors are elected based on their level of competence and experience and have access to professional advice in carrying out Principal activities their duties.
Directors also have access to training courses, to ensure their knowledge is up-to-date and their skills developed as Informa provides business information and education through multiple distribution channels.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that new Directors receive appropriate training where necessary.
Review of activities Throughout the period all Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary, who is normally present at Board The business and future developments of the Group are outlined in the Chairman and Chief Executives review on pages 4 to 11, meetings and is responsible for ensuring that the Directors receive relevant, timely information.
There is a procedure for Directors and the Financial review on pages 12 to 13. to take independent advice in the course of their duties, if considered appropriate, at the Companys expense.
Results and dividends The Company maintains a clear division of roles at the Board level with the Chairman being separate from the Chief Executive.
The results for the year are shown in the consolidated profit and loss account on page 16 and the related notes.
The Directors The composition of the Board throughout the period has represented a balance between Executive and Non-Executive elements, recommend the payment of a final dividend of 4.94p per share which, if approved at the Annual General Meeting, will be paid on with three Executive and three Non-Executive Directors.
28 May 2003 to shareholders whose names are on the register of members on 25 April 2003, and which makes a total of 7.6p per share for the year.
All of the Non-Executive Directors who held positions during the year are considered by the Board to be independent within the meaning of the Code.
The senior Non-Executive Director is Mr R Hooper.
Biographical details of the Non-Executive Directors can Going concern be found on page 14.
After reviewing the Groups budget for 2003 and its medium-term plans, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Therefore they continue to adopt a The senior Non-Executive Director, Mr R Hooper, can be contacted at the Groups registered office in accordance with The Higgs going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
The Directors who have served on the Board of the Company during the year are: Relations with shareholders The Board recognises the importance of regular dialogue with the shareholders as a means of communicating the Companys P S Rigby direction and strategy and to respond to their concerns.
All shareholders are invited to the AGM at which the annual report is D S Gilbertson presented and Directors, including the chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration and Nominations Committees, are present to J H Wilkinson answer any questions that may arise.
The number of proxy votes received for and against each resolution is disclosed at the E A Barton AGM and a separate resolution is proposed on each item.
R Hooper S M Watson In addition to the preliminary and interim results presentations and the AGM, a series of meetings between institutional shareholders and Executive Directors are held throughout the year.
Financial and other information about the Company is Directors interests available on the Companys website www.
Directors interests as at 31 December 2002 were: 2002 2002 Non audit services provided by external auditors 1st 31st In order to maintain the independence of the external auditors, the board has determined that non-audit work will not be offered to Ordinary shares January Acquired Sold December the external auditors unless there are clear efficiencies and value added benefits to the company.
P S Rigby 462,068 0 0 462,068 Accountability and committees D S Gilbertson 470,000 11,680 0 481,680 The Boards assessment of the Companys position and prospects is set out in the main body of the report on pages 4 to 13.
The Audit Committee consists of the Non-Executive Directors and has written terms of reference detailing its authority and duties.
E A Barton 7,500 0 0 7,500 The Audit Committee is responsible for considering the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal controls and risk assurance R Hooper 6,508 0 0 6,508 function, reviewing the scope and conclusions of the work performed by the internal and external auditors and reviewing the S M Watson 2,250 0 0 2,250 financial statements and related policies.
The committee has met twice during the year.
The Risk Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and consists of a senior group of management.
The committee reports its The directors interest in share options are disclosed in the Directors remuneration report.
The Companys register of Directors findings and recommendations to the Audit Committee.
The committee is responsible for assessing Informas financial and interests contains full details of Directors shareholdings and options to subscribe.
Since 31 December 2002 none of the Directors operational risks and ensuring adequate controls are in place to manage those risks.
have sold or acquired additional shares in the Company.
Internal control Mr D S Gilbertson, Mr E A Barton and Mr R Hooper retire from the Board in accordance with the Companys articles of The Directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a association, and being eligible offer themselves for appointment.
Biographical details of all directors of the Company are set out system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide on page 14 reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement.
Share capital In accordance with the guidance published by the Internal Control Working Party of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Details of the share capital are set out in note 24.
As at 19 February 2003 notifications of interests at or above 3% in the issued England & Wales the Turnbull Report, the Board has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the material share capital of the Company have been received from the following:- risks faced by the business, which have been in place throughout the year under review, and up until the date of approval of the Date Company annual report and accounts.
% Holding informed The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and has taken account of material Aegon UK Plc 3.15 17-Feb-03 developments, which have taken place since 31 December 2001.
This has been performed through the Risk Committee as Morley Fund Management Limited 5.90 03-Dec-02 described above.
It has considered the major business and financial risks, the control environment and the results of the internal Fidelity International Limited 10.97 29-Nov-02 auditors work.
Steps are being taken to embed internal control and risk management further into the operations of the Group and Henderson Global Investors Limited 9.80 14-Aug-02 to deal with areas of improvement which have come to managements and the Boards attention.
Legal & General Investment Management Limited 3.03 28-May-02 Any significant control weaknesses identified are brought to the attention of the Board on a timely basis and investigated by management, assisted by the internal audit and risk assurance function.
Any action taken is reviewed and approved by the Audit Corporate governance report Committee and the results reported to the Board.
In accordance with the Listing rules of the UK Listing Authority the following statement sets out how the Board has applied the Key procedures which the Directors have established with a view to providing effective internal control, and which have been in principles of the Combined Code.
The Board has complied with all the provisions of the Combined Code throughout the year.
place throughout the year, are as follows: The Board of directors The Board has overall responsibility for the Group and there is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board: The Board has met 6 times during the year to consider group strategy, policy and financial performance, business development and group management issues.
Directors of key operating companies meet regularly to manage their respective businesses.
In addition where necessary the approved sub committees of the Board met between meetings, on an ad hoc basis: Each Executive Director has been given responsibility for specific aspects of the Groups affairs: Informa Annual Report 2002 40 Informa Annual Report 2002 41
