82 INTERNATIONAL POWER Shareholder services and information Annual General Meeting AGM Shareholder enquiries Corporate investors The 2003 Annual General Meeting AGM If you have any queries on the following: Please contact: will be held on Monday 19 May 2003.
Grant Jones transfer of shares: Further details will be set out in the Notice of Head of Investor Relations change of name or address: the AGM to be sent out in April 2003. International Power plc Senator House The Company does not expect to pay any lost share certicates: 85 Queen Victoria Street dividends on Ordinary Shares in the forseeable lost or out-of-date dividend cheques and London EC4V 4DP.
future but intends to retain earnings to fund payment of dividends directly into a bank Tel: 020 7320 8619 the development and growth of the business.
or building society account: There is, in any event, a current prohibition on Media enquiries the payment of dividends by the Company by death of the registered holder of shares: Please contact: the terms of a Credit Facility, dated 15 Aarti Singhal receiving duplicate copies of Report: October 2001.
Media Relations receiving the Annual Report in addition International Power plc to the Summary Annual Report.
Electronic proxy voting Senator House For the AGM you may, if you wish, register 85 Queen Victoria Street Please contact Lloyds TSB Registrars on the appointment of a proxy electronically London EC4V 4DP.
0870 6003978 or write to them at by logging on to the following website: Tel: 020 7320 8681 The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex www.
voting reference numbers the three 8-digit Website numbers shown on your Proxy Form.
Additional information can be found The 2002 Annual Report and Summary on the Lloyds TSB website at Alternatively, if you have already registered Annual Report are available at www.
for a shareview portfolio with Lloyds TSB which also carries a wide range of other Registrars, then log on to your portfolio information on the Group.
Share Dealing Services at www.
co. uk and click on Lloyds TSB Registrars have in place a low-cost Corporate social responsibility company meetings.
share dealing service for both the purchase Our annual corporate social responsibility and sale of shares.
Commission on both Shareview report is available on our website or write to sales and purchases is 0.75% per transaction, www.
co. uk is a service offered by the Company Secretary.
Lloyds TSB Registrars that enables you to subject to a minimum dealing charge of SEC reporting 7.50.
This is a postal service only.
For check your holdings in many UK companies Our 20-F, including US GAAP reconciliation, information on the low-cost dealing service, and helps you to organise your investments will be available on our website prior to or to obtain a dealing form, please contact electronically.
If you have access to the 30 April 2003. internet you can register for this portfolio Lloyds TSB Registrars on 0870 2424244. service which is easy to use, secure and free General enquiries by logging on to www.
Please contact: Stephen Ramsay Individual Savings Accounts ISAs Information on the International Power Company Secretary International Power plc corporate ISA, which offers a tax-efficient Senator House way of holding shares, can be obtained from 85 Queen Victoria Street the ISA manager, The Share Centre on 01296 414144 or from International London EC4V 4DP.
Financial calendar Announcement of Q1 results 13 May 2003 Annual General Meeting 19 May 2003 Announcement of interim results for the period ended 30 June 2003 4 September 2003 Announcement of Q3 results 11 November 2003 ANNUAL REPORT 2002 83 Glossary ABI Association of British Insurers, a body which sets standards of corporate governance on behalf of insurance companies.
Availability A measure giving the proportion of electrical energy that was available during the year, after taking account of both planned and unplanned plant outage.
BITC Business in the Community, a charitable foundation.
Bond Security that obligates the issuer International Power to make specified payments to the bondholder financial institutions.
CCGT Combined cycle gas turbine turbines, that are typically fuelled by natural gas, are used to drive generators to produce electricity.
The exhaust gases are then passed through a boiler to produce steam that in turn drives an additional turbine coupled to a generator.
Cogen The simultaneous generation of heat and electricity, typically where the need for both arises for industrial or commercial purposes.
Demerger Agreement The demerger agreement dated 21 August 2000 between National Power, Innogy Holdings and Innogy.
EH&S Environmental, health and safety.
EV Enterprise value - market capitalisation plus the book value of debt.
ERCOT The Electric Reliability Council of Texas - is the corporation that administers the power grid for the state of Texas.
ESPS Electricity Supply Pension Scheme.
GT24B A gas turbine built by Alstom Power.
Heat rate A measure of the amount of heat required to produce a unit of electricity.
IGCC Integrated gasication combined cycle - a combined cycle gas turbine that is red on a gas fuel derived from the gasication of liquid or solid carbonaceous material, such as oil residues or coal.
ISO 14001 The international standard of environment management systems.
MIGD Millions of imperial gallons per day.
MW Megawatt: one MW equals 1,000 kilowatts.
NEPOOL The New England Power Pool - together with the ISO New England Independent System Operator, New England is responsible for managing the region's electric bulk power generation and transmission systems.
Non-recourse debt Debt secured on a specic asset, where the lender has no right of recovery from other assets in the Group.
84 INTERNATIONAL POWER Glossary continued OCGT Open cycle gas turbine.
Turbines, typically fuelled by gas or diesel oil, are used to drive the generators to produce electricity.
O&M Operations and maintenance, used in the context of operating and maintaining a power station.
Offtake agreement or PPA Power purchase agreement between a generator and its customer the offtaker whereby the customer purchases the electricity generated by a power station.
PBIT profit before interest and tax.
Peak load The maximum demand during a specified high demand period.
SSAP Statement of Standard Accounting Practice.
Tolling contract A form of long-term electricity contract where the buyer of the electricity also supplies the fuel.
UK GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the UK.
Many thanks to the International Power staff from throughout the regions who appear in photographs in this Annual Report.
Board photography by Jeff Jones.
Registered Office International Power plc Senator House 85 Queen Victoria Street London EC4V 4DP Registered in England and Wales No: 2366963 This document is printed throughout using soya-based inks on  paper.
The paper supply chain via both mill and merchant is covered by international standard ISO 14001.
Published by International Power plc www.
com Designed and produced by Natural Printed in the UK by Royle Corporate Print
