SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SHARE DEALING SERVICE ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS A share dealing service is provided exclusively for the investment in AMECs web site has a facility whereby shareholders can link to the and sale of shares in the company.
It is an execution only service and companys registrar Capita Registrars via its web site in order to gain no financial or taxation advice is provided.
access to general shareholder information as well as personal shareholding details.
You will need an internet-enabled computer with Stockbroking commission will be payable at the rate of 1.0 per cent Internet Explorer 4 or Netscape 4 or above to access these shareholder on the first 3,000 consideration and 0.5 per cent thereafter.
If you wish to access details of your personal shareholding you a minimum commission of 9.99. will need your investor code, which is printed in the bottom right-hand corner of your AMEC share certificates and dividend tax vouchers.
Further information may be obtained from: To access these services: 1 Select the Investors home page of amec.
com NatWest Stockbrokers Limited 2Click on the Need to contact the registrar?
link Corporate and Employee Services 3 Select the service required AMEC information 55 Mansell Street, FREEPOST, London E1 8BR, United Kingdom AMEC now offers shareholders the opportunity to receive Tel: 44 0 870 600 2050 communications such as notices of shareholder meetings and the annual report and accounts electronically.
AMEC encourages the This note has been approved for the purposes of Section 57 of the use of electronic communication as, not only does it save the company Financial Services Act 1986 by NatWest Stockbrokers Limited, a printing and mailing costs, it is also a more convenient and prompt member of the London Stock Exchange, regulated by the Securities method of communication.
If you decide to receive communications electronically, you will be sent Please remember that the value of shares and the income from them an e-mail message each time a new shareholder report or notice of may go down as well as up and that you may not recover the amount meeting is published.
The e-mail will contain links to the appropriate originally invested.
website where documents can be viewed.
It is possible to change your instruction at any time by amending your details on the register.
FINANCIAL CALENDAR If you would like to receive electronic communications, you will need March Preliminary announcement for the year ended 31 December.
to register your e-mail address as follows: April Annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December.
1 Select the Investors home page of amec.
com May Annual general meeting.
2Click on the Need to contact the registrar?
link September Interim report for the half year ended 30 June.
3Click on the Electronic shareholder communications link 4 Subject to having accepted the conditions of use of the Electronic Interim and preliminary announcements notified to the London Stock Communications Service provided by Capita Registrars, enter your Exchange are available on the internet at www.
Copies of family name, investor code and postcode and then click on go annual reports and accounts are also available upon written request from: WILink, Hook Rise South, Surbiton, Surrey KT6 7LD, United Kingdom.
If you decide not to register an e-mail address with the registrar, you will continue to receive all communications in hard copy form.
PAYMENT OF DIVIDENDS Interim ordinary dividend announced in August and paid in January.
If you have any queries regarding electronic communications, please contact the companys registrar, Capita Registrars, on Final ordinary dividend announced in March and paid in July.
Shareholders who do not have dividend payments made directly REGISTERED OFFICE into their bank or building society accounts through the Bankers AMEC plc Automated Clearing System BACS may do so by contacting the Sandiway House, Hartford, Northwich, Cheshire CW8 2YA companys registrar, Capita Registrars.
United Kingdom Registered in England No 1675285 DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT PLAN A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP is available for the convenience of shareholders who would prefer the company to utilise their dividends for the purchase, on their behalf, of additional shares of the company instead of receiving cash dividends.
The DRIP provides for shares to be purchased in the market on, or as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter, any dividend payment date at the price then prevailing in the market.
Further details of the DRIP may be obtained from: Capita Registrars The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 20 8639 2000 E-mail: ssd@capitaregistrars.
com or visit the website at www.
com 80 AMEC plc ANNUAL REPORT 2002 1Overview 44 Directors remuneration report 2AMEC market sectors 51 Consolidated profit and loss account 4Chairmans statement 52 Consolidated balance sheet 5 Financial highlights 53 Company balance sheet 6 Chief Executives review 54 Consolidated cash flow statement 10 Oil and gas 55 Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses 14 Transport 55 Note of consolidated historical cost profits and losses 18 Infrastructure 55 Reconciliation of movements in consolidated shareholders funds 22 Industrial 56 Notes to the accounts 26 Regional services 76 Statement of directors responsibilities 30 Operating and financial review 77 Independent auditors report 36 Segmental review 78 Five year record 39 The board 79 Principal group companies 40 Report of the directors 80 Shareholder information Unless otherwise stated, amounts and percentage movements throughout the annual report and accounts relating to the profit and loss account are stated before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
Amounts and percentage movements relating to total operating profit and margin of the Client Support Services, Capital Projects and Investments businesses are stated before e-commerce and corporate costs of 1.9 million and 20.4 million respectively, goodwill amortisation of 13.1 million, exceptional reorganisation, disposal and closure costs of 24.9 million and an exceptional write-off of goodwill of 28.0 million.
Unless otherwise stated, all references to 2001 earnings per share and percentage movement thereon relate to a pro forma calculation, which assumes the preference shares were converted to ordinary shares on 1 January 2001.
AMEC IS AN INTERNATIONAL ENGINEERING SERVICES COMPANY THAT PROVIDES DESIGN, PROJECT DELIVERY AND MAINTENANCE SUPPORT TO CLIENTS IN THE OIL AND GAS, TRANSPORT, INFRASTRUCTURE AND INDUSTRIAL SECTORS.
THE COMPANY WORKS AT LOCAL, NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL LEVELS, EMPLOYING 50,000 PEOPLE THROUGHOUT THE UK, CONTINENTAL EUROPE, NORTH AMERICA AND SOME 40 COUNTRIES WORLDWIDE.
This report is printed on Mega Matt.
The paper is made from 50 per cent chlorine-free pulp from plantation forests and from 50 per cent recycled and fide-inked fibres.
Any wastage in the finishing process has been addressed and minimised.
The printers of the report are also ISO 14001 accredited and actively work to minimise the effects of the VISIT WWW.
COM business on the environment.
Designed and produced by Fitch:London.
AMEC plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 AMEC plc AMEC plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 65 CARTER LANE LONDON EC4V 5HF UNITED KINGDOM TEL: 44 0 20 7634 0000 FAX: 44 0 20 7634 0001 www.
