Directors responsibilities for financial statements Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the group at the end of the year and of the profit or loss for the year.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company and the group will continue in business.
The Directors confirm that the financial statements comply with the above requirements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and the group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The Directors also have responsibility for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
A copy of the financial statements of the company and the group is placed on the website of Amersham plc.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the companys website.
Information published on the internet is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
On behalf of the Board G F B Kerr Finance Director 26 February 2003 Amersham plc 87
