Accounting policies for the year to 31 December 2002 The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable Accounting Standards in the United Kingdom.
A summary of the more important Group accounting policies which have been consistently applied, is set out below.
Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements are the result of the consolidation of the financial statements of the Groups subsidiary undertakings from the date of acquisition or up until the date of disposal as appropriate.
All Group companies prepare accounts to 31 December.
Reporting currency The Groups earnings stream is primarily US dollars and the principal functional currency is the US dollar, being the most representative currency of the Group.
The Group financial information is therefore prepared in US dollars.
The following sterling to US dollar exchange rates have been used in the preparation of these accounts:- Average rate Closing rate Year ended 31 December 2001 1.4419 1.4554 Year ended 31 December 2002 1.5037 1.6099 Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised only when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with a transaction will flow to the Group and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
Revenue from product sales is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer, which is normally upon delivery of products and customer acceptance, if any.
Revenue from services is recognised as the services are rendered, including revenues based on contractual rates per man hour in respect of multi-year service contracts.
Incentive performance revenues are recognised upon completion of agreed objectives.
Revenues are stated net of sales taxes and discounts.
Joint ventures and associates The Groups share of profits less losses of joint ventures and associates is included in the Group profit and loss account and the Groups share of their net assets is included in the Group balance sheet.
In addition, the Groups share of revenues, operating profit, interest and tax of joint ventures and operating profit, interest and tax of associates is separately disclosed.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net assets of the acquired subsidiary, joint venture, or associate at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is amortised using the straight line method over its estimated life, not to exceed 20 years.
When estimating the life of goodwill for each acquisition the principal factors that the Group takes into account are the nature and foreseeable life of the acquired business, the stability and foreseeable life of the industry to which the goodwill relates and the effects of product obsolescence and changes in demand for the acquired business.
44 John Wood Group PLC Accounting policies for the year to 31 December 2002 Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are stated at historical cost less aggregate depreciation.
No depreciation is charged with respect to freehold land and assets in course of construction.
Transfers from fixed assets to current assets are undertaken at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Depreciation is calculated on the straight line method over the estimated useful life of the asset, as follows: Freehold buildings 25-50 years Long leasehold buildings 25-50 years Short leasehold buildings period of lease Plant and equipment 3-10 years When estimating the useful life of an asset group, the principal factors the Group takes into account are the durability of the assets, the intensity at which the assets are expected to be used and the expected rate of technological developments.
Impairment The Group performs impairment reviews in respect of fixed assets and goodwill whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised when the recoverable amount of an asset, which is the higher of the assets net realisable value and its value in use, is less than its carrying amount.
Stocks Stocks, which include raw materials, work in progress and finished goods, are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Product based companies determine cost by weighted average methods using standard costing to gather raw material, labour and overhead costs.
These costs are adjusted, where appropriate, to correlate closely the standard costs to the actual costs incurred based on variance analysis.
Service based companies stocks consist of spare parts and other consumables.
Serialised parts are costed using the specific identification method and other materials are generally costed using the first in, first out method.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the costs of completion and selling expenses.
Allowance is made for obsolete and slow-moving items, based upon annual usage by part.
Long-term contracts Revenue on long-term contracts is recognised according to the stage reached in the contract by reference to the value of work done.
A prudent estimate of the profit attributable to work completed is recognised once the outcome of the contract can be assessed with reasonable certainty.
Provision is made for all foreseeable losses.
The amount by which the revenue exceeds payments on account is shown under debtors as amounts recoverable on contracts.
Any excess of payments on account over revenue recorded on contracts are classified under creditors due within one year.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less, tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date, with the following exceptions:- provision is made for gains on disposal of fixed assets that have been rolled over into replacement assets only where, at the balance sheet date, there is a commitment to dispose of the replacement assets.
provision is made for the tax that would arise on remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been declared or there is a binding commitment.
on the basis of all available evidence deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the Directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at the rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
John Wood Group PLC 45 Accounting policies for the year to 31 December 2002 Foreign currencies Profit and loss accounts of entities that prepare their results in a currency other than the US dollar are translated into US dollars at average rates of exchange for the year and assets and liabilities are translated into US dollars at the rates of exchange ruling at 31 December.
Exchange differences arising on translation of net assets in such entities held at the beginning of the year, together with those differences resulting from the restatement of profits and losses from average to year end rates, are taken to reserves.
Other exchange differences are taken directly to profit and loss account.
Exchange differences arising on non US dollar currency borrowings raised to finance equity investments denominated in a non US dollar currency, and which are designated as and are hedges of such investments, are taken to reserves on consolidation and offset against the exchange differences arising on these assets.
In each individual entity, transactions in overseas currencies are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the date of the transaction or, where forward contracts have been arranged, at the contractual rates.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet dates or at a contractual rate if applicable and any exchange differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
In 2002, John Wood Group PLC Company changed its functional currency from sterling to US dollars as the majority of the companys transactions are now US dollar denominated.
In 2001 the functional currency of the group changed from sterling to US dollars, and the companys equity share capital which was denominated in sterling was translated at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date, with exchange differences taken to reserves.
In 2002, as a result of the IPO, significant sterling denominated share capital was raised.
The directors now consider it is more appropriate to record the equity share capital at the exchange rate ruling on the date it was raised in line with the functional currency of the parent company.
There has been no impact of this change on the results for the period.
Financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposures to fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates.
Instruments accounted for as a hedge are designated as a hedge at the inception of contracts.
Receipts and payments on interest rate instruments are recognised as adjustments to interest expense over the life of the instrument.
Gains and losses on foreign currency hedges are recognised on maturity of the underlying transaction.
Operating leases As lessee Payments made under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
As lessor Operating lease rental income arising from leased assets is recognised in the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Pension costs In 2001, the Group adopted early FRS 17 Retirement Benefits.
The Group operates a defined benefit scheme and a number of defined contribution schemes.
The assets of these schemes are held in separate trustee administered funds.
The defined benefit schemes assets are measured using market values.
Pension scheme liabilities are measured by an actuary using the projected unit method and discounted at the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liability.
The increase in the present value of the liabilities of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes expected to arise from employee service in the period is charged to operating profit.
The expected return on the schemes assets and the increase during the period in the present value of the schemes liabilities arising from the passage of time are included in other finance income.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses.
The pension schemes, surpluses to the extent that they are considered recoverable, or deficits are recognised in full and presented on the face of the balance sheet net of the related deferred tax.
The Groups contributions to defined contribution schemes are charged to the profit and loss account in the period to which the contributions relate.
46 John Wood Group PLC Accounting policies for the year to 31 December 2002 Use of estimates The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Warranties Provision is made for the estimated liability on all products and services still under warranty, including claims already received, based on past experience.
Employee share schemes The Group has a number of share option schemes.
The Group grants options at the current fair market value and as a result there is no charge arising on the grant of options during the period.
Employers National Insurance Contributions become payable on the exercise of unapproved share options issued after 5 April 1999 on the difference between the market value of the Companys ordinary shares at the date of exercise and the exercise price of the underlying options.
Provision for this liability is made based upon the market value of options at the balance sheet date and spread over the vesting period of the options.
The Group is deemed to have control of the assets, liabilities, income and costs of its employee share ownership trust.
It has therefore been included in the financial statements of the Group.
Business segments The Group provides services and products to the oil and gas and power industries worldwide.
The Group is organised into three business segments: - Engineering & Production Facilities - Well Support - Gas Turbine Services The Engineering and Production Facilities operations provide engineering services and production facilities management and support services to major integrated, independent and national oil companies.
The Well Support operations provide services and products for well completion and throughout the life of the well to support continued production.
The Gas Turbine Services operations offer comprehensive gas and steam turbine aftermarket maintenance, repair and overhaul services for oil and gas and pipeline customers, electric utilities, independent and merchant power producers and consolidated energy companies.
