Accounting Policies 38 -39 Johnson Matthey for the year ended 31st March 2002 Grants in respect of capital expenditure: Grants received in respect of capital expenditure are included in creditors and released to the profit and loss account in equal instalments over the expected useful lives of the related assets.
Precious metal stocks: Stocks of gold, silver and platinum group metals are valued according to the source from which the metal is obtained.
Metal which has been purchased and committed to future sales to customers or hedged in metal markets is valued at the price at which it is contractually committed or hedged, adjusted for unexpired contango.
Leased metal is valued at market prices at the balance sheet date.
Other precious metal stocks owned by the group, which are unhedged, are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Other stocks: These are valued at the lower of cost, including attributable overheads, and net realisable value.
Deferred taxation: Provided on all timing differences that have originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date and which could give rise to an obligation to pay more or less tax in the future.
Pensions and other retirement benefits: The group operates a number of contributory and non-contributory schemes, mainly of the defined benefit type, which require contributions to be made to separately administered funds.
The cost of these schemes is charged to the profit and loss account over the service lives of employees in accordance with the advice of the schemes independent actuaries.
Variations from the regular cost are spread over the average expected remaining service lives of current employees.
The cost of the defined contribution schemes is charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
The cost of post-retirement health care benefits is charged to the profit and loss account on a systematic basis over the expected service lives of employees.
The actuarial liability for the cost of these benefits is fully provided for in the balance sheet.
Change of accounting policy: Under the provisions of Financial Reporting Standard FRS 19 Deferred Tax, which the group adopted on 1st April 2001, the group has restated its deferred tax balances to recognise deferred tax on all timing differences that have originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date as a change in accounting policy.
Consequently the group has restated its comparatives for the year to 31st March 2001.
The effect is to increase the taxation charge for the year included in the profit and loss account by 1.9 million.
The taxation charge on translation differences on foreign currency loans in the statement of recognised gains and losses has increased by 11.1 million.
The deferred tax balance included in provisions for liabilities and charges has increased by 44.8 million and debtors now include a deferred tax asset of 0.5 million.
The effect on the year to 31st March 2002 is to increase the taxation charge in the profit and loss account by 0.8 million and the taxation credit on translation differences on foreign currency loans in the statement of recognised gains and losses by 0.2 million.
Change in disclosure: Under the transitional arrangements of FRS 17 Retirement Benefits additional disclosures are required for pensions and other retirement benefits for the year ended 31st March 2002.
