XX 81 NOTICE OF MEETING Johnston Press Annual Report & Accounts 2002 NOTICE OF MEETING Notice is hereby given that the seventy-fourth Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held in the Boardroom, The Caledonian Hilton Hotel, Princes Street, Edinburgh on 25 April 2003 at 11am to transact the following business of the Company: 1.
To receive the Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2002 and the reports of the Directors and Auditors thereon.
To receive the Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2002.
To re-elect Mr P E B Cawdron, Lord Gordon of Strathblane and Mr F P M Johnston as Directors of the Company.
To appoint Deloitte & Touche, Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors, as auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
As special business to consider and, if thought fit, pass the following Resolutions of which numbers 6 and 7 will be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions and numbers 8 and 9 will be proposed as Special Resolutions:- Ordinary Resolutions 6.
That:- a the Companys proposed new Share Matching Plan, the Johnston Press plc 2003 Share Matching Plan the Matching Plan the main features of which are summarised in the circular to shareholders dated 19 March 2003 and a copy of the Rules of which is produced to the Meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purpose of identification be and the same is hereby approved.
b the Board of Directors be and is hereby authorised to do all such acts and things as they may consider necessary or expedient to carry the Matching Plan into effect.
c the Board of Directors be and is hereby authorised to establish schedules to the Matching Plan and or other plans based on the Matching Plan but modified to take account of local tax, exchange control or securities laws outside the UK, provided that any shares made available under such schedules or other plans must be treated as counting against the relevant limits on individual or overall participation in the Matching Plan.
That the Directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined for the purpose of that section up to a maximum nominal amount of 9,446,308.
This authority shall expire on 27 April 2008 save that the Company may, before this authority expires, make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after it expires.
All previous general authorities under Section 80 of the Act shall cease to have effect.
That, subject to the passing of Resolution 7 set out in the notice of this meeting, the Directors be and are hereby empowered pursuant to the provisions of Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 of the Act pursuant to the authority granted by that Resolution for cash, as if sub-section 1 of Section 89 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that this power shall be limited: i to the allotment of such equity securities in connection with a rights issue in favour of Ordinary Shareholders where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all Ordinary Shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of Ordinary Shares held by them subject only to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may consider necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws of, or the requirements of any recognised regulatory body in, any territory: and ii to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph i above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 1,416,946.
This power shall expire, unless previously revoked or varied, on the date of the Annual General Meeting of the Company held in 2004 save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
82 NOTICE OF MEETING Johnston Press Annual Report & Accounts 2002 NOTICE OF MEETING Continued 9.
That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares of 10p each in the Company Ordinary Shares PROVIDED THAT: i the maximum number of Ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be acquired is 28,000,000: ii the maximum price which may be paid for any such Ordinary Share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an Ordinary Share as derived from The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is contracted to be purchased and the minimum price which may be paid for any such share is 10p in each case exclusive of associated expenses : and iii the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or 12 months from the date of the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier: but a contract of purchase may be made before such expiry which will or may be completed wholly or partly thereafter, and a purchase of Ordinary Shares may be made in pursuance of any such contract.
Notes A In accordance with the Articles of Association, only holders of Ordinary Shares of the Company are entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting.
B An Ordinary Shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
C A form of proxy is enclosed for Ordinary Shareholders which, to be valid, must be completed in accordance with the instructions printed thereon and be lodged with the Companys Registrars not later than 48 hours before the time of the Meeting.
D The Register of Directors interests in the share capital of the Company maintained under section 325 of the Companies Act 1985, will be available for reference at the place of the Meeting from 10.30am until its conclusion.
E Copies of all Directors Service Contracts will be available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excepted from the date of this Notice until the date of the Meeting and on that date at the place of the Meeting from 10.30am until its conclusion.
F Copies of the draft rules of the Johnston Press plc 2003 Share Matching Plan will be available at the Companys Registered Office and at the office of New Bridge Street Consultants, 20 Little Britain, London EC1A 7DH during normal working hours on any weekday except Saturdays and public holidays up to and including the date of the Annual General Meeting and on that date at the place of the Meeting from 10.30am until its conclusion.
