JOHNSTON PRESS PLC FORM OF PROXY FOR ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING ON FRIDAY 25 APRIL 2003 I We Block capitals of being a member s of Johnston Press plc hereby appoint the Chairman of the meeting as my our proxy to vote for me us and on my our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 25 April 2003 and at every adjournment thereof.
My our proxy is to vote as indicated in respect of the following resolutions: For Against 1.
The adoption of the accounts and of the Directors and Auditors Reports thereon 2.
The adoption of the Remuneration Report 3.
The declaration of the dividend 4.
The re-election of Directors as follows: a Mr P E B Cawdron b Lord Gordon of Strathblane c Mr F P M Johnston 5. a The appointment of Auditors b To authorise the Directors to fix the Auditors remuneration 6.
Special Resolution Signature s Dated this day of 2003 Please indicate with an X in the appropriate box how you wish to vote.
Unless otherwise instructed the proxy will vote, or abstain from voting, at his discretion.
To be valid, this proxy, together with any power of attorney or the authority under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy thereof, must reach the Companys Registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, P. O.
Box 457, Owen House, 8 Bankhead Crossway North, Edinburgh EH11 0XG at least 48 hours before the meeting.
Appointments by corporations must be under the common seal or under the hand of an officer authorised in writing.
In the case of joint holders the signature of any one joint holder is sufficient.
Should a member wish to nominate any other person strike out the Chairman of the Meeting and insert the name of the alternative proxy which need not be a member of the Company.
Completion of this proxy will not prevent members from attending and voting at the Meeting if subsequently they find that they are able to do so.
Please tear along this line Second fold BUSINESS REPLY SERVICE Licence No.
EH 59 1 1 Computershare Investor Services PLC P. O.
Box 457 Owen House 8 Bankhead Crossway North EDINBURGH EH11 0XG Third fold and tuck in First fold Cover photography courtesy of www.
com Designed and produced by corporateprm, Edinburgh and London.
co. uk Johnston Press plc 53 Manor Place Edinburgh EH3 7EG Tel: 0131 - 225 3361 Fax: 0131 - 225 4580 e-mail: enquiries@johnstonpress.
