16 MARKET SECTOR REVIEW LOGICA REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 LOGICA REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 MARKET SECTOR REVIEW 17 LOGICAS SOLUTIONS HELP LEADING COMPANIES TO GAIN A GLOBAL COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE IN THEIR CHOSEN SECTORS www.
com INDUSTRY, DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSPORT In a year of declining IT spend, we increased market We also won a 10m design, build and operate contract We strengthened our relationships with major customers such as Volkswagen.
share through our focus on a portfolio of global to provide the largest residential conveyancers in Logicas partnership with the motor manufacturer has developed rapidly since our accounts and repeatable solutions.
Despite a reduced England and Wales, Countrywide Property Lawyers, with acquisition of pdv in November 2000.
During the year, our work for VW in Germany level of spending from our largest customer, Ford, we a state-of-the-art conveyancing system.
increased and in the Czech Republic, we won a contract to provide SAP and v achieved overall organic growth of 9%.
customer relationship management solutions to SkoFIN part of the VW Group.
By For British Airways we designed, and are now building, continuing to build on our partnerships with clients like Volkswagen, the IDT business This growth was led by an excellent performance an SAP-based, engineering-wide data warehouse achieved strong growth in Europe.
in Continental Europe, where our partnerships with system, to improve efficiency and effectiveness in key customers continued to develop, fuelled by maintaining their fleet.
our understanding of the sector and our reputation for delivery.
We continued to develop repeatable solutions to help our customers optimise the supply chain and to deliver For example, our relationship with Volkswagen, which value-added services.
For example, we drew on Logicas took off with the acquisition of pdv, continued to grow.
telecoms business expertise in telematics, which will We won a contract to provide SAP and customer enable customers to deliver services into vehicles using v relationship management CRM solutions to SkoFIN wireless internet technology.
We also developed a part of the VW Group in the Czech Republic.
collaborative product data management centre of expertise in Germany, which allows customers to handle RCI Banque, a subsidiary of Renault, awarded us a large amounts of complex product information in sectors contract to integrate its accounting and procurement such as automotive and manufacturing.
processes with an SAP-based information system.
Logicas WebFormulogic product, which is designed to In another automotive milestone, Ford selected Logica as reduce development time in the pharmaceuticals a preferred provider of applications development services industry, now has 13 customers in the UK and had its in the UK and Germany.
This gives us the potential to first overseas sale in Belgium.
grow the business in Germany by replacing legacy IT service providers.
Hewlett Packard Customer Services IT, There is no immediate sign of an upturn in IT spending in our largest customer in France, also awarded us global this sector and competition is fierce.
However, we are preferred supplier status.
well placed to seize opportunities, particularly in outsourcing, where we can take end-to-end The business remained partially insulated from the global responsibility for the delivery and operation of missiondownturn because of its breadth of offerings and its critical systems and processes.
This, together with the exposure to a variety of sub-sectors.
For example, while potential for international growth with our major it was a difficult 12 months in the UK automotive customers, gives us confidence that we will continue to market, other sectors, such as housing, fared better.
We were awarded a 17m outsourcing contract to provide house building company George Wimpey UK with IT consultancy, services and technical support.
Logica will manage the clients existing IT department.
18 MARKET SECTOR REVIEW LOGICA REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 LOGICA REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 MARKET SECTOR REVIEW 19 LOGICAS EXPERIENCE IN THE FAST-CHANGING FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR ALLOWS US TO HELP LEADING COMPANIES MEET THE NEEDS OF THEIR CUSTOMERS www.
com FINANCIAL SERVICES Our financial services business remained focused on the Customer relations remained critical as, in a very We were awarded a 10m contract to provide the Reserve Bank of India RBI with a core markets of secure payments, operational competitive market, institutions sought to retain new generation of secure payments systems and core banking infrastructure.
Under infrastructure and customer relations.
customers and provide extra services.
We implemented a the contract we will implement a national real-time gross settlement RTGS solution new solution to help Crdit Agricole Centre France to allow secure, interbank payments across the country.
Logicas Quaestor product However, the sector proved susceptible to the global simplify its systems infrastructure and optimise its call suite will be used to enable 205 Indian banks and financial institutions to interface economic downturn, with its difficulties accelerating centre management.
directly with the RTGS network.
The core banking system will cover all of the RBIs after 11 September.
As a result, institutions restricted general transactions and central accounting functions.
spending and our revenue declined, particularly in We also met the growing customer demand for Europe and the US.
revenue enhancement and cost reductions, by providing solutions for operational efficiency, billing, We have now won 15 real-time gross settlement RTGS risk management and compliance.
programmes, including a major contract worth over 10 million for the Reserve Bank of India.
This will allow For example, to meet the demand for anti-money all banks in India to make secure interbank payments laundering applications, we formed an alliance with across the country.
NetEconomy to offer systems that protect institutions and their customers from fraud.
In the Philippines, we won a contract to implement an RTGS system for Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas.
This will use We also invested in developing new products and services Logicas central accounting system CAS for interbank to meet our customers anti-risk focus.
These include settlement of high value payments.
We look to build on C-TAS, which allows institutions to alert cardholders of such experience, particularly in Eastern Europe, where suspect card transactions via a text message.
several countries are now considering introducing RTGS.
During the year, we strengthened our management Logica continued to implement continuous linked teams in France, the Netherlands and the US and we settlement CLS systems around the world.
These systems also expanded our UK sales team.
To reinforce our global help to eliminate settlement risk in foreign exchange solutions delivery we began to set up new centres of transactions.
For instance, we were appointed by Clearing excellence in countries that have strong capabilities in and Payment Services, a consortium of three Singapore key solutions.
For example, we established a centre for banks, to provide the core application for their participation electronic bill presentment and payment in Sweden.
We also won a contract to supply UniCredito, the These complement our existing centres for retail and second largest bank in Italy, with its CLS solution.
wholesale payments, banking automation, customer relations and operational effectiveness.
We entered into a global agreement with the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunications Looking ahead, we are seeking to exploit outsourcing SWIFT.
This will enable us to market their products, opportunities in areas such as payments systems and which allow connection to new Internet Protocol IP applications management.
20 MARKET SECTOR REVIEW LOGICA REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 LOGICA REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 MARKET SECTOR REVIEW 21 LOGICAS INNOVATION AND PROVEN DELIVERY RECORD IS HELPING MANY PUBLIC SECTOR ORGANISATIONS TO PROVIDE THE HIGHEST POSSIBLE LEVELS OF SERVICE TO THEIR USERS www.
com PUBLIC SECTOR In 2001, the Crown Prosecution Service CPS awarded Logica its biggest ever Our public sector business, which covers both central and The NHS, in particular, is planning a major overhaul of its IT contract, worth in excess of 200m.
Under the 10-year outsourcing agreement we local government and the space and defence sectors, systems as part of one of the largest public sector will manage the CPSs IT services and develop a new e-enabled case management achieved an impressive increase in orders.
This included a procurement programmes ever undertaken.
This new system will be operational across all 42 CPS areas in England and 200m deal for the Crown Prosecution Service CPS, our leaders in the public sector, we are positioning ourselves to Wales by the end of 2003.
Logica will deliver a fully integrated service largest ever contract.
supporting the desktop environment, existing IT infrastructure and back office functions.
This will help the CPS to Logica has worked in the public sector for more than In the space and defence sectors we grew strongly, achieve its goal of being among the best 30 years, primarily in the UK but increasingly in increasing revenues and profits despite a flat market.
prosecution services in the world.
Our success in securing This success reflected our ability to produce bespoke major business last year followed a strategic decision to software for mission-critical applications and our focus on key areas, including local and central government, reputation for delivery.
We were awarded a contract worth 18.3m for a fire Under the 10-year Crown Prosecution Service contract control Battlefield Information System Application BISA to we will manage most of the CPSs IT services and run on the British Armys BOWMAN communications develop a new e-enabled case management system.
This application will enable effective Following the CPS award, we reinforced our position management of weapons and ammunition and is the first in the criminal justice sector, securing business with of a series of applications to run on BOWMAN.
The UK Ministry of Defence confirmed the Paradigm We also achieved significant wins to support other team, which includes Logica, as preferred bidder for functions at the heart of government.
For example, we the Skynet 5 programme.
This will deliver a military were awarded a major contract to implement integrated satellite communications service for the British armed case management and corporate finance systems for the forces over the next 20 years.
In the space sector, we were awarded a contract by Alcatel We built on our track record of delivering repeatable France to develop software for the European Geostationary solutions to central government, extending our Navigation Overlay System.
This will increase the accuracy offerings into local government.
Through our SAP of global positioning technology to allow safety practice we won significant local authority contracts, applications, such as in-flight navigation.
as councils worked to meet e-Government targets.
Customers included Haringey Council and the London We also delivered software to Astrium for the European Borough of Waltham Forest.
We also won a contract to Space Agencys Mars Express mission.
Our software will help the States of Guernsey integrate business enable the Beagle 2 lander to detach from the spacecraft processes, streamline procurement procedures and and touch down safely on Mars.
improve the visibility of management information.
Looking ahead, we expect to see a continued growth in All areas of government are modernising to deliver services demand for Logicas expertise in government more effectively.
IT is a key component of this strategy and, modernisation programmes and for our military against the private sector trend, government spending has applications and communications capabilities.
We now see significant opportunities, particularly in local government, criminal justice and health.
22 FINANCIAL REVIEW LOGICA REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 LOGICA REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 FINANCIAL REVIEW 23 ENDED ON A CHALLENGING THE YEAR NOTE, AS THE UNCERTAIN ECONOMY DISCOURAGED CUSTOMER INVESTMENT IN INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY.
LOGICA ACTED PROMPTLY TO EFFECT SIGNIFICANT COST SAVINGS www.
com Business results In this difficult climate, order intake slowed in the second half with a Market sector review Profits before tax before goodwill, restructuring costs, amounts book to bill ratio of 1.03:1 in IT services and 0.8:1 in mobile networks.
written off investments and exceptional items fell by 25% to The full year book to bill ratio for the group was strong at 1.18:1.
% growth % growth % share % share Revenue by sector m total organic 2002 2001 116.0m on revenues of 1,102.3m, down 3% for the year ended 30 Mobile networks# 250.4 16 16 23 28 June 2002.
Operating margins fell to 10.1% from 12.4% in the Our balanced sector and geographical portfolio has allowed us to previous year, while basic earnings per share were 25% down at match very strong growth in public sector and good results from Other telecoms 136.5 26 27 12 15 19.1p.
After restructuring costs of 33.7m, goodwill amortisation of energy and utilities and industry, distribution and transport against Telecommunications 386.9 20 20 35 43 35.7m, goodwill impairment of 261.2m and writing down the weak performance from telecoms and financial services.
Systems Energy & utilities 250.6 9 0 23 20 investments in the employee share option trust by 20.2m, losses on integration activity declined during the year, substantially Industry, distribution & transport 191.6 14 9 17 15 ordinary activities before tax amounted to 234.8m, giving a loss per compensated for by an increasing proportion of revenues from Financial services 146.9 9 19 13 14 share of 58.4p.
Cash flow from operating activities for the year was outsourcing, rising to 16% for the current year from 11% for the year 71.7m, giving cash balances at 30 June of 122.5m.
Public sector 126.3 45 41 12 8 operating cash conversion for the year of 65%.
The directors have Group 1,102.3 3 7 100 100 declared a final dividend of 3.1p, making a total dividend of 5.4p, an We reduced headcount in the first half by 500 in response to the # Excludes radio planning which is now reported geographically.
increase of 8% over last year.
tightening market conditions and, in May, commenced a restructuring programme to further reduce headcount and to consolidate our After a good first half in which earnings per share increased by 18% property portfolio.
Headcount at 30 June was 10,896, some 1,000 in a tightening market, trading became much more difficult during below the previous year-end, with a further 450 staff due to leave the second half.
The telecoms and financial services sectors were the business during the first quarter of 2002 2003. particularly affected, as customers postponed or delayed investment decisions in an uncertain economic environment.
As indicated in our All references to profit before tax, operating profit, margins, cash In the telecoms sector, revenues declined 20% as conditions in the In the industry, distribution and transport IDT sector, growth was 10 May 2002 update, trading at our mobile networks division flow and earnings per share are before goodwill, restructuring costs, industry remained extremely tough and customers focused on debt 14% in a year when Ford, one of our long-term customers in this worsened sharply during the second half in what continues to be a amounts written off investments and exceptional items.
management and reducing both capital and operating expenditure.
sector, decreased its spend considerably.
As they consolidated their heavily depressed market.
In this environment, mobile networks revenues declined 16% as supplier base, Ford selected Logica as preferred IT supplier for the sales of messaging products slowed dramatically, while prepaid UK and Germany.
Overall, the IDT business was underpinned by revenues increased marginally.
Key operators in Europe have leveraging our SAP expertise to win longer-term outsourcing delayed, and in some cases cancelled, launches of 3G services amid contracts and strong growth in Continental Europe, where our key uncertainty about network stability and economic feasibility, focus has been on the automotive and rail sectors.
causing a knock-on impact on wider telecoms spending plans.
REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHICAL BREAKDOWN OF LOCATION OF OPERATIONS The financial services business declined 9% with a 19% organic The energy and utilities sector grew 9%, driven by acquisitions, but was decline partially offset by acquisitions as our customers around flat organically as growth in continental European business was offset the world reduced their IT budgets, particularly in continental by declines in the UK and North America.
Liberalisation of energy Europe and the US.
We continued to be successful in the areas of United Kingdom Asia Pacific Middle East markets continued in Continental Europe, although at a pedestrian rate, payments, regulation and security but the market for the supply of 2002 461.6M 42% 2002 72.7M 6% even though many countries are facing a 1 January 2003 initial less differentiated resources remains weak in this sector.
In the UK and North America, the business has seen declines as consolidation delays investment decisions.
Public sector revenues grew fastest at 45% as we continued our focus on local and civil government, with a number of key wins Continental Europe Mobile Networks including the largest contract in Logicas history, a 200m project 2002 271.3M 25% 2002 250.4M 23% for the Crown Prosecution Service CPS in the UK.
We believe that 2001 257.9M 23% 2001 299.6M 26% our core case management and outsourcing capabilities are particular strengths, as governments across Europe look to improve 2002 2001 The Americas the quality, efficiency and perception of public services.
Prior year comparatives have 1,102.3 MILLION 1,133.2 MILLION 2002 46.3M 4% been re-stated to exclude the radio planning business from 2001 59.6M 5% Asia mobile networks.
24 FINANCIAL REVIEW LOGICA REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 LOGICA REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 FINANCIAL REVIEW 25 Mobile Networks United Kingdom operations Continental Europe operations The United Kingdom operations performed solidly in a difficult climate.
Revenue in Continental Europe increased by 5% to 271.3m for the EMEA Asia Pacific Americas Japan Total Revenue was flat at 461.6m and margins were 11.3% compared to year, driven by the acquisition of pdv in Germany.
Operating profit 01 02 change 01 02 change 01 02 change 01 02 change 01 02 change 11.5% last year, giving operating profit marginally lower at 52.1m was down, at 15.6m from 17.1m last year, giving full year margins m % m % m % m % m % from 53.4m last year.
Messaging 40.0 20 16.5 40 45.5 64 92.8 33 194.8 20 Prepay 36.9 1 12.6 27 6.1 510 - - 55.6 1 Review by market sector m % growth % share Review by market sector m% growth % share Total 76.9 11 29.1 35 51.6 79 92.8 33 250.4 16 Telecommunications 55.7 29 12 Telecommunications 42.5 35 16 2002 2001 Energy & utilities 149.4 8 32 Energy & utilities 46.2 106 17 All numbers have been restated to exclude radio planning Margins 16.4% 21.6% Industry, distribution & transport 97.7 12 21 Industry, distribution & transport 85.5 71 31 Financial services 58.4 12 13 Financial services 73.7 23 27 Public sector 100.4 69 22 Public sector 23.4 3 9 Mobile networks faced the toughest trading environment for a decade and The restructuring programme announced in May is now well underway, Total 461.6 - 100 Total 271.3 5 100 revenues fell as heavily indebted operators all but cancelled capital and 300 staff had ceased employment by 31 August.
The market continues Organic growth 2 Organic growth 6 expenditure as the year progressed.
The division had a difficult year, to be very difficult and we now expect to terminate a total of 500 jobs in 2002 2001 2002 2001 delivering revenues of 250.4m, down 16% on last year.
Margins declined this programme, within the provision taken at the year-end, giving to 16.4% from 21.6% and operating profit dropped 37% to 41.1m.
headcount of approximately 1,000 by the end of the first quarter.
In the Operating margin 11.3% 11.5% Operating margin 5.8% 6.6% current difficult climate, we have designed the cost base to deliver breakFor the second half, the business delivered a small profit on revenue of even on revenue of approximately 150m for the full year.
The first quarter 88.7m, of which 73% came from product sales including licences and is generally slow due to the holiday season and the cost reductions will not Overall, the UK market tightened during the second half of the year Revenue from Continental Europe in the second half was below hardware, 20% from maintenance and support and 7% from bespoke have full impact until the second quarter.
However, the break-even point is with increased pressure on margins.
Our focus on cost management and expectation: some 14% below the first half and 15% lower than last developments for specific customers.
We aggressively managed the cost dependant on the revenue mix and consequent third party product quality of delivery, supported by experienced management throughout year.
This was the result of very difficult market conditions in the base throughout the half, cancelling discretionary spend and achieving content.
We will continue to align the cost base against an evolving and the UK organisation, has delivered robust margins in this business.
telecoms and financial services sectors, causing year-on-year and better terms with third party suppliers.
sequential six-month revenue and margin declines in our businesses Telecoms revenues declined 29% as both wireless and wireline in Germany and the Netherlands.
The weakening German economy Having delivered growth of 36% in the first half, messaging revenues for Logica continues to play a major part in the global messaging and prepaid operators reduced capital expenditure.
Second tier and start-up has reduced short-term growth expectations for pdv.
However, this the full year fell 20% to 194.8m.
Despite the revenue decline, Logicas markets, supplying solutions to over 160 customers worldwide.
Despite the operators struggled with financial stability, postponing any planned acquisition provides Logica with a solid business and critical mass in market share in short messaging remained stable and we added 25 new publicity surrounding 2.5G, 3G and multimedia messaging MMS, short investment.
Our major customers continued to spend, but with the largest IT services market in Europe.
The Czech Republic business customers during the year, winning new business in North and South messaging SMS and prepaid continue to be the dominant revenue reduced budgets and increased emphasis on short-term payback.
continued to perform very strongly, delivering margins in excess of America, EMEA and Asia Pacific.
Operators continued to invest in generating services in digital mobile.
During the current financial year we the group average.
Our French operations were profitable throughout products such as our FSG, OMG and MAR to drive messaging traffic expect to see an increasing focus by our customers on SMS-based services Energy and utilities revenues declined by 8% following completion of the year on marginally lower revenue, having been loss-making in the through their networks, but delayed upgrading messaging capacity as a vehicle for engaging the corporate market.
In addition, our PrePaid the intensive build phase of NETA during last year.
The system is now previous year, this despite being affected by weakness in the financial beyond previous upgrade points.
This is causing service level degradation Service Agent PSA is building market momentum, providing operators in its second year of service and has been a critical enabler in services sector during the second half.
in some networks and we believe that traffic in some operators systems with a real-time charging platform for both corporate and consumer reducing wholesale electricity prices in the UK.
As utilities strive to is close to current messaging capacity.
Few operators have launched services.
With renewed operator focus on these technologies we continue increase efficiency in a liberalised environment, our SAP capabilities Telecoms revenue declined by 35%, substantially affected by dramatic MMS services, and many tier two and tier three operators have deferred to see increased synergies with the rest of our business as solutions in the sector position us well.
spending reductions at key customers in the Netherlands and a very decisions following trials, as availability of handsets, and an as yet become more complex, allowing us to bring our systems integration difficult operating environment for our European-based telecoms indifferent consumer experience, delays launches.
expertise to benefit our mobile networks customers.
In the IDT sector, revenue declined by 12% as overcapacity in the consultancy unit, which was loss making for the year, although at a automotive industry caused key clients, notably Ford, to reduce their much lower level in the second half.
We continued to win leadingThe prepaid business remained stable, delivering revenues of 55.6m, Our R&D programme continued throughout the year, despite costspending.
Nevertheless, Logicas appointment as a preferred IT edge contracts with important operators.
For example, we deployed marginally up on last year and won eight new customers during the year.
cutting in the rest of the business.
Mobile networks R&D expense supplier with Ford in the UK is an important underpinning factor in the worlds first fully convergent GSM, GPRS and wireline billing This business is focused on core voice prepaid sales to medium sized was 25m, broadly in line with last year after adjusting for radio our automotive business.
Our SAP practice continued to do well, solution for leading mobile operator One in Austria.
We were also operators and addressing the global market for data prepaid PSA and planning, and represented 10% of revenue.
Logicas messaging winning significant business outside its historical IDT focus.
Driven by selected by a major European operator to undertake the worlds first recharge management systems RMS.
During the year we won contracts platform remains the most scalable and cost efficient in the market new implementations and long-term applications hosting, SAP implementation of Portals 3G data billing solution.
to deliver our PrePaid Service Agent product PSA to 14 customers.
and, as operators reach messaging capacity limits, this platform revenues in the UK increased by 33% during the year.
offers premium performance, operating cost savings and is easily Energy and utilities delivered growth of 106% as demand for The Americas region performed well for the year as a whole, growing by configurable to support MMS.
As customers focus on more Financial services revenues grew by 12%, primarily from a strong solutions enabling energy liberalisation continued across Europe.
79%, although the growth rate slowed in the second half as operators solutions-based investment, we will integrate best of breed modules position in outsourcing services to support consolidation and During the year, Logica successfully implemented and supported deferred decisions in an unstable financial market environment in North and applications seamlessly into their networks, using our rationalisation with key clients and effective exploitation of our solutions for the first stages of deregulation in the Czech Republic America.
In this climate of reduced capital budgets, protracted messaging architecture.
This enables us to bring an even richer payments capabilities.
Many European countries face a 1 January 2003 negotiations inevitably lead to increased pricing pressure.
Some of our key portfolio of value-added services to the market in reduced time.
initial liberalisation target, requiring them to have basic systems in South American markets have suffered from economic instability and Consequently, our key R&D activity in the current year is to further Public sector revenues grew strongly, increasing by 69%.
We place to support limited energy trading, but we see some general consequent currency devaluations.
In EMEA, revenue for the year declined enhance our core messaging and prepaid platforms and to deliver commenced work on the 10-year Crown Prosecution Service CPS reluctance to achieve this deadline.
by 11%, having increased by 53% during the first half.
Messaging them with lower cost hardware solutions.
We will continue to make contract to develop and support a new case management system, declined by 20%, suffering from upgrade delays by key customers, while use of our offshore development capability to deliver key R&D drawing on repeatable elements from similar government contracts.
In IDT, revenue growth was strong as we secured work with key prepaid revenue was flat.
Asia Pacific had a disappointing year, with projects, driving further cost reductions.
Our current expectation is On 1 April 2002 we took over support of the existing IT systems used accounts, including Volkswagen, Renault and Hewlett Packard.
Our revenue down 35%, affected by longer decision making processes and to spend approximately 10m during the first half but our R&D by the CPS.
We made considerable progress in the local government focus on the rail sector led to Logicas appointment as prime systems increasing price pressure from local competitors in the Greater China plans are under continual review.
arena having been awarded SAP implementation and 10-year hosting integrator for ALSTOM for development of the European Rail Traffic region.
Revenue in Japan was 33% below last year, following a precipitous contracts by Haringey and Waltham Forest borough councils.
This was triggered by a slowdown in the roll out of our high capacity 2700 systems, reflecting a lower growth rate in short messaging volumes and delays in launching 3G networks.
26 FINANCIAL REVIEW LOGICA REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 LOGICA REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 FINANCIAL REVIEW 27 Financial services revenues declined 23% despite the acquisition of Performance in the second half was poor, as revenue declined recoverable amounts, represented by their value in use to the group.
These measures are expected to deliver annualised cost savings of pdv in Germany.
Our customers in Germany and France reduced their sequentially and the business made an operating loss in the second The value in use has been derived from discounted cash flow approximately 40m across the group, broken down as follows: IT budgets and deferred projects.
Both Commerzbank and BNP Paribas half.
Principally, this was the result of continued losses in the Middle projections that cover the five years from 1 July 2002.
After this fivereduced spend significantly.
In an over-supplied market, daily labour East business and poor second half utilisation in Australia and Asia.
year period, the projections use a long-term growth rate compatible the mobile networks operating cost base will be approximately rates were under greater pressure as the year progressed.
Our business in this region has a high proportion of larger fixed price with projections for the countries concerned.
The discount rate used to 25m lower during the current financial year contracts which have been taking longer to close.
Since the end of arrive at this calculation was 12% on a pre-tax basis.
The review has Our public sector business, substantially in the Netherlands, declined the year progress has been better, for example, we have signed a resulted in an exceptional charge to operating costs of 246.6m in restructuring of the IT services business will deliver annualised marginally as elections deferred the letting of new contracts.
We contract with the New South Wales government worth over A$25m respect of pdv in Germany and 14.6m in respect of Carnegie in the US.
savings of 9m associated with personnel costs and 6m associated believe that our public sector capability in case management and during the next five years, to supply an electronic marketplace.
outsourcing positions us well in continental Europe as governments Since the acquisition of pdv in November 2000 market valuations and focus on more efficient public services.
The region delivered 7% revenue growth in telecoms as we delivered expected growth rates in IT services have declined substantially.
The The group continues to recruit selectively, and our graduate intake major billing systems in Asia for Indosat, Telkomsel and Digitel which German market has been particularly affected, especially in the programme has been maintained, albeit at a lower level.
The Americas operations were weighted towards the first half.
financial services sector, an important business area for pdv, and Market conditions remained extremely weak throughout the year.
consequently it is appropriate to write down the carrying value of the Other investment write-downs Revenues of 46.3m were 22% lower and margins dropped to 2.2% Growth in energy and utilities was driven by our acquisition of MITS in associated goodwill.
Logica holds shares in an Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP giving operating profit of 1.0m.
Australia acquired in December 2000, which enabled us to close gas trust.
The carrying value of the shares held in the ESOP was reviewed trading business with GRMCo and to develop outsourcing business Carnegie, a US business, was acquired in November 1998.
The in the light of recent stock market volatility and the impact on the with Pacific Power, TXU and Eraring Energy.
business has been fully integrated with our US operations and company's share price.
The Directors decided that the most Review by market sector m % growth % share minimal separately identifiable elements of Carnegie remain.
In view appropriate course of action was to write down the carrying value of Telecommunications 6.8 46 15 In financial services, Logica won business in payments solutions, including of the weak performance of the US business the remaining goodwill, these shares.
They have been written down to the market price at 30 real-time gross settlement RTGS systems for the Reserve Bank of India amounting to 14.6m, has been written off.
This resulted in a carrying value of 2.00 per share and a Energy & utilities 29.9 9 64 worth about 10m and Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas in the Philippines.
Industry, distribution & transport 4.1 33 9 The ongoing annual goodwill charge following the impairments will Financial services 5.5 20 12 Review of revenue by type of business be approximately 23m.
Cash flow Public sector - - - Net cash balances at 30 June 2002 stood at 122.5m, a reduction of 2002 2001 Review by type of business % growth % share % share m Restructuring some 271.0m from the June 2001 balances of 393.5m, substantially Total 46.3 22 100 Mobile networks # 250.4 16 23 26 On 10 May 2002, the group announced a major restructuring caused by acquisition payments of 268.2m.
Cash flow from Organic growth 22 programme in order to reduce headcount and exit certain vacant operating activities before restructuring costs, interest, taxation and System integration 365.2 11 33 37 2002 2001 properties.
This decision was necessary in order to realign the group's dividends was 71.7m 2001: 110.7m giving a cash conversion of Outsourcing services 176.0 43 16 11 Operating margin 2.2% 4.8% cost base and protect future profitability.
Cash conversion in the second half was 148%.
Consultancy professional services 310.7 3 28 26 been made in the year ended 30 June 2002 for this restructuring Free cash flow after interest, taxation, capital expenditure and Group 1,102.3 3 100 100 Revenue declined in all market sectors during the year as our business programme of which approximately 3m relates to non-cash items.
restructuring was positive at 10.8m for the year despite the much was exposed to the sectors of the US economy most affected by the Fixed price 714.6 3 65 62 This charge can be broken down as follows: more difficult trading environment.
financial market instability experienced during the year.
# Restated to exclude radio planning in mobile networks, a charge of 14.0m was taken to provide for Dividend policy Restated to include non-mobile networks product business In energy and utilities, revenue declined by 9% as liberalisation the costs of reducing headcount by approximately 500 and exiting The boards dividend policy is to ensure that shareholders benefit slowed in the wake of the failed Californian experiment, the Enron vacant properties in Ireland and Asia directly and smoothly from the successful growth of the business, collapse and low switching rates in deregulated states.
Logica has Consultancy and professional services revenues increased, driven while continuing to provide sufficient funds to invest in future continued to win projects to help customers manage and operate mainly by the business mix of our acquisitions in Germany and a charge of 19.7m was taken across the rest of the business to cover growth.
The directors have declared a final dividend of 3.1p, making a their physical assets and field workforces.
Systems integration activity declined during the year, the costs of reducing headcount by approximately 300 and exiting total dividend of 5.4p, an increase of 8% over last year, to be paid on substantially compensated by an increasing proportion of revenues vacant properties in the UK, the Netherlands, Germany and the US.
8 November 2002 to shareholders on the register at the close of Margins were adversely affected during the second half as we from outsourcing, rising to 16% for the current year from 11% for business on 11 October 2002.
In the current climate, the board continued to invest in business development in the South American the year ended 30 June 2001, giving growth of 43% for the year.
The table below highlights the provision charged and amounts expects to maintain the value of the dividend in real terms.
market where political and economic instability have caused delays in utilised to 30 June 2002. benefiting from our investment.
Offshore services Property Cost Redundancy Costs Total Logica maintains an offshore delivery capability at locations in India Asia Pacific Middle East operations and in the Czech Republic.
Logica offshore services supports Logica Mobile Continental Mobile Continental Networks UK US Europe Networks UK Europe Revenue in the region increased 37% to 72.7m driven by MITS, the units on a global basis, providing cost-effective product development, Amount charged 2.8 7.5 1.3 1.3 11.2 1.4 8.2 33.7 Australian acquisition completed last year.
Operating profit declined system design, delivery and outsourcing services.
Employing 48% to 1.1m with margins dropping to 1.5% from 4.0%.
approximately 325 staff at 30 June 2002, we anticipate that this unit Utilised to June 2002---- 3.4 0.6 2.6 6.6 will grow significantly as it takes on larger assignments in support of Seamus Keating Closing provision 2.8 7.5 1.3 1.3 7.8 0.8 5.6 27.1 the rest of the business.
Group Finance Director Review by market sector m % growth % share Telecommunications 31.5 7 43 Staff The 33.7m restructuring announced in May 2002 was in addition to Group headcount at 30 June 2002 was 10,896 when all but 450 of a redundancy cost of 6.75m, charged to operating profit in the first Energy & utilities 25.1 107 35 the staff whose positions were redundant had left the group.
At that time, the costs were not separately identified as Industry, distribution & transport 4.3 115 6 compares with 11,908 at 30 June 2001.
Revenue per head fell 15%, operating exceptional because the impact on the profit and loss Financial services 9.3 33 13 reflecting the more difficult climate across the sector and the impact account was not material.
Public sector 2.5 - 3 in the year of acquisitions, where revenue per head was historically Total 72.7 37 100 lower than the Logica average.
Organic growth 16 Goodwill 2002 2001 In accordance with FRS10 Goodwill and Intangible Assets, the carrying Operating margin 1.5% 4.0% values of the groups goodwill balances have been compared to their 28 DIRECTORS BIOGRAPHIES LOGICA REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 LOGICA REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 DIRECTORS BIOGRAPHIES 29 DIRECTORS BIOGRAPHIES SIR FRANK BARLOW C. B. E. 72 ROXANNE DECYK 49 # SEAMUS KEATING 39 JIM MCKENNA 47 Non-executive chairman # Roxanne joined the board as a non-executive director in November 2000.
Group finance director Jim joined Logica in 1993.
He is a member of the board and is also on the Sir Frank joined the board as a non-executive director in 1995 and became Ms Decyk, a US citizen, is currently senior vice president, corporate affairs Seamus was appointed group finance director and a member of the Logica executive committee.
Jim is the supervisory managing director for Logica chairman in November 1995.
He was managing director of Pearson plc and human resources for Shell Oil Company.
She has also been a director board in February 2002, having been director of group finance since 1999. in continental Europe and the Middle East.
He is the board director until his retirement at the end of 1996.
Sir Frank is also a director of of Snap-On Inc since 1994.
From 1991 to 1997 Ms Decyk held a variety of He joined Logica from Getronics, where he was finance director of Olivetti responsible for human resources.
He formerly worked for GEC-Marconi Socit Europenne Des Satellites and Thames Television.
He is a former positions within Amoco Oil Corporation, including vice president for Solutions, the global IT solutions business of the Olivetti group, and also Plessey Company plc.
He is a non-executive director of AWG plc.
chairman and chief executive of The Financial Times Group, and a former commercial and industrial sales as well as corporate planning.
immediately prior to its purchase by Wang in turn purchased by chairman of Sky TV, Thames Television and Channel 5 and was on the Getronics.
Prior to that appointment he was finance director of Olivetti's board of The Economist for 14 years.
Sir Frank was knighted in the Queen's UK operations, having joined their finance function in 1989.
New Year's Honours List 1998 for services to the newspaper industry.
ROYSTON HOGGARTH LARRY QUINN MARIO ANID CHRIS MCDERMOTT ANTHONY COLE SEAMUS KEATING JIM MCKENNA LAURENCE JULIEN RICHARD NORTH ANDREW GIVEN SIR FRANK BARLOW C. B. E. ROXANNE DECYK MARTIN READ HELMUT MAMSCH ANGELA KNIGHT MARTIN READ 52 ANDREW GIVEN 54 ANGELA KNIGHT 51 # RICHARD NORTH 52 # Managing director & chief executive Deputy chief executive Angela joined the board as a non-executive director in July 1999.
She is Richard joined the board as non-executive director in February 2002 and Martin joined the board as managing director and chief executive in Andrew was appointed deputy chief executive of Logica in February currently chief executive of the Association of Private Client Investment became chairman of the audit committee in April 2002.
He was formerly managing director of the GEC Marconi Radar 2002, following the announcement of his intention to retire from the Managers and Stockbrokers APCIMS.
She is also deputy chairman of group finance director of Six Continents PLC and is responsible for finance, and Control Systems group of companies.
Martin was appointed a noncompany at the end of 2002.
He was formerly group finance director Scottish Widows and a non-executive director of South East Water plc and tax and treasury.
He is chairman of Britvic Soft Drinks and is a nonexecutive director of The Boots Company plc in 1999 and of British and a member of the board since 1990.
He was previously group finance International Financial Services London IFSL.
Angela was previously the executive director of Leeds United plc and FelCor Trust Inc. Airways plc in 2000.
He was a non-executive director of ASDA Group plc controller for Plessey Company plc and prior to that spent 11 years with Member of Parliament for Erewash 1992 to 1997 and Economic Secretary from 1996 to 1999.
Nortel, mainly in North America.
Andrew is non-executive director of VT to HM Treasury between 1995 and 1997.
LARRY QUINN 45 Group plc and of Spectris plc.
A chartered engineer by profession, Larry was managing director of MARIO ANID 44 HELMUT MAMSCH 57 Aldiscon when it was acquired by Logica in 1997.
He became chief Mario is the corporate development director.
He has responsibility for ROYSTON HOGGARTH 40 Deputy chairman # executive of Logica's Mobile Networks division formerly Aldiscon and mergers and acquisitions and geographic expansion.
In the past, Mario has Royston joined Logica in 1997 as director of international lines of business Helmut joined the board as a non-executive director in 1997.
He is a managed it until 2000, achieving a compound annual growth rate in also held various line management positions in Logica's European and group marketing director, responsible for the company's strategic former member of the board of management of VEBA AG now E. ON AG excess of 60%.
Larry is currently chairman of Logica Mobile Networks and operations.
He joined Logica in April 1995.
He was previously corporate development in the financial services, telecoms, energy and utilities and and was concurrently since 1998 chairman of VEBA Electronics Inc, St a member of the executive committee.
Larry is on the boards of a number development director of Sema Group plc.
industry, distribution and transport sectors.
Royston has been supervisory Clara USA and MEMC Electronic Materials Inc, St Peters USA.
Previously he of ventures involved in the telecoms and high tech sectors.
managing director for Mobile Networks and consulting and now has was chairman of Stinnes AG, the 12.6 billion trading and transportation ANTHONY COLE 41 responsibility for Logicas business across Asia Pacific.
Royston was division of VEBA AG.
executive director Anthony is supervisory managing director of Logica UK.
He is also formerly a general manager at IBM, where he was responsible for the executive committee member chairman of the energy and utility international line of business.
From group's retail brands and products worldwide.
He is a non-executive CHRIS MCDERMOTT 45 # non-executive director 1994 to 1997, Anthony was divisional director of Logicas UK defence director of Intercede Group plc.
Chris joined Logica in May 2001.
He is currently supervisory managing division and director of the UK energy and utilities division from 1997 to director responsible for messaging and mobile payments.
Anthony joined the executive committee in May 2000.
LAURENCE JULIEN 56 previously vice president and general manager of the worldwide public Laurence joined Logica in 1980 and was appointed to the executive sector business at Unisys, and prior to this ran their worldwide commercial committee in 1996.
He is currently responsible for Logicas international and European telecoms business.
Before Unisys, Chris enjoyed successful lines of business: financial services, energy and utilities, industry spells at Nortel and GEC Avionics.
distribution and transport and telecommunications.
He is also responsible for the global development of our outsourced services business.
30 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS LOGICA REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 LOGICA REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS 31 Employment policies Repurchase of company shares REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The group operates in a number of countries and its employment practices Resolution number 10 in the notice of the forthcoming annual general vary to meet local conditions and requirements.
In all cases they are meeting proposes granting the directors the general and unconditional established on the basis of best practice in that country.
It is group policy authority to make one or more market purchases of the companys to ensure equal opportunity for employment of disabled people, ethnic ordinary shares for the purposes of Section 166 of the Companies Act The directors present their report together with the accounts of the legal obligations and to pay creditors on the dates agreed in contract and minorities and women.
Wherever possible the employment of members of 1985 on such terms and in such manner as the directors shall determine, company and its subsidiaries for the year ended 30 June 2002.
As at 30 June 2002 the number of days of annual staff who become disabled will be continued and appropriate training and subject to the following: be laid before the shareholders at the annual general meeting to be held purchases represented by year end creditors for the group amounted to 48 career development will be offered.
the maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary share shall Employee participation not exceed 5% above the mid-market prices of the ordinary shares Principal activities Research and development One of the group's key objectives is to achieve a shared commitment by all of the company as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Throughout the year, Logica companies, including branches, were in the During the year Logica invested 26.7m in research and development employees to the success of the business.
Througout the world there is Stock Exchange for the five business days before the purchase is business of providing information technology services, concentrating on: 2001: 40.2m.
These figures are net of funding by European research close consultation between employees and management on matters of made.
The minimum price per ordinary share is the nominal value institutions and other clients.
Logica believes that research and mutual interest and information is disseminated through individual thereof and in each case will be exclusive of any expenses payable by the marketing, design, production, integration and maintenance of development is also effective when done in close co-operation with clients performance reviews, team briefings and in-house newsletters.
custom built software and associated hardware systems: and so continues to undertake research and development work on a The maximum aggregate number of shares that may be purchased consultancy, applications management, business process outsourcing funded basis, ensuring that real market needs are being directly addressed.
The Logica Employee Communication Forum the Forum, with elected pursuant to this authority shall be limited to 44,937,673 shares and project management in the field of information technology: and employee representatives, exists with the aim of establishing a means of which is equivalent to 10% of the companys issued share capital as the design, development, implementation and marketing of software No development costs have been capitalised.
social dialogue for information and communications with the employees at 4 September 2002. products and the re-usable elements of applications software, called of the Logica group of companies.
The Forum promotes the exchange of This authority shall remain in force until the conclusion of the next systems kernels.
Directors views and information with the aim of extending understanding and annual general meeting of the company but will terminate on the date The directors are listed on pages 28 and 29. facilitating the introduction of policy changes to the Logica group.
The falling 12 months from the date that this resolution is passed if the Results and dividends Forum was set up under the voluntary arrangements in the EU Directives annual general meeting has not been held by that date.
Consolidated turnover amounted to 1,102.3m, compared with There have been the following changes in the composition of the board: on European Works Councils.
The company may agree before the authority terminates under 1,133.2m for the previous year, representing a decrease of 3%.
Loss bullet above to purchase ordinary shares where the purchase will or attributable to shareholders was 257.4m compared with a profit of on 19 February 2002 Seamus Keating was appointed an Employees are encouraged to participate in the progress and profitability may be executed after the authority terminates either in whole or in 89.0m for the previous year.
Profit before tax before goodwill, executive director: of the group through the Employee Equity Partnership Plan, savings part.
The company may complete such a purchase even though the restructuring costs, exceptional items and amounts written off on 19 February 2002 Richard North was appointed a non-executive related share option schemes, the US Stock Purchase Plan and authority has ended.
investments was 116.0m compared to 155.6m for the previous year.
director: and performance related bonus payments.
Basic earnings per share before goodwill, restructuring costs, exceptional on 31 March 2002 Richard Wakeling retired as a non-executive director.
Authority to allot securities items and amounts written off investments were 19.1p 2001: 25.4p, a Environmental policy Resolution number 11 in the notice of the forthcoming annual general decrease of 25%.
The basic unadjusted losses per share were 58.4 p The interests of the directors in the shares of the company are shown in Recognising that Logica's operations are themselves of minimal meeting proposes the renewal, in accordance with Section 80 of the 2001: earnings per share of 20.8p.
environmental impact, Logica's environmental policy is to: Companies Act 1985, for the period expiring on the date of the 2002 annual general meeting, of the directors authority to allot the authorised Net cash balances and liquid resources at year end stood at 122.5m None of the directors had a material interest in any contract of meet its statutory requirements: but as yet unissued share capital of the company at the date of this years 2001: 393.5m.
significance to which the parent company or a subsidiary was a party apply good environmental practice both in its business operations and annual general meeting.
The maximum amount of shares subject to such during the financial year.
in the development of systems and products for its customers, an authority would be 50,623,260 representing 11.26% of the companys The directors are recommending a final dividend of 3.1p per share, making recognising however that they become contractually obliged to total issued share capital at 4 September 2002.
The directors do not have 5.4p per share for the year, up 8% on the previous year.
If approved, the At the forthcoming annual general meeting Martin Read and Angela conform to their requirements: and any present intention of exercising this authority other than in connection final dividend will be paid on 8 November 2002 to eligible shareholders on Knight retire and offer themselves for re-election in accordance with the aim to recycle as much of its waste products as is economically with the group's employee share schemes.
the register at close of business on 11 October 2002.
Seamus Keating and Richard North, having been practicable.
Those items that cannot be recycled will be disposed of in appointed since the last annual general meeting, offer themselves for rean environmentally friendly way.
Under Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985, equity securities in the Retained losses amounting to 281.3m have been transferred to reserves election in accordance with the Articles of Association.
In addition, Sir company may not be allotted for cash otherwise than in respect of an 2001: 67.1m profit.
Frank Barlow, who is 72, offers himself for re-election.
Fixed assets employee share scheme without first being offered pro rata to existing The changes in the fixed assets of the group are disclosed in notes 11, 12 shareholders, unless the prior approval of the shareholders is given in a Business review Directors and officers insurance and 13 to the accounts.
The directors consider that it is in the best interests of A review of the development of the business during the year is given The company maintains insurance cover for all directors and officers of the company that the relevant authority given at the annual general on pages 12 to 21.
Included in the review are references to Logica's group companies against liabilities which may be incurred by them while Remuneration committee report meeting in 2001 should be renewed in similar terms.
acting as directors and officers.
The remuneration committee report is set out on pages 32 to 35.
Resolution to this effect is proposed as Resolution number 12 in the notice of the forthcoming annual general meeting.
The proposed authority Acquisitions Substantial holdings Auditors expires at the date of the 2002 annual general meeting and permits the No new acquisitions were completed during the year to 30 June 2002.
As at 4 September 2002 the company had been notified that the following  has expressed its willingness to continue directors during this period to issue up to an aggregate nominal amount were interested in 3% or more of the company's share capital: in office.
A resolution to re-appoint  as of 2,246,883 representing 5% of the issued share capital at 4 September Creditor payment policy and practice auditors of the company will be proposed at the forthcoming 2002 without first offering them to existing shareholders.
The Companies Act 1985 Directors Report Statement of Payment Name No.
of Shares Percentage annual general meeting.
Practice Regulations 1997 requires the company to make a statement of Zurich Financial Services and its group 27,318,534 6.08 By order of the board its policy and practice on the payment of creditors.
The company and its Prudential plc 18,886,199 4.20 subsidiaries seek the best possible terms from suppliers appropriate to FMR Corp and its direct and indirect subsidiaries P Weaver FCIS their businesses and, in placing orders, give consideration to quality, and Fidelity International Limited FIL and Secretary delivery, price and the terms of payment which will be agreed with its direct and indirect subsidiaries 16,447,576 3.66 4 September 2002 suppliers when the details of each transaction are agreed.
The company Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 16,093,517 3.58 and its subsidiaries will continue to honour their contractual and other 32 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE LOGICA REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 LOGICA REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 33 For awards granted in 1998 and 1999, the performance condition All employee share schemes requires growth in EPS to be a minimum of UK RPI plus 7% per annum The company operates three share schemes at least one of which is for each year of the three-year period following the date of grant for open to the majority of employees globally, subject to local legal and REMUNERATION COMMITTEE the award of matched shares to vest in full, although a proportion of tax constraints.
Both Sharesave and the Employee Equity Partnership the shares may be released on a sliding scale providing EPS growth Plan are operated in the UK and the executive directors are exceeds UK RPI plus 5% per annum.
The performance condition for consequently eligible to participate in these schemes.
awards granted in 1998 was fully satisfied.
The minimum performance Remuneration report The executive directors salaries were reviewed with effect from 1 July condition in 2001 2002 was not satisfied and matching awards granted Sharesave This report by the remuneration committee has been approved by the 2001.
Seamus Keatings salary was reviewed upon his appointment to in 1999, 2000 and 2001 will therefore fail to vest.
All eligible employees may contribute up to 250 per month over a 5- board for submission to shareholders.
While not required to do so this the board as group finance director.
The salaries of executive directors year term to purchase Logica shares at a discount.
For the 2001 year, the board have decided to seek shareholders approval of the were reviewed, but not increased, with effect from 1 July 2002.
The On 20 December 2001, Martin Read exercised his matching award of grant, the discount was 20% of the market price at the time share remuneration report at the annual general meeting.
company has moved its main annual salary review date for all 26,005 shares granted to him under the plan in 1998 adjusted following options were granted.
In the UK, this scheme is approved by the employees to 1 December annually.
the October 2000 rights issue, selling 10,439 shares at 631p each to Inland Revenue.
The executive directors are eligible to participate in The remuneration committee the committee meet the income tax liability and has retained the balance of the shares.
The committee is composed entirely of independent non-executive Benefits On 20 February 2002, Andrew Given exercised his matching award of directors.
The current members are: Angela Knight Chairman, Sir Frank In addition to their pension provisions, described below, executive directors 17,503 shares granted to him under the plan in 1998 adjusted following Employee Equity Partnership Plan Barlow and from 31 March 2002 Helmut Mamsch.
Richard Wakeling are entitled to company car benefits or cash allowance in lieu, life the October 2000 rights issue and has retained the shares.
Through this plan, eligible staff have the opportunity to invest up to was a member of the committee until 31 March 2002.
It meets assurance, permanent health cover and private medical insurance benefits.
400 per annum in Logica shares.
After three years, subject to continued regularly, normally at least four times per year.
For awards granted in 2000 and 2001, the performance criteria require employment by the company, continuing to hold the shares originally Annual bonus EPS growth to be a minimum of UK RPI plus 12% per annum for each purchased and to a performance condition, the shares will be matched The committee is responsible to the board and shareholders for: Annual bonuses may be paid up to an overall cap of 100% of salary year of the three-year period following the date of grant for the award on the basis of 1.25 shares for every share originally purchased.
The provided a combination of business and personal objectives are of matched shares to vest in full, although a proportion of the shares performance condition used since the inception of the plan in February setting the overall policy on senior executive remuneration: achieved.
A baseline bonus figure is generated according to may again be released on a sliding scale providing EPS growth exceeds 1999 has been that EPS growth is a minimum of UK RPI plus seven% per determining the remuneration packages of each of the executive performance against a financial measure, which for 2001 2002 was UK RPI plus 5% per annum.
annum for each year of the three-year holding period for all the directors: and earnings per share EPS.
A multiplier normally between 0.7 and 1.3 matched shares to vest.
A proportion of them may vest, on a sliding overseeing the operation of the companys employee share schemes.
based on performance against personal objectives is then applied to In October 2001, two of the executive directors, Martin Read and Jim scale, subject to EPS being a minimum of UK RPI plus 5% per annum for this baseline bonus.
This multiplier may be zero in a case where an McKenna, and 19 other senior executives elected to participate in the plan.
The executive directors are eligible to It has appointed and takes advice from independent executive executive directors personal performance is judged unacceptable, with participate in this scheme.
However if they choose to participate in the remuneration consultants, New Bridge Street Consultants, as well as the consequence that no bonus would be payable.
Executive directors are unable to participate in the plan in 2002 as a Executive Equity Partnership Plan, they lose the right to participate in consulting information from other independent sources and the consequence of no bonus payments being made to them.
the Employee Equity Partnership Plan for that year.
Any of the executive directors may The threshold EPS figure set by the committee before bonuses could be be invited to attend the committees meetings, although no individual triggered was not met for 2001 2002.
Consequently no bonuses for the Executive share options US Stock Purchase Plan would be present when his own remuneration was being discussed.
period were paid to executive directors.
Option grants are made to senior executives and managers across the US-based employees are eligible to participate in a stock purchase plan.
group, as well as to other staff with high potential, or to recognise They may save up to a maximum of $2,000 per annum, the savings The constitution and operation of the committee comply with the Code For the financial year 2002 2003 an additional measure of cash significant achievements.
For executive directors, one annual grant is being used to buy Logica shares at quarterly intervals.
The company of Best Practice provisions on directors remuneration in the Combined conversion has been introduced.
A multiplier between 0.5 and 1.1, normally made after the declaration of the annual results.
contributes an additional 15% to the amount saved per employee.
USCode of the UK Listing Authority.
derived from achievements against cash conversion targets, will be based employees are not eligible to participate in Sharesave and the applied to the baseline bonus generated according to performance The Executive Share Option Scheme was approved by shareholders in Employee Equity Partnership Plan.
Remuneration policy against the EPS target.
A multiplier for performance against personal 1996.
Options may be exercised between three and ten years after The objectives of the remuneration policy for executive directors are: objectives, as described above, will then also be applied.
the grant, provided the performance condition has been met.
The Executive shareholding performance condition approved by shareholders in 1996 was that As part of the policy to align the interests of executives with those of the total remuneration, and its components, should be Annual bonuses do not form part of pensionable earnings.
the growth in EPS should exceed the growth in UK RPI by an average shareholders, executive directors and the most senior executives commercially competitive to attract, motivate and retain executives of at least 7% per annum for any three-year period following the receiving share options are expected to acquire and retain a significant of the calibre required: The question of the measures to be used, as well as the setting of date of grant.
It is appreciated that it may take a period of remuneration should align the interests of executives with those of targets, is considered annually by the committee.
shareholders through the use of a combination of performance driven The performance criteria for options granted in 1996, 1997, 1998 and in cash and equity based rewards in addition to base salary and benefits: Executive Equity Partnership Plan March and June 1999 require growth in EPS to be an average of UK RPI Pensions the bulk of the total reward potential should be related to This plan, approved by shareholders in 1998, allows executive plus 7% per annum for any three-year period following the date of All the executive directors pension arrangements are of the defined company performance: directors, and other senior executives by invitation, to invest up to grant.
For options granted in September 1999, 2000, 2001 and March contribution type.
performance targets should be stretching: and 50% of their after tax annual bonus payment in Logica shares.
If they 2002, the performance criteria require growth in EPS to be an average the details of remuneration should be clear and easily understood.
remain in Logicas employment and retain the shares for three years, of UK RPI plus 12% per annum for any three-year period following the For the financial year commencing 1 July 2001, a total of 30% of subject to a performance condition being satisfied, the company will date of grant.
The performance conditions for share options awarded in Martin Reads base salary was paid as employers contributions into Components of remuneration match those shares on a 1:1 gross of tax basis.
The performance 1996,1997, 1998 and March and June 1999 have been met.
The various defined contribution plans.
The components of the remuneration packages for executive directors condition approved by shareholders in 1998 was that growth in EPS performance condition for share options granted in September 1999 are as follows: should be a minimum of UK RPI plus 7% per annum for each year of has not yet been met.
The Logica Employee Pension Fund and Life Assurance Scheme is the the three-year period following the date of grant for the award of main pension fund for Logica employees in the UK.
It is a defined Base salary matched shares to vest in full, although a proportion of the shares Option grants are made with the expectation that the option holders contribution plan where the standard contribution rates are eight% of This is a fixed cash sum, payable monthly.
Salaries are reviewed may be released on a sliding scale providing EPS growth exceeds UK will, upon exercise, retain at least 20% of the shares after taking base salary by the company and four per cent by the employee, subject annually in the light of individual performance and market comparisons RPI plus 5% per annum, or such other condition as the board shall account of the associated costs of exercise.
where appropriate to the Inland Revenue cap.
Factors taken into account for comparison purposes determine.
include company type and sector, measures of company size market capitalisation, turnover and employee numbers, and degree of international scope.
34 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE LOGICA REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 LOGICA REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 35 Martin Read is a member of the Logica Employee Pension Fund and Life The company recognises that executive directors may be invited to Table B - Options to subscribe for ordinary shares of the company held by directors are: Assurance Scheme for life assurance benefits only.
Andrew Given, Jim become non-executive directors of other companies and that such Options held Earliest date 1 July 2001 or by which all McKenna and Seamus Keating are members of the scheme for both appointments can broaden their knowledge and experience to the at date of Options granted Weighted unexercisable appointment during the year Options held at average grant options become pension and life assurance benefits.
In the case of Jim McKenna, the benefit of Logica.
Fees may normally be retained by the individual if later at 681p 30 June 2002 price p exercisable company pays contributions at the rate of 15% of salary.
In addition, directors as the posts entail personal responsibility.
M P Read 1,151,697 150,000 1,301,697 605.04 13 9 04 further pension contributions have been made by the company on Jim A F Given 405,197 100,000 505,197 675.03 1 2 05 McKennas behalf through approved salary sacrifice arrangements.
Non-executive directors Sir Frank Barlows remuneration is determined by the board upon the J A P McKenna 402,620 100,000 502,620 678.46 1 2 05 Directors employment contracts recommendation of the other members of the committee and Martin S Keating 55,918 - 55,918 1,033.11 13 9 04 It is the committees policy that executive directors contracts Read.
The remuneration of the other non-executive directors is Total 2,015,432 350,000 2,365,432 should incorporate no more than one years notice of termination determined by the board upon recommendations from Sir Frank Options by exercise price from the company.
The board has the power to award 141.9p 2,478 - 2,478 additional remuneration to non-executive directors for services All of the executive directors are required to give the company a outside the scope of their ordinary duties.
No such additional 177.5p 209,188 - 209,188 minimum of three months notice of termination of employment.
The payments were made during the year.
299.5p 6,975 - 6,975 company is required to give one years notice to Martin Read and 50 374.4p 993,643 - 993,643 weeks notice to Jim McKenna and Seamus Keating.
Andrew Given has Non-executive directors do not have contracts of service with the 627.2p 4,261 - 4,261 given notice of his intention to retire at the end of 2002.
They are not eligible for performance related bonuses and do 784.0p 543,887 - 543,887 has been accepted by the board and was announced in February 2002. not participate in any Logica employee benefit plans, or participate in any of the companys share schemes.
1850.0p 235,000 - 235,000 681.0p 20,000 350,000 370,000 Note: Throughout the remuneration report, earnings per share EPS Total 2,015,432 350,000 2,365,432 refers to EPS before amortisation of goodwill, exceptional items and In addition, AF Given had a beneficial interest in 2,143 share options at 30 June 2002 through his spouse exercisable until 03.09.02. amounts written off investments.
No directors exercised share options during the year ended 30 June 2002.
The market price of the shares at 30 June 2002 was 200p 2001 : 863p and the range during the year was 190p965p.
The company's Register of Directors' Interests which is open to inspection contains full details of directors' shareholdings and options to Table A - Emoluments of the directors: subscribe.
At 30 June 2002, the Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust owned 6,545,138 shares.
On 11 July, 25 July, 8 August and 22 August 2002 the holding of the Trust reduced by 1,082,810, 1,205 and 1,083 shares respectively, following the exercise of options by employees.
Performance Pension Pension Salary related Benefits Total Total contributions contributions The shares purchased by the executive directors through the Executive Equity Partnership Plan are shown in the and fees bonus in kind 2002 2001 2002 2001 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 table below, together with the company matching awards.
On 20 February 2002, A F Given exercised 17,503 matching shares at a price of 409.5p per share representing a total benefit of 72,000 Sub-total 103 - - 103 78 - - matching awards lapsed due to failure of performance condition in 2001 02 which relates to awards granted in 1999, 2000 and 2001 Total 1,178 - 62 1,240 1,972 237 206 Logicas Total Shareholder Return Index compared to FTSE Techmark index 1 The company has increased contributions to the UK pension scheme to satisfy salary sacrifice arrangements entered into by J A P McKenna.
Both indices rebased to 100 at 30 June 1997 2 S Keating appointed 19 February 2002 3 R K A Wakeling retired 31 March 2002 2,500 4 R C North appointed 19 February 2002 2,000 The interests of the directors at the year end in the shares of the company are: # 30 June 2002 30 June 2001 1,500 Beneficial Non-beneficial Beneficial Non-beneficial M P Read 98,851 - 83,285 - 1,000 A F Given 84,262 - 66,680 - J A P McKenna 55,744 - 55,744 - 500 S Keating 2,241 - 2,241 - Logica A A Knight 1,430 - 1,430 - Techmark index 0 R C North 5,000--- Jun97 Jun98 Jun99 Jun00 Jun01 Jun02 # or at date of appointment if later Source: Datastream New Bridge Street Consultants.
36 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE LOGICA REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 LOGICA REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 37 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE www.
com The group is committed to high standards of corporate governance and Internal control The board, through the risk management committee, has reviewed the Statement of directors responsibilities has complied throughout the period under review with the applicable The board is responsible for the groups system of internal control and key business, financial, operational and compliance risks facing the The directors are required by United Kingdom company law to prepare principles and provisions set out in the Combined Code as incorporated for reviewing its effectiveness.
Through the audit committee, the board company, prioritised their significance and determined current financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair into the UK Listing Authority Listing Requirements.
has reviewed the effectiveness of the systems of internal control for the procedures and processes in place to detect and address them.
Risk is view of the state of affairs of the group and company as at the end of accounting year and the period to the approval of the financial assessed with reference to the achievement of Logicas business the financial year and of the profit and cash flows of that year.
It should be understood that such a system is designed to objectives.
The findings have been used to better target resources to preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: There is an effective and appropriately constituted board which receives manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business control the main areas of risk, to enhance the current risk-based such information as is required to properly fulfil its duties.
The board objectives and provides reasonable, rather than absolute, assurance internal audit programme and to improve the process of regular select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: comprises five non-executive directors, including the chairman and against material misstatement or loss.
reporting on controls to the board.
deputy chairman, and four executive directors.
All directors are obliged make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: to submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
The group operates a highly-structured, objectives-driven approach to The board has also devised detailed mechanisms for the monitoring of fulfill its core purpose and goals in respect of sustained profitability and risk and associated controls which provide the core assurance for the state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, The board takes the opportunity afforded by the annual general growth.
The strategic objectives of the group are captured in a strategic internal control regime.
The continuous monitoring of strategic and subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the meeting and meetings with institutional investors to ensure the plan, developed by the executive committee and approved by the board, operational risks is the responsibility of both the board and group line financial statements: and companys objectives are widely communicated and understood.
which addresses revenue and associated costs and necessary management respectively.
Operational guidance on the appropriate Financial reporting is presented in such a way as to present a balanced investment.
The strategic plan then forms the basis of annual revenue approach to risk is provided through clearly defined delegation of prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is and understandable assessment of the companys position and and profit targets for the operating units in the group.
responsibilities and authorisation levels, and by clearly documented inappropriate to presume that the group and company will continue prospects.
The board annually reviews the effectiveness of the groups internal procedures which are set out in core operating procedures in business.
system of internal financial control.
In addition to this annual review, The research and development and capital investment programmes are common to all areas of the group.
The internal audit and quality the company operates other procedures to bring relevant internal subject to a formal review procedure requiring that rigourous assurance functions perform regular audits and provide assistance The directors confirm that they have complied with the above financial control matters to the boards attention.
These are explained qualification criteria be met prior to each instance of material towards the fulfilment of line managements risk management requirements in preparing the accounts.
The directors are responsible for in the section on internal financial controls in this statement.
Evaluation and post-investment appraisals are performed by responsibilities.
The external auditors contribute an additional keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable reference to detailed business plans.
independent perspective on the overall integrity of those areas of the accuracy at any time the financial position of the group and company The audit committee comprises non-executive directors and is chaired internal control system which they have assessed in the course of their and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with by Richard North.
Its other members are Angela Knight and Sir Frank The monitoring regime established by the board, through which the work, and report annually to the audit committee with their findings.
They are also responsible for the groups Barlow.
It meets at least twice a year and its terms of reference include performance indicators derived from the strategic and annual plans The audit committee assesses the evidence provided to them through system of internal financial controls and for safeguarding the assets of the review of the groups annual and interim financial statements, are regularly interrogated, ensures that events which pose significant the various mechanisms and seeks to ensure that the risk management the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention of accounting policies and internal management and financial controls.
risk to the attainment of the groups objectives or significant control process adequately addresses all of the major risks to the group.
The groups internal and external auditors have direct access to the lapses are communicated through a process of rapid escalation to committee to raise any matter of concern and to report the results of senior management.
Unit performance is evaluated on a monthly Going concern By order of the board work directed by the committee.
The chief executive and finance basis, and this evaluation includes the addressing of identified control The directors, having made enquiries, consider that the company and director attend the meetings at the request of the committee.
weaknesses and ensuring the conclusion of previously recommended the group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence P Weaver FCIS corrective actions.
for the foreseeable future and therefore it is appropriate to maintain the Secretary The nominations committee is chaired by Sir Frank Barlow and also going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
4 September 2002 includes Martin Read and Helmut Mamsch.
It is responsible for the The board acknowledges that the group operates in a fluid and rapidly nomination for board approval of candidates for board appointment.
Changes to the risk profiles in the business environment arise as a result of both the external challenges in The remuneration committee comprises non-executive directors and is a highly competitive marketplace and through the internal development chaired by Angela Knight.
Its other members are Helmut Mamsch and of new products, management procedures and systems.
As a result, a Sir Frank Barlow.
Its key role is to determine the appropriate levels of risk management process has been established, which involves the remuneration for the companys executive directors and senior regular evaluation of inherent business risks and the identification of management.
Directors remuneration is at the level necessary to attract controls to address them.
and retain the directors needed to run the company successfully, this level being set independently by a formal, transparent procedure.
38 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT LOGICA REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 LOGICA REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 ACCOUNTS CONTENTS 39 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT ACCOUNTS CONTENTS www.
com Independent auditors' report to the members of Logica plc Basis of audit opinion We have audited the financial statements which comprise the profit and We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued loss account, the group and company balance sheet, the cash flow by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a statement, the statement of total recognised gains and losses and the test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the related notes including the additional disclosures in tables A and B of the financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant report of the remuneration committee relating to the remuneration of the estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of directors specified for our review by the London Stock Exchange.
the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the company's circumstances, consistently applied and Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors adequately disclosed.
The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information law and accounting standards are set out in the statement of and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us directors' responsibilities.
with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board and the Listing Rules of the financial statements.
Opinion We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of the a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance with the state of affairs of the group and the company at 30 June 2002 and of the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the loss and cash flows of the group for the year then ended and have been directors' report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if  information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors' Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
London 4 September 2002 We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the higlights section, the chairman's statement, the chief executives review, the global network section, the our customers section, the market sector review, the financial review, the directors biographies and the report of the remuneration committee.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the company's compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the board's statements on 40 40 41 42 43 44 67 69 70 74 internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the company's or group's corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
66 68 73 76 CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT STATEMENT OF TOTAL RECOGNISED GAINS AND LOSSES CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT COMPANY BALANCE SHEET NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICIES FINANCIAL CALENDAR LOGICA WORLDWIDE CLIENT SELECTION CONTENTS
