Statement on Accounting Policies Basis of accounting to reserves in the year of acquisition as a matter of accounting policy and, in accordance with the transitional The financial statements have been prepared under the arrangements of FRS 10, goodwill has not been reinstated historical cost convention, modied for the revaluation on implementation of FRS 10.
No goodwill arose during 2002. of certain assets, and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards.
On the subsequent disposal or termination of a previously acquired company or business, the profit or loss on The Groups earnings stream is primarily US dollars and disposal or termination is calculated after charging or the functional currency is the US dollar.
The reporting crediting the amount of any related goodwill previously currency is also the US dollar.
charged to reserves or capitalised and not yet charged to The Company has taken advantage of the exemption the profit and loss account.
contained in Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 from Goodwill is reviewed for impairment if events or changes presenting its own profit and loss account.
in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may Turnover not be recoverable and also at the end of the first complete financial year following an acquisition in accordance with Turnover represents sales of goods and services outside FRS 11. the Group net of discounts and allowances and value added taxation and includes commissions earned.
Associates Turnover is recorded when the risks and rewards of Investments in associates are accounted for under the ownership have passed to the purchaser.
An associate is a company, Basis of consolidation other than a subsidiary, in which the Groups interest is considered to be long term and is substantial and The Group financial statements consist of the results, over which the Group exercises a significant inuence.
assets and liabilities of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The results of subsidiaries are included from the date of The consolidated profit and loss account includes the acquisition.
The results of subsidiaries sold are included Groups share of the results of associates.
The carrying up to the date of sale.
value of associates in the Groups balance sheet comprises the Groups share of the net assets of associates.
Goodwill Some minor adjustments have been made to comparative arising on acquisition of associates is included within gures to put them on a consistent basis with the investments in associates and is written off over ten years.
Joint arrangements Goodwill The Group has certain contractual arrangements with On the acquisition of a company or business, fair values other participants to engage in joint activities that do not reecting conditions at the date of acquisition are create an entity carrying on a trade or business of its own.
attributed to the identiable assets and liabilities acquired.
The Group includes its share of the assets, liabilities Where the cost of acquisition differs from the aggregate and cash ows in such joint arrangements, measured of these fair values, purchased goodwill arises.
Goodwill in accordance with the terms of each arrangement, which arising on acquisitions after 1 October 1998 is capitalised is usually pro-rata to the Groups interest in the joint and amortised over its useful life in accordance with arrangement.
Prior to 1 October 1998, goodwill was charged Lonmin Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 23 Statement on Accounting Policies Other Investments Exploration costs Fixed asset investments are stated at cost less provisions Exploration expenditure is analysed between its three for impairments or at Directors valuations.
The Groups constituent parts and accounted for as follows: investment in Ashanti is not accounted for as an associate a Replacement exploration because the Group considers that it is unable to, and does This is dened as expenditure necessary to delineate not, exercise significant inuence over Ashantis operating and quantify the reserves and resources required to and nancing policies and actions.
Accordingly, the replace those extracted in any one accounting period, Ashanti investment is shown as a xed asset investment.
and as such is an operating cost which is expensed Only dividends received are treated as part of the as incurred.
continuing operations of the Group.
The investment in Ashanti is stated at Directors valuation.
b Expansion and new opportunities exploration Within or adjacent to a producing unit: Foreign currencies These costs are expensed until a probable reserve has Subsidiaries that keep their accounts in currencies other been dened and confirmed by a Competent Person.
than their functional currency remeasure them into the At that point further costs are capitalised and the asset functional currency by the temporal method prior to amortised over the estimated life of mine.
This results in non-monetary assets and Greenfields or Brownfields: liabilities being recorded at their historical cost expressed These costs are expensed until an indicated resource in the functional currency whilst monetary assets has been dened and confirmed by a Competent and liabilities are stated at the closing exchange rate.
At that point further costs are capitalised.
Differences on translation are included in the profit and Amortisation commences in the first year of loss account.
production after which amortisation is provided The principal US dollar exchange rates used in the over the estimated life of the project.
financial statements, expressed as the foreign currency Research and development value of one US dollar, are as follows: Research and development costs, separate to exploration 2002 2001 expenditure, are accounted for in accordance with Average exchange rates: SSAP 13 and expenditure is written off in the period Sterling 0.68 0.69 in which it arises.
South African rand 10.65 8.01 Zimbabwe dollar 415.97 117.84 Closing exchange rates: Sterling 0.64 0.69 South African rand 10.54 8.77 Zimbabwe dollar 640.00 306.68 24 Lonmin Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Tangible fixed assets Stocks Tangible xed assets are recorded at cost or valuation, Stocks are stated at the lower of cost which includes which are not updated under the transitional the applicable proportion of production overheads and arrangements of FRS 15 Tangible Fixed Assets, less net realisable value.
PGMs stock is valued by allocating depreciation.
Depreciation on xed assets is provided on costs to platinum, palladium and rhodium stock based a straight line or units of production basis, as appropriate.
on the annual cost of production, less revenue from Previously all assets were depreciated on a straight line by-products, apportioned according to the quantities of basis.
The effect of the change is not material.
Assets are each of the three main metals produced.
depreciated over their estimated useful economic lives, or Deferred tax over the remaining life of the mine, if shorter, to residual value.
The life of a mine is based on proven and probable Deferred tax is provided for on timing differences that reserves.
Depreciation rates for the principal assets of the have originated but not reversed by the balance sheet group are as follows: date on a non-discounted basis.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is more likely than Shafts and underground 2.6% 20% per annum not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which Metallurgical 2.7% 16.7% per annum future reversal of the underlying timing differences can Infrastructure 2.7% 20% per annum be deducted.
Other mining assets and equipment, plant and Pension costs and other postretirement benefits motor vehicles 2.7% 33.3% per annum The Group operates a number of dened benefit and No depreciation is provided on surface mining land which dened contribution pension schemes in accordance has a continuing value and capital work in progress.
The assets of the schemes are held separately from those of the Group and are administered Tangible xed assets are reviewed for impairment if events by trustees.
Independent actuaries prepare valuations of or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying these schemes at least every three years and in accordance amount may not be recoverable.
When a review for with their recommendations the Group makes impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount is contributions which are charged to profits on a systematic assessed by reference to the net present value of expected basis over the expected remaining working life of the future cash ows of the relevant income generating unit employees.
Any differences between the actuarial or disposal value if higher in accordance with FRS 11. valuation of the obligation and the value of assets in a scheme are similarly charged or credited to profit before Leases taxation over the expected remaining working life of Assets acquired under finance leases are capitalised and employees in the scheme.
the outstanding future lease obligations are shown in borrowings.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the Certain Group companies provide post-retirement profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the medical benets to qualifying pensioners.
The expected period of the lease.
costs of these benets are charged to the profit and loss account over the expected remaining service lives of the Capitalised interest relevant employees and are assessed in accordance with Tangible xed assets include directly attributable finance the advice of qualied actuaries.
costs which are capitalised gross of tax during the period Under the transitional arrangement of FRS 17 of construction.
Retirement benets, additional disclosures are required for pension and other retirement benets for the year ended 30 September 2002 as shown in note 24 to the Accounts on pages 46 to 49.
Lonmin Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 25 Statement on Accounting Policies Rehabilitation costs Dividend reinvestment program Group companies are generally required to restore mine Under the Companys Dividend Reinvestment Plan, and processing sites at the end of their producing lives to shareholders can elect for the whole of their cash a condition acceptable to the relevant authorities.
Such dividends to be reinvested to Lonmin Plc shares which costs are provided for in accordance with FRS 12 so that are purchased on their behalf in the market.
All cash rehabilitation costs are provided in full based on the best dividends are paid to the Registrars who use the dividends estimates of the future costs to be incurred calculated on of participants in the plan to fund these purchases.
As the provision is recognised, it is Accordingly, no new shares are issued, dividends are paid either capitalised as part of the cost of the related mine or and accounted for in the normal way, and there are no written off to the profit and loss account.
Where costs are special accounting requirements for the programme.
capitalised the impact of such costs on the profit and loss account is spread over the life of the mine through the accretion of the discount of the provision and the depreciation of the increased costs of the mining assets.
Use of estimates The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Examples of where such estimates are made include the valuation of pension schemes assets and liabilities where discount, ination and return rate assumptions are made and in the calculation of rehabilitation liabilities which involves projecting expected liabilities forward to the end lives of the mines using an assumed ination rate and discounting these liabilities back to the present day using an assumed discount rate.
26 Lonmin Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
