Principal Group Companies The following companies have been consolidated in the Group accounts and materially contributed to the assets and or results of the Group and are classified according to their main activity.
Direct interest in ordinary Beneficial Country of share capital interest Principal Mining and refining incorporation % % activities Eastern Platinum Ltd. South Africa 73 73 Platinum mining Western Platinum Ltd. South Africa 73 73 Platinum mining and refining Independence Gold Mining Pvt.
Ltd. Zimbabwe 100 100 Gold mining A full list of Group companies will be included in the annual return registered with Companies House.
The 2000 gures have been restated for deferred tax.
Ashanti is consolidated as a xed asset investment from 2000 onwards and as an associate in previous years.
56 Lonmin Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Financial Highlights Continuing Operations EBITDA PBT EPS Trading cash flow per share $million $million cents cents 541 523 153.7 242.9 121.5 372 332 118.9 2001 2002 2001 2002 2001 2002 2001 2002 2002 2001 Profits 1 EBITDA $372m $541m Operating profit $331m $490m Profit before tax $332m $523m Earnings per share 121.5c 153.7c Dividends per share 72.0c 64.0c Cash flow Trading cash flow per share 118.9c 242.9c Free cash flow per share 4.6 c 129.0c 1 EBITDA is Group operating profit before interest, tax, depreciation and Balance sheet amortisation.
Equity interests $675m $1,077m 2 Gearing is calculated on the equity interests of the Group.
Net borrowings cash and deposits $ 155 m $523m 3 The Board recommends a final dividend of 42.0 cents per share payable on 17 February 2003 to shareholders on 2 Gearing 23% nil the registers on 24 January 2003.
Important note This document contains detailed financial and statutory information for the Lonmin Group for the year ended 30 September 2002.
It should, however, be read in conjunction with a separate document entitled Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2002.
Lonmin Plc PGMs Materials for a better world 4 Grosvenor Place Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2002 London SW1X 7YL Lonmin Plc 4 Grosvenor Place London SW1X 7YL CO HC NOx We need clean air.
In a world where motor vehicle emissions are poisoning the environment at an alarming rate, platinum, palladium and rhodium provide the perfect autocatalyst solution, by removing over 90% of the pollutants from exhaust emissions.
Stricter emission control legislation is being enforced worldwide and it is anticipated that by 2010, all vehicles in the industrialised world, will be tted with autocatalyst exhaust systems.
This catalysis makes use of the unique properties of Lonmins special group of metals platinum, palladium and rhodium.
3 & 3A Shaft Complex, near Rustenberg, South Africa.
Lonmin Plc is grateful to the Engelhard Corporation for providing illustrations and Johnson Matthey for statistical information for the Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2002.
Photography by Graeme Williams and Getty Images.
Printed on GF Smith Accent Glacier  paper by Pillans & Wilson Greenaway Limited.
PGMs Materials for a better world Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2002 N2 CO2 H2O Business Prole The Lonmin Plc group is focused on the mining and rening of PGMs.
Lonmin Plc is the third largest primary platinum producer in the World and the only PGMs producer with a primary listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Lonmin Plc holds a 72.9% interest in Lonplats and a 28% interest in Ashanti Goldelds.
Lonmins operations in South Africa, known as Lonplats, operates as Western Platinum Limited WPL and Eastern Platinum Limited EPL.
WPL includes Western Platinum Mine, Karee Mine, the Base Metal Renery and Smelter and Western Platinum Renery.
The mines are located in the Marikana district to the east of the town of Rustenburg in the North West Province of South Africa and the renery is situated in Brakpan in the Gauteng Province of South Africa.
Two PGMs-bearing reefs UG2 and Merensky are mined simultaneously in the lease area over a strike of some 27 kilometres, and at an average depth of 360 metres.
Underground mining predominates, although opencast mining has been undertaken.
Base metals are produced at the Base Metals Renery and a precious metal concentrate is sent to Brakpan for final rening.
Western Metal Sales Limited markets the PGMs produced by both WPL and EPL.
Lonplats mines and renes platinum, palladium, rhodium, ruthenium, iridium and gold.
The five PGMs share many of the same physical and chemical properties whether used in isolation or as a blend, including: Rarity Outstanding catalytic properties Resistance to oxidation Resistance to acid corrosion Stable electrical properties Elevated melting points Contents IFC Business Prole 26 Summary Directors Report 01 Financial Highlights 27 Summary Directors Remuneration Report 02 Chairmans Statement 29 Statement of the Independent Auditors to the Members of Lonmin Plc 04 Chief Executives Statement 30 Summary Financial Statement 08 Review of Operations 33 Notice of the Annual General Meeting 16 Review of the Markets 36 Lonmin Plc Corporate Information 18 Review of Business Developments 38 Platinum Operating Statistics 20 Corporate Accountability 39 Five Year Financial Record 24 Board of Directors 40 Glossary of Terms Business Prole The Lonmin Plc group is focused on the mining and rening of PGMs.
The five PGMs share many of the same physical and chemical properties whether used in isolation or as a blend, including: Rarity Outstanding catalytic properties Resistance to oxidation Resistance to acid corrosion Stable electrical properties Elevated melting points Contents IFC Business Prole 26 Summary Directors Report 01 Financial Highlights 27 Summary Directors Remuneration Report 02 Chairmans Statement 29 Statement of the Independent Auditors to the Members of Lonmin Plc 04 Chief Executives Statement 30 Summary Financial Statement 08 Review of Operations 33 Notice of the Annual General Meeting 16 Review of the Markets 36 Lonmin Plc Corporate Information 18 Review of Business Developments 38 Platinum Operating Statistics 20 Corporate Accountability 39 Five Year Financial Record 24 Board of Directors 40 Glossary of Terms Financial Highlights Continuing Operations EBITDA PBT EPS Trading cash flow per share $million $million cents cents 541 523 153.7 242.9 121.5 372 332 118.9 2001 2002 2001 2002 2001 2002 2001 2002 2002 2001 Profits 1 EBITDA $372m $541m Operating profit $331m $490m Profit before tax $332m $523m Earnings per share 121.5c 153.7c Dividends per share 72.0c 64.0c Cash flow Trading cash flow per share 118.9c 242.9c Free cash flow per share 4.6 c 129.0c 1 EBITDA is Group operating profit before interest, tax, depreciation and Balance sheet amortisation.
Net borrowings cash and deposits $ 155 $523 3 The Board recommends a final m m dividend of 42 cents per share payable on 17 February 2003 to shareholders 2 Gearing 23% nil on the registers on 24 January 2003.
Important note This Annual Review, which is sent to all Shareholders, contains a Summary Financial Statement rather than the full Financial Statements.
Accordingly it does not contain sufficient information to allow as full an understanding of the results and state of affairs of the Lonmin Group as can be obtained by reading this Annual Review in conjunction with a separate document entitled Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2002, which may be obtained free of charge, from the Companys Registrars listed on page 36.
The Annual Review and the Annual Report together comprise the full Annual Report and Accounts.
Shareholders wishing to receive the full Annual Report and Accounts for all future years should inform the relevant Registrar in writing at the address listed.
Information about Lonmin is available on the Groups website http: www.
com, where this and other Lonmin publications may be downloaded in their entirety.
A webcast of the 2002 results is also available.
Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2002 01 Chairmans Statement home for international investment, which will be good for us as a major investor in South Africa.
This is crucial to the future of Lonmin as South Africa currently accounts for substantially all of our earnings and where we are embarked upon a major capital expenditure programme designed to take our annual production of platinum group metals to two million ounces.
This BEE programme is receiving a great deal of attention from the Board and management at every level.
The Board has established a Standing Committee, with executive and non-executive membership under the Chairmanship of Roger Phillimore, to oversee the process.
We are well advanced in developing plans to ensure full and timely compliance with the new regime through to the issuance of so-called New Order mining licences covering all our existing and prospective activities.
We are in regular contact with the authorities from the highest level down in formulating and rening our response to the new requirements.
As a condition of the grant of New Order mining licences we will be required to make available equity in our operations to Historically Disadvantaged South Africans.
We are in active discussion with a small number of potential investor groups, while also examining the potential for a broader I am pleased to present the report and participation by the South African qualifying accounts for the year to 30th September investor public.
We are also, of course, maintaining a 2002, which has been a year of steady constructive dialogue with Impala, our co-shareholder progress across the Company.
Our results are, as always, dominated by our We will also have to demonstrate to the authorities that platinum group metal mining activities in South Africa.
we have taken or are committed to measures designed to I commented last year that platinum group metal prices increase the representation of Historically Disadvantaged had reached levels that were probably unsustainable and South Africans at all levels within the company, to extend this proved to be the case.
The more restrained earnings our training and education programmes and to protect reported for the year just ended reect lower platinum the environment in and around the mines and the group metal prices.
communities in which they operate.
We will have to address our procurement arrangements and explore the The Chief Executives Statement deals in considerable possibilities that may exist for the beneficiation of our end detail with operational matters and I shall, therefore, product in South Africa.
confine my comments to matters of strategic import.
We are well into the process and I am pleased to say are The most important development in the year just ended independently advised that the Company is already well was the introduction by the Ministry of Minerals advanced towards compliance with the new expected and Energy in South Africa of a new framework for requirements in most areas.
We believe that it will be the conduct of mining activities in South Africa possible for us to demonstrate full compliance and that conventionally known as the Black Economic this will not have a material adverse on-going impact Empowerment Charter, or BEE.
This is designed to upon our nances.
redress the economic inequalities and lack of opportunity for the many, that have characterised South Africa for It is our objective to have reached agreement with the so many years.
We are wholly in sympathy with this authorities probably in the second quarter of 2003. initiative and believe that it will in the fullness of time Shareholders will, of course, be kept fully informed ensure that South Africa remains a stable and welcoming of developments.
02 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2002 As a result of some early rumours that the measures a further $360 million to our shareholders in February would be much further reaching and more Draconian than 2002 through a Court approved scheme.
they appear to be, shares of all groups with significant Peter Harper, who had served the Company for three exposure to South African mining have been extremely successive three-year terms latterly as Deputy Chairman volatile and substantial value has been eroded.
It is and Chairman of the Audit Committee, has retired.
essential, if confidence in South Africa is to be restored We thank him for his input and contribution through in the international investment community, that it is some turbulent years as the Company was transformed made clear that this is a one-time exercise rather than from a sprawling conglomerate to a focused mining one that will be repeated from time to time in future.
Roger Phillimore, who has been a Board That could only lead to a permanent erosion of confidence member for 5 years succeeded him as Deputy Chairman and a drying up of foreign investment ows with all while Sir Alastair Morton took over the Chairmanship the implications that would have for South Africa.
of the Audit Committee and was nominated Senior The mining industry needs a legal and regulatory Independent Director.
The executive representation environment, which is predictable and stable, if it is to on the Board has been further strengthened by the make a full contribution to the future of South Africa.
appointment shortly after the year-end, of Peter Ledger, We have been busy as well on other fronts.
Shortly after whose considerable mining experience will be a the year-end we announced the sale of our residual gold valuable asset.
mining assets in Zimbabwe, recovering substantially all I should like to extend the thanks of the full Board to our of their book value of $16 million.
Earlier in 2002 we participated in a recapitalisation of Ashanti, the Ghanaian gold mining company in which we owned a 32% interest and in which our partner is the Government of Ghana.
This was to effect a reconstruction of the balance sheet and nances of Ashanti that had been severely impacted by the financial difficulties arising from its hedge book difficulties some two years earlier.
Sir John Craven, Chairman Our commitment of $75 million of new money to Ashanti should not be taken to indicate any change of strategy on our part.
Lonmin remains committed to its development as a focused producer of platinum group metals.
We believe that the terms of a renancing plan earlier proposed by the Board of Ashanti were unnecessarily dilutive of the interests of its shareholders and transferred too much value to Ashantis convertible debt holders and bullion counterparties away from Ashantis long standing shareholders.
As a result Ashanti is a better company with a more secure balance sheet and improved prospects that are already coming through in its financial results.
We are under no financial pressure whatsoever to divest our shareholding in Ashanti, but it is not a strategic asset and it is our intention to exit this investment.
We are committed to minimising our cost of capital and running an efficient balance sheet consistent with our capital expenditure programme and the volatility of the metals that we produce.
The Board keeps the efficiency of the balance sheet and cost of capital under constant review and plans to introduce a conservative measure of long-term leverage into the balance sheet.
In this context we bought in shares at a cost of $128 million and returned Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2002 03 Chief Executives Statement slags and tailings.
The three pyromet furnaces replaced by the new smelter came off-line in August.
We anticipate further smelting cost savings as a result and a continuing draw down of backlog materials during the coming year.
We will take advantage of our additional smelting capacity, where possible, to introduce new business activities.
The vertical shafts at Karee and Eastern Platinum are both progressing to plan and commissioning is expected in 2007 and 2008 respectively.
The two new 120,000 tpm concentrators completed commissioning and commenced operations shortly after the year-end.
They will be used to concentrate opencast ore until they assume their designated roles at the Karee No 4 shaft and the Pandora J. V. respectively.
At year-end we had an opencast stockpile of just over 1 million tonnes, which, together with new opencast production, will keep both concentrators operating at full capacity during the coming year.
This, together with ongoing underground production gives us confidence in our ability to maintain our published expansion prole and reach the 870,000 tr.
oz Pt production gure forecast for the coming year.
The Pandora joint venture has now received approval from the South African Competitions Board.
Empowerment criteria are well in hand and we expect to In its second year as a pure Platinum Group nalise the processing of the mining authorisation soon.
metal miner, Lonmin has consolidated its Operations will commence shortly thereafter.
reputation for low cost mining and further Our safety record this year was a great disappointment demonstrated its ability to deliver against to us, the more so after the encouraging improvements a stated strategy.
On a positive note, however, we are During the year under review, ore milled, for the second able to report that there were no underground fatalities year in a row, hit an all time record high quantity of associated with either falls of ground or scraping and 11.3 m. t. This resulted in a rened metal production of rigging.
These categories of accident have historically 757,451 tr.
oz of platinum, an increase of approximately presented the greatest underground threat.
Training six percent over the previous year and ahead of our programmes to promote heightened awareness, risk published expansion target.
Total pgm and gold management and procedure compliance in these areas production was 1,467,525 tr.
and the cash cost per have proved effective.
We will redouble our efforts to ounce excluding royalties fell year on year by around extend these skills to other areas with particular reference fifteen percent to $168.
to the years unusual number of non-mining incidents, which we should be able to eliminate totally.
There was an overall reduction in the basket of metals average price of twenty-seven percent year on year, but Our record production of pgms was delivered into strong we were still able to achieve operating margins of around markets.
Platinum demand rose by some eight percent and fty-five percent and earnings per share of 121.5 cents.
exceeded the six million-ounce level for the first time ever.
Only negative sentiment surrounding the worlds All expansion and replacement projects proceeded economies had a depressing effect on prices.
The new smelter, following some earlier commissioning problems, produced its There are two main drivers of future Platinum demand.
It has since exceeded operating The first is the automobile industry as diesel engines expectations, drawing down considerable quantities of become subject to the ever-tightening emission control the back-log of metal contained in concentrates, reverts, standards and new countries join the list of those 04 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2002 already applying emission controls, and the second is the re-nancing of Ashanti Goldelds, details of which are expected increase in jewellery demand particularly in covered in the Chairmans Statement.
China but also in Japan following the recent liquidations In summary, the Group has enjoyed another good year of stock.
both operationally and nancially and the platinum As a result of these inuences, the market outlook for market outlook for the coming year remains strong.
Platinum supply and demand, remains strong and the Finally I would like to echo the Chairmans consensus opinion supports a continuing balance, if not acknowledgements and extend my own personal a small deficit, in supply for some time, underlining thanks and appreciation to all the employees whose confidence in our expansion plans.
efforts and loyalty have once again contributed to this We have reconrmed our commitment to a previously solid performance.
announced major capital investment in our South African operations over the ten-year period, ending 2010 but at the same time have taken full advantage of the strength of our balance sheet and the Companys international position, to move towards an active participation in the mining of pgms outside South Africa.
Together with a Canadian mining junior we are exploring Edward Haslam, Chief Executive some twenty-one properties around the Sudbury Basin area.
Our arrangements here provide for a minimum exploration spend of $4.5m over a two-year period.
Results to date on certain of the properties are encouraging.
Work also continues on the feasibility study at the Panton Sill project in Western Australia and we have been sufficiently encouraged to underwrite a rights issue to raise approximately $1.5m to complete this study.
Metallurgical test-work is underway which if successful will result in a new process for the PGM industry.
A 10.6 million-ton resource at an average grade of 5.8 g t pgms plus gold or a total of 4.5 million ounces has already been delineated and we expect to complete a detailed feasibility study in early 2003.
More recently an exploration project in the Mibango area of Tanzania has been added to our international portfolio.
In order to maximise the use of our smelting capacity, we have initiated the procurement of a supply of spent autocatalysts with the intention of re-cycling the contained pgms.
On successful completion of a technical appraisal we expect a growing participation in this type of business.
Recycling could make not only a valuable contribution to revenues but would also enable us to participate further in the global sustainability initiatives which will require an increasing re-cycling element of primary products.
In keeping with our declared pgm focus, we were able to complete just after year-end the outright sale of our Zimbabwean gold assets to a Black Empowerment South African Group and during the year we participated in the Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2002 05 121 Days 1977 The year catalytic converters were introduced into the USA, there were 121 smog alert days in the Los Angeles Basin four months of harmful air.
01 Lonmin Annual Review 2002 06 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2002 1 Day 1999 There was only one such day even though car use in California has doubled in the last 20 years.
Lonmin Pl Lonmin Ann c Annual Re ual Re vie vi w e 2002 w 2002 07 01 Review of Operations Lonmin Platinum South Africa three months.
This delay was the result of water damage to the brick lining of the new furnace, which occurred Mining during the early stages of commissioning.
Following a Lonplats had an exceptional production year in 2002, number of teething problems the new smelter operated exceeding all expectations by producing over 12.3 million effectively for the last three months of the financial year tons of ore of which 11.3 million tons was milled.
at close to design capacity.
At the beginning of September Furthermore, an all-time record was achieved in the three Pyromet furnaces were taken off line and put September when 1 million underground tons were milled on a care and maintenance basis: this followed the earlier for the month.
The opencast operation managed to mothballing of the two Infurnco furnaces and the accumulate in excess of 1 million tons of stockpile for feed Merensky Furnace.
Production of PGMs and gold in matte to the two new concentrators commissioned in October rose from 44,163 kgs in 2001 to 46,557 kgs in 2002, an 2002.
These two concentrators were completed ahead of increase of 5.4 %.
schedule and costs are within budget.
Base Metal Refinery and Precious Metal Refinery Regretfully 11 fatal accidents occurred during the year of which 8 occurred in the three mining units.
We convey The Base Metal Renery and the Precious Metals Renery our condolences to all the families of the deceased.
There continued to achieve excellent recoveries as a result of the were, however, no accidents on the reef horizon where the ongoing improvements in process technology, which majority of persons work.
Zero fatals were reported in the were introduced during the course of the year.
Rened categories of Scraping & Rigging and Falls of Ground: platinum production of 757,451 troy ounces was 5.7 % these two categories historically accounted for about 65% higher than that achieved during 2001 whilst total PGMs of fatals.
There were, unfortunately, 5 Trucks & and gold production rose 8.1 % to 1,467,525 troy ounces.
Tramming fatalities and 3 engineering related accidents.
Capital Expenditure During 2003 more focus will be given to these areas.
The project capital for the expansion period has remained Smelting relatively constant.
The sulphur xation plant Smelting operations were challenged during the first half was redesigned to cater for more stringent emission of the year by the commissioning of the new smelter.
requirements: this will increase the capital cost by about Regrettably the commissioning and expansion operations $8 million.
Escalation on all the major projects was at the smelter resulted in two fatalities.
The new smelter adjusted on the unspent portions.
was brought on line in March following a delay of some Capital Expenditure $millions 150 Major project capital expenditure Foreseen Foreseen to 2008 $millions September 2002 September 2001 113 Projects Capital Expenditure 437 425 Ongoing Capital Expenditure 230 210 Expenditure on Environment 22 20 Process Improvements 10 10 2001 2002 Total: 699 665 08 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2002 Demand for PGMs in auto catalyst manufacture is at an all time high... Engine control computer ECU Tail pipe Sensors Evaporative emissions PCV Valve system EGR Valve Under floor catalytic converter High energy ignition Engine modifications Close coupled catalytic converter Low thermal inertia pipes & manifold Diagram of the emissions control in a car Most modern cars are fitted with three-way catalytic converters.
These converters remove 98% of emissions from a car exhaust.
Lo Lonmin Pl nmin Pl Lo Lonmin Ann nmin Ann c Ann c Annu ual Re al Re u ual Re al Re vi vie e vi vi w w e e 2002 2002 w w 2002 200209 09 01 01 Review of Operations Units Costs Other surface infrastructure such as reef and waste silos, workshop, and sewerage plant are also complete.
Cash Costs per rened ounce of PGM and gold excluding royalties increased 11.7% year on year, in Rand terms, K4 Shaft Project to R1,780 oz.
South African ination, linked to the Unfortunately this project recorded a fatality on 15 July considerable depreciation of the Rand, and some one-off 2002.
During the year 7 reportable injuries were costs, contributed to this increase.
However, cash costs also recorded.
per rened oz of PGMs and gold in dollar terms declined 14.7% to $168.
The K4 ventilation shaft was sunk 837 metres to its current depth of 898 metres below surface.
This now permits Major Projects Progress access to the first level 26 level where horizontal Saffy Shaft Project development of the station has commenced.
This project recorded three reportable accidents and has The K4 main shaft was sunk 432 metres during the year to remained fatality free during 2002 thus accumulating its current depth of 483 metres below surface.
During the past twelve months shaft sinking, station Pandora Project development, and level construction continued according The South African Competition Authorities have given to plan.
For the year 144 metres of shaft sinking was their permission for the Pandora project to proceed.
The shaft bottom is now 530 metres below Lonplats is in the process of acquiring surface rights and surface.
This permitted the completion of the nalising the BEE participation.
Tender documents for development on 11, 12, 13 and 14 level with work currently various initial contracts and establishing control systems in progress on 15-level.
Development on 15-level includes for the Engineering Procurement Cost Management access to the bottom of the raise bored ventilation shaft.
Hossy Shaft Project Opencast Project Metallurgical This project has also remained fatality free since it The cold commissioning at both new concentrator sites commenced on 27 August 2001 and has accumulated progressed well: first concentrate was delivered from both 76,538 fatality free shifts.
In addition the project has also plants in October 2002, one month ahead of schedule.
Converters During 2002, 309 metres of shaft sinking was completed The increase in smelting capacity has necessitated an which was some 26 metres less than plan due to delays increase in converter capacity.
The two existing converters in headgear steelwork deliveries and a delay in the will be replaced by three new more efficient converters commissioning of the kibble winder.
capable of treating all the matte produced by the new The first station will be established at a depth of furnace.
The first of the new converters was brought on 356 metres below surface and this work commenced in line during June and the project is scheduled for October 2002.
Work on the surface infrastructure has completion during March 2003. progressed well, and is on schedule.
Insulation Ceramic honeycomb Insulation cover catalyst Outlet: N2 CO2 H2O Inlet: CO HC NOx Shield Catalyst halfshell housing Intumescent mat Diagram of a catalytic converter The three most harmful emissions from petrol engines are: 1 Carbon Monoxide CO, and 2 Hydrocarbons HC, or volatile organic compounds VOCs.
Sunlight breaks these down to form oxidants, which react with oxides of nitrogen to cause ground level ozone O3, a major component of smog.
3 Nitrogen oxides NO and NO2, together called NOx are the third.
These contribute to smog and acid rain.
These are the three regulated emissions and also ones that catalytic converters are designed to reduce.
A three-way catalytic converter simultaneously oxidises carbon monoxide CO and hydrocarbons HC to carbon dioxide CO2 and water H2O whilst reducing the nitrogen oxides NOx to nitrogen gas N2.
Lonmin Pl Lonmin Ann c Annual Re ual Re vie vi w e 2002 w 2002 01 11 Review of Operations Sulphur Fixation Plant The new Eastern Platinum C concentrator which was also commissioned during October 2002 will utilise ISA Construction of this plant commenced in June 2002. milling technology for ultra ne grinding, to treat the Approximately 96% of the SO2 which is currently vented more complex Eastern Platinum UG2 ore.
This, combined from the main stack will be converted to Calcium with an advanced level of process control, will improve Sulphite which will be disposed of in an environmentally the recoveries on this difficult ore to the same levels as at friendly manner.
This project is scheduled for completion Western Platinums concentrators.
Mechanisation and Automation Mineral Reserves Work continues into the feasibility and efficiency of The total proved and probable reserves of PGMs and gold mining the at-dipping, narrow, tabular ore bodies have dropped slightly from 80.4 million troy ounces last of the Merensky and UG2 reefs by means other than year to 76.8 million troy ounces this year, as a result of conventional cyclical drill and blast methods.
The current depletion by mining and adjustments to the deeper levels foreseen methodology of operation is one whereby the of K4 shaft.
This gure is estimated in accordance with the reef and associated country rock will be cut by mechanical South African Code for Reporting of Mineral Resources means.
Coal operations have utilised rock cutting for and Mineral Reserves SAMREC.
decades and advancing technology in material properties Research and Development and engineering are rapidly bringing hard rock cutting into Minerals Processing economic reality.
significant advances have been made in evaluation and Narrow Reef Miner ARM 1100 development of new technologies such as ultra ne The program to develop a narrow reef hard rock mining grinding and experimental reagents for otation, using machine commenced with a visit to the Voest Alpine the Lonmin Pilot plant and FCTR otation Bergteknik manufacturing facility in Austria during 1999. characterisation test rig.
Many of these advanced process This venture represents Lonplats agship project in techniques have been incorporated in the design of the mechanisation and automation and has the potential to new concentrators.
fundamentally change the Groups operations.
New Concentrators The machine was delivered to Lonplats within one year The K4 concentrator, which is based on the successful of the conceptual design being nalised and has been Karee UG2 concentrator design, was commissioned working underground at Rowland shaft 25 Level since during October 2002.
com for a more detailed analysis of mineral reserves 12 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2002 Future demand for PGMs is positive... 2000 Lonmin Pl Lonmin Ann c Annual Re ual Re vie vi w e 2002 w 2002 01 13 Review of Operations Box Hole Borer New Era Loco And Caboose The development of ore passes and travelling ways is one The intermediate step between our current method of rail of the most dangerous tasks performed underground.
bound transport and that of our future vision of haulage conveyor belts, is the remote controlled locomotive.
Accordingly, a further project in collaboration with With this concept, one person operates the loco in either Sandvick Tamrock Voest Alpine to develop a box hole direction, the loco cab and caboose having been enhanced borer has been established.
The box hole borer is a both ergonomically and operationally.
The operator is machine that will mechanically drill vertical and nearalways facing in the direction of travel and the risk of a vertical excavations thus eliminating the hard, arduous third party being injured is removed.
This concept has and inherently dangerous manual work.
Other important been successfully implemented into the operations of features of the machine are its ability to be moved from Lonplats and will over the next five years replace all the one site to another with minimum dismantling time current conventional units.
will be tted with a modern voice communication system between driver and guard, thus eliminating one of the Mechanised Machinery major causes of locomotive accidents.
Certain areas of reserves on Lonplats mines are of such a width that they can be mined using trackless mining Independence Gold Zimbabwe machinery.
Trials are being pursued in order to learn more Gold production for 2002 was 177,000 ounces, a 5% about this type of mining technique and to benchmark increase on the 169,000 ounces achieved in 2001. against the considerably improved efficiencies that the Muriel Mine was sold during the year and made no local chrome operators are achieving.
contribution to the overall output.
Intelligent Mine Communications Accident severity rates improved signicantly on the This is an important step in preparing our organisation for previous year and there was one fatality during the period.
This project involves construction of a The reserve and resource base increased during the year to surface control room with a SCADA package and the 4.2 million ounces as a result of the recent focused installation of bre optic cable, which form the backbone exploration programme.
This system allows for the integration of real time data with voice and video capabilities, which The Groups gold interests in Zimbabwe were sold on facilitate improved decision-making and reduced reaction 28 October 2002 for a cash sum of $15.5 million which was times to events.
In completing the sale the Group acknowledged the efforts of the entire management team Fuel Cells in the context of the extremely difficult operating Lonplats is the only platinum producer affiliated to the conditions in Zimbabwe.
Fuel Cell Propulsion Institute of America.
This institution together with Lonplats is planning to develop a 10-ton locomotive powered by a fuel cell for use underground.
14 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2002... as auto catalyst technology is introduced into a larger variety of vehicles, 2007 Many governments, including the USA, Japan and the EU are now applying stricter emissions standards.
By 2007 most industrialised countries of the world will have introduced the stringent USA and EU low emissions standards.
Lonmin Pl Lonmin Ann c Annual Re ual Re vie vi w e 2002 w 2002 01 15 Review of the Markets The year under review presented significant macroCleary the strong performance of the platinum price economic challenges to our traditional PGM markets as during the year reected the positive fundamental outlook the Worlds principal economies operated against a for the metal but this was complemented by increased backdrop of negative sentiment and economic uncertainty.
speculative activity in the New York and Tokyo Lonmins main markets for its basket of PGMs were not commodity exchanges.
It is recognised that less than immune from these difficult trading conditions but the impressive returns from traditional equity markets and principal PGM, platinum, demonstrated a resilience, the resurgence of gold investment interest would have supported by robust current and forecast supply and certainly attracted many of the speculators and hedge demand fundamentals which drove the open market price funds to platinum.
The global economic downturn had a more pronounced Platinum demand from the automobile and jewellery effect on the other metals in the PGM metals basket.
sectors accounted for almost three quarters of total global Palladium markets suffered as its principal market, demand for the metal.
In North America, automobile automobile catalysts, contracted due to the significant demand was maintained at signicantly higher levels inventories of the metal held by automobile companies than forecast as the major automobile companies offered which still overhang the market.
The incentive-driven zero-finance incentives to customers throughout the year.
automobile sales in North America and strong diesel sales In Europe and Asia, although sales were less buoyant, in Europe could not cushion the price as it fell towards the implementation of ever-tightening legislation on $300 oz since palladium has currently no significant role pollutant exhaust emissions from passenger motor to play in diesel catalysis while the producers of gasolinevehicles, especially diesel automobiles, is seen to be powered vehicles chose to draw down their inventories.
Almost 40% of all new cars sold in Russia withheld palladium spot shipment during the year Western Europe were diesel powered and catalyst in an attempt to balance the market.
technology currently used on these vehicles to meet Euro Towards the end of the period the dental and electronics III legislation is based solely on platinum.
Common-rail industries reported a slight increase in palladium usage diesel engine technology dispels many of the historical over the previous six months and it is hoped that this can myths surrounding poor performance by diesel continue as the key economies of Asia bottom out and the automobiles and many market analysts see the US light palladium price consolidates at these lower levels where vehicle industry as a possible driver of incremental substitution by other non-PGM metals is less attractive.
Fuel cells continue to be an exciting potential for the The second pillar of strength for platinum was clearly the future and we continue to believe that we will see jewellery market or, more precisely, the Chinese jewellery significant progress and development in the next decade.
Having previously usurped Japans predominant There is currently no commercial fuel cell industry, but position, China recorded double-digit market growth, as considerable advances are being made in reducing costs, an insatiable public demanded new products and designs the main impediment to commercial realisation, across from manufacturers who would otherwise have felt all applications.
The PGM industry continues to support nervous about nancing inventory in a period of rising the efforts of the technology companies to unlock the platinum prices.
The promotional campaign during the opportunities and potentials offered by the stationary, year was extended to more cities whose populations met portable and automotive applications.
We continue to be optimistic about the PGM markets in The traditional cornerstones of the jewellery market, the coming years as the South African industry expands Japan and North America suffered during the year as into increased demand for platinum.
Palladium and consumer confidence ebbed in line with the respective the other PGMs will continue to be challenged by the domestic economic performance.
It was important, in this macro-economic trading environment.
climate, to lay the groundwork for a more broad-based jewellery market by supporting investment to stimulate future growth in Taiwan, Korea and India.
16 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2002... and global emission legislation for both gasoline and diesel vehicles becomes more stringent... Over 85% of all new petrol vehicles sold globally are fitted with catalytic converters.
The countries coloured green in the map have introduced some form of emissions legislation.
The USA and Japan led the way in 1975.
Since then most countries with large vehicle populations have followed.
Lo Lonmin Pl nmin Pl Lo Lonmin Ann nmin Ann c Ann c Annu ual Re al Re u ual Re al Re vi vie e vi vi w w e e 2002 2002 w w 2002 2002 01 01 17 17 Review of Business Development We continue to search for those rare PGM exploration For the Central and Northern Domain, SRK Consulting opportunities that meet our pre-set investment criteria.
Engineers have nalised a resource estimate from the expanded drilling.
The resource, totalling some Australia 23.6 million tonnes at 2.8g t Pt Pd Au contains Panton Sill Project 2.1 million ounces.
An evaluation of the resource forms The project is located in the Kimberly district of Western part of the above review, which is yet to be completed.
Australia, some 700 km south of Darwin, and is owned and managed by Platinum Australia Limited PLA, in North America which Lonmin is the major shareholder.
During the financial year we expanded our exploration efforts into Canada.
Together with Wallbridge Mining The project is at an advanced stage, and, subject to the Company, we believe that the world-class nickel deposits successful outcome of metallurgical test-work now in of the Sudbury Igneous Complex have historically been progress, PLA expects to complete a detailed feasibility under-explored for PGMs.
An agreement was signed study early in 2003. in January, with Lonmin committing a minimum of During the past year, PLA completed a drilling programme $4.5m in exploration expenditure over two years which resulted in an upgrade of the identied resource and earning a 50% interest in a property by dening an to 4.5 million ounces of PGM Au.
Lonmin can earn a further 15% in a grade Top Reef resource of 10.6 million tonnes at an property by completing a Feasibility Study and arranging average grade of 5.8 g t PGM Au.
Two bulk samples were mined from a 300 metre long Geological models indicate that the Sudbury footwall exploration decline which accessed the Top Reef environment, where Wallbridge has acquired a good approximately 70 metres below surface.
The bulk samples property position, is highly prospective for PGM were sent to South Africa for metallurgical evaluation and mineralisation.
Whilst exploration is still at an early stage, pilot plant test-work.
geological and geophysical surveys have indicated a number of attractive targets which will be explored Preliminary mine designs have been completed and further by diamond drilling.
detailed design is now under way.
Elsewhere in North America we have expanded our An extension of time to complete the detailed feasibility activity to investigate further opportunities presented study became necessary due to the complex metallurgy of by junior PGM exploration companies.
the ore and the consequent need to develop an appropriate metallurgical process.
This is the major activity which Tanzania remains outstanding and will include pilot plant testing MIBANGO Project of the process.
Lonmin will share in any intellectual The Mibango project is in cooperation with Perth based property so generated.
Australian exploration junior Goldstream Mining N. L. Additional funding of A$3 million required to complete the Lonmin has the opportunity of earning a 65% interest in detailed feasibility study has been raised by PLA through a the project which is situated near Lake Tanganyika in renounceable rights issue, underwritten by Lonmin, western Tanzania.
Lonmin now holds 44.3% Rapid progress has been made by Goldstream since the previously 38.5% of PLA on an undiluted basis.
agreement was signed in August this year.
Munni Munni Interpretation of results extends the strike length of nearThe Munni-Munni project situated in the Hammersley surface mineralisation whilst deeper drilling has Basin district of Western Australia, some 1200km north intersected a number of chromitite layers and zones of of Perth is a joint venture with Australian junior Helix disseminated sulphides.
The first analyses confirm that PGM Resources Limited, Lonmin having the opportunity to mineralisation is associated with chromitite and sulphides earn a 50% interest.
in the fresh rock, as well as the PGMs which occur in the overlying oxide zone.
Further geological interpretation A total of 4,724 metres of drilling was undertaken during will proceed once all results have been received.
Drilling was discontinued in September when the lack of continuity of the Ferguson Reef outside of the Central Zone prompted the commencement of a full review of work completed to date.
18 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2002... in turn affecting global demand for PGMs.
Platinum Palladium Rhodium 1992 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 As the chart above shows, global demand for PGM use in autocatalysts has grown almost year on year.
Notice also the sharp increase in the last few years due to increased emission legislation.
Lo Lonmin Pl nmin Pl Lo Lonmin Ann nmin Ann c Ann c Annu ual Re al Re u ual Re al Re vi vie e vi vi w w e e 2002 2002 w w 2002 2002 01 01 19 19 Corporate Accountability Employment Equity and Skills Development Lonmin Plc is committed to integrating sustainable Lonmin is well advanced in this area and sustaining its development into all its operations.
The Lonmin Plc existing approach will enable it to meet the Charters Corporate Accountability Report 2002 available on objectives without material additional cost.
Lonmins website or on request details performance on corporate governance, and on the economic, social and Corporate Social Investment environmental components of sustainable development.
Lonmin has had a continuous programme of successful KPMG has reviewed both the adequacy of the safety, community involvement for many years.
health and environmental SHE reporting systems in Beneficiation place and the collation process to produce the SHE Further legislation to clarify the Governments performance sections of the 2002 Corporate intentions in this area is expected.
renes all its products to nished metal in South Lonmins operational imperatives are to promote Africa and to the extent possible, sells metals to South stewardship of the natural environment, to strengthen the African customers.
skills of employees, to motivate employees to achieve The Act is expected to become law early in 2003, their potential and to contribute to the social improvement following promulgation of the Money Bill, a separate piece of its internal stakeholders.
To do this, the Companys of legislation covering State royalties.
Clarity is also operations are implementing and rening systems to awaited on the BEE Charters scorecard evaluation system.
manage, assess, improve and monitor key performance indicators.
Risk identication has become a regular part HIV AIDS of liability assessment and includes safety, health and Corporate Social Responsibility is a vital component of environmental risks.
The major risks identied by Lonmin the sustainable development drive.
The HIV AIDS are detailed in the paragraphs below.
programmes have concentrated on education and Black Economic Empowerment awareness, wellness management and community involvement.
As expected, there has been an increase in During the financial year, the South African Government the number of HIV infections and AIDS deaths reported introduced new mineral rights legislation, The Minerals this past year, which correlate well with actuarial and Petroleum Resources Development Act the Act, predictions.
The Company has a world-class tuberculosis together with a Black Economic Empowerment BEE TB management programme to reduce the incidence and Charter.
Lonmin supports the South African Governments transmission of the disease.
The higher susceptibility of broad objectives and concurs with the view that a HIV positive individuals to opportunistic diseases is successful implementation of the Act will make South Africa reected in the matching increasing trend of reported HIV a better place in the long term for both South Africans and cases and TB cases.
Lonmin is therefore committed to compliance with the new legislation in a timely manner.
Safety Under the Act, the Securing of New Order mining licences The objective for one of the mines to go fatality free for requires demonstrable progress in the following areas: the reporting year was unfortunately not met.
A total of 11 employees have lost their lives in work-related Equity Participation 15% within 5 years, a target of 26% in accidents.
The mechanisation and automation strategy 10 years continues to address safety and workforce issues by Lonmins credits under this heading are at this stage seeking alternative mining methods that reduce the modest.
They consist of BEE participation in Pandora: employees exposure to dangerous situations.
a royalty stream to the Bapo ba Mogale Tribe at Eastern Platinum: a BEE project to process tailings: and an A New Era Loco has been developed and is being tested Employee Share Scheme.
This is a redesigned underground locomotive that is ergonomically friendly and remote controlled.
Procurement A procurement philosophy is being devised with BEE in mind and implementation should be straightforward.
It is not expected to lead to any significant increase in costs.
20 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2002 Standards existing power factor correction equipment.
Water use efficiency has generally improved despite the current The concept of continuous improvement in all aspects of expansions.
The development of accurate water balance sustainable development is being incorporated into the is key to the effective management of water resources.
operations, assisted by management systems.
The Western Platinum Renery was awarded the Investors In Rehabilitation People standard in September 2002, which focuses on the Rehabilitation is ongoing on all mining operations to development of employees.
At Lonplats ISO14001 restore the disturbed land to an acceptable final use.
implementation for environmental management and Ongoing rehabilitation is being conducted and a trust OSHAS18001 for safety and health, is being focused on, fund that provides for these activities at end of life of with three out of its nine operating units certied in mine, has been established.
Due to the current expansion, ISO14001 and the rest in the process of certication.
the provision has been increased by 14% during the year.
Stakeholder Relationships Emissions Dialogue with stakeholders, both internal and external, This year the Western Platinum Renery in Brakpan, is a continuous process.
The UBUNYE process continues South Africa, has phased out the use of carbon to bring about an exciting, dynamic dimension into tetrachloride, an ozone depleting substance, by a change the workplace.
Relationships between stakeholders in process technology.
Sulphur dioxide emissions from are improving as the attitudes and behaviours of all the smelter complex continues to be the major focus and parties change.
the sulphur xation plant that will capture over 90% Employment Equity of the sulphur from the current emissions is under construction and will be operational by the third quarter The process of equal opportunity for all workers is of 2003.
This year there was a setback when the governed by legislation in the operations and a formal electrostatic precipitator at the platinum smelter plan is in place.
These operations have achieved or at Marikana was destroyed by a dust explosion.
The exceeded their targets over the past year.
An average of emission of particulates increased and for four months the 16 hours per person has been spent on training this year, smelter lost metal product to the atmosphere whilst the representing 4.7% of the divisions payroll.
This is the new precipitator was being built.
same as the South African Mining Qualications Authoritys percentage of payroll spent on training in the Effluent Management PGM sub sector for the 2000 2001 training year.
Lonmin The operations continue to monitor their impact on contributes to educational and other needs in its the water environment, with facilities installed to communities, with the Itereleng farming project at improve effluent management.
The operations are moving Eastern Platinum being one of the highlights in the towards the quantication of waste loads as required development of local potential and the establishment of by the new water use licences to be obtained in the next a sustainable business venture.
Waste strategies have formed a focus of the Housing development is progressing to meet the objective operations.
A reduction in waste costs has been realised at of housing all employees and their families close to their the Western Platinum Renery where an integrated waste places of work.
Currently the provision of accommodation management system has been in place for a few years.
is moving from single sex hostels to houses and married quarters.
To date 1,166 houses have been built with a further 294 scheduled for completion in the forthcoming year.
Energy and Water The efficient use of energy and water remains a challenge on the mines and reporting procedures are being improved.
The electricity consumption efficiency rate improved by 10.75% in 2002, from 23.2 to 20.7 kilowatt hours per kilogram of noble metals in matte.
This decrease, despite the current expansion programmes, is the result of better housekeeping and upgrading of Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2002 21 3 2 1 01 Lonmin Annual Review 2002 22 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2002 PGMs: Playing a key role in everyday life Five other uses of PGMs 1 PGMs are a critical component in information processing, 2 in products such as mobile phones and PCs Platinum is the rarest of precious metals, and is ideal for jewellery because of its tensile strength and exceptional beauty 3 PGMs have therapeutic properties and are often used in 4 cancer treatments Platinum is ideal for biomedical components, and is used in the manufacture of pacemakers 5 Eventually all diesel vehicles will be manufactured with PGM catalysts.
There is a huge diversity of uses for PGMs in manufactured goods.
They include high octane petroleum, paint, explosives, fertilisers, eye glasses and refrigerators.
4 5 Lonmin Pl Lonmin Ann c Annual Re ual Re vie vi w e 2002 w 2002 01 23 Board of Directors Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors G Edward Haslam 58 Sir John Craven 62 Chief Executive Chairman Appointed a Director in 1999 and Chief Executive in 2000.
Appointed an independent non-Executive Director in 1997.
Joined Lonplats in 1987 as Marketing Director and appointed Member of Audit Committee.
Former member of the its Managing Director in 1997.
Executive Chairman of Board of Managing Directors of the Deutsche Bank AG Western Platinum and Eastern Platinum.
He is a director and Chairman of Deutsche Morgan Grenfell Group Plc.
of Furuya Metals Co. Limited, Tokyo.
Non-Executive Director of Reuters Holdings Plc and other non-group companies.
Sam E Jonah 53 J Roger B Phillimore 53 A Director since 1992.
In 1969 he joined Ashanti Goldelds Deputy Chairman Company, of which he became Chief Executive in 1986.
He holds an MSc DIC from Imperial College of Science & Appointed an independent non-Executive Director in 1997.
Technology and an associateship from Camborne School of Chairman of Nomination Committee and Remuneration Mines.
He is a director of Commonwealth Africa Investment Committee.
Formerly joint Fund Limited and other non-Group companies.
Non-Executive Director of Aber Diamond Corporation.
Ian P Farmer 40 Director Corporate Development & Marketing Sir Alastair Morton 64 Senior Independent Director Appointed a Director in 2001 with responsibilities for marketing, investor relations and corporate development.
Appointed an independent non-Executive Director in 1998.
Joined the Company in 1986 and transferred to Zambia in Chairman of Audit Committee.
In 1995 appointed Finance Director of Lonmin Committee.
Former Chairman of Strategic Rail Authority.
Platinum in South Africa, which position he relinquished Honorary Chairman and former executive co-chairman upon his transfer to London in 2001.
He is a director of the of Eurotunnel.
Peter Godsoe 64 Peter J Ledger 53 Appointed an independent non-Executive Director with Appointed a Director on 21 November 2002.
He is a mining effect from 29 November 2001.
Member of Nomination engineer and Managing Director of Lonplats, which position Committee and Remuneration Committee.
Chairman he has held since 2000.
He was Operations Director from and Chief Executive Officer of Bank of Nova Scotia, 1997 having joined the Lonmin Group in 1988. non-Executive Director of Empire Company Limited and Ingersoll-Rand Company.
John N Robinson 48 Finance Director Management Team South Africa Joined the Company in 1979 as a financial analyst and later as a finance executive working with the mining operations.
Peter Ledger Managing Director Appointed Finance Director in 1999.
Brian AbbottFinance Tony Reilly Legal.
Stompie Shiels Mining Geoff Fenner Strategic Services Eddie Facculyn-Goush Central Services Alan Keeley Smelting and Rening Albert Jamieson Business Development London Amanda Bradshaw Group Financial Controller Right: The Board of Directors, on location at the new Eastern Platinum C Chris Davies Group Technical Director Stream Opencast Concentrator in South Africa.
From left to right: Sam Jonah, Fraser King Group Marketing and Sales Ian Farmer, Sir John Craven, John Robinson, Peter Godsoe, Roger Phillimore, Edward Haslam, Peter Ledger and Sir Alastair Morton.
Michael Pearce Associate Director and Group Secretary 24 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2002 Lonmin Pl Lonmin Ann c Annual Re ual Re vie vi w e 2002 w 2002 01 25 Summary Directors Report Dividends Directors The Board recommends a final dividend of 42 cents per share to The present Board of the Company and biographical details be paid on 17 February 2003 to shareholders on the registers on are set out on page 24.
Mr P C Godsoe was appointed a 24 January 2003.
With the interim dividend of 30 cents paid on non-Executive Director with effect from 29 November 2001 16 August 2002 this would make a total dividend for the year and Mr P J Ledger was appointed an Executive Director on of 72 cents per share 2001 64 cents.
Mr P J Harper retired as a non-Executive Director on 26 October 2002.
At the forthcoming Annual Business review and future developments General Meeting Sir John Craven and Sir Alastair Morton retire The Summary Directors Report should be read in conjunction by rotation and Mr Ledger retires having been appointed since with the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 and 3, the Chief the last Annual General Meeting.
Being eligible, they offer themselves for re-election.
As noted in the Summary Directors Executives Statement on pages 4 and 5, the Reviews on pages Remuneration Report on page 28, Mr Ledger has a service 8 to 21 and the Summary Financial Statement on pages 30 to 32 which give a review of developments and of likely future contract requiring 364 days notice to be given to him.
Sir John developments in the business of the Company and the principal Craven and Sir Alastair Morton are non-Executive Directors and have no service contract with the Company and are not entitled to trading operations of the Group.
During the year the Company continued to focus on its platinum group metals and any notice period.
No Director had at any time during the year a material interest in any contract of signicance in relation to the Companys business.
Ashanti Goldfields Company Limited Ashanti The interests of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the In June 2002 the Company subscribed for $46.6 million of Company are set out in the Summary Directors Remuneration mandatorily exchangeable notes MENs issued by a subsidiary Report on page 28. of and guaranteed by Ashanti in connection with Ashantis financial restructuring plan.
In addition, the Company also Corporate Governance subscribed for a further $28.4 million of MENs, which are subject The Company complies with all the provisions affecting to a call option granted to the Government of Ghana in order to companies set out in the Combined Code on Corporate enable it to maintain its stake in Ashanti.
The Company granted put options to certain warrant holders at Charitable and Political Donations a strike price of $3.00 per Ashanti share in relation to shares that were issued as a result of early exercise of the existing Charitable donations made by the Group during the year in the warrants in Ashanti resulting in new equity coming into Ashanti.
No political At 22 November 2002 options were outstanding over 2.5 million donations were made.
The Group also made contributions to shares.
social welfare causes in South Africa during the year amounting to R29.9m $2.8m.
In addition the Company has granted, for a Independence Gold Mining PVT Limited nominal service charge, a licence to the African Medical and Independence Research Foundation United Kingdom AMREF UK to occupy temporarily spare offices at the Companys head office in central On 28 October 2002 the Group sold Independence, which owned the gold mining assets in Zimbabwe, to Pemberton London.
AMREF is Africas largest indigenous health charity and International Investments Limited for a cash sum of promotes African initiatives for sustained health across the Continent.
The organisation tests new ideas through operations US$15.5 million paid in full on completion.
research, trains disadvantaged communities through capacity Share capital building and advocates for policy change at an international level.
This has significant impact on health burdens such as During the year the Company bought back in the market and HIV AIDS which is a major concern to the Lonmin Group.
cancelled a total of 10.4 million ordinary shares at a total cost of Mr J R B Phillimore is a member of the Council of Management 88 million $128 million.
These purchases have resulted in an of AMREF UK.
improvement in earnings per share.
A new authority to make market purchases of the Companys shares will be proposed at Annual General Meeting the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The 2003 Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.00 am on On 22 February 2002 the share capital of the Company was Thursday, 30 January 2003 at The Ball Room, The Park Lane reduced and redenominated, following which 252 million Hotel, Piccadilly, London W1.
The Notice of Meeting is set out on $361 million surplus cash was returned to shareholders, pages 33 to 35.
An explanation of the items of Special Business is who received 150 pence in cash and 21 new ordinary shares of US$1 contained therein.
each for every 25 ordinary shares of 1 each previously held.
In addition 50,000 Sterling Deferred Shares of 1 each were By order of the Board 26 November 2002 created and issued.
The principal objective of the capital reduction was to improve the efficiency of the Groups balance sheet and M J Pearce to enhance returns to shareholders.
Secretary 26 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2002 Summary Directors Remuneration Report The Remuneration Committee consists entirely of nonMr Haslam, noted below, no Director during the year Executive Directors and is responsible for determining participated in any bonus scheme.
The remuneration remuneration policy and the remuneration packages of package for Executive Directors comprises a base salary, Executive Directors.
The Committees objective is to pension, life assurance and other benets, and provide to the Executive Directors the remuneration participation in the Companys share option schemes.
packages needed to attract, retain and motivate Executive Summary details of individual emoluments of Directors Directors of the quality required without paying more holding office during the year and share interests of all than is necessary for this purpose.
With the exception of Directors are shown in the following two tables: Directors remuneration Salary Benefits Total for year Total for year 1 and fees in kind to 30.9.
Benets in kind comprised mainly the provision of a motor car for the 3.
The gures for Mr Jonah relate only to his remuneration as a Director of use of Executive Directors and the provision of private medical Lonmin Plc.
He is the Chief Executive of Ashanti Goldelds Company insurance and, in the case of Mr Haslam and Mr Farmer, a childrens Limited, which reimburses Lonmin Plc all his other remuneration and education allowance.
During the year Mr Haslam received no payment 2001: 82,000 which 4.
Mr Godsoe was appointed a Director on 29 November 2001 thus his is in addition to the sum disclosed above under his bonus scheme.
remuneration as Director in 2002 covered only the period from then until the year end.
Mr Harper retired on 26 October 2002.
Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2002 27 Summary Directors Remuneration Report Ordinary share interests All interests in the table are beneficial Shares 30.9.
During the year the share capital was reduced and redenominated and key managers of Lonmin Platinum and Mr Ledger has a non-beneficial shareholders received 150 pence in cash and 21 new ordinary shares of interest in those shares.
US$1 each for every 25 ordinary shares of 1 each previously held.
During the year options were granted to Mr Haslam, Mr Farmer and 2.
The interests of Mr Godsoe are shown as at 29 November 2001, the date of Mr Robinson each over 48,000, 27,000 and 27,000 ordinary shares his appointment as a Director, and not 1 October 2001. respectively at an exercise price of 1150p per share.
Mr Harper retired as a Director on 26 October 2002 and his interest shown included in the table above.
in the second column is only at 30 September 2002.
At 30 September 2002 and by way of comparison with the weighted 4.
The interests of Mr Ledger are shown only as at 26 November 2002 since he average exercise prices shown, the middle market quotation for the was only appointed as a Director on 21 November 2002.
The 39,640 shares ordinary shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official in which he is interested are held by The Lonmin Plc Share Trust pursuant List was 848.5p, as compared with the high and low quotations for the to The Lonmin Plc Share Plan.
40 per cent and 60 per cent of those shares financial year of 1275p and 710p respectively.
will pass into his ultimate ownership on 1 January 2005 and 1 January 2007 7.
During the year the following Directors exercised options.
The market respectively, subject, normally, to his remaining within the employment of price is the market price per share on the date of exercise.
The notional gain the Group.
That Trust also holds an additional 296,360 shares for other is the difference between the market price and the exercise price.
Options Exercised Date of Exercise No.
02 50,000 453 1201 374,000 Directors service contracts Mr Haslam, Mr Farmer and Mr Robinson currently have service periods of 364 days or less, the Company does comply and has contracts which temporarily required two years prior written complied throughout the year with the provision of the notice of termination to be given to them.
From 1 January 2002 Combined Code in this respect.
Except during the temporarily the notice period has reduced and will reduce by one calendar extended notice periods and with the exception of Mr Ledger, month immediately following the expiry of each calendar month there is no contractual provision for compensation to be paid to until 1 January 2003, from which date 364 days prior written any Executive Director in lieu of notice.
The non-Executive notice will be required to be given.
If notice were given prior to Directors are each appointed for a xed period of three years, but 1 January 2003 and the director concerned were not required subject to the provisions of the Companys Articles of to work out his notice period, his salary and the value of Association for retirement by rotation and for earlier cessation for his contractual benets would be paid in lieu.
Mr Jonah and any other reason.
No compensation is payable to non-Executive Mr Ledger are entitled to 364 days notice.
Since the Board has set Directors for loss of office, save for arrears of fees.
as an objective that all Executive Directors should have notice 28 Lonmin Annual Review 2002 Statement of the Independent Auditors to the Members of Lonmin Plc Pursuant to section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 Basis of opinion We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin We have examined the Summary Financial Statement set 1999 6 The auditors statement on the summary out on pages 31 to 32, comprising the summarised financial statement issued by the Auditing Practices consolidated profit and loss account, balance sheet and Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Groups full Annual Accounts describes the basis of our Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors audit opinion on those Accounts.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Opinion Review in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on In our opinion the Summary Financial Statement is the consistency of the Summary Financial Statement consistent with the Annual Accounts and Directors within the Annual Review with the full Annual Accounts Report of Lonmin Plc for the year ended 30 September and Directors Report, and its compliance with the 2002 and complies with the applicable requirements of relevant requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read made thereunder.
the other information contained in the Annual Review and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material KPMG Audit Plc inconsistencies with the Summary Financial Statement.
Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor London 26 November 2002 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2002 29 Summary Financial Statement Introduction of shares outstanding of 152 million compared with 153.7 cents for the prior year on a weighted average number During the year, the Company bought back 10.4 million of shares outstanding of 178 million.
shares at a cost of $128 million, returned capital of $361 million to shareholders of which $1 million In line with the policy outlined in the circular to remained unclaimed at 30 September 2002 and shareholders on the return of capital dated 20 December redenominated its share capital from Sterling into US 2001, dividend declarations are now based on the reported dollars.
An investment of a further $75 million in Ashanti earnings for the year, but taking into account the projected was also made.
cash requirements of the business.
The traditional one-third two-thirds split of the total dividend between Profit and loss account interim and final declarations is no longer being followed.
Turnover decreased by 20% from $866 million in 2001 The Board recommends a final dividend of 42.0 cents to $697 million in 2002 due to lower average PGM 2001 40.0 cents making total dividends for the year prices realised in the year despite a growth in output of 72.0 cents 2001 64.0 cents.
Production costs were lower than last year due to a 1.7 times on earnings 2001 2.4 times.
devaluation in the South African rand of 20% even though PGM ounces produced increased by 8% to 1,467,525 troy Balance sheet ounces from 1,357,301 troy ounces.
EBITDA amounted to Equity interests reduced from $1,077 million at $372 million in 2002 compared with $541 million in 2001 30 September 2001 to $675 million at 30 September 2002. and the reduction in depreciation of $12 million in 2002 The reduction in equity interests included the return of to $39 million arose largely because 2001 included an capital to shareholders which was approved by the Court impairment provision of $12 million on xed assets held in February 2002 of $361 million and share buybacks by in Zimbabwe.
Net interest receivable of $1 million in 2002 the Company of 10 million shares at a cost of $123 million was lower than last year due to lower interest rates and during October 2001 and 0.4 million shares at a cost of borrowings arising in the Group following the capital $5 million during August 2002.
The retained profit for return to shareholders in February 2002.
The resulting the year amounted to $84 million after interim and final profit before tax amounted to $332 million in 2002, dividends declared of $42 million and $59 million a decrease of 37% on last years profit before tax of respectively.
At 30 September 2002 there were 141 million $523 million.
The tax charge for 2002 was $75 million compared with Fixed assets include the subscription by the Company, $150 million in 2001.
Included in the tax charge were during June 2002, for $75 million of mandatorily US dollar exchange profits of $53 million in 2002 and exchangeable notes in Ashanti.
This additional investment $46 million in 2001.
These arose due to the devaluation in in Ashanti was made to assist it in its financial the South African rand during the year resulting in restructuring plans and to protect against the dilution in payments in US dollar amounts being lower than the the value of Lonmins stake.
Ashanti continues to be originally accrued amounts and the provision for deferred accounted for as a xed asset investment.
The weakening of the rand also gave rise to taxable realised exchange profits in the local Net borrowings at 30 September 2002 amounted to South African rand books of account of $5 million $155 million.
Gearing was 23% on the equity interests of 2001 $6 million.
These exchange profits arose primarily the Group and 18% on the equity and minority interests on sales where rand receipts were higher than those of the Group.
A $355 million loan facility was negotiated originally booked at the point of sale.
Excluding the effects during the year of which $130 million was drawn at of the US dollar exchange profits and the locally taxable 30 September 2002.
The capital structure of the balance exchange gains, the effective tax rate was 37% in 2002 sheet remains under constant review with a view to compared with 36% in 2001. optimising its efficiency.
Minority interest for the 2002 year was $72 million Cash flow compared with $99 million in 2001, the reduction due to The cash ow table shown on page 32 summarises the lower profits in the platinum operations in South Africa main components of the cash ow during the year.
and profit for the 2002 year fell by 32% to $185 million Trading cash ow was $181 million during 2002, a 58% from $274 million in 2001.
Earnings per share were decrease on the trading cash ow of $433 million achieved 121.5 cents in 2002 based on a weighted average number during 2001.
The decrease was largely due to the lower 30 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2002 Summary Financial Statement net cash inow from operating activities of $359 million offset by the depreciation of the South African rand during in 2002 as a consequence of lower commodity prices the year and expenditure stated in Rand increased by 66% reducing profitability 2001$525 million.
Corporation from R936 million to R1,558 million.
Minority dividends tax payments made in South Africa of $181 million were paid totalled $36 million and the resulting free cash ow 66% higher than 2001 and included the payment of was a negative $7 million or 4.6 cents per share.
outstanding liabilities from 2001 together with payments After accounting for amounts spent on other financial on account of 2002 profits.
The resulting trading cash ow investment, shares issued and bought back, the capital per share was 118.9 cents compared with 242.9 cents for return and dividends, the cash outow for the year was the prior period.
$679 million resulting in net borrowings of $155 million Capital expenditure of $152 million showed an increase of at 30 September 2002.
This increase was somewhat Summary consolidated profit and loss account For the year ended 30 September 2002 2001 $m $m Turnover 697 866 2 EBITDA 372 541 Depreciation 39 51 Group operating profit 333 490 Share of associates operating loss 2 Operating profit 331 490 Net interest receivable and similar items 1 33 Profit before taxation 332 523 Taxation 75 150 Profit after taxation 257 373 Minority interest 72 99 Profit for the year 185 274 Dividends 101 110 Retained profit for the year 84 164 Earnings per share 121.5c 153.7c Diluted earnings per share 121.0c 152.4c Dividends per share 72.0c 64.0c 1 The results for both years relate to continuing operations.
2 EBITDA is Group operating profit before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
The summary financial statement on pages 30 to 32 was approved by the Board of Directors on 26 November 2002 and was signed on its behalf by: Sir John Craven Chairman J N Robinson Finance Director Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2002 31 Summary Financial Statement Summary consolidated balance sheet As at 30 September 2002 2001 $m $m Fixed Assets 1,181 997 Current assets 182 658 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 188 254 Net current liabilities assets 6 404 Total assets less current liabilities 1,175 1,401 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 135 6 Provisions for liabilities and charges 160 150 880 1,245 Equity interests 675 1,077 Minority equity interest 205 168 880 1,245 Net borrowings cash and deposits 155 523 Summary consolidated cash flow For the year ended 30 September 2002 2001 $m $m Net cash inflow from operating activities 359 525 Interest 3 17 Tax 181 109 Trading cash flow 181 433 Capital expenditure 152 115 Minority dividends 36 88 Free cash flow 7 230 Acquisitions and disposals 6 Other financial investment 78 11 Shares issued 3 4 bought back 128 19 Capital return 360 Equity dividends paid 109 110 Cash outflow inflow 679 88 Trading cash flow per share 118.9c 242.9c Free cash flow per share 4.6 c 129.0c Note The difference between the opening net cash and deposits of $523 million and the closing net borrowings of $155 million was made up of the cash outow shown above of $679 million and exchange on non-US dollar amounts of $1 million.
32 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2002 No Not ti ice o ce of f th the Ann e Annu ual G al Ge en ne er ra al M l Me eetin eting g Lonmin Plc Registered in England and Wales with registered number 103002 Notice is hereby given that the ninety-fourth Annual General Meeting of Lonmin Plc will be held at The Ball Room, The Park Lane Hotel, Piccadilly, London W1 on Thursday, 30 January 2003, at 11.00 am, for the following purposes: Ordinary business: Special Resolutions 1.
To receive the Report of the Directors and the 9.
THAT the powers conferred on the Directors by Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2002.
Article 12 C of the Companys Articles of Association 2.
To declare a final dividend for the year ended be renewed and that for this purpose the Section 89 30 September 2002.
Amount shall be US$7,048,000 and the Section 89 3.
To re-elect Sir John Craven as a Director.
Period shall be the period expiring on 29 January 2008.
To re-elect Mr P J Ledger as a Director.
THAT pursuant to Article 9 of the Companys Articles 5.
To re-elect Sir Alastair Morton as a Director.
of Association the Company be and is hereby generally 6.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the and unconditionally authorised to make market Company and to authorise the Directors to agree their purchases as dened in Section 163 3 of the Companies remuneration.
Act 1985 of up to an aggregate of 14,000,000 ordinary Special business: shares of US$1 each in its capital at a price per share of To consider and, if thought t, to pass the following not more than 105 per cent of the average of the middle resolutions: market quotations for such a share as derived from the Daily Official List of London Stock Exchange Plc for the Ordinary Resolutions five business days immediately preceding the day of 7.
THAT the limit on the aggregate of all fees payable to such purchase and not less than the nominal value of the Directors other than those who are Full-time such share in each case exclusive of expenses and that Employees contained in Article 78 of the Companys the authority conferred by this Resolution shall expire Articles of Association be and it is hereby increased to on 29 April 2004 or, if earlier, the date of the Annual 500,000 per annum.
General Meeting in 2004 except that the Company may make a purchase of its own shares after the expiry 8.
THAT the powers conferred on the Directors by of such authority pursuant to any contract made under Article 12 B of the Companys Articles of Association the authority conferred by this Resolution prior to the be renewed and that for this purpose the Section 80 expiry of such authority.
Amount shall be US$46,995,000, the Restricted Section 80 Amount shall be US$14,000,000 and the By Order of the Board Section 80 Period shall be the period expiring on M J PEARCE, Secretary 29 January 2008.
4 Grosvenor Place, London SW1X 7YL the Registered Office 26 November 2002 Notes: 1 a Any member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the Notice and, to be effective, must be deposited at the Meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend Companys Registered Office, or at any of the addresses below, and, on a poll, vote in his her stead.
A proxy need not be a not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the member of the Company.
A Form of Proxy accompanies this holding of the Meeting:- i Lloyds TSB Registrars ii Computershare Investor Services Limited Postal Address : The Causeway 70 Marshall Street PO Box 1053 Worthing Johannesburg 2001 Johannesburg 2000 West Sussex BN99 6DB South Africa South Africa England Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2002 33 Notice of the Annual General Meeting b Electronic Voting Directors Shareholders on the United Kingdom register may, if they wish, 5Biographical details of all Directors are given on page 24 of the register the appointment of a proxy electronically by logging on Annual Review 2002.
Sir John Craven and Sir Alastair Morton to the Lloyds TSB Registrars website www.
co. uk are not entitled to any notice period from the Company.
Shareholders will need their Reference Number, Card ID and Mr P J Ledger is entitled to 364 days notice.
Account Number printed on the face of the accompanying Form Articles of Association of Proxy.
Full details of the procedure are given on the website.
6Article 78 of the Companys Articles of Association provides Alternatively shareholders who have registered for a Shareview that the aggregate of the remuneration payable to Directors who portfolio with Lloyds TSB Registrars may log on to their portfolio are not Full-time Employees being any person holding a full time at www.
co. uk and click on Company Meetings.
executive position in the Company or any of its subsidiaries or The proxy appointment and instructions should reach the Associates shall not exceed 300,000 per annum.
This sum Registrars not less than 48 hours before the time appointed essentially covers the 50,000 basic fee of each non-Executive for the holding of the Meeting.
The Company cannot accept Director and excludes, eg, additional amounts that are paid for the responsibility for loss or damage arising from the opening or use chairmanship or for the chairmanship and membership of board of any email or attachment from the Company and the Directors committees.
The sum also covers the 50,000 remuneration paid recommend that the shareholders subject all messages to virus by the Company to Mr S E Jonah for his services as a Director.
checking procedures prior to use.
Any electronic communication Mr Jonah cannot be regarded as a Full-time Employee of Lonmin received by the Company and or by Lloyds TSB Registrars on Plc.
Although he is an employee of Lonmin Plc, he devotes the behalf of the Company, including the lodgement of any electronic majority of his time to Ashanti Goldelds Company Limited proxy form, that is found to contain a computer virus will not which is no longer an Associate of the Company of which he is be accepted.
Chief Executive and which reimburses Lonmin Plc all his other South African legislation does not yet permit the electronic remuneration and his benets.
The current 300,000 limit could registration of proxy appointments.
Shareholders on the South become prohibitive if further appointments of non-Executive African Branch Register must therefore deposit their Forms of Directors were considered appropriate.
Accordingly the Directors Proxy at one of the addresses stated in Note 1 a. propose Resolution No 7 which will increase the limit of such aggregate remuneration from 300,000 per annum to 500,000 c Shareholders who have completed a Form of Proxy may per annum.
still attend the Meeting and vote in person, should they so wish.
Share Capital 2Only the registered holders of fully paid ordinary shares or their proxies are entitled to attend and vote at the 7The Directors authorities to issue shares are contained in the Meeting.
Proxies may vote only on a poll.
To be entitled to attend Companys Articles of Association.
The Directors propose to and vote and for the purpose of the determination by the renew the authorities which a give the Directors a general Company of the number of votes that may be cast, such holders authority to allot shares Resolution No 8 and b permit the must be registered on the Companys register of members by issue of shares, including by way of rights issue, for a cash 6.00 pm London time on 28 January 2003, or, in the event of consideration Resolution No 9.
In each case, the Directors are any adjournment of the above Meeting, by 6.00 pm London seeking to renew the authorities, for a period of five years time on the day two days prior to the date xed for the expiring on 29 January 2008, within the limits laid down adjourned Meeting or by the time specified in any written notice by the Investment Committees of certain institutional given by the Company of the adjourned Meeting.
entries on the register after this shall be disregarded in Resolutions Nos 8 and 9 will: determining the rights of any person to attend and vote and the number of votes they may cast at the Meeting.
a give the Directors authority to issue up to 46.995 million shares for general purposes including rights issues: 3The Register of Directors Share and Debenture Interests kept by the Company under Section 325 of the b give the Directors authority to issue up to an additional Companies Act 1985 is available for inspection at the Registered 14 million shares for the restricted purposes specified in the Office of the Company during normal business hours on any Articles of Association, which will therefore permit such shares weekday and will be available for inspection at the Annual to be allotted as scrip dividends although these are not currently General Meeting from 15 minutes prior to the Meeting until its offered to shareholders and under share option schemes in conclusion.
practice those which are not approved by the Inland Revenue and will provide additional shares, which may fall to be allotted Final dividend as a result of adjustments following, for example, a capitalisation 4The Directors have recommended a final dividend for issue, to the number of shares subject to any future convertible the year ended 30 September 2002 of 42 cents.
securities, warrants or options: and 34 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2002 Notice of the Annual General Meeting c empower the Directors to issue or agree to issue up to 2002 the Directors used the Companys authority granted at the 7.048 million of the 46.995 million shares for a cash last Extraordinary General Meeting to purchase in the market consideration other than by way of rights issue.
400,000 shares at an aggregate cost of 3m.
In September and October 2001 the Directors used a previous authority to purchase The 46.995 million shares and the 14 million shares are in the market 11.72 million shares at an aggregate cost of 98m.
equivalent in nominal value to 33.3 per cent and 9.9 per cent The Directors therefore propose Resolution No 10 which will respectively of the issued share capital as at 26 November 2002 authorise the Company to make market purchases on the London and the 7.048 million shares, which will only be issued in Stock Exchange of up to 14 million ordinary shares of US$1 each accordance with the pre-emption guidelines issued under the representing 10 per cent of the issued share capital as at aegis of the London Stock Exchange, are equivalent in nominal 26 November 2002. value to 5 per cent of the issued share capital as at 30 September and 26 November 2002.
The Directors would use this authority only if they considered that it would be in the best interests of the Company and they With the exception of the issue of shares pursuant to the exercise could foresee a consequent improvement in earnings per share.
of options, the Directors have no present intention of issuing any On 26 November 2002 the middle market quotation for the of the existing unissued shares and no issue will be made which Companys ordinary shares, as derived from the London Stock would effectively alter control of the Company without the Exchange Daily Official List, was 866 p as compared with the prior consent of the Company in general meeting.
The Directors high for 2002 to that date on 11 June 2002 of 1275 p, as similarly consider it desirable to renew the authorities in order to derived.
retain the customary exibility for future issues should occasion require.
Recommendation Authority for the Company to purchase its own shares 9The Directors believe that the passing of all the Resolutions will be in the best interests of shareholders as a whole and of 8The Directors have been conscious of the present volatility of the Company and are unanimous in recommending that the financial markets and of the fact that the share price of any shareholders vote in favour of them.
They will be seeking to company may at times be depressed for reasons entirely ensure that all the votes attaching to the shares in which they are unconnected with itself or its performance and consider it interested totalling some 150,000 shares which represent some desirable that the Company should continue to have authority to 0.1 per cent of the Companys issued share capital will be cast make market purchases of its own shares.
Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2002 35 Lonmin Plc Corporate Information Secretary and registered office Auditors Principal group bankers Michael Pearce FCIS KPMG Audit Plc HSBC Bank Plc 4 Grosvenor Place PO Box 695 Lloyds TSB Bank Plc London SW1X 7YL 8 Salisbury Square Standard Chartered Bank London Standard Bank Registered in England EC4Y 8BB Number : 103002 Financial advisers Registrars Morgan Stanley Telephone 020 7201 6000 Lloyds TSB Registrars Cazenove & Co. Ltd Telefax 020 7201 6100 The Causeway Email : contact@lonmin.
com Stockbrokers Web: http: www.
com Worthing Cazenove & Co. Ltd West Sussex BN99 6DA HSBC Bank Plc Group Financial Controller England Amanda Bradshaw Telephone 01903 502541 Investor Relations Telefax 01903 833371 London Teresa Heritage Assistant Company Computershare Investor Services Limited Secretary Investor Relations Manager PO Box 1053 Johannesburg Tony Reilly Lonmin Platinum Johannesburg 2000 Director Corporate Affairs South Africa Marketing Telephone 011 370 5000 Fraser King Group Marketing and Sales Telefax 011 370 5271 2 American depositary receipts ADR The Company has a sponsored Level 1 ADR programme for which ADR enquiries may be addressed to: The Bank of New York acts as a Depositary.
Each ADR represents one 1 The Bank of New York, ADR Shareholder Inquiries Department, Ordinary share of the Company.
The ADRs trade in the over-the-counter PO Box 11258, Church Street Station, New York, NY 10286 1258 OTC market under the symbol LOMNY.
When dividends are paid to Telephone: 1-888-BNY-ADRS Toll free or 1-610312-5315 for calls from shareholders, the Depositary makes the equivalent payment in US dollars outside the US to ADR holders.
The final A Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP is available through which dividend for the year ended 30 September 2002 will be paid in eligible shareholders may invest the whole of their cash dividends sterling to UK shareholders unless they elect to receive US in additional Lonmin Plc shares.
Eligible shareholders on the dollars calculated at the US dollar to sterling exchange rate on registers on 24 January 2003, being the record date for the 24 January 2003: in Rand to shareholders on the SA branch recommended final dividend, may participate in the plan in register calculated at the Rand to US dollar exchange rate on respect of that dividend provided their application forms are 10 January 2003: and in dollars to all other shareholders unless received by 3 February 2003.
Copies of the DRIP brochure and they elect to receive sterling dividends or have mandated their application form have been sent to eligible shareholders on the dividend payments to a UK bank.
Elections to receive an registers up to 19 July 2002 and are being sent to those who are alternative currency dollars or sterling should comprise a signed newly entered on the registers between then and 24 January request to Lloyds TSB Registrars at the address shown above to be 2003.
Further copies are available from the Registrars.
received by 1700 hours on 17 January 2003.
Lonmin Corporate Individual Savings Accounts ISAs Dividend payment by BACS Carr Sheppards Crosthwaite offers the Lonmin Corporate Stocks The Company can pay United Kingdom registered shareholders & Shares ISA from which dividend income and capital gains are dividends direct to a bank or building society account using the completely free of UK tax for investment in Lonmin Plc shares.
Bankers Automated Clearing Service BACS.
This means that UK registered shareholders may subscribe to the Lonmin dividends will normally be in shareholders accounts on the same Corporate ISA up to a maximum currently of 7,000 annually in day as the payment is made.
The tax vouchers will be posted to cash for a maxi ISA or 3,000 for a mini ISA, by direct transfer shareholders registered addresses.
Shareholders wishing to adopt of eligible employee shares and or by sale and reinvestment of this method of payment should contact Lloyds TSB Registrars.
To obtain full details and an application form, please contact Carr Sheppards Crosthwaite Taxation of Dividends Limited, Clock House, Dogud Way, Farnham, Surrey GU9 7UL, Information on the tax treatment of UK dividends is given on the Tel 01252 712049, Fax 01252 734628.
Carr Sheppards Crosthwaite tax vouchers sent to shareholders.
Capital Gains Tax This is not a recommendation that shareholders should subscribe to the ISA.
The advantages of holding shares in an ISA vary For capital gains tax purposes, shareholders disposing of shares in according to individual circumstances and shareholders who are either Lonmin Plc or Lonrho Africa Plc after 7 May 1998, who held in any doubt should consult their financial adviser.
shares prior to that date, should apportion the base cost of their original Lonmin Plc shares between the two companies.
Based on Shareholder Information the closing share prices on 7 May 1998 of Lonmin Plc and Lonrho There is now a range of shareholder information online.
Africa Plc, this apportionment would be 80.498 per cent for Shareholders on the principal register maintained by Lloyds TSB Lonmin Plc and 19.502 per cent for Lonrho Africa Plc.
Registrars can check their shareholdings and nd practical help The Companys capital reduction was completed on 22 February on transferring shares or updating their details at 2002.
For the purposes of assessing any liability to capital gains www.
Up-to-date information on the Company tax UK shareholders should apportion 13.3355% of the base cost of is contained in the Companys website at www.
their original shareholding to the capital reduction and the balance to their new holding of ordinary shares of US$1 each.
The market price of Lonmin Plc ordinary shares at 31 March 1982 was 38.915 pence as adjusted for subsequent capitalisation issues, and 155.66 pence as adjusted for the consolidation of the Companys shares on 24 April 1998 and 125.303 pence as adjusted for the demerger of Lonrho Africa Plc on 7 May 1998.
2 Ashanti is consolidated as a xed asset investment from 2000 onwards and as an associate in previous years.
Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2002 39 Glossary of Terms AMIRA Australian Mining Industries Research Association.
A not MF2 MF3 Mill Float This is a concentrator conguration where for profit company co-ordinating multi-company research there are two or three milling and otation circuits in series.
projects in the mining industry world-wide.
Each of the milling circuits is followed by a otation circuit.
By-product metals Ruthenium, iridium, gold, nickel and copper.
Noble metals Platinum group metals and gold.
Cash cost per refined oz PGMs gold Calculated as the onOn-mine costs Those process costs incurred in the production of mine, rening, services costs and royalty payments, management realisable metals.
fees and commissions paid divided by the total PGMs and gold.
OPMs Other precious metals: rhodium, ruthenium and iridium.
This is a good measure of the Companys operating performance.
oz oz A troy ounce, being 31.104 grams.
Casualty rate The number of fatal and reportable accident cases expressed as a rate per 1,000 per annum of the average number of PGMs Platinum Group Metals: platinum, palladium, rhodium, underground, surface or total employees at work.
PGM AU Platinum Group Metals and gold.
Competent person A professionally qualied person who is a Pilot-plant The Lonmin pilot plant is a collection of small-scale member of good standing of an appropriate professional 1 tonne per hour equipment including milling, classication and association or body having at least five years relevant oatation units.
professional experience in the estimation, assessment and Platinum Group Metals Platinum, palladium, rhodium, evaluation of the type of mineral reserves being exploited by the ruthenium and iridium.
Probable mineral reserve Portion of measured and or indicated Converter matte The product from the smelter containing noble resource, as dened, on which sufficient technical and economic and base metals, emanating from furnace through converter studies have been carried out to demonstrate that it can justify operations.
extraction at the time of determination and under specified Cost per refined ounce of platinum net of by-product revenue economic conditions.
Calculated as on-mine and rening costs less the revenue earned Proven mineral reserve Portion of measured mineral resource, as from all other metals divided by rened production of platinum.
dened, on which detailed technical and economic studies have This statistic is for benchmarking purposes only and is not the been carried out to demonstrate that it can justify extraction at true cost to the Company of a rened ounce of platinum.
the time of the determination and under specified economic Development Underground excavations for the purpose of conditions.
Stope stoping Underground excavations to effect the extraction EMPR Environmental Management Programme.
Fatality rate The number of fatal accident victims expressed as a $ US$.
rate per 1,000 per annum of the average number of underground, Tonne mt t Metric ton, being 1,000 kilograms.
surface or total employees at work.
Total complement in service at year-end Employees on w c and Flotation Characterisation Test Rig FCTR.
A highly automated those on capital projects, as well as hired services.
and exible otation pilot plant developed as part of the AMIRA 9 P Project.
Total complement in service Employees and full-time contractors Grade The value, expressed in grammes per tonne of reef of the contained PGMs plus gold.
Total contractors in service Hired services on w c and those on capital projects.
gt Grammes per metric tonne.
Total employees in service Employees on w c and those on ISA Mill The ISA Mill is an ultra-ne milling machine developed capital projects by Mount Isa Mines MIM in Australia.
kg One kilogram, being 32.151 troy ounces.
Measured mineral resource That portion of a mineral resource for which tonnage or volume is calculated from dimensions UBUNYE A Sotho word meaning achieving a oneness or revealed in outcrops, pits, trenches, drill-holes or mine workings, togetherness and the name given to the togetherness supported where appropriate by other exploration techniques.
programme run by Lonplats for its employees and their families.
The physical character, size, shape, quality and mineral contents UG2 reef UG2 Upper Group 2 platiniferous chromitite layer, are established with a high degree of certainty.
containing economic grades of PGMs.
Merensky Reef MRK Platiniferous pyroxenite layer, containing w c Working cost.
40 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2002 We need clean air.
Lonmin Plc 4 Grosvenor Place London SW1X 7YL CO HC NOx
