2 Represents fide Beers share of Anglo American plc earnings for the 5 months to 31 May 2001.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2002 88 NOTES Anglo American plc Annual Report 2002 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION OTHER ANGLO AMERICAN PUBLICATIONS OPERATING ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2002 Investing in 11:00 am on Friday, 25 April 2003, at Annual Review the future The Conference Centre, Church House, Deans Yard, Black Economic London SW1P 3NZ.
Empowerment IN 61COUNTRIES SHAREHOLDERS DIARY 2003 4 Interim results August 2003 Interim dividend paid September 2003 Financial year end 31 December 2003 2002 Good Neighbours ANGLO Annual results announcement February 2004 AMERICAN Interim Report Our work with THROUGH 8 KEY Annual Report March 2004 INTERIM communities Annual General Meeting April 2004 REPORT 2002 Final dividend paid April 2004 ENQUIRIES Queries relating to Anglo American plc should be addressed BUSINESSES to the Company Secretary or the Investor and Corporate Affairs Department at the following address: ANGLO 2002 Notice Good Citizenship: AMERICAN of AGM and Our Business NOTICE OF Registered and Head Office ANNUAL Shareholder Principles GENERAL Anglo American plc Information MEETING 20 Carlton House Terrace, booklet SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION London SW1Y 5AN, England Telephone 44 0 20 7698 8888 ANGLO AMERICAN PLC 2002 Fax 44 0 20 7698 8500 Registered number 3564138 2002 Report to Optima Website www.
co. uk Society: Towards Anglo Americans Sustainable current affairs If you have any questions about your shareholding or dividend, please contact the Registrar at the relevant address below: Development journal UK Registrar Computershare Investor Services PLC, PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH, England AIDS crisis in Telephone 44 0 870 702 0000 southern Africa Fax 44 0 870 703 6101 Registrars agent South Africa Computershare Investor Services Limited, 70 Marshall Street, Johannesburg 2001, South Africa PO Box 61051, Marshalltown 2107 Telephone 27 0 11 370 7700 Fax 27 0 11 836 0792 If you would like to receive copies of Anglo Americans publications Please write to: Investor and Corporate Affairs Anglo American plc 20 Carlton House Terrace London SW1Y 5AN United Kingdom Alternatively, publications can be ordered online at: http: www.
asp 01 Financial highlights 32 Consolidated cash flow Throughout this Report, $ means 02 Financial review statement United States dollars.
The 2002 10 Directors report Consolidated statement of total Annual Review, the 2002 Annual 12 Corporate governance recognised gains and losses Report and the notice of AGM, 15 Remuneration report 33 Notes to financial statements together with the remuneration policy 28 Statement of directors 70 Reserves and resources and shareholder information, are responsibilities 81 Production statistics available on the corporate website: 29 Independent auditors report 85 Exchange rates and www.
co. uk 30 Consolidated profit and commodity prices loss account 86 Key financial data 31 Consolidated balance sheet 87 Summary by business segment Designed and produced by Fitch:London.
The paper used in this report is made Printed by CTD Capita.
from virgin wood fibre sourced from fully sustainable forests.
It is a Totally Chlorine-Free TCF product.
HEADLINE EARNINGS PER SHARE HEADLINE EARNINGS BY BUSINESS DIVIDENDS US CENTS $ MILLION US CENTS PER SHARE ANGLO 128 51 125 49 47.5 114 37.5 85 AMERICAN 351 Platinum 69 Base Metals 205 Gold 231 Industrial Minerals 324 Diamonds 376 Forest Products 266 Coal 126 Ferrous Metals 1999 2000 2001 2002 1999 2000 2001 2002 and Industries NET OPERATING ASSETS BY BUSINESS SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE CAPITAL EXPENDITURE BY BUSINESS $ MILLION 2002 $ MILLION ADDING 120 Anglo American FTSE 100 110 100 VALUE TO 90 80 70 3,580 Platinum 3,848 Industrial Minerals 586 Platinum 363 Industrial Minerals 60 2,511 Gold 3,897 Forest Products 246 Gold 365 Forest Products NATURAL Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 1,658 Coal 1,696 Ferrous Metals 142 Coal 85 Ferrous Metals 3,617 Base Metals and Industries 346 Base Metals and Industries GEOGRAPHICAL ASSET MIX HEADLINE EARNINGS BY REGION % % RESOURCES 42 South Africa Mining 22 Europe 31 South Africa 21 Americas 12 South Africa Other 9 Americas 7 Rest of Africa 6 Australasia 11 Rest of Africa 4 Australasia 35 Europe 02 Adding value 22 Financial statements The Groups 2002 Annual Report, Throughout this Review, $ means 06 Chairmans statement 22 Consolidated profit and which includes the financial United States dollars.
The 2002 08 Chief executives statement loss account statements, directors report, Annual Review, the 2002 Annual 12 Acquisitions and project pipeline 23 Summary consolidated corporate governance report, Report and the Notice of AGM, 14 Safety, health and environment balance sheet remuneration report and report together with the shareholder 15 Social responsibility 23 Four year selected consolidated of the auditors which is information booklet, are available 16 Operations review financial information unqualified, is available to on the corporate website: 19 The business - an overview 24 Summary directors report shareholders free of charge www.
co. uk 20 The board 24 Independent auditors statement from the Companys Registrar.
25 Summary remuneration report Throughout this review, 2001 32 Key financial data A separate Report to Society 2002 figures have been restated for the ANGLO AMERICAN PLC IBC Shareholder information is available on request.
2000 and 1999 figures have not been restated ANNUAL REVIEW 2002 for the adoption of FRS 19.
Indexed HEADLINE EARNINGS PER SHARE HEADLINE EARNINGS BY BUSINESS DIVIDENDS US CENTS $ MILLION US CENTS PER SHARE ANGLO 128 51 125 49 47.5 114 37.5 85 AMERICAN 351 Platinum 69 Base Metals 205 Gold 231 Industrial Minerals 324 Diamonds 376 Forest Products 266 Coal 126 Ferrous Metals 1999 2000 2001 2002 1999 2000 2001 2002 and Industries NET OPERATING ASSETS BY BUSINESS SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE CAPITAL EXPENDITURE BY BUSINESS $ MILLION 2002 $ MILLION ADDING 120 Anglo American FTSE 100 110 100 VALUE TO 90 80 70 3,580 Platinum 3,848 Industrial Minerals 586 Platinum 363 Industrial Minerals 60 2,511 Gold 3,897 Forest Products 246 Gold 365 Forest Products NATURAL Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 1,658 Coal 1,696 Ferrous Metals 142 Coal 85 Ferrous Metals 3,617 Base Metals and Industries 346 Base Metals and Industries GEOGRAPHICAL ASSET MIX HEADLINE EARNINGS BY REGION % % RESOURCES 42 South Africa Mining 22 Europe 31 South Africa 21 Americas 12 South Africa Other 9 Americas 7 Rest of Africa 6 Australasia 11 Rest of Africa 4 Australasia 35 Europe 02 Adding value 22 Financial statements The Groups 2002 Annual Report, Throughout this Review, $ means 06 Chairmans statement 22 Consolidated profit and which includes the financial United States dollars.
Indexed SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION OTHER ANGLO AMERICAN PUBLICATIONS ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2002 Investing in 11:00 am on Friday, 25 April 2003, at Annual Report the future The Conference Centre, Church House, Deans Yard, Black Economic London SW1P 3NZ.
Empowerment SHAREHOLDERS DIARY 2003 4 Interim results August 2003 Interim dividend paid September 2003 Financial year end 31 December 2003 2002 Good Neighbours ANGLO Annual results announcement February 2004 AMERICAN Interim Report Our work with Annual Report March 2004 INTERIM communities Annual General Meeting April 2004 REPORT 2002 Final dividend paid April 2004 ENQUIRIES Queries relating to Anglo American plc should be addressed to the Company Secretary or the Investor and Corporate Affairs GOLD Department at the following address: DIAMONDS ANGLO 2002 Notice Good Citizenship: AMERICAN PLATINUM of AGM and Our Business COAL NOTICE OF Registered and Head Office ANNUAL Shareholder Principles BASE METALS GENERAL Anglo American plc Information MEETING INDUSTRIAL MINERALS 20 Carlton House Terrace, booklet SHAREHOLDER FERROUS METALS INFORMATION London SW1Y 5AN, England AND INDUSTRIES Telephone 44 0 20 7698 8888 FOREST PRODUCTS ANGLO AMERICAN PLC 2002 Fax 44 0 20 7698 8500 Registered number 3564138 2002 Report to Optima 1 Website www.
co. uk PLATINUM GOLD DIAMONDS COAL BASE METALS INDUSTRIAL MINERALS FOREST PRODUCTS FERROUS METALS AND Society: Towards Anglo Americans INDUSTRIES Sustainable current affairs If you have any questions about your shareholding or dividend, Anglo Platinum 69.6% held AngloGold 51.4% held accounts fide Beers 45% held has been Anglo Coal ranks as one of the Anglo Base Metals principally Anglo Industrial Minerals AIM This integrated forestry, pulp, Ferrous Metals produces carbon and please contact the Registrar at the relevant address below: Development journal is the world leader in platinum group for nearly 7% of world mine output synonymous with diamonds for more worlds largest private sector coal comprises copper, nickel, zinc, occupies a pre-eminent position paper and packaging group, stainless steel, vanadium, chrome, metals, with the highest market of gold and is among the worlds than a century.
The company leads producers and is a major exporter.
niobium and mineral sands in construction materials in the UK, operating under the Mondi name, manganese and mines iron ore. UK Registrar capitalisation of any platinum mining largest gold producers, with annual the world in diamond exploration, It has the advantage of being able operations and projects in South where wholly owned Tarmac is the has businesses across Europe and The business holds an 80% share Computershare Investor Services PLC, company.
It is the largest primary gold output currently at around mining, recovery, sorting, valuation to source supplies from three America, southern Africa, Canada market leader in aggregates, asphalt in South Africa.
Core products are of Highveld Steel, the worlds major PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, producer of platinum globally and is 6 million ounces.
The company has and marketing.
fide Beers produces geographic regions: South Africa, and Ireland.
Tarmac is eucalyptus pulp, packaging papers vanadium producer, and 100% of Bristol BS99 7NH, England also a significant supplier of palladium operations in South Africa, Tanzania, more than 40% by value of total Australia and Colombia Venezuela.
growing its core aggregates and and board, converted packaging Scaw Metals, which acquired MolyAIDS crisis in Telephone 44 0 870 702 0000 and rhodium.
All of its operations are Mali and elsewhere in Africa, as well annual global diamond production In 2002, its total coal sales were The business has significantly downstream businesses, in particular papers, office communication papers Cop, the world leader in grinding southern Africa in South Africa, where the company as in North and South America and from its mines in South Africa, and 84.5 million tonnes 2001: upgraded the quality of its portfolio concrete products, especially in and uncoated mechanical papers media, during the year.
Ferrous Fax 44 0 870 703 6101 wholly owns six mines, two smelters Australia.
AngloGold has recently through its 50:50 partnerships with 77.4 million tonnes.
During the over the past year with the continental Europe.
Frantschach Metals has a 40% stake in Samancor, and a base metals refinery as well completed two major capital projects, the governments of Botswana and year, in Australia, Anglo Coal disposal of five non-core assets new cement plant at Buxton in the 70% owned is a pulp, kraftpaper, a major integrated producer of chrome Registrars agent South Africa as a precious metals refinery, and and has another three which are Namibia.
Through its marketing arm, divested 30% of its interests in and has several projects recently UK is scheduled for completion in industrial sacks and packaging producer and manganese alloys, and owns Computershare Investor Services Limited, is in joint venture in a seventh mine.
on track for completion on time the London based Diamond Trading German Creek and 49% of the commissioned, under construction, the second half of the year.
In Brazil, with 66 plants in 30 countries.
25% of Avmin and 20% of Kumba, 70 Marshall Street, Anglo Platinum remains committed and within plan.
The company has Company DTC, fide Beers markets Theodore, Dawson and Taroom or at feasibility study stage.
The AIM has a controlling interest in Wholly owned Neusiedler produces both producers of iron ore, with a Johannesburg 2001, South Africa to the expansion programme a focused worldwide exploration over half of global supply, and has projects and acquired 51% of Moura business strategy is to become Copebrs, which mines phosphate uncoated woodfree paper, mostly further 9.9% of Avmin and 10.0% PO Box 61051, Marshalltown 2107 to produce 3.5 million ounces of programme and plays a vigorous role conducted a renowned diamond mine and a 23% interest in the a significant industry player within rock and produces phosphate sold as A4 copy paper.
In March of Kumba awaiting approval from the Telephone 27 0 11 370 7700 refined platinum per year by the end in the downstream marketing of gold.
advertising and promotion campaign Jellinbah East mine.
Early in 2002, the next few years.
A major step fertilisers and related products.
2002, Mondi lifted its stake South African competition authorities.
of 2006 in response to projected for over half a century.
The company, the Anglo American BHP Billiton in this regard was the acquisition Copebrs has recently completed a in Russian paper producer Syktyvkar Fax 27 0 11 836 0792 If you would like to receive copies market demand.
in partnership with Louis Vuitton Glencore consortium acquired the in November 2002 of Disputada, project in Gois, virtually doubling to 88%, which had increased to Boart Longyear, wholly owned, is of Anglo Americans publications Met Hennessey LVMH, is currently remaining 50% of the Cerrejn a world class integrated copper its phosphate fertiliser capacity.
97% by year end, and announced a leading manufacturer and supplier Please write to: committed to exploring ways to Zona Norte operation in Colombia.
a $233 million expansion at 50% of tools and services to the mining Investor and Corporate Affairs exploit the value of its brand.
held Slovakian paper producer SCP industry.
Anglo American plc In January 2003, Anglo Coal Ruzomberok.
1 20 Carlton House Terrace Operated by fide Beers, the Australia acquired a 70% interest Tongaat-Hulett 53% owned is a London SW1Y 5AN Companys independently in the Girrah coal deposit.
major producer of sugar, starch and United Kingdom Holding at 14 February 2003 managed associate.
Alternatively, publications can be ordered online at: http: www.
asp GROUP PROFILE OUR PRODUCT AND GEOGRAPHIC DIVERSITY UNDERPIN OUR PERFORMANCE Designed and produced by Fitch:London.
The paper used in this review is made Printed by CTD Capita.
from virgin wood fibre sourced from Photography by MartinHartley.
It is a Totally Philip Mostert, Elaine Banister Chlorine-Free TCF product.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2002 and David Jollie.
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION OTHER ANGLO AMERICAN PUBLICATIONS ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2002 Investing in 11:00 am on Friday, 25 April 2003, at Annual Report the future The Conference Centre, Church House, Deans Yard, Black Economic London SW1P 3NZ.
01 OPERATING IN 61COUNTRIES THROUGH 8 KEY BUSINESSES ANGLO AMERICAN PLC WITH ITS IT HAS SIGNIFICANT AND SUBSIDIARIES, JOINT VENTURES FOCUSED INTERESTS IN GOLD, AND ASSOCIATES IS A GLOBAL PLATINUM, DIAMONDS, COAL, LEADER IN THE MINING AND BASE METALS, FERROUS METALS NATURAL RESOURCE SECTORS.
AND INDUSTRIES, INDUSTRIAL MINERALS AND FOREST PRODUCTS, AS WELL AS FINANCIAL AND TECHNICAL STRENGTH.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2002 02 AngloGold has been very active initiatives, the company is adding Neusiedler has a strong brand for much of its production, while in expanding the market for gold, value to the yellow metal image in Europe with its high-grade retaining the flexibility to supply particularly through its drive from initial refining at the mine, papers for the steadily expanding a one-stop service to customers to reposition gold as a desirable to forming alliances with designers desktop publishing office who want a comprehensive range accessory in a modern and lifestyleand manufacturers, right through communication market.
The company of grades from a single source.
Through to marketing gold via the Internet.
is able to obtain premium prices a series of innovative marketing ANGLOS BUSINESSES ARE INVOLVED IN AN ARRAY OF VALUE ADDED PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Anglo American plc Annual Review 2002 03 The development of fuel cell benefits of fuel cells were recently Tarmac is the leading brand in and industrial projects.
Schools are technology is a logical extension highlighted by President Bush the UK for asphalt road surfaces.
making play areas fun, colourful and of Anglo Platinums strategy of in his State of the Union address Premium crushed rock aggregate safer for children Mastertint, growing the market for platinum on 30 January 2003, when he from Tarmacs UK quarries is used Tarmacs coloured asphalt, achieved group metals.
Fuel cells will called for more research into fuel to produce an unrivalled range of that aim at this forward-thinking be a major driver for long term cell technology.
branded specialist asphalts for use school in Gloucester.
The environmental in highway, residential, commercial Anglo Americans diversity extends far further than its commodity GOLD range or the number of countries in which it has operations: AngloGold has evolved over the past few years from being a its businesses are involved in an array of value added products production-driven mining company to a market-driven organisation.
and services along a pipeline which extends from the initial mining It is pursuing consolidation downstream of the smelthouse gate and refining of raw products through to the ultimate consumer.
and is today the leading exponent in expanding the market for gold.
PLATINUM Through its sponsorship of the World Gold Council, along with such At Anglo Platinums smelters and refineries in South Africa, downstream investments as Oro Africa a jewellery manufacturer platinum group metals PGM concentrates are refined to high linked to a leading Italian fabricator and GoldAvenue an Internet degrees of purity and fabricated into various forms to meet venture with leading bullion bank JP Morgan and Geneva-based customer requirements.
Over the next decade a major new wave Produits Artistiques fide Mtaux Prcieux, AngloGold has moved of demand is likely to come from the development of fuel cells.
closer to the world of bullion trading, manufacturing and retailing.
With the recent acquisition of a 17.5% stake in specialist chemicals AngloGold has also recognised the need to extend golds reach company Johnson Matthey Fuel Cells Limited, Anglo Platinum through research and development.
Autek, AngloGolds joint is now exposed to the commercialisation of the two companies venture with Mintek, is researching new industrial uses for gold jointly developed fuel cell technology.
The three largest auto in areas such as autocatalysts.
One of the most promising projects manufacturers in the USA have built working fuel cell vehicles being explored is the use of gold in filters for air conditioning units.
and plan commercialisation by the middle of the current decade.
DIAMONDS Anglo Platinums strategy for growing the PGM market has been A major development for fide Beers, an independently managed very successful in platinum jewellery.
The platinum jewellery associate, was the recent creation by fide Beers and Louis Vuitton market is a created market and much of its achievement springs Met Hennessey LVMH of a wholly independent company, from the Platinum Guild International, with Anglo Platinum fide Beers LV, to unlock the value of the fide Beers name as a remaining the major supporter.
Platinum jewellery is setting fashion global luxury brand.
The companys first retail operation opened trends internationally as it extends its reach in countries as diverse in London in late 2002.
A new outlet is planned to open in Japan as China, India and the USA.
in 2003 and a flagship store in the USA in 2004.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2002 04 Jewellery is one of the two major platinum jewellerys share of In recent years, Mondi packaging stretching from the basic industrial demand sectors for platinum.
the luxury-goods market and is businesses have been highly sack to sophisticated packaging Through its support of the Platinum making particularly strong inroads successful in moving down the value that combines high-quality printing Guild International, Anglo Platinum in the Pacific Rim region.
chain and have now reached critical and robustness.
is actively involved in increasing mass in several regional European markets, with a product range COAL INDUSTRIAL MINERALS As one of the worlds leading producers and exporters of coal, Tarmac occupies a pre-eminent position in the construction Anglo Coal is involved in many stages of the coal cycle from materials industry in the UK, where it is the market leader mining to utilisation.
Effective preparation of coal not only adds in aggregates, asphalt and concrete blocks.
In addition to selling marketing value at the source: it also improves the homogeneity raw aggregates to the market, Tarmac converts a substantial portion of coal supplied, reduces transport costs, improves utilisation of its aggregates output into downstream, value added products efficiency, produces less ash for disposal at the power plants such as ready-mixed concrete, asphalt and concrete blocks and and often reduces emissions of oxides and sulphur.
For example, Tarmac produces asphalt made from premium aggregates which is used for its anti-skid and noise-reduction In terms of the Kyoto Protocol, Anglo Coal, along with other qualities on road surfaces such as roundabouts and motorways.
industry participants, is actively involved in formulating mechanisms to promote the development and use of clean coal FOREST PRODUCTS technology, emissions trading and carbon sequestration the As a leading European producer of office paper, Mondi supplies removal and storage of atmospheric carbon.
These initiatives people with one of the most important means of communication.
are designed to secure the future of the coal industry, a key One key product is Neusiedlers Color Copy paper range, a speciality supplier of world energy, in a responsible and sustainable manner.
paper for laser printing perfection.
The colour photocopies and colour laser prints produced are sharp, brilliant prints, true to the BASE METALS original even at the highest resolution.
Anglo Base Metals Namakwa Sands mineral sands operation in South Africa has its own refining and smelting facilities to convert Mondi also produces innovative packaging solutions for the specific mineral sands into more valuable downstream products, almost needs of the products and its customers.
The development of high all of which are exported.
The principal products are zircon, the quality print and excellent customer support have led to Mondi main application of which is in the ceramics industry: rutile, used going beyond merely producing packaging materials and adding real in welding electrodes as well as in titanium dioxide pigment and value for its customers.
titanium metal production: pig iron for the foundry industry: and titanium slag, which is used as a feedstock for the production of titanium oxide pigment.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2002 05 Anglo Industrial Minerals products range of dense and lightweight fide Beers involvement in the develop the fide Beers name as are an important part of the UK aggregate and aircrete blocks diamond pipeline now extends from a luxury brand.
fide Beers LVs first construction industry.
As UK leader, to meet the demands of todays mining through to the end consumer.
store opened its doors in December Tarmac Topblock is the countrys building industry.
fide Beers and LVMH recently 2002, in Londons West End.
only manufacturer to offer the full formed fide Beers LV, an independent company, as part of an effort to Frantschachs stand-up pouches are made from four different materials aluminium, nylon, polyester and cast propylene which give a unique shape and superb surface for printing.
This packaging solution is extremely durable, convenient and userfriendly.
It guarantees an odour and gas barrier, prolongs product life and results in high visibility on the shelf.
The pouches have a variety of structural options recloseable openings, spouts, laser perforations and a wide choice of size and shape.
FERROUS METALS In the Ferrous Metals sector, Scaw Metals is in the businesses of rolled steel, foundries and fabrication, as well as grinding media, in which it is now the world leader.
The company is a leading manufacturer of single piece, thin walled locomotive and passenger coach frames and freight car components.
TECHNICAL DIVISION Anglo Americans Technical Division is an example of the Group being at the forefront of technology and technological innovation.
Over the years much of this expertise has been developed within the Group itself and, in contrast to its peers, Anglo has chosen to retain this focused, expert capability.
Notable achievements have included the in-house-refined Spectrem prospecting system, which used airborne electro-magnetic techniques in its search for minerals in Canada.
The Anglo American Research Laboratories continue to develop new metallurgical techniques to improve existing, and create new, extraction processes, which will support environmentally sustainable practices.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2002 06 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Having joined the board in July 2002, I succeeded Julian Ogilvie Thompson as chairman at the beginning of December.
The greater part of the 2002 reporting year was thus under the aegis of my predecessor.
In the period of handover, I have found Anglo American to be an organisation of strong values and principles, where clear written statements find expression in peoples behaviour.
Changes over recent years have significantly improved analysis and controls, introducing more uniform systems across all businesses in, for example, the allocation of capital.
A key area of focus has also been safety, health and environment, with much-needed ongoing improvement in industrial safety.
We continue to look at the internal synergies which can be found through more common services across our businesses.
People across the Group have contributed positively to these changes, demonstrating flexibility and creativity.
We have a diverse portfolio, with demonstrated strength which comes from that diversity and resulting exposure to businesses with different cycles.
We are growing our businesses around the world, both organically as well as through significant acquisitions.
We have continued to build on our strong position in South Africa, through expansion of production, as in platinum, and through venturing into significant new areas such as iron ore. MARK MOODY-STUART RESULTS CHAIRMAN Headline earnings were $78 million higher than in 2001, as lower commodity prices, inflation and higher costs were exceeded by favourable exchange, volume, fide Beers earnings and structural and other variances.
Headline earnings per share were 10% above the prior year.
The total dividend was increased by 4% to 51 US cents per share.
OUTLOOK We face a year of considerable uncertainty, with the major cloud being potential conflict in Iraq.
All our products are ultimately affected by industrial growth and consumer demand, but the timing and nature of demand fluctuation vary, again a reflection of the broad base of our business.
While base metals and industrial minerals are immediately linked to the industrial cycle, in platinum and gold there is a need to develop more capacity to fill a demand gap, with consequent price implications.
Demand and price movements in our different businesses will thus respond in different ways to changes in GDP growth.
In addition, of particular importance is the South African rands strength at the beginning of 2003 we will be very challenged to sustain our record 2002 performance in the year ahead if the current exchange rate level is maintained.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2002 07 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT MAJOR CHALLENGES FACING OUR BUSINESS DIRECTORATE AND STAFF Discussions at the UN World Summit on Sustainable Development It is fitting that I should pay tribute to Julian Ogilvie Thompson, showed that there is an increasing acknowledgement of the essential my predecessor, who retired as chairman after serving more than contribution of business, including mining and natural resource based a quarter of his 46-year career in Anglo American in that capacity.
This support is, however, clearly subject The lasting memorial to that period of Julians leadership is the to ensuring that economic activity respects the environment and transformation of Anglo American into a global mining and natural benefits society at large rather than just a few.
There was also an resources company, with a growing global business, strong in its acknowledgement that it was necessary for governments and civil diversity and in its South African heritage.
All of us in the Group society organisations of various kinds, as well as business, to work will miss Julians incisive comments and encyclopaedic knowledge together if the challenges are to be addressed.
The Global Mining we hope that he will be around and on call if required for many Initiative GMI which culminated in a multi-stakeholder conference years to come.
in Toronto in May, and in which Anglo American played a significant role, was one such collective effort to develop the standards to As you can see from pages 20 to 21, we have a board of diverse which responsible business must adhere.
The recommendations background, experience and skills.
A notable exception is the of the GMI are now being carried forward through the International absence of a woman on the board and we shall be moving to Council on Mining and Metals.
address this issue in the coming year.
The board committees, which allow us to draw effectively on the experience of our non-executive Trust is essential in such partnerships and, for this reason, we are directors, were headed for the reporting period by: Rob Margetts, the continuing to develop open and comprehensive reporting, not just Remuneration and Audit committees: Chris Fay, the Safety, Health on financial matters but also on environmental performance and and Environment SHE Committee: and Julian Ogilvie Thompson social impacts.
We intend to build on the work of the Global and myself, the Nomination Committee.
Following from, and in line Reporting Initiative and our first Sustainable Development annual with, the recommendations of the Higgs Report, I have proposed report, Report to Society, which will be released shortly, is a step that the duties should be spread so that Rob Margetts heads the in this direction.
There is no doubt that the accounting scandals Remuneration Committee: David Challen, the Audit Committee: around the world have damaged trust in business in general.
Chris Fay, the SHE Committee: and Fred Phaswana, the Nomination Engaging, listening and building partnerships must become a part Committee.
In addition, as announced on 28 February, it is of the way corporations naturally operate.
This approach needs proposed that Rob Margetts will become senior independent nonto be at all levels of our organisation, and we are fortunate for the executive director with effect from the AGM.
I should like to thank positive response of our people all around the world.
Sir David Scholey for fulfilling this role since December 1999.
Sir David has also been appointed to the SHE Committee and Anglo American in southern Africa has in several areas been Professor Van Miert to the Nomination Committee, both with a pioneer in starting to address such issues, working with others effect from 25 April 2003. to tackle issues in education, in the development of small and medium size enterprises, and in relation to the challenge of Finally, on behalf of the board, I should like to thank Tony Trahar, HIV AIDS.
Anglo has taken a lead in making anti-retroviral therapy the chief executive, the executive directors and our staff for their available to HIV positive employees progressing to AIDS.
We efforts and contribution during a period of major external challenges are also committed to seeking to extend treatment to dependants as well as continuing change and development in the Company.
and people in communities surrounding our operations, but this too will need partnership it can only succeed if all the affected parties accept their respective roles.
Based on this history of working in partnership to address issues, we can face the great challenges of achieving employment equity, Sir Mark Moody-Stuart KCMG and of working in South Africa to achieve the targets of economic Chairman empowerment of previously disadvantaged groups, with some confidence.
These are things which must be achieved if business is to be able to work in a stable society.
From the chief executives statement you can see how progress is being made towards the targets in the different businesses, and most importantly how trust is being built all around trust of others in our commitment to deliver the targets and, equally, trust that a stable mining regime is being built in South Africa to allow the necessary major investments to be made.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2002 08 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT TONY TRAHAR CHIEF EXECUTIVE AYEAR OF PROGRESS FOR ANGLO AMERICAN Anglo American plc Annual Review 2002 09 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT FINANCIAL RESULTS a continuing focus on efficiencies and cost savings: It gives me great pleasure to report that Anglo American achieved record headline earnings in 2002 of 125 US cents per share, identification of opportunities in high growth markets such up 10% on the 114 US cents per share achieved in 2001.
Both as China and India: figures are stated on a full provision basis for deferred tax following the adoption of FRS 19 with effect from 1 January 2002.
This seeking to develop the value chain in our businesses and to performance was achieved despite difficult economic conditions and improve their focus on marketing and customer relationships.
slowing international growth and reflected significantly increased Examples of this approach are already evident in our forest contributions from gold, diamonds, base metals, forest products, products, industrial minerals, gold, platinum and ferrous metals industrial minerals and ferrous metals, which more than offset businesses: lower earnings contributions from platinum and coal.
ensuring that we have an optimally balanced portfolio of world In the light of the improved earnings, the board has decided to class assets: increase the final dividend by 2 US cents per share, resulting in a total dividend distribution for the year of 51 US cents per share, placing greater emphasis on the development of our human up 4% from 2001 and covered 2.5 times by headline earnings.
This involves culture change, improved employee communication, the encouragement of innovation and Importantly, Group EBITDA earnings before interest, tax, structural performance and talent management: and depreciation and amortisation increased to $4.8 billion and the annualised EBITDA interest cover increased to 20 times, reflecting seeking to anticipate and address societys expectations the strong cash flow generation across the Group and the of multinational companies in the resource sector in areas conservative gearing of 23.1% net debt to total capital at year end.
like environmental regulation, corporate responsibility and sustainable development.
Currencies, in particular the wide fluctuations in the South African rand, had a marked impact on the results.
The dollar averaged SOUTH AFRICAN BLACK ECONOMIC EMPOWERMENT R10.48 during the year compared with R8.62 in 2001 but the year By far the most significant development during the year was the end balance sheet was affected by the rapid strengthening in the debate over the draft legislation in South Africa regarding black South African currency in the last months of the year, to a closing economic empowerment in the mining sector.
A leaked draft of the rate of R8.58 to the dollar.
This strength in the currency increased Mining Charter in July 2002 undermined investor confidence in shareholders equity on conversion by $2.5 billion, thereby lowering South Africa and caused great damage to the share price of Anglo return on capital employed and shareholders equity in comparison American.
Since then, we, and the industry, have been working with 2001. actively with the South African Department of Mineral and Energy Affairs to create a framework that will result in a mining industry The successful placement of the $1.1 billion convertible bonds in South Africa that will benefit all.
during the year enhanced the Groups balance sheet structure and we were pleased to receive long term credit ratings of A3 from There has been significant progress on a number of fronts: Moodys and Afrom Standard & Poors.
in October, the South African State President signed the Mineral STRATEGY and Petroleum Resources Development Act which transfers Over the past four years, Anglo American has become a focused mineral rights into the states hands with renewable 30 year natural resources business.
In that period we have disposed of rights of tenure by mining companies: some $4.5 billion of non-core assets and invested $10 billion in strengthening our core businesses through acquisitions.
The Group later that month the Mining Charter was published which sets out continues to achieve better geographical balance in its asset a range of black economic empowerment targets, including 15% portfolio with the split of attributable net operating assets in 2002 equity or production ownership in five years and 26% in ten as follows: 35% Europe: 31% South Africa: 21% the Americas: years, an outcome which I believe can be sensibly implemented 7% Rest of Africa and 6% Australasia.
within the specified timeframe and towards which significant progress has already been made by Anglo American: To achieve sustained growth, we have set a number of initiatives in motion: the scorecard was published in February 2003, setting out a checklist for measuring empowerment levels.
I believe these redefining the relative roles and responsibilities of the corporate measures provide for a workable solution that will result in centre and the business units, so as to give greater scope significant black economic empowerment for value: and to operational management, and to facilitate the sharing of best practice and procurement and to improve knowledge lastly, at the time of this reviews publication, the Money Bill, management across the Group: which will introduce a royalty regime in South Africa, is still to be published.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2002 10 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT I am hopeful that we can move ahead within a clear, well defined Forest Products legal framework.
The certainty that this would provide will give Our expansion into corrugated packaging in Europe was strengthened our shareholders and the market in general a platform to rebuild with Mondi Europe acquiring La Rochettes UK Hypac business, investor confidence in our Group going forward.
The settlement the Durtal and Savoie box plants.
Mondi Europe, which already held reached over its expansion projects between Anglo Platinum and 19.4% in Syktyvkar, acquired a further 78% in this Russian paper the Department of Mineral and Energy Affairs, as well as the recent mill, for $252 million.
The transaction strengthens Mondis position empowerment initiatives in AngloGold and our coal business, as a leading European manufacturer of A4 office paper.
confirm that the imperatives of industry security, stability and growth, and of black economic empowerment, can be reconciled.
Ferrous Metals and Industries The $105 million acquisition of Moly-Cop by Scaw Metals has GROWING OUR BUSINESS allowed Scaw Metals to expand into the global grinding media The past year has again been an active one, with a total of markets, in particular the growing mining markets of Chile and Peru.
$3.7 billion of acquisitions across a broad spectrum of commodities and geography.
Industrial Minerals Industrial Minerals made good progress, with 11 acquisitions for Base Metals a total gross consideration of $190 million.
These included two By far the largest transaction was the acquisition of Disputada, significant transactions the purchase of the Mavike aggregates a large, low cost copper producer in Chile, for a net consideration and concrete business on the Mediterranean coast, virtually of $1.3 billion.
The transaction was completed in November 2002, doubling our business in Spain, and of Durox, which gives Tarmac following lengthy due diligence and negotiations involving the a third of the UK aircrete block market and consolidates its position vendor, ExxonMobil, and the Chilean government.
The acquisition as market leader in concrete blocks.
The other smaller acquisitions will consolidate our Base Metals copper unit into a leading global, represent significant progress, particularly in achieving market low cost producer of copper.
While copper prices have staged a leadership of the Polish concrete pavers business, but also building modest recovery, we see further upside in the medium term for the on our market positions in France and the UK.
metal with average cash costs around 50 US cents lb, we will be well placed to take advantage of any improvement in prices.
Platinum Our stake in Anglo Platinum increased during the year from Coal 58.4% to 67.6%, for a total consideration of $847 million: and Our global position in coal was further enhanced with the acquisition by 14 February 2003 our holding had increased further to 69.6%.
by the Anglo American BHP Billiton Glencore consortium of We will continue our strategy of increasing our holding in Anglo Intercors 50% stake in Cerrejn Zona Norte CZN in Colombia.
Platinum from time to time, when we see value.
CZN is Colombias largest producer and exporter of steam coal and this makes the consortium the largest producer of coal in the Gold country.
We also announced joint venture plans with Mitsui for We acquired an additional 4.8% stake in Gold Fields Limited our wholly owned subsidiary Anglo Coal Australia.
Anglo Coal for $252 million, bringing our total holding to 20.9%.
This provides acquired a 51% interest in the Moura mine from Mitsui Coal, and Anglo American with a valuable strategic holding in Gold Fields.
divested to Mitsui Coal a 49% interest in the Theodore, Dawson and Taroom projects and a 30% interest in the German Creek mine.
In July 2002, AngloGold acquired an additional 46.25% in Cerro These transactions allow the development of Anglo Coal Australias Vanguardia SA, a gold and silver mining operation in Argentina, export metallurgical and thermal coal business in Queensland.
from Perez Companc International SA for a gross consideration of $105 million, thereby increasing its interest in Cerro Vanguardia Iron Ore to 92.5%.
Strategic shareholdings in Kumba and Avmin have been acquired for a total commitment of some $600 million.
Anglo American acquired SAFETY AND HEALTH a 20.1% shareholding in Kumba and has a right to acquire a further Since becoming chief executive I have regarded improving the Groups 10.0%, subject to approval from the Competition Tribunal of South safety performance as our highest priority.
In 2001, there was a Africa, thereby increasing its shareholding to 30.1%.
In addition, welcome decline in our lost time injury frequency rate a trend which Anglo American acquired 25% of Avmin and has a right, subject to accelerated in 2002.
Even more significantly, we achieved a 39% approval from the Competition Tribunal, to acquire a further 9.9%, drop in our fatal injury frequency rate.
I am confident that good increasing its shareholding to 34.9%.
These transactions were progress is being made and that the framework has been put in place recommended unconditionally by the Competition Commission in to achieve further ongoing improvements in our performance.
South Africa, but are still subject to Competition Tribunal approval.
These acquisitions further Anglo Americans strategic objective of securing a meaningful interest in the iron ore sector.
In December, Anglo American signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the South African government, setting out an agreed approach to the exploitation of the iron ore deposits in the Northern Cape.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2002 11 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Within southern Africa the greatest social and humanitarian WE ALSO ADD challenge is posed by the HIV AIDS epidemic.
Anglo American has long been a leader in devising prevention, education and VALUE THROUGH treatment programmes with extensive links to community initiatives.
Nonetheless, after a thorough review in 2002, we concluded that ACQUISITIONS AND although these programmes should help to contain the rate of infection, which we estimate to be some 23% in our South African OURWELL-BALANCED operations, we needed to augment our existing programmes by providing access to anti-retroviral therapy ART for our employees.
PROJECT PORTFOLIO This provides them with an incentive to be tested and to assess their HIV status.
We anticipate that this initiative will keep many of our employees healthy for longer enabling them to continue to support their families.
We are seeking to forge partnerships with the donor community, the public sector and community groups to extend access to ART to dependants and to the communities surrounding our operations.
The support being received from several pharmaceutical groups is welcomed and has already resulted in significant price reductions for ART drugs.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY During 2002 we launched our new policy statement: Good Citizenship: Our Business Principles now available at www.
This establishes a clear framework for how Anglo American companies will conduct their business.
It provides our employees with values and standards against which they must gauge their conduct and sets out for our external stakeholders the standards to which we are prepared to be held to account.
It lies at the core of how Anglo American relates to the wider society of which we are a part.
OUTLOOK The outlook for our key businesses remains mixed in the face of current global economic and political uncertainties.
Precious metals are performing strongly despite mounting concerns over global economic growth.
Current geopolitical tensions have supported demand for gold, while supply concerns have contributed to price rises in platinum and nickel.
The continued strong performance by the Chinese economy should also benefit copper, platinum group metals and diamonds.
All of this, however, needs to be balanced against the sluggish growth forecasts for the USA, Japan and much of the European Union, and the current uncertainties that prevail in terms of possible military action in the Middle East.
Our results are highly sensitive to volatility in commodity prices and exchange rates.
The rand exchange rate is of particular importance and maintenance of the current rate throughout 2003 would make it very challenging to sustain the record 2002 performance.
Nevertheless, the balanced mix of our businesses and ongoing expansion programme, together with the continuing and intense focus on costs and efficiencies, will help to underpin the Groups performance.
A J Trahar Chief Executive Anglo American plc Annual Review 2002 12 WE AREADDING VALUE THROUGH ACQUISITIONS 1 OF $3.7 BILLION IN 2002 COAL: CZN COLOMBIA $105M FERROUS METALS: MOLY-COP PERU $1.3BN BASE METALS: DISPUTADA AND FROM INTERNAL CHILE GROWTH WITH A DIVERSE $5.8 BILLION PROJECT PORTFOLIO 2 PROJECT PIPELINE 2002 2003 PLATINUM RUSTENBURG MODIKWA ACP PROJECT POLOKWANE SMELTER UG2 PHASE 1 $311M $250M $190M $203M GOLD CRIPPLE CREEK & VICTOR MOAB KHOTSONG $194M $419M DIAMONDS CTP KIMBERLEY FINSCH $44M $107M COAL KRIEL SOUTH SACE EXPANSION $70M $50M BASE METALSCOLLAHUASI SKORPIONHBMS $286M $454M $276M COPPER ZINC ZINC COPPER INDUSTRIAL MINERALS GOIS BUXTON CEMENT $147M $173M FOREST PRODUCTS FRANTSCHACH MEREBANK A4 RUZOMBEROK PM 18 MEREBANK PM2 $20M $12M $104M $26M 1 Amounts previously announced may differ from net cash consideration paid of $3.7 billion during 2002 due to final settlement upon completion.
Some amounts represent gross consideration.
Date refers to commencement of production.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2002 13 $362M FOREST PRODUCTS: $89M SYKTYVKAR INDUSTRIAL RUSSIA MINERALS: LA ROCHETTE DUROX FRANCE OTHERS UK $101M INDUSTRIAL MINERALS: MAVIKE SPAIN OTHERS $847M PLATINUM: ANGLO PLATINUM SOUTH AFRICA $252M $365M GOLD: FERROUS METALS: GOLD FIELDS COAL: KUMBA AND AVMIN SOUTH AFRICA MOURA SOUTH AFRICA JELLINBAH EAST AUSTRALIA 2004 2005-6 RUSTENBURG RPM TAILINGS TREATMENT TWICKENHAM STYLDRIFT MINE UG PHASE 2 $186M $343M $344M $444M MPONENG TAUTONA $152M $48M !GARIEP CONVERSION $27M CERREJN EXPANSION CAPCOAL $50M $107M BLACK MOUNTAIN $110M ZINC LEAD RUZOMBEROK PULP $129M Anglo American plc Annual Review 2002 14 SAFETY, HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT LEADING THE WAY IN THE PROVISION OF ANTIRETROVIRAL TREATMENT FOR HIV AIDS EMPLOYEES Our performance in these vital aspects of we remain a long way from our ultimate goal The size and scope of our ART initiative good corporate citizenship and sustainable of reducing fatalities and injuries to zero.
is unique and Anglo American has been development continues to show encouraging During 2002, 25 employees and 22 widely acclaimed for its business leadership improvement.
contractors lost their lives at our managed role in broadening access to AIDS treatment.
Falls of ground, moving machinery Extension of our HIV AIDS prevention In August 2002, Anglo American and transport-related accidents were the main and treatment interventions beyond the announced that it would provide causes and these areas remain the focus of workplace into the communities associated anti-retroviral treatment ART to targeted safety programmes.
The management with our operations is vital to the employees with HIV AIDS.
and employee effort is reflected in the 42% sustainability of the initiative.
Our strategy reduction in the LTIFR, and we are confident for community based initiatives relies heavily For 2002, our lost time injury frequency that the improvement will be maintained.
on establishing partnerships, particularly with rate LTIFR showed a further substantial The number of exemplary performers in the the public sector, but also with trade unions, reduction from 1.50 in 2001 to 0.87.
Group continues to rise, with Codemin, NGOs and international donor agencies.
The fatal injury frequency rate also fell Skorpion, Namakwa Sands, Anglo Platinums by 39%.
Smelter and Precious Metals Refinery, Tarmac ENVIRONMENT Western, Mondis Springs mill, Transalloys Significant progress in reporting data The winner of the CEOs Group Safety and Hudson Bay Mining and Smeltings On the environmental front, we have made Award was the Bindura Nickel Corporation metallurgy operations, along with many significant progress in the way in which we in Zimbabwe where a five-year shaftsmaller operations, recording an LTIFR of relate our environmental data on emissions sinking project was completed without less than 0.2. and energy consumption to specific a lost time injury.
This will improve the value and HEALTH relevance of our specific target-setting and Anglo American made a substantial Best practice guidelines developed will also enable us to contribute more contribution both financially and by During the year, a team of specialists meaningfully to global issues of product way of active participation in many of carried out a worldwide review of stewardship and life-cycle analysis.
the debates to the successful World occupational health management systems Summit on Sustainable Development, and of our own Group practices.
This has GLOBAL MINING INITIATIVE which was held in Johannesburg in culminated in the development of best The GMI Conference, Resourcing the Future, August September 2002. practice guidelines for our Group, which will was a major multi-stakeholder event, with allow greater standardisation in the participation by the CEOs of 20 companies, The Global Mining Initiative GMI reached management of occupational health issues senior figures from 25 national governments its conclusion with an international today and so prevent or minimise future and a wide range of civil society, interconference, Resourcing the Future, in incidents of occupational disease.
governmental and international finance Toronto in May 2002.
Three days of lively and collaborative venture has led subsequently HIV AIDS constructive debate led to a commitment to the launch of the International Council Providing access to treatment by industry leaders in the form of the on Mining and Metals ICMM.
The severity of the HIV AIDS epidemic Toronto Declaration.
Anglo American will in sub-Saharan Africa is a significant threat now work with other leading companies SAFETY to economic growth and development.
It is an in the ICMM to bring these words to life.
Substantial improvement issue of global concern that requires concerted Our safety improvement programmes are intervention on the broadest possible scale.
JOHANNESBURG SUMMIT beginning to yield substantial results, but Providing access to treatment in developing In support of our goals, the globally agreed countries has become a humanitarian as outcome of the World Summit on Sustainable well as an economic and social imperative.
Development, the Plan of Implementation, Against this background, Anglo American made explicit reference to the important Lost time injury and fatal injury frequency rates announced in August 2002 that it would contribution that mining, minerals and per 200,000 hours worked encourage Group companies to extend their metals make to the economic and social existing HIV AIDS wellness programmes development of many countries.
Anglo 2.5 0.10 by making ART available at company expense American is well placed to play a major role.
2.0 0.08 to HIV positive employees progressing to AIDS.
We strongly believe that providing For a fuller discussion of these and 1.5 0.06 access to treatment is the single short term other issues, please refer to the Anglo 1.0 0.04 initiative that will change the way the AIDS American Report to Society 2002 epidemic unfolds and provides hope for the which will be available on our website: 0.5 0.02 future.
Implementation at company healthcare www.
co. uk or on request 0.0 0.00 2000 2001 2002 facilities is proceeding very well and initial by using the reply paid postcard enclosed signs suggest an encouraging uptake from with this Review.
Lost time injury Fatal injury frequency rate frequency rate HIV positive employees.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2002 15 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY THE GROUP COMMITTED $28.8 MILLION DURING THE YEAR TO COMMUNITY AND CHARITABLE CAUSES During 2002, Good Citizenship: At Mondi Forests in KwaZulu-Natal, London primary school to improve literacy Our Business Principles was rolled out South Africa, a team of social development and numeracy standards.
Anglo American across the Groups managed operations.
facilitators is working to address community believes that volunteering not only creates It sets out the standards to which employees, concerns and to examine ways in which greater understanding of local communities contractors and significant suppliers are under-utilised business resources can be but is also of benefit to employees personal expected to comply on issues such as human used to generate income creation schemes and team development.
rights, ethics and stakeholder engagement.
Such opportunities include In 2003, these commitments will be beekeeping, improved access to grazing, BLACK ECONOMIC EMPOWERMENT reinforced through training and strengthened and use of surplus wood for firewood and $1.8 billion in transactions management systems.
A charcoal making enterprise, being Anglo American recognises the imperative developed with the UK Department for of giving historically disadvantaged South SOCIAL ASSESSMENT International Development, has already Africans a route to greater participation in Rapid assessment tool developed created 125 jobs.
To this end, the Group has: When coupled with good governance, the responsible exploitation of natural resources CORPORATE SOCIAL INVESTMENT been one of the most active generators is an effective route to development and Community projects of black empowerment transactions the alleviation of poverty.
One of the most In 2002, Anglo American and its amounting to some $1.8 billion: important challenges for Anglo Americans subsidiaries committed $28.8 million operations is to maximise their contribution 2001: $20.2 million in voluntary support promoted procurement from black to the sustainable development of the for community investment and charitable businesses and black business development.
communities in which they work.
causes, amounting to 0.9% of pre-tax Over the years this has amounted to over profit.
Among the causes supported were: $800 million, including approximately The development of a significant new Anglo $238 million in 2002: American project is routinely preceded by an a Sightsavers International project to assessment of its environmental and social protect almost one million people in Mali catalysed the formation of black impacts.
In 2002, a new tool was developed from river blindness: small enterprises through the business to enable mature operations, which may operations and the small business not have already carried out a social impact community HIV projects across southern development unit known as Zimele.
assessment, to gauge their social and Africa to promote awareness, prevention Zimele has invested in 29 companies, economic interactions with their local and to support the care of those who supporting around 1,000 jobs: and communities.
This rapid assessment tool have become ill and their dependants: is designed to help managers maximise supported 557 university scholarships positive and minimise negative impacts, assistance through the Chairmans Fund for and bursaries in 2002. including those arising from eventual mine Bophelo School in Johannesburg in its work closure.
During 2002, three pilot projects of improving the life chances of poor and GLOBAL CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP were undertaken in Australia, Brazil and acutely disadvantaged children: Greater transparency and accountability South Africa.
Once these results have been In 2002, the Group was party to a number analysed, we would hope to roll out the support by Copebrs in Brazil for a of international moves to promote good methodology more widely within the Group.
womens healthcare centre in Catalo: and governance, including the World Economic Forums Statement on Global Corporate COMMUNITIES a community foundation established by Citizenship.
Communities constitute one of the Groups Loma fide Nquel in Venezuela which most important stakeholder groups.
Anglo supports rural development, health and It has also been involved in the development American has underlined this commitment education projects.
of the UK governments proposal for a through the development of Community mechanism to promote greater transparency Engagement Guidelines.
An increasing number ENGAGE of the tax and royalty payments made of Anglo American operations are also Building bridges with local communities to governments by extractive companies, working through community liaison panels or Anglo American is a sponsor of ENGAGE, and more active and open debate about the forums to ensure a structured engagement.
a global campaign to encourage international uses to which they are put.
If a workable By the end of March 2003, the majority of business to build bridges with local and widely supported system can be the Groups significant operations will have communities.
It aims to deliver one million devised, it will be a significant advance in place three year Community Engagement extra days a year of employee volunteering for accountability and integrity.
These set out a three year rolling in the community.
The Group has many strategy for engaging with the local sites where the volunteering ethos is community: identifying and managing strong, including Namakwa Sands and the stakeholder concerns: complaints procedures: New Denmark colliery in South Africa, resourcing community projects: and setting Codemin in Brazil and the London head objectives for the future.
office, which is working with an inner Anglo American plc Annual Review 2002 16 OPERATIONS REVIEW PLATINUM GOLD DIAMONDS CONTRIBUTION TO CONTRIBUTION TO CONTRIBUTION TO HEADLINE EARNINGS HEADLINE EARNINGS HEADLINE EARNINGS % % % 20 12 18 $ million 2002 2001 $ million 2002 2001 $ million 2002 2001 Operating profit 802 1,345 Operating profit 463 443 Operating profit 541 373 Contribution to Contribution to Contribution to headline earnings 351 478 headline earnings 205 162 headline earnings 324 234 EBITDA 926 1,442 EBITDA 747 699 EBITDA 594 428 Platinums contribution to headline earnings In 2002, AngloGolds contribution to fide Beers contribution to headline earnings was $351 million, $127 million lower headline earnings was $205 million, 27% amounted to $324 million.
Sales of rough than in 2001, mainly owing to lower prices higher than in 2001, despite gold production diamonds by the marketing arm of fide Beers, realised for palladium and rhodium.
South having declined by some 15% to 5.94 The Diamond Trading Company DTC, African rand based costs were impacted million ounces 2001: 6.98 million ounces were 15.7% higher, reaching $5.15 billion.
positively by a weaker exchange rate during as a result of the sale of AngloGolds assets Diamond stocks were reduced by nearly 2002, but this was offset by losses on in the Free State of South Africa.
Total cash $1 billion the main contributor to the the translation of dollar assets resulting costs decreased from $178 oz $170 oz exceptionally strong operating cash flow from the stronger rand at the end of 2002 excluding Free State to $161 oz as a result figure of $1.6 billion.
As a consequence, compared with gains in 2001. of the rands weakening against the dollar fide Beers was able to reduce its Senior Debt and the establishment of a robust suite of by $1,065 million to $2,485 million.
The average realised dollar price for platinum high margin and low cost assets.
of $544 oz was $18 oz higher than the Following a promising first half of the year, 2001 figure, while palladium and rhodium In July 2002, AngloGold announced the second six months saw an eroding prices achieved were significantly lower at the acquisition of additional production of consumer confidence, particularly in the $329 oz 2001: $582 oz and $831 oz of 120,000 ounces per annum, doubling USA, owing to fears of deflation, rising 2001: $1,610 oz respectively.
its stake to 92.5% in the Cerro Vanguardia unemployment, sharply declining stock gold silver mine in Argentina.
AngloGold markets and the threat of war in the Middle Recent market demand reviews continue has recently completed two major capital East.
Nevertheless, worldwide retail to confirm that there is a significant growth projects, and has another three which diamond jewellery sales held up reasonably opportunity and Anglo Platinum remains are on track for completion on time, and well and are estimated to have been 3% committed to the expansion programme within plan.
Together, they will yield ahead for the year.
to produce 3.5 million ounces of refined some 15 million additional ounces of gold platinum per year by the end of 2006. production over their lives.
In 2002, fide Beers and its principal partners, Refined platinum production across the Debswana and Namdeb, produced 40.2 group increased by 141,900 ounces to Dollar weakness, international political million carats 2001: 38.7 million carats.
tension, equity market declines and a reduction of producer hedging have all In South Africa, the Combined Treatment The company has made significant progress been positive for gold in 2002.
Against this Plant in Kimberley will come fully on stream in including empowerment groupings in its background, a solid platform for the gold this year.
expansion plans and is well on the way to market is expected in the year ahead.
meeting the requisite ownership percentages However, while there has been a decline in fide Beers has now received clearance from as envisaged by South Africas Mineral and physical demand, scrap sales and recycling the European Commission on its Supplier Petroleum Resources Development Act.
have increased sharply in response to higher of Choice strategy and is proceeding with The strong demand and thin liquidity in the gold prices.
With further gold price volatility its implementation.
platinum market are expected to remain expected in 2003, a resurgence of physical in 2003, resulting in continuing firm prices.
demand should not be expected Continuing geopolitical concerns and greater immediately.
economic uncertainty are likely to make 2003 a challenging year.
The DTCs sales prospects will depend on the timing and scale of global economic growth, a recovery in consumer confidence and the level of stocks that the trade pipeline will be comfortable to hold.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2002 17 OPERATIONS REVIEW COAL BASE METALS INDUSTRIAL MINERALS CONTRIBUTION TO CONTRIBUTION TO CONTRIBUTION TO HEADLINE EARNINGS HEADLINE EARNINGS HEADLINE EARNINGS % % % 15 4 13 $ million 2002 2001 $ million 2002 2001 $ million 2002 2001 Operating profit 427 493 Operating profit 82 510 Operating profit 277 201 Contribution to Contribution to Contribution to headline earnings 266 387 headline earnings 69 18 headline earnings 231 160 EBITDA 571 627 EBITDA 330 183 EBITDA 468 379 In 2002, Anglo Coals headline earnings Headline earnings for Base Metals were Headline earnings for Industrial Minerals rose were $266 million, a 31% decrease on $69 million, compared with an $18 million to $231 million in 2002.
Export metallurgical coal prices were loss in 2001.
Despite base metals demand was the principal contributor to this increase, marginally higher, but export thermal coal remaining weak, with the partial exception of achieving an operating profit of $253 million, prices were significantly lower, resulting nickel, all three main commodity businesses an improvement of 33% on the prior years in a net negative impact of $56 million.
This was principally due to Headline earnings were adversely affected by Exceptional charges were reduced significantly improved margins in the UK, despite mixed $45million owing to the rapid strengthening owing to reduced impairments.
market conditions, and a continued focus on of the rand at year end, in contrast to cost reduction, although acquisitions and the a gain of $39 million in 2001 on the back In 2002, Anglo American acquired the impact of exchange rate movements were of a weakening rand.
Operating profit Chilean world class integrated copper also positive factors during the year.
In of $427 million was 13% below 2001. producer, Disputada, from ExxonMobil addition, an improved profit from Copebrs, for a net consideration of $1.3 billion.
the Brazilian phosphate producer, and the South African operating profit reduced Anglo American also completed an orderly sale of the loss-making UK based Cleveland by $23 million to $244 million.
Average exit from Zambia Copper Investments and Potash contributed to the increase.
thermal coal export prices were 16% Konkola Copper Mines KCM, and disposed weaker.
Higher inflation was offset by of its interests in the Salobo copper gold In the UK, the major aggregates, asphalt, an 11% increase in export volumes, project, Tati Nickel, BCL and the Kolwezi ready-mixed concrete and concrete products a net weaker average rand for the year copper project.
businesses all reported improved results.
and $31 million from improved operating The benefits of the cost reduction initiatives efficiencies and cost savings.
Attributable production of copper amounted introduced in the previous year were felt, to 497,700 tonnes, of which Disputada alongside new initiatives which were In Australia, operating profit fell by 25% contributed 39,000 tonnes from the date implemented during the year.
to $130 million mainly due to technical of acquisition, compared with 468,700 difficulties at the Dartbrook and Moranbah tonnes in 2001 excluding KCM.
In continental Europe, operating profit North mines.
In 2002, Anglo Coal Australia increased by 48%.
The operations in Spain acquired 51% of Moura mine, a 23% Increased production at Codemin and Loma had another excellent year and central interest in the Jellinbah East mine and fide Nquel entering commercial production Europe recorded an improved result largely divested 30% of its interest in the German at the beginning of the year resulted in due to acquisitions, efficiency improvements Creek mine and 49% of its interests in the attributable production of nickel of 25,600 and good performances from the Polish Theodore, Dawson and Taroom projects.
tonnes, despite the sale of Tati.
paving and Czech Republic businesses.
However, difficult market conditions South American attributable operating profit Attributable zinc production rose from continued in Germany.
Lisheen performance reflected weaker thermal coal operated above design throughput capacity At the end of 2002, Copebrs new plant prices, a cutback of Colombian production and achieved record production levels.
The Buxton cement in response to market conditions and the Hudson Bay saw increased throughput and plant in the UK is scheduled to be completed impact of the general strike in Venezuela.
higher copper and zinc grades.
towards the end of the year, within budget.
This was offset by the Anglo American BHP Billiton Glencore consortiums At Namakwa Sands, throughput rates at all The short term outlook for the Tarmac group acquisition of the remaining 50% of the processing plants rose, but the strengthening is largely dependent on the private sector Cerrejn Zona Norte operation.
of the rand in the second half of the year in the UK holding up relatively well, and compared to the first half of the year meant government expenditure on infrastructure A moderate export coking coal capacity operating profits were 6% down on 2001. not being sacrificed as a result of events increase in 2003 is expected to have in the Middle East or government financing limited impact on price levels.
Export The outlook for base metals is expected concerns.
The increased focus on cost thermal coal prices will, as previously, to remain weak until there is tangible reduction and customer service should be driven by a mix of demand and supply evidence of a recovery in underlying strengthen the groups position.
factors, inter-fuel competition, weather demand and a sustained reduction in and sentiment.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2002 18 OPERATIONS REVIEW FOREST PRODUCTS FERROUS METALS AND INDUSTRIES EXPLORATION CONTRIBUTION TO CONTRIBUTION TO In 2002, total Group expenditure on HEADLINE EARNINGS HEADLINE EARNINGS exploration was $93 million.
Of this, $47 million was spent by Base Metals on grassroots and brownfields exploration, $13 million by Anglo Platinum and % % $27 million by AngloGold.
21 7 During the year, Base Metals exploration efforts focused on areas most likely to $ million 2002 2001 $ million 2002 2001 produce enhanced results.
Consequently, the number of active countries was reduced Operating profit 649 520 Operating profit 264 191 from 18 to 13, and global staff complement Contribution to Contribution to was reduced by 20%.
Further rationalisation headline earnings 376 272 headline earnings 126 86 will continue during 2003.
EBITDA 909 752 EBITDA 415 351 Forest Products total headline earnings for Headline earnings for Ferrous Metals and Exploration in Chile delineated copper 2002 were $376 million, a 38% increase Industries were $126 million 2001: resources which may extend the lives of on 2001.
Operating profit increased in $86 million, reflecting a solid underlying existing operations.
The porphyry-copper both Europe and South Africa, reflecting performance and the positive impact of programme in Peru, Chile and Argentina the benefit of acquisitions, higher volumes the acquisitions made during the first half identified a number of promising targets and margin improvement.
World crude steel production for drilling.
increased by 6.4% and international steel Mondi Europe continued its strong prices have shown a significant upswing African exploration programmes continued performance, achieving a further 32% since February 2002. to target zinc and nickel in Namibia, zinc increase in operating profit to $434 million in South Africa and copper in Zambia.
The improved profits arose Scaw Metals operating profit was from the successful integration of $51million 2001: $31 million, which Target generation for zinc and nickel in acquisitions, increased volumes and the included an $11 million contribution from Australia and India identified a number of sustained focus on profit improvement, the Moly-Cop forged grinding media promising targets for follow-up in 2003. cost reductions and innovation, despite operations acquired at mid-year.
Highveld In Mexico, encouraging early stage drill difficult market conditions.
Steel recorded a significant increase in results were obtained from a polymetallic operating profit from $6 million to base metal prospect.
Iron oxide and copper There was further expansion in Europe, $38 million on the back of domestic sales gold exploration continued in several with the completion of two acquisitions of 570,000 tonnes, which surpassed the countries, with positive initial drill results an additional 78% interest in the Russian previous best year of 1997. from Sweden and Brazil.
pulp and paper group Syktyvkar Forest Enterprises and, jointly with the Spanish In 40% held Samancor, manganese profits In the Philippines, resource definition drilling group Saica, the business of the French were higher than last year owing to greater progressed at the Boyongan copper gold corrugated packaging group La Rochette.
ore and alloy sales volumes and lower project.
An initial resource estimate production costs.
Samancor chrome showed and a decision whether to proceed to Mondi South Africa increased operating profit an improved operating performance as its pre-feasibility will be made in 2003. by 16% to $215 million, a consequence major restructuring programme resulted in of increased volumes and improved margins.
Ferrochrome prices Anglo Platinums exploration efforts in South In the domestic market, strong demand for the year firmed over those of last year.
Africa are directly linked to its commitment and the weaker rand dollar exchange rate to increase production levels to 3.5 million supported good volume growth and real During the year good progress was made ounces per year of platinum by the end of increases in prices for graphic papers, in the strategic objective of securing a 2006.
There was good progress on all fronts packaging papers and board and converted meaningful interest in the iron ore sector.
and targets for the year were reached.
In export markets, dollar prices Interests were acquired in both Kumba Internationally, Anglo Platinums partners were lower during the year for bleached and Avmin.
have taken several exciting projects forward, eucalyptus pulp and woodchips.
including the joint venture with Pacific North The Boart Longyear group reported an West Capital in the River Valley area near Further progress was also made with operating profit of $31 million 2001: Sudbury, Ontario, Canada and the Russian disposals of non-core timber businesses $30million.
Tongaat-Huletts operating profit, Urals projects in a relationship with Eurasia specifically the sale of two softwood although increased in rand terms, was Mining plc.
sawmills and a reduction in the shareholding lower at $96 million 2001: $112 million.
Terra recorded an attributable operating loss AngloGolds exploration focus continued, of $3 million 2001: $23 million loss, mainly in countries in which it already has following a resumption of normal demand operations: namely Argentina, Australia, levels in US markets.
Brazil, Tanzania, Mali, Namibia, South Africa and the USA, including Alaska.
In addition, exploration was pursued in highly prospective areas in Canada and Peru.
Some 63% of expenditure was spent on increasing near and in-mine resources.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2002 19 THE BUSINESS AN OVERVIEW EFFECTIVE 14 FEBRUARY 2003 2 Platinum Gold Diamonds Coal Base Metals Industrial Minerals Forest Products Ferrous Metals and Industries 1 Anglo Platinum AngloGold fide Beers Anglo Coal Anglo Base Metals Anglo Industrial Anglo Forest Anglo Ferrous 69.6% 51.4% 45% 100% 100% Minerals 100% Products 100% Metals 100% SOUTH AFRICA Samancor South SOUTH AFRICA SOUTH AFRICA SOUTH COPPER AGGREGATES FIBRE SUPPLY Rustenburg Section AFRICAN AND BUILDING Africa 40% All 100% owned fide Beers Marine Collahuasi Chile Forests 100% TRADE MATERIALS Exploration & 44% South Africa Australian Ergo COLLIERIES Tarmac Group UK Services 100% 100% Rustenburg UG2 Manganese 40% Disputada Chile Great Noligwa Bank 100% 100% Phase 1 100% Finsch 100% 100% SiyaQhubeka Zimbabwe Alloys Kopanang Goedehoop 100% Tarmac France Forests 100% Union Section Koffiefontein Mantos Blancos Moab Khotsong France and South Africa 100% 100% Greenside 100% Chile 100% Columbus Belgium 100% 65% Mponeng Amandelbult Kleinkopje 100% Stainless Steel Kimberley Mines Palabora South Tarmac Central Waste paper Section 100% South Africa Savuka 100% Africa 29% Landau 100% Europe Germany, South Africa 14% Bafokeng-Rasimone Tau Lekoa Namaqualand Quellaveco Peru Poland and Czech 100% 100% Highveld Steel Mines 100% 80% SOUTH TauTona Republic 100% South Africa AFRICAN Potgietersrust Premier 100% PULP Steetley Iberia 80% POWER NICKEL Platinums 100% REST OF Frantschach The Oaks 100% Spain 100% GENERATION Codemin Brazil Scaw Metals AFRICA Lebowa Platinum Czech Republic Venetia 100% COLLIERIES Tarmac 90% worldwide 100% Geita Tanzania Mines 100% 70% Kriel 100% International 50% Bindura Avmin South Richards Bay Modikwa Platinum Holdings Far East BOTSWANA New Denmark Zimbabwe 53% Africa 34.9% Morila Mali 40% South Africa Joint Venture 50% and Middle East Debswana 50% 100% Nkomati South 100% Kumba South Sadiola Mali 100% Jwaneng, Orapa Waterval Smelter New Vaal 100% Africa 25% Africa 30% 38% and Letlhakane 100% GRAPHIC mines Anaconda Nickel PHOSPHATE Navachab Rustenburg Base SOUTH AFRICA PAPER Australia 24% PRODUCTS Namibia 100% Metals Refinery OTHER Neusiedler Copebrs Brazil NAMIBIA 100% Loma fide Nquel Yatela Mali 40% Eyesizwe Coal Austria, Hungary, 73% Namdeb 50% Venezuela 91% Anglo Industries 11% Precious Metals Slovakia, Russia, Mining Area Barro Alto Brazil 100% Refinery 100% NORTH Israel 100% Richards Bay Coal No.
Orange 100% AMERICA Terminal 27% Process expansion River Mines, Aylesford Boart Longyear Cripple Creek & phase 1 Project Elizabeth Bay Newsprint UK worldwide 100% Victor USA ZINC LEAD converting process COLOMBIA and Marine 50% 67% Hudson Bay Tongaat-Hulett 100% Cerrejn 33% concessions Europapier Canada 100% South Africa Jerritt Canyon Twickenham Mine fide Beers Marine Austria 70% 53% USA 70% Black Mountain AUSTRALIA Project 100% Namibia 85% Merebank South South Africa Terra North Callide 100% Pandora Joint Africa 100% SOUTH 100% America 49% Dartbrook 78% TANZANIA Venture Project AMERICA Lisheen Ireland Amfarms South Williamson 50% Drayton 88% PACKAGING Morro Velho 59% Africa 100% Diamonds 75% Mondi Packaging Polokwane Smelter German Creek Brazil 100% Gamsberg South Hippo Valley UK, France, Project 100% 70% Serra Grande CANADA Africa 100% Estates Ireland, Poland Jellinbah East 23% Tailings Brazil 50% Snap Lake 100% Zimbabwe 49% 100% Skorpion Namibia Treatment Project Cerro Vanguardia Moranbah North 100% Frantschach 100% Argentina 93% 88% DIAMOND Packaging includes 9.9% TRADING AND Moura 51% MINERAL which is subject Rustenburg UG2 Europe 70% MARKETING AUSTRALIA to South African SANDS Phase 2 Project Frantschach Various companies Competition Sunrise Dam Namakwa Sands 100% VENEZUELA Swiecie authorities involved in the 100% South Africa Carbones del approval.
Poland 61% purchasing, selling 100% Guasare 25% Union Reefs 100% Commencement and marketing of Mondipak South includes 10% of the joint Tanami 40% rough diamonds, Africa 100% which is subject NIOBIUM venture is subject including The to South African Boddington 33% to certain Catalo Brazil Corrugated paper Competition Diamond Trading outstanding 100% South Africa authorities Gold Fields 21% Company 100% suspensive 100% approval.
Cartonboard Anglo Americans INDUSTRIAL Although AngloGold Will be brought South Africa effective interest holds a 66.7% DIAMONDS into use in 2003. is 51%, with an 100% interest in Cripple Companies indirect holding of Creek & Victor Gold manufacturing 26% being held Mining Company SOLID WOOD synthetic diamonds through Avmin, Limited, it is currently Mining timber of which 7.4% is and abrasive entitled to receive subject to South South Africa 100% of the cash products 50% African Competition 100% flow from the authorities operation until a loan, Sawmilling approval.
extended to the joint South Africa venture by AngloGold In February 2003, 100% North America Inc. Anglo American is paid.
Woodchips agreed to dispose of substantially all South Africa of its shareholding 100% 1 2 in Anaconda Nickel.
Operated Operated Global Forest by AngloGold, by fide Beers, Products the Companys the Companys South Africa independently independently managed subsidiary.
19% Anglo American plc Annual Review 2002 20 THE BOARD EXECUTIVE Tony Trahar Barry Davison Tony Lea Bill Nairn B. Comm, CA SA BA BA Hons B. Sc Eng 53, is chief executive and has 57, is a member of Exco and 54, is finance director and 58, is group technical director been with the Group since 1974. the SHE committee.
He has has been with the Group since and a member of the Investment He is chairman of the Executive been Anglo Platinums chief 1972.
He became a director and SHE committees.
He was Committee Exco, and a member executive since 1997.
Tony Lea appointed chief executive and of the Safety, Health and he joined the board of Anglo is a member of Exco and chairs managing director of JCI in Environment SHE Committee.
American Corporation of South the Investment Committee.
Bill Nairn joined AAC in He is non-executive chairman Africa Limited AAC.
In 2001, 1997 when he was appointed of the Forest Products and he was appointed chairman of an executive director and, in Industrial Minerals businesses.
He is president January 2000, he was appointed Tony Trahars other directorships of South Africas Chamber group technical director of AAC.
include AngloGold and Anglo of Mines and a non-executive He is a member of Exco.
NON-EXECUTIVE Sir Mark Moody-Stuart KCMG Sir David Scholey CBE David Challen CBE Dr Chris Fay CBE Ph.
D 67, is the senior independent MBA B. Sc, Ph.
D, FREng, FRSE 62, was appointed a nonnon-executive director and 59, is a member of the 57, is a former chairman of executive director on 17 July a member of the Nomination Remuneration and Audit Shell UK.
Chris Fay chairs the 2002 and succeeded Julian Committee.
He is the chairman committees.
He is currently vice SHE Committee and is a member Ogilvie Thompson as nonof Close Brothers Group, chairman of Schroder Salomon of the Remuneration and Audit executive chairman on a director of Vodafone Group Smith Barney and was previously Committees.
He also and Chubb Corporation and an chairman of J. Henry Schroder executive director of BAA plc, sits on the SHE Committee adviser to UBS Warburg.
He &Co Limited where he spent the Weir Group plc and Stena and chairs the Nomination was formerly a non-executive most of his professional career.
International b. v. and nonCommittee.
He is a director of director of the Bank of England He is currently a member executive chairman of Expro The Shell Transport and Trading and a governor of the British of the Takeover Panel and the International Group PLC and Company plc, HSBC Holdings plc Broadcasting Corporation.
and Accenture Ltd. Sir Mark is He is chairman of the British a member of the UN Secretarygovernments Advisory Generals Advisory Council Committee on Business and for the Global Compact.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2002 21 THE BOARD NON-EXECUTIVE Bobby Godsell Gran Lindahl Rob Margetts CBE Nicky Oppenheimer MA M. Sc, D. Sc BA, FREng MA 50, is a member of the SHE 57, is a member of the SHE 56, is chairman of the Audit 57, is a member of the Committee and has been with Committee.
He is a nonand Remuneration Committees Nomination Committee.
He is executive director of Du Pont, and is a member of the He joined the Group in 1968 chief executive of AngloGold, IKEA and Sony and a co-chairman Nomination Committee.
He is and subsequently became an a position he has held since its of Nanomix, Inc.
He is a the non-executive chairman of executive director and a deputy formation in 1998.
He is the chairman of the Alliance for Legal & General Group Plc and chairman of AAC.
He became past president of South Africas Global Sustainability and BOC Group plc and was formerly deputy chairman of fide Beers Chamber of Mines and a former is a former special adviser to the vice-chairman of ICI PLC.
Consolidated in 1985 and director of Standard Bank UN Secretary-General.
He was Rob Margetts is a governor has been chairman of fide Beers Investment Corporation.
president and chief executive at Imperial College of Science, since 1998. officer of ABB from 1997 until Technology and Medicine, is the end of 2000. chairman of the UK Natural Environment Research Council and a member of the UK Council for Science and Technology.
Fred Phaswana Professor Karl Van Miert B. Comm, MA Graduate in Diplomatic Sciences 58, is a member of the 61, is a member of the Audit Remuneration and Audit Committee.
He is currently President of Nyrenode University, BP regional president: Africa Netherlands Business School, and previously a director of a member of the supervisory BP Oil Benelux, an associate boards of German utility RWE, president of BP Netherlands and Philips NV, Munich Re and chairman and chief executive Wolters-Kluwer.
He is also a of BP Southern Africa.
His other member of the advisory boards appointments include the South of Goldman Sachs, Eli Lilly and African Institute of International Rabobank.
He was a member Changes to the various committees Affairs and the South African of the European Parliament from of the board which take effect on National Energy Association.
1979 to 1985 and a member 25 April 2003 are referred to in the of the European Commission chairmans statement and summary corporate governance report.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2002 22 CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2002 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items items items 2002 2002 2002 2001 2001 2001 2 2 $ million Restated Restated Group and share of turnover of joint ventures and associates 20,497 20,497 19,282 19,282 Less: Joint ventures turnover 1,066 1,066 1,109 1,109 Associates turnover 4,286 4,286 3,387 3,387 Group turnover subsidiaries 15,145 15,145 14,786 14,786 Operating costs 12,757 47 12,804 12,140 498 12,638 Group operating profit subsidiaries 2,388 47 2,341 2,646 498 2,148 Share of operating profit of joint ventures 219 34 185 193 15 178 Share of operating profit of associates 725 725 459 459 Total operating profit 3,332 81 3,251 3,298 513 2,785 Profit on disposal of fixed assets 9898 2,148 2,148 Loss on termination of operations 34 34 Profit on ordinary activities before interest 3,332 17 3,315 3,298 1,635 4,933 Investment income 304 304 799 799 Interest payable 483 483 669 669 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 3,153 17 3,136 3,428 1,635 5,063 Tax on profit on ordinary activities 1,042 3 1,045 1,247 147 1,394 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 2,111 20 2,091 2,181 1,488 3,669 Equity minority interests 528 528 648 64 584 Profit for the financial year 1,583 20 1,563 1,533 1,552 3,085 Equity dividends to shareholders paid and proposed 720 720 690 690 Retained profit for the financial year 863 20 843 843 1,552 2,395 1 Headline earnings for the financial year 1,759 1,681 2 Basic earnings per share $ : Profit for the financial year 1.11 2.09 Headline earnings for the financial year 1.25 1.14 2 Diluted earnings per share $ : Profit for the financial year 1.10 2.07 Headline earnings for the financial year 1.23 1.13 Dividend per share US cents : 51.0 49.0 3 Basic number of shares outstanding million 1,411 1,474 3 Diluted number of shares outstanding million 1,426 1,491 1 Headline earnings are $1,759 million.
Headline earnings are calculated as follows: profit for the period of $1,563 million, adding back operating exceptional losses of $81 million and goodwill amortisation of $189 million, less non-operating exceptional profits of $64million, and related tax and minority interests of $10 million.
2 The comparative figures for 2001 have been restated to reflect the adoption of Financial Reporting Standard FRS 19, Deferred Tax.
3 Basic and diluted number of shares outstanding represent the weighted average for the year.
All amounts included above relate to continuing operations.
The impact of acquired operations on the results for the year is not material.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2002 23 SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2002 2002 2001 1 $ million Restated Fixed assets Intangible assets 2,310 2,100 Tangible assets 16,531 10,770 Investments in joint ventures and associates 5,663 3,996 Other investments 1,713 1,527 26,217 18,393 Current assets Stocks 1,814 1,383 Debtors 3,337 2,835 Current asset investments and cash at bank and in hand 2,213 2,918 7,364 7,136 Short term borrowings 1,918 2,301 Other current liabilities 4,329 3,936 Net current assets 1,117 899 Total assets less current liabilities 27,334 19,292 Long term liabilities 5,873 2,635 Provisions for liabilities and charges 2,896 2,194 Equity minority interests 2,304 1,607 Capital and reserves 16,261 12,856 1 Restated for the adoption of FRS 19.
The financial statements, including the summary financial statements, were approved on behalf of the board of directors by A J Trahar, chief executive, and A W Lea, finance director, on 27 February 2003.
FOUR YEAR SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION 1 $ million 2002 2001 2000 1999 Profit and loss account Group and share of turnover of joint ventures and associates 20,497 19,282 20,570 19,245 Total operating profit loss before exceptional items Platinum 802 1,345 1,336 480 Gold 463 443 410 452 Diamonds 541 373 491 245 Coal 427 493 169 114 Base Metals 133 22 196 174 Industrial Minerals 277 201 150 118 Forest Products 649 520 458 272 Ferrous Metals 150 77 127 75 Industries 114 114 272 358 Financial Services 2 128 138 Exploration 93 101 116 138 Corporate activities 131 147 141 146 3,332 3,298 3,480 2,142 2 Operating exceptional items 81 513 433 2 Non-operating exceptional items 64 2,148 490 410 Net interest expense investment income 179 130 308 265 Profit for the financial year 1,563 3,085 1,957 1,552 Headline earnings for the financial year 1,759 1,681 2,000 1,308 Balance sheet Fixed assets including investments 26,217 18,393 22,241 19,488 Net current assets 1,117 899 950 3,499 Net debt funds 5,578 2,018 3,590 81 Shareholders funds 16,261 12,856 15,544 16,174 1 Restated for the adoption of FRS 19.
2 2000 restated for reclassification of the loss on anticipated disposal of Terra Industries Inc. see page 32 for further information.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2002 24 SUMMARY DIRECTORS REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2002 INTRODUCTION is an ongoing process of internal control for identifying, evaluating The directors present to shareholders their summary financial and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
statement for the year ended 31 December 2002.
A summary financial statement does not contain sufficient information to allow The directors, their responsibilities and the current membership of as full an understanding of the results of the Group and the state the principal committees of the board are set out on pages 20 to of affairs of the Company or of the Group, and of its policies and 21.
J Ogilvie Thompson retired as non-executive chairman on arrangements concerning directors remuneration, as is provided 30 November 2002 and was succeeded by Sir Mark Moody-Stuart.
by the full Annual Report.
Furthermore, since the last AGM, D J Challen and F T M Phaswana have been appointed non-executive directors.
The full financial statements, directors report and report of the auditors which is unqualified are included in a separate document The board comprises four executive directors and ten non-executive entitled Annual Report 2002 which is available to shareholders free directors, seven of whom are independent within the definition of charge.
Shareholders who wish to obtain a copy for this and future contained in the Higgs review of the role and effectiveness of years should contact the Companys Registrar.
The full Annual Report non-executive directors Higgs Report published in January 2003. of Anglo American plc comprises the aforementioned Annual Report The independent directors are Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, D J Challen, 2002, this Annual Review and the booklet containing the Notice F T M Phaswana, Professor K A L M Van Miert, Dr C E Fay, of AGM and other shareholder information.
The other non-executive directors are Sir David Scholey, R M Godsell and N F Oppenheimer.
BUSINESS ACTIVITIES AND DEVELOPMENT Reports by the chairman and the chief executive on the Following publication of the Higgs Report, although the board performance for the year and the future development of the believes that Sir Davids relationship with UBS Warburg, the Groups businesses are included at the beginning of this document.
companys joint broker, in no way affects his ability to act Events announced after the year end are discussed in detail independently, it was felt that it was preferable that another board in the chief executives statement on pages 9 and 10 and on member should fill the role of senior independent non-executive page 11 of the Annual Report.
Accordingly, with effect from the AGM, R J Margetts will be appointed as the senior independent non-executive director.
DIVIDENDS Anglo American paid an interim dividend of 15 US cents per share Also, with effect from the AGM, Sir Mark will stand down on 11 October 2002.
The directors recommend a final dividend as chairman of the Nomination Committee and F T M Phaswana of 36 US cents per share.
Subject to approval by members will be appointed chairman of this Committee in his place.
at the AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 30 April 2003 to Sir Mark continues as a member of the Committee and Professor shareholders on the register on 14 March 2003.
K A L M Van Miert will become a member of the Committee with effect from the AGM.
At the same time, also in accordance with ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING the Higgs Report, R J Margetts will step down as chairman of the The AGM will be held at The Conference Centre, Church House, Deans Audit Committee and D J Challen will assume the chairmanship Yard, London SW1P 3NZ at 11:00 am on Friday, 25 April 2003. of this Committee.
In the interests of continuity, R J Margetts will remain a member of the Audit Committee.
As part of the routine AGM business, shareholders will be asked to approve the directors remuneration report and, as special business Details of the remuneration policy and of the remuneration of the to renew the directors existing authorities to allot ordinary shares directors are given in the remuneration report in the Annual Report and to make market purchases of ordinary shares.
and a summary of this report is set out on pages 25 to 31.
The Company values its dialogue with both institutional and private SUMMARY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT investors.
For the benefit of private investors in particular, Anglo The Company has complied with the provisions of the Combined American has produced this short form Annual Review which Code throughout the year.
The directors are satisfied that there contains the information believed to be of most interest to them.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS STATEMENT TO THE MEMBERS OF ANGLO AMERICAN plc We have examined the summary financial statement which with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the Companies comprises the summary directors report, summary corporate Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the governance report, consolidated profit and loss account, summary other information contained in the Annual Review as described consolidated balance sheet, four year selected consolidated financial in the contents section, and consider the implications for our report information and summary remuneration report.
if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our BASIS OF OPINION work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys We conducted our work in accordance with bulletin 1999 6 The members those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditors Statement on the Summary Financial Statement issued auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent by the United Kingdom Auditing Practices Board.
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members OPINION as a body, for our audit work, for this report, for our audit report, In our opinion, the summary financial statement is consistent with the or for the opinions we have formed.
full annual accounts, the directors report and the directors remuneration report of Anglo American plc for the year ended 31 December 2002 RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS and Companies Act 1985, and the regulations made thereunder.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility Deloitte & Touche is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors financial statement with the full annual accounts, the directors London report and the directors remuneration report, and its compliance 27 February 2003 Anglo American plc Annual Review 2002 25 SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2002 This is a summary of the full remuneration report contained in the Annual Report, copies of which may be obtained free of charge from the Companys Registrar.
REMUNERATION POLICY The Remuneration Committee Anglo American has a Remuneration Committee consisting of non-executive directors, chaired by R J Margetts, which is responsible for considering and making recommendations to the Board on executive and senior management remuneration policy, specific remuneration packages for executive directors and the operation of the Companys share incentive schemes.
Principles of executive remuneration Anglo Americans remuneration policy is formulated to attract and retain high-calibre executives and motivate them to develop and implement the Companys business strategy in order to optimise long term shareholder value creation.
It is the intention that this policy should conform to best practice standards and that it will apply for 2003 and subsequent years, subject to ongoing review as appropriate.
The policy is framed around the following key principles: total rewards will be set at levels that are competitive within the relevant market: total incentive-based rewards will be earned through the achievement of demanding performance conditions consistent with shareholder interests over the short, medium and long term: incentive plans, performance measures and targets will be structured to operate soundly throughout the business cycle: and the design of long term incentives is prudent and does not expose shareholders to unreasonable financial risk.
Elements of executive director remuneration Executive director remuneration comprises the following five principal elements: base salary: annual bonus plan: share option scheme: long term incentive plan LTIP : and benefits.
The Committee seeks to ensure an appropriate balance between the fixed and performance-related elements of executive director remuneration, and between those aspects of the package linked to short term financial performance and those linked to longer term shareholder value creation.
It is intended that, assuming on-target performance, around 50% around 60% for the CEO or more of executive director remuneration is performance related.
The Committee considers each element of remuneration relative to the market and takes into account the performance of the Company and the individual executive director in recommending quantum and design.
The policy relating to each component of remuneration is summarised below: Base salary The base salary of the executive directors is subject to annual review and is set to be competitive at the median level with reference to external market practice in similar companies, based in the UK and overseas, which are comparable in terms of size, market sector, business complexity and international scope.
Company performance, individual performance and changes in responsibilities are also taken into consideration when determining annual base salaries.
Annual bonus plan All executive directors are eligible to participate in an annual bonus plan, with payment levels based on corporate and individual performance.
Bonus potentials are set on an individual basis each year and for the past year were capped at 70% of base salary for the chief executive, 60% for B E Davison and 50% for other directors.
The bonus plan is not pensionable.
The Committee retains the discretion to make adjustments to bonuses earned at the end of the year on an exceptional basis, taking into account both Company performance and the overall and specific contribution of individual executives to the Companys success.
This discretion was not used this year.
Similarly, the level of bonuses payable is reduced if certain overall safety improvement targets are not met, and some reduction did apply this year.
The performance measures for the annual bonus plan include measures of corporate and, where applicable, business performance as well as the achievement of specific individual objectives.
The corporate element is based upon stretching Earnings Per Share EPS targets.
EPS is calculated in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard FRS 14, using the headline earnings measure.
The Committee reviews measures annually, after consultation with the chairman and chief executive, to ensure that the measures and targets set are appropriate given the economic context and the performance expectations for the Company and its operating businesses.
It is the Committees usual policy to base 70% of each annual bonus award on the corporate or business measure and the remaining 30% on the personal key performance measures.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2002 26 SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2002 In order to encourage directors to build up a significant personal stake in the Company, a share match is used.
Directors are required to defer 50% of their bonus and may, at the discretion of the Committee on a year-by-year basis, defer all of their bonus net of tax to acquire shares in Anglo American.
If these shares are held for three years they will be matched by the Company on a one-for-one basis conditional upon the executive directors continued employment.
Use of this share match has allowed Anglo American to maintain competitiveness in annual bonus plan levels, encouraging executives to invest in the shares of the Company and thus increasing the proportion of executive director rewards linked to both short term performance and longer term total shareholder returns.
The bonus deferral and share match also acts as a retention tool, and ensures that executive directors share a significant level of personal exposure to the Companys share performance.
Share option scheme The Committees policy is to make annual grants of share options to executive directors up to a maximum of one times annual remuneration for all directors except for the chief executive, to whom the Committees policy is to make annual grants of share options with a market value of up to one and a quarter times annual remuneration.
In exceptional circumstances these maximum grant levels may be increased at the Committees discretion.
All share options are granted at market value at the time of grant.
Options are granted as Inland Revenue approved Approved Options and unapproved options Unapproved Options.
The exercise of the options is subject to Anglo Americans EPS calculated in accordance with FRS 14, based on the Companys headline earnings measure increasing by at least 6% above the UK Retail Price Index over a three year period.
EPS was selected as the key performance measure for this plan as it is a fundamental financial performance indicator, both internally and externally.
The EPS growth requirement takes account of the cyclical nature of the natural resources business.
If the performance condition is not met at the end of the first threeyear period then performance is retested each year over the ten year life of the option on a rolling three year basis.
Options are normally exercisable, subject to satisfaction of the performance condition, between three and ten years from the date of grant.
Executive directors are also eligible to participate in the Companys Save As You Earn SAYE and Share Incentive Plan SIP schemes, which are open to all UK employees.
Long term incentive plan LTIP It is the Committees policy to make conditional LTIP awards to executive directors annually.
These awards are discretionary and are considered on a case-by-case basis.
The policy of the Committee at present, and in recent years, is to make annual awards of LTIP interests over shares with a face value of 120% of basic salary for the chief executive and 100% of basic salary for the other executive directors.
However, in exceptional circumstances and in order to accommodate changing market conditions, awards may be made to each executive director of up to a maximum of two times basic salary per annum.
Vesting of LTIP awards is subject to the achievement of stretching performance measures relating to Total Shareholder Return TSR and to an operating measure, initially Return On Capital Employed ROCE, over a fixed three year period.
50% of the award for all directors, except B E Davison, is subject to the Group TSR measure and 50% to a Group ROCE measure.
Vesting of B E Davisons award is conditional upon the same TSR performance measure: however, only 30% of the award is conditional upon the Group ROCE measure, with the balance of 20% of the award being conditional upon an Anglo American Platinum Corporation Limited Anglo Platinum ROCE measure.
This reflects his responsibility for the Anglo Platinum business.
These performance conditions are selected on the basis that they clearly foster the creation of shareholder value, and there is no provision for retesting.
The Committee may amend the performance condition applying to any award, provided that the amended conditions are no less demanding and will be a fairer measure of performance or will provide a more effective incentive to the participant, and that circumstances merit such a change.
At the end of each performance period, the level of performance achieved and the level of award earned will be published, and be subject to external verification by the Companys auditors.
The LTIP closely aligns the interests of shareholders and executive directors by rewarding superior shareholder and financial performance and by encouraging executives to build up a shareholding in Anglo American.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2002 27 SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2002 Detailed structure of the LTIP Part of each award will be based on the TSR measure, and part will be based on the operating measure, as described below: Performance measures Performance measure % of LTIP award conditional on performance Anglo Group Platinum Executive directors TSR ROCE ROCE A J Trahar chief executive 50% 50% B E Davison with divisional responsibility for Anglo Platinum 50% 30% 20% A W Lea 50% 50% W A Nairn 50% 50% Total Shareholder Return The proportion of shares vesting in relation to the part of the award contingent on TSR performance varies according to the Companys TSR over the performance period relative to a weighted basket of international natural resource companies the Index.
The Index comprises three categories, and each of the three categories is weighted to reflect Anglo Americans business mix, and the average TSR of the Index is thus determined.
The first category consists of a minimum of five international diversified mining companies, the second of a minimum of five international forest products companies and the third of a minimum of four international industrial minerals companies.
The Committee may amend the list of comparator companies in the Index, and the relative weightings, if circumstances make this necessary for example, as a result of takeovers or mergers of comparator companies in the Index.
In calculating TSR it is assumed that all dividends are reinvested.
For the LTIP interests awarded in 2002 the comparator companies are as follows: Mining Forest Products Industrial Minerals Category weighting 71% 17% 12% Comparator companies Anglovaal Mining Limited M-real Corporation Aggregate Industries plc BHP Billiton plc Sappi Limited CRH plc Companhia Vale do Rio Doce SCA Hanson plc MIM Holdings Limited David S. Smith Holdings plc RMC Group plc Noranda Inc Stora Enso Oyj Rio Tinto plc UPM-Kymmene Group WMC Limited Xstrata plc The TSR element of the award vests as shown in the table below: Proportion of TSR Anglo Americans relative TSR element vesting Below the weighted average TSR of the Index 0% Equal to the weighted average TSR of the Index 50% Equal to the weighted average TSR of the top two companies in each category 100% Equal to or greater than the weighted average TSR of the top company in each category 150% Shares will vest on a straight-line basis for performance between 50% and 100% as described above, and also between 100% and 150% for exceptional performance as described above.
A graph showing Anglo Americans TSR performance against the weighted average of the comparator index as shown above for the period from 24 May 1999, when the Company was incorporated, to 31 December 2002 can be found on page 30: for the purposes of drawing this graph Companhia Vale do Rio Doce and Xstrata plc were excluded from the index as they were not listed at the beginning of the period depicted by the graph.
Return On Capital Employed ROCE has been adopted as the second performance measure for the LTIP grants made to date.
The directors consider this to be amongst the most important factors which drive sustainable improvements in shareholder value in a natural resources business as well as one of the most important measures of differentiation in performance in this sector.
The proportion of shares vesting in relation to this part of the award will vary according to the degree of improvement in the Groups and or business average annualised ROCE over the performance period adjusted for movements in commodity prices, certain foreign exchange rate effects and for relevant changes in the composition of the Group.
The Committee has set Minimum Targets for improvement in return on both capital employed for the financial year preceding the start of the performance period Existing Capital Employed and on the additional capital employed during the performance period Incremental Capital Employed.
The Maximum ROCE Targets are based on stretching levels of return on the Existing Capital Employed.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2002 28 SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2002 The targets for each element of the 2002 Plan are shown below.
These are adjusted for movements in commodity prices, certain foreign exchange rate effects and for relevant changes in the composition of the Group.
Anglo American Platinum Anglo American plc Corporation Limited Existing Incremental Existing Incremental capital capital capital capital employed employed employed employed Minimum ROCE Target 18.2% 13.0% 171.8% 13.0% Maximum ROCE Target 20.2% 13.0% 242.1% 13.0% The ROCE elements of the award vest as shown in the table below: Proportion of ROCE element vesting Below or equal to the Minimum Target 0% Equal to or greater than the Maximum Target 100% Shares will vest on a straight-line basis for performance between the Minimum Target and the Maximum Target.
Pensions Pension and life insurance benefits for executive directors reflect practice in the countries in which they perform their principal duties.
Pension arrangements are tailored to take account of historical obligations and, insofar as agreed by the Committee, the personal circumstances of each executive.
Other benefits Executive directors are entitled to the provision of either a car allowance or a fully expensed car, medical insurance, death and disability insurance, social club membership in accordance with local market practice and reimbursement of reasonable business expenses.
Directors based in South Africa are eligible to receive housing loan subsidies at a preferential interest rate in accordance with local market practice.
The provision of these benefits is considered to be market competitive in the appropriate locality for executive director positions.
Executive shareholding targets Within five years of their appointment, executive directors are expected to acquire a holding of shares with a value of one and a half times base salary in the case of the chief executive, and one times base salary in the case of other executive directors.
Share dilution through the operation of share plans Where shares are issued to satisfy incentives, the aggregate dilution resulting from executive incentives will not exceed 5% in any ten year period, and that resulting from all incentives, including all-employee incentives, will not exceed 10% in any ten year period.
External appointments Executive directors are not permitted to hold external directorships or offices without the approval of the board: if approved, they may retain the fees payable from one such appointment.
Non-executive directors The board reviews non-executive directors fees periodically in the light of fees payable to non-executive directors for comparable companies and the importance attached to the retention and attraction of high calibre individuals as non-executive directors.
Levels of fees are also set by reference to the responsibilities taken on by the non-executives in chairing the board and its committees.
Additional fees are paid to the senior independent non-executive director and were also paid to the deputy chairman while the post was occupied.
Where non-executive directors have board roles within subsidiaries of the Company then they also receive additional fees on account of their increased responsibilities.
Non-executive directors are eligible to forgo all or part of their directors fees to subscribe for shares in the Company, after deduction of applicable income tax and social security contributions.
The non-executive directors do not participate in the Companys annual bonus plan, share option schemes, long term incentive plan or Company pension arrangements.
Directors service contracts It is the Companys policy that the period of notice required for executive directors does not exceed 12 months.
In order to properly reflect their spread of responsibilities, all the executive directors, with the exception of A W Lea, who is employed by Anglo American International BVI Limited, have contracts with Anglo American International IOM Limited and with Anglo Operations Limited.
The salaries under these contracts are payable in sterling and or South African rand as appropriate.
The employment contracts of all executive directors are terminable at 12 months notice by either party.
All non-executive directors have letters of appointment with Anglo American for an initial period of three years from their date of appointment subject to reappointment at the annual general meeting.
In addition to his service contract with Anglo American, R M Godsell has a service contract with Anglogold Limited, an independently managed subsidiary of Anglo American, in his capacity as chief executive.
Under this contract, his employment may be terminated by either party giving the other 12 months notice.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2002 29 SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2002 Unexpired term of contract 1 Executive directors Date of contract from 31 December 2002 Notice period A J Trahar chief executive 19 April 1999 7 years 12 months B E Davison 15 May 2001 3 years 12 months A W Lea 19 April 1999 6 years 12 months W A Nairn 15 May 2001 2 years 12 months 1 The unexpired term of contract for the executive directors reflects the number of years until their sixtieth birthday.
1 2 Non-executive directors Date of letter of appointment Sir Mark Moody-Stuart chairman appointed 16 July 2002, chairman from 1 December 2002 19 July 2002 J Ogilvie Thompson chairman, retired 30 November 2002 19 April 1999 Sir David Scholey 6 December 1999 D J Challen appointed 9 September 2002 20 September 2002 Viscount Davignon retired 10 May 2002 15 April 1999 Dr C E Fay 15 April 1999 R M Godsell 15 April 1999 G Lindahl 27 September 2001 R J Margetts 15 April 1999 Prof K A L M Van Miert appointed 19 March 2002 25 March 2002 N F Oppenheimer 15 April 1999 F T M Phaswana appointed 12 June 2002 21 June 2002 P S Wilmot-Sitwell retired 10 May 2002 15 April 1999 1 At each annual general meeting AGM all those directors who have been in office for three years or more since their election or last re-election shall retire from office.
Sir David Scholey retires by rotation at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
In addition, a director may at any annual general meeting retire from office and stand for re-election.
Sir Mark MoodyStuart, D J Challen and F T M Phaswana were appointed subsequent to the 2002 AGM and will stand for election at the 2003 AGM.
2 There is no fixed notice period, however, the Company may in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of the Companies Act 1985 by ordinary resolution of which special notice has been given, remove any director from office.
The contracts of executive directors contain a provision that sets out the compensation payable in lieu of notice if the Company terminates the contract other than for cause or the executive resigns in circumstances where there has been a material adverse change in role, responsibilities or remuneration.
Compensation is based on the value of 12 months basic salary, target annual bonus for 12 months and the annual value of benefits.
The Company may choose whether to continue to provide other benefits per se during the notice period or to pay an amount equal to the gross value of these benefits over the period.
Vesting of share options on termination of a directors contract is dependent on how the contract is terminated.
Performance conditions fall away in the event of redundancy.
However, if the director resigns voluntarily, then all options lapse unless the Committee determines otherwise.
In the case of LTIP interests, if a director resigns, then his interests lapse.
If he is made redundant, then at the end of the performance period vesting is based on the normal performance criteria and then is pro-rated for the proportion of the performance period for which the director served.
Similarly, in the case of the deferred bonus plan, no matching shares would be granted should a director resign before the end of the three year vesting period, unless the Remuneration Committee determine otherwise.
If a director is made redundant, he would receive matching shares for the proportion of the vesting period for which he served.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2002 30 SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2002 Performance graphs The graphs below represent the comparative TSR performance of the Company from 24 May 1999 to 31 December 2002.
Anglo American TSR performance vs FTSE 100 Index Anglo American TSR vs LTIP Comparator Group TSR performance % TSR performance % 150 150 140 140 130 130 120 120 110 110 100 100 90 90 80 80 70 70 60 60 31 12 02 31 12 99 31 12 00 31 12 01 31 12 02 31 12 99 31 12 00 31 12 01 Anglo American FTSE 100 Index Anglo American LTIP Comparator Group This first graph shows the Companys performance against the performance of the FTSE 100 Index, chosen as being a broad equity market index consisting of companies of comparable size and complexity to Anglo American.
This graph has been produced in accordance with the requirements of the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The second graph shows the Companys performance against the weighted comparator group used to measure company performance for the purposes of the vesting of LTIP interests granted in 2002.
This graph gives an indication of how Anglo American is performing against the targets in place for LTIP interests already granted, although the specifics of the comparator companies for each years interests may vary to reflect changes in the marketplace such as mergers and acquisitions amongst the Companys competitors or changes to the Companys business mix.
In drawing these graphs it has been assumed that all dividends paid have been reinvested.
The TSR level shown at 31 December each year is the average of the closing daily TSR levels for the 30 day period up to and including that date.
REMUNERATION OUTCOMES DURING 2002 1 Directors emoluments The fees and other emoluments paid to non-executive directors during the year ended 31 December 2002 amounted to 832,000 2001: 781,000.
In addition, R M Godsell has a service contract with AngloGold, in his capacity as chairman and chief executive of that company.
Under this contract he received a salary, annual bonus and other benefits amounting to 448,000 2001: 374,000.
2002 2001 Annual performance Benefits 1 2 Basic salary bonus in kind Total Total Executive directors 000 000 000 000 000 A J Trahar 675 499 43 1,217 1,122 B E Davison 360 163 16 539 299 A W Lea 445 198 20 663 632 W A Nairn 320 161 21 502 255 3 L Boyd retired 15 May 2001 319 3 M W King retired 15 May 2001 456 J W Campbell resigned 31 July 2001 437 1 In view of A J Trahar, B E Davison and W A Nairn having no provision for past service in respect of their sterling denominated pension fund, the Committee have contractually agreed that supplementary pension contributions should be made to the Anglo American plc International Approved Pension Scheme in return for these executives giving up their right to part of their future cash remuneration due under their contracts of employment.
The table above excludes these amounts which are 75,000, 40,000 and 35,000 respectively.
2 Each director receives a car allowance or a fully expensed car.
All directors, with the exception of W A Nairn, also receive medical insurance and death and disability insurance.
A J Trahar and A W Lea receive club membership: in addition, A J Trahar receives a housing loan subsidy.
3 Subsequent to their retirement from the Board in 2001, L Boyd and M W King have provided consultancy services to Anglo American and hold non-executive directorships with certain listed subsidiaries of the Group.
They have received fees of 28,000 and 26,000 respectively for the provision of these services during 2002.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2002 31 SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2002 2 Directors share options During the year ended 31 December 2002, executive directors exercised 88,000 Anglo American share options resulting in a gain of R10,673,520.
In addition, 247,000 options were granted to executive directors under the Share Option Scheme during the year at an exercise price of 11.50, which reflected the price ruling on the date of grant.
W A Nairn was also granted 1,029 shares under the SAYE Scheme at an exercise price of 9.23.
R M Godsell has share options in AngloGold, including 16,000 options which were granted at an exercise price of R299.50 during the year ended 31 December 2002.
B E Davison also has share options in Anglo Platinum, and has exercised 18,319 options during the year ended 31 December 2002, resulting in a gain of R7,789,239.
3 Long term incentive plan LTIP Conditional LTIP awards of 187,499 shares have been made to executive directors under the LTIP during the year.
The performance period for these awards is the three years ending 31 December 2004 and the awards will be conditional upon the satisfaction of the performance criteria.
4 Deferred bonus plan Conditional awards have been made to executive directors under the deferred bonus plan during the year.
These directors have been awarded 40,849 matching shares, which are conditional upon the executive directors continued employment for three years.
J Ogilvie Thompson retired from Anglo American during the year and, as a result, 17,686 of his matching shares vested and the remaining 5,394 lapsed.
5 Pensions The amounts paid into defined contribution pension schemes by Anglo American in respect of the directors who served during 2002 totalled 659,000 2001: 511,000, including the supplementary voluntary pension contributions as described above.
Two of the executive directors are members of defined benefit pension schemes.
In addition, R M Godsell is a member of the AngloGold Pension Fund, a defined benefit pension scheme.
REMUNERATION REPORT REVIEW This letter reports on the results of the review by Mercer Human Resource Consulting of the executive remuneration processes and outcomes that underlie Anglo Americans remuneration report for the financial year 2002.
Mercer undertook the review at the request of the Companys Remuneration Committee the Committee in order to provide shareholders with assurance that the remuneration processes that you have followed are appropriate and that the Company has complied with the policies set out in the remuneration report.
In order to reach our opinion, we reviewed the Remuneration Committees Terms of Reference and the minutes of its meetings during the year as well as the materials prepared for the Committees review.
We also interviewed the Committee Chairman and Secretary.
Our review was not intended to audit the compensation data set forth in the remuneration report or to evaluate the merits of Anglo Americans executive remuneration programme.
Based on our review, Mercer is of the opinion that Anglo Americans executive remuneration process with respect to 2002 was fully consistent with the description set forth in the Remuneration Report and that the remuneration decisions for the year were made based on the principles and policies laid out in the Report.
Furthermore, it is our view that the Remuneration Committee continues to take a suitably robust approach to its work.
One area of potential improvement that we identified was that of ensuring that effective training procedures are put in place for new appointments to the Committee.
Management have undertaken to do this.
Additional detail regarding Mercers review is included in a letter of this date to the Committee Chairman: we understand that this letter will be available on the Companys website.
Eric Scoones Mercer Human Resource Consulting Limited Dexter House 2 Royal Mint Court London EC3N 4NA 18 February 2003 Anglo American plc Annual Review 2002 32 KEY FINANCIAL DATA 1 $ million unless stated otherwise 2002 2001 2000 1999 Group and share of turnover of joint ventures and associates 20,497 19,282 20,570 19,245 Less: Joint ventures turnover 1,066 1,109 1,590 1,720 Associates turnover 4,286 3,387 4,156 5,947 Group turnover subsidiaries 15,145 14,786 14,824 11,578 Operating profit before exceptional items 3,332 3,298 3,480 2,142 2 Operating exceptional items 81 513 433 2 Total operating profit 3,251 2,785 3,047 2,142 2 Non-operating exceptional items 64 2,148 490 410 Net interest expense investment income 179 130 308 265 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 3,136 5,063 3,845 2,817 Taxation on profit on ordinary activities 1,042 1,247 1,005 499 Taxation on exceptional items 3 147 18 Equity minority interests 528 584 883 784 Profit for the financial year 1,563 3,085 1,957 1,552 Headline earnings 1,759 1,681 2,000 1,308 3 Earnings per share $ 1.11 2.09 1.25 1.01 3 Headline earnings per share $ 1.25 1.14 1.28 0.85 3 Dividend per share US cents 51.0 49.0 47.5 37.5 3 Basic number of shares outstanding million 1,411 1,474 1,567 1,540 4 EBITDA 4,792 4,647 4,689 3,114 5 EBITDA interest cover 20.0 31.2 Operating margin before exceptional items 16.3% 17.1% 16.9% 11.1% Dividend cover based on headline earnings 2.5 2.3 2.7 2.3 Balance sheet Fixed assets 18,841 12,870 14,281 11,097 Investments 7,376 5,523 7,960 8,391 Working capital 822 282 943 880 Provisions for liabilities and charges 2,896 2,194 1,404 1,324 Net debt funds 5,578 2,018 3,590 81 Equity minority interests 2,304 1,607 2,646 2,951 Shareholders funds 16,261 12,856 15,544 16,174 6 Total capital 24,143 16,481 21,780 19,044 Net cash inflow from operating activities 3,618 3,539 2,959 1,850 Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 258 258 258 209 7 Return on capital employed 17.5% 19.0% 18.3% 12.6% EBITDA average total capital 23.6% 25.0% 23.0% 16.8% Net debt funds to total capital 23.1% 12.2% 16.5% 0.4% 1 2001 restated for the adoption of FRS 19.
2000 and 1999 have not been restated for the adoption of FRS 19.
2 Operating profit for 2000 has been restated for the reclassification of the loss of $167 million arising on the anticipated disposal of Terra Industries Inc.
The disposal did not proceed, and the loss has therefore been reclassified into operating exceptional items as an impairment.
3 2000 and 1999 restated to reflect the three-for-one bonus issue in May 2001.
4 EBITDA is operating profit before exceptional items plus depreciation and amortisation of subsidiaries and share of joint ventures and associates.
5 EBITDA interest cover is EBITDA divided by net interest expense, after adjusting for other net financial income.
EBITDA interest cover for 2002 is annualised to account for acquisitions during the year.
The actual EBITDA interest cover for 2002 was 25.5 times.
For 2000 and 1999, EBITDA interest cover is not applicable as the Group was a net interest recipient, after adjusting for other net financial income.
6 Total capital is the sum of shareholders funds, net debt and minority interests.
7 Return on capital employed is calculated as total operating profit before impairments for the current year divided by the average of total capital less other investments and adjusted for impairments for the current and prior years.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2002 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION OTHER ANGLO AMERICAN PUBLICATIONS ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2002 Investing in 11:00 am on Friday, 25 April 2003, at Annual Report the future The Conference Centre, Church House, Deans Yard, Black Economic London SW1P 3NZ.
