2 Restated for 2001 and prior years for the change in accounting policy for deferred taxation.
com 53 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 m m m m m 52 weeks 52 weeks 53 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks Cash flow Net cash inflow from operating activities 1,093.7 676.4 641.5 472.3 967.7 Returns on investments and servicing of finance 36.8 12.6 15.2 29.0 56.1 Taxation 179.4 164.6 145.7 345.9 342.3 Capital expenditure and financial investment 176.0 258.2 167.0 628.1 788.3 Acquisitions and disposals 261.6 5.9 21.1 1.0 2.6 Equity dividends paid 256.7 258.6 413.5 412.6 325.8 Cash inflow outflow before management of liquid 1,132.0 13.5 90.6 884.3 430.0 resources and financing Management of liquid resources 29.1 263.7 162.5 180.6 226.6 Financing 730.2 265.4 260.3 505.0 307.4 Increase decrease in cash 372.7 11.8 7.2 198.7 104.0 Increase in net debt defined by FRS 1 629.2 26.4 69.8 862.3 380.8 2 Key performance measures Gross profit 1,3 Gross margin 35.8% 34.3% 31.8% 31.1% 33.3% Turnover Operating profit 1,3 Net margin 8.3% 6.2% 6.6% 8.0% 14.4% Turnover 1,3 Net margin excluding exceptional items 8.3% 6.5% 7.5% 8.4% 13.7% Profit before tax 1 Profitability 9.0% 5.2% 6.3% 8.6% 15.4% Turnover 1 Profitability excluding exceptional items 8.5% 6.7% 7.3% 8.8% 14.7% Standard earnings 4 Earnings per share 5.4p 0.2 p 9.6p 13.0p 28.8p Weighted average ordinary Defined by FRS 14 shares in issue Earnings per share adjusted for exceptional items 16.3p 11.2p 13.8p 15.6p 27.6p Dividend per share 9.5p 9.0p 9.0p 14.4p 14.3p Profit attributable to shareholders 4,5 Dividend cover 2.2x n a 1.1x 0.9x 2.0x Dividends Profit after tax and minority interests 4,5 Return on equity 11.1% 0.1 % 5.7% 7.8% 18.3% Average shareholders funds Retail debt Retail gearing 27.0% n a n a n a n a Retail debt retail shareholders funds Capital expenditure 290.5m 255.7m 450.6m 683.1m 750.2m 1 Based on results from continuing operations only.
2 Restated for 1998 for the change in accounting policy relating to the depreciation of fit out.
4 Restated for 2001 and prior years for the change in accounting policy for deferred taxation.
5 Stated before goodwill written off of 368.2m in 2002. Dividend cover and return on equity are 0.6 times and 3.3% respectively after writing off of goodwill.
Design and production: Pauffley Printing: St Ives, Westerham Press Cover printed on Revive Silk paper made from 75% post-consumer recycled fibre and THE QUEENS AWARD FOR 25% chlorine-free bleached pulp.
Text printed on Sequel Offset paper made from eleENTERPRISE INNOVATION 2000 mental chlorine-free bleached pulp sourced from sustainable managed forests.
Annual review and summary financial statement 2002 things are looking up!
Vision The standard against which all others are measured Mission Making aspirational quality accessible to all Values Quality, value, service, innovation and trust 1 Chairmans message 4 The year in review 20 Board Members 21 Summary reports 22 Summary profit and loss account 24 Summary balance sheet 25 Summary cash ow information 26 Five year group financial summary 27 Summary remuneration report 29 Shareholder information www.
com 1 Luc Vandevelde Chairman and Chief Executive Chairmans message In my report last year, I detailed our plan for restoring the fortunes of Marks & Spencer.
The first was to focus on the heart of our business our retail and financial services operations in the UK and to get back to the fundamental strengths that had made Marks & Spencer great in the past.
To succeed, we needed clarity of purpose and no distractions.
The second element of the plan was therefore to stop all activities which were non-core or making a loss.
Thirdly, we needed the right capital structure to make our balance sheet more efficient and to generate greater value for our shareholders.
The plan was simple, radical and all-encompassing, with each element essential to the success of the whole.
And it had to be accomplished rapidly: we were, after all, ghting to recover in a harsh, competitive marketplace.
To generate a sense of urgency in the organisation, I deliberately imposed a tight deadline for starting to see real changes.
A year on, the restructuring is complete and the changes to our capital structure including the return of 2bn to our shareholders have increased our potential earnings per share.
Best of all, were seeing a marked improvement in our performance.
In the 12 months to 30 March 2002, sales from continuing operations were up by 3.8% and corresponding Group operating profits by 30.8%.
During the 2001 calendar year, Marks & Spencer was the best performing share in the FTSE 100.
Customers are coming back, buying more and telling others.
Now that we have turned the corner, our task is to secure the recovery and to keep building for our future.
There is much to do and we are not complacent.
Phase one may be complete, but the plan moves on as we set about growing the business and regaining our leadership in the UK market.
Before we look forward, it is worth reecting on why the turnaround has been so relatively swift.
Yes we have changed our organisational and financial structures.
But more importantly, we have tapped into the values and qualities that customers traditionally associated with our brand but which tended to be obscured in recent years.
We have succeeded not by inventing a new Marks & Spencer, but by rediscovering the fundamental strengths of the past and making them relevant to the present.
Let me outline what I believe these fundamentals to be.
The first is to make sure we have the right team, without which no plan can succeed.
Our Board, completely reconstituted over the past two years, is a powerful combination of people with past experience of Marks & Spencer and those who bring new skills and ideas to the organisation.
We are grateful for the continuity provided by Robert Colvill who delayed his retirement from the Board until December 2001 to 2 Marks and Spencer Group p. l. c. help restructure the business.
We also welcome talented new members to the Board Laurel Powers-Freeling, Chief Executive of Marks & Spencer Financial Services, and Jack Keenan and Paul Myners who join us as nonexecutive directors.
It is gratifying to see how the experience and knowledge brought by each addition to the Board has enhanced our underlying culture and values.
The Board of UK Retail benets from the same combination of internal and external talent.
And right down through the organisation, we are fortunate in the quality and dedication of our people.
We are building a way of working based on teamwork, personal accountability and passion for our products and our 65,000 people have responded magnicently.
My thanks go to all of them, as well as to the many suppliers who have worked so closely with us on our recovery plan.
Along with having the right team, the next imperative is to listen to our customers.
Marks & Spencer has a special place in the British way of life.
I have always believed, and have often said publicly, that no other retailer in the world has such loyal customers.
We may have let them down and they may have punished us by staying away, but the vast majority were waiting for the excuse to come back.
They definitely even desperately wanted us to succeed.
They were therefore quick to respond when they saw that Marks & Spencer was taking them seriously.
As the business rediscovered its talent for innovation, quality, value and service, it also began restoring that all-important trust between retailer and customer.
Shoppers started coming back through our doors, delighted to nd that the Marks & Spencer they remembered was still there and indeed even better.
That is the reason why the recovery has been quicker than many people expected not simply that weve got back to fundamentals, but that, in so doing, weve reconnected with a huge reservoir of goodwill that never ceased to exist.
The vicious circle of decline became a virtuous circle of recovery when, once again, we were able to tap that capital of loyalty that represents the real value of the business.
The work, of course, goes on.
Later in this report, we write in more detail about what were doing to make shopping at Marks & Spencer even more interesting, appealing and stimulating.
Looking ahead, our task is to keep building on our fundamental strengths, guided by our mission of making aspirational quality accessible to all.
If phase one of the plan focused our efforts on the heart of our business, phase two addresses our future growth.
It looks at how we deliver value, both for our shareholders and for the communities in which we operate.
After much debate and renement, it is summed up in the following statement.
We will: Regain our leadership in clothing and speciality food by translating our scale and authority into superior quality, value and appeal: Build on our unique customer relationships through new products and services, particularly in Home and Financial Services: Shape our store locations, formats and product offer to meet the changing needs of our customers: Reassert our position as a leading socially responsible business.
The past year has proved that returning to fundamentals and reconnecting with our customers really does make a difference.
We knew the brand was strong stronger, indeed, than its custodians and have shown what can be achieved by releasing its inherent strength.
On this basis we aim to become, once again, the standard by which all others will want to be measured and to generate increasing value for our shareholders.
Thank you for standing by us as we turn the business around.
Your support is much appreciated by all of us in the Group.
As our fortunes now look up, we look forward to your continued support and hope you enjoy the shopping.
Luc Vandevelde Chairman and Chief Executive love at first sight!
I spent ages looking for the right outt for my sisters birthday party then what do you know, I found it at Marks & Spencer.
Ranges like Perfect, per una and Classics mean greater choice for women of all ages and sizes who want quality, value and style.
All three ranges have enjoyed great success during 2001 and into 2002.
4 Marks and Spencer Group p. l. c. Group turnover and operating profit continuing operations 2002 2001 m m % Turnover 7,619.4 7,342.6 3.8 Operating profit 629.1 480.9 30.8 before exceptional items UK Retail turnover and operating profit Alison Reed David Norgrove Finance Director Director Strategy and International 2002 2001 The Group is in strong financial The Group has a clear strategy in m m % shape.
Overseas we handled the Turnover 6,575.2 6,293.0 4.5 We have retained an excellent sales and closures responsibly and property portfolio, remain with concern for our employees, Operating profit 505.2 334.8 50.9 highly cash generative and have more than fullling our obligations.
before exceptional items a balance sheet structure which We are now looking to grow our will create greater value for franchise and Hong Kong our shareholders in the future.
The year in review Financial review As Luc has described, the year under review has seen a major change in the focus and performance of the Group.
There has been a significant turnaround in the performance of UK Retail, loss-making operations in Continental Europe have been closed and non-core businesses in North America have been sold or negotiations are ongoing for their disposal.
We have also restructured our balance sheet, raising 794m from the property portfolio through sale and leaseback, securitisation and the disposal of other properties as well as 719m from two public Eurobonds, which were well received by the market.
We completed the changes to our capital structure allowing 2bn to be returned to shareholders and leaving the Group with the right capital structure to generate greater value for our shareholders.
This has been achieved whilst retaining ownership of our prime properties, a source of real competitive advantage for the Group.
The Group remains highly cash generative with operating cash inow from our Retail and Financial Services businesses of 1.1bn.
Group operating profit from continuing operations was 629.1m, an increase of 30.8%.
The profits were driven by the performance of UK Retail, by far the biggest part of the Group, although earnings from Financial Services and continuing International Operations were lower than last year.
The UK Retail profit improvement of 170.4m to 505.2m excluding exceptional items was due to improved sales and a better buying margin.
UK Retail sales were 6.6bn, 4.5% up on last year.
Within this, clothing sales increased by 3.4% overall, but improved steadily throughout the year, rising from a decrease on the previous year of 9.1% in the first quarter to an increase of 16.5% in quarter 4.
Foods and Home performed consistently throughout the year with increases of 5.7% and 4.9% respectively.
We continued to benefit from the actions we took to consolidate the clothing supply chain and produce more merchandise overseas, and the clothing buying-in margin was 3 percentage points higher than last year.
Costs were well controlled and, excluding employee performance related bonuses of 52.8m, were 0.6% above last year.
In Financial Services, operating profits fell from 96.3m last year to 84.2m.
Income from our Chargecard held up well, but the level of personal loan advances has fallen in a very price-competitive market.
Overall profits were reduced by an increase in the bad debt charge of 11.9m as we revised our approach to providing for bad debts across our range of credit products.
Sales in our on-going International Operations fell by 2.3% and operating profits were down 31% at 20.7m.
The performance in the Republic of Ireland was encouraging, but many of our Franchise partners in Europe and the Middle East, together with our business in Hong Kong, experienced difficult trading conditions.
com 5 Roger Holmes Managing Director, UK Retail We set out a detailed recovery strategy last year, saying we wanted to get back to what Marks & Spencer does best, and do it by listening to our customers.
Im proud to report on the good progress we have made, and Im delighted that customers are noticing a difference.
The disposal of our Stores in Continental Europe and Brooks Brothers in the US were completed.
We sold our French business to Group Galeries Lafayette, our Spanish business to El Corte Ingles and closed our other Continental European operations within the time frame and cost we had projected and provided for last year.
Brooks Brothers was disposed of for 157.1m and, excluding goodwill which had previously been written off to reserves, the loss on disposal was 8.5m, subject to nalisation of the sale process.
As we go to press, negotiations relating to the disposal of Kings Super Markets are continuing.
The cost of funding our pension scheme has been increasing signicantly in recent years, and as a result we have taken the decision to close the current scheme to new entrants to minimise the risk to shareholders in the future.
We have introduced a very competitive dened contribution scheme for employees joining the Group from April 2002.
So, in summary, at the end of the financial year, we have achieved a much improved profit performance and a much more efficient balance sheet.
To allow our shareholders to share in this improved performance, we propose a final dividend per share of 5.8p, up 9.4%, giving a full year dividend of 9.5p per share.
Looking now at our businesses in more detail.
UK Retail Turning around our Clothing business We identied a number of major issues to address during the year as part of our recovery strategy for Clothing product appeal, quality and t, availability, pricing and segmentation, or in other words, making sure we have something for everyone.
Our aim was to produce higher quality goods, deliver them more quickly, and to do so at better prices.
But strictly in that order of priority better, faster, lower cost.
By the time we opened the doors on our autumn range in September 2001, we felt that the quality of our clothing, the way it was displayed, and our store environments, all made things a lot clearer for shoppers.
In this way, the Perfect campaign was the first real outward indication that our mission to win back the hearts of loyal Marks & Spencer customers was on course.
Perfect meant high quality, everyday wardrobe staples at accessible prices for instance, a white stretch blouse and black roll-neck jumper relevant for every woman of every age.
Items that typied the clothes for which we have always been famous and on which our customers had always relied.
The response was wonderful, and was instrumental in restoring confidence, not just for customers and the press, but for everyone within the business at last we felt we were getting back to doing what Marks & Spencer does best.
6 Marks and Spencer Group p. l. c. Steve Longdon Yasmin Yusuf Business Unit Director Creative Director for Clothing Womenswear Weve been listening to Were working hand in hand customers and learning all the with our suppliers to give time, interpreting style in a our customers high quality way thats relevant to the lives merchandise.
Our suppliers in and attitudes of the people the UK and overseas operate we serve.
We provide good, some of the best production better and best at prices facilities in the world to ensure people wish to pay, and very just that.
few high street brands can match that.
Perfect re-established our credentials with our core customer, and its success formed a solid base for us to complement these key ranges by launching per una, which followed at the end of September.
It moved to 90 stores and now features in 140.
Per una is a stylish and competitively-priced range designed and made exclusively for us by George Davies.
Fashionable, affordable and colourful, per una is an important part of the mix which enables us to attract different customers.
It also complements our core ranges, allowing us to offer more choice for our existing shoppers.
Later in autumn we trialled five Classic shops, with such success that we will have extended this shop t to 130 stores by the end of June and will be adding 40 more next year.
Classics is quite clearly for the more traditional not necessarily older dresser and has been particularly successful in attracting back customers who had felt the need to shop elsewhere in recent years.
Unlike our competitors, we cater for a wide variety of people in terms of lifestyles and outlook on fashion, and do so across three adult generations.
This is challenging, but were confident that by segmenting our various ranges, we are making shopping for clothes clearer and easier.
We not only segment our ranges by lifestyle attitude, but also offer a large number of styles in clearly differentiated price ranges all displayed in a way customers will clearly comprehend.
We work on the principle of providing good, better and best.
Our prices clearly establish the categories, with our keenly-priced Essentials range quite obviously just that essential.
Springing a surprise In January we launched our spring collection in 58 stores, earlier than weve ever done before.
The overnight transformation of one million sq ft of sales space, to display the 2002 collection was a tremendous team effort.
The impact and customer response was excellent, with the range described as a return to classics with the emphasis on easy glamour.
The success was also due in large part to the inuence of our rejuvenated in-house design team and Womenswear product teams.
Their use of colour and creation of collections inspire customers to put whole looks together.
The team has focused on appeal and quality by listening to our customers and learning season by season, then providing clear direction for our suppliers.
Season by season weve also been improving the t of our clothing, aided by the previous years comprehensive survey involving 2,500 women.
The Bra Sensor, unique and exclusive to Marks & Spencer, ensures customers are advised on the best tting bra to meet their needs, and has been introduced in all stores.
In November we launched Shapewear, lingerie which helps improve the look of any body shape, in both light and rm control ranges.
The clothes take advantage of an innovative process called Selvedge which nishes the edges of a 0 0 marks and spencer plc.
Were like a couple of kids in a sweet shop.
Must have this, must have that!
Retail therapy at its best!
Our store renewal programme is based on creative thinking, careful planning and listening to what our customers want.
New layouts, new lighting, new displays and new concepts like Beauty Shops and Caf Revive have all helped to bring customers back to our stores this year.
8 Marks and Spencer Group p. l. c. relax!
Buy yourself something cool for the beach she said!
Youd look great in Blue Harbour she said!
Blue Harbour is a great example of our new approach to creating and displaying our menswear range.
For men of all ages and tastes, its now easier to nd the right clothes for ofce, home or holiday with maximum style and minimum fuss.
com 9 Michele Jobling Maurice Helfgott Managing Director Business Unit Director The Zip project Ltd. Menswear With the help of our suppliers Blue Harbour is an exciting were quite deliberately creating step forward.
Improving in a business model suited to areas like our casual wear, improving our childrenswear with a disciplined focus on performance.
The aim of the our customers needs, will Zip project is to provide product help us continue the strong appeal and consistent quality recovery in our menswear in our clothes and get our business.
products into stores more quickly, at better prices.
garment in a way that eliminates the need for bulky and visible elastics.
Were launching a new clothing range for larger women, having worked hard to offer the best t on the high street and doing so at the same prices as all other sizes.
Also with spring arrived Blue Harbour, our range of casual wear for men.
It combines authentic, American casual style with Marks & Spencer quality in more than 250 different items such as polo and rugby shirts and cotton knitwear.
Blue Harbour sales and feedback tell us we have a real success.
Here its worth reecting that getting things right for our menswear customers is playing its own important role in the recovery of our clothing business.
Whether working on Blue Harbour, formal wear, sportswear, or fashion items from the Autograph range, our menswear team display the same passion for product as all our teams now do.
We now offer last years innovative machine-washable suit in more styles and colours and in autumn made it available as an evening suit.
In February we launched our urban-survival suit designed for everyday comfort, the suit, made of Italian wool, can be used to dress up or dress casually.
An innovative production process keeps the suit fresh and crease-free, however busy its wearer is.
Continuing growth in Clothing Overall sales trends in adult clothing have lled us with enthusiasm and optimism.
We are very clear about the areas in which wed lost market share of adult clothing but our recent trading gives us confidence that we are regaining this lost share and will continue to do so.
We have robust plans in place to support this, and are further developing areas of our segmentation programme which have been particularly successful, such as Classics.
These will be rened and extended over the next 18 months, and the segmentation complemented by other ranges, such as the development of our smart-casual wear.
Were also making big changes in our childrenswear department.
We have always applied strict safety testing and have the best quality childrens clothing on the market, but our leadership position in childrenswear generally has been eroded over recent years.
Weve set up our new Zip project to overcome this.
Its a joint venture company with long-standing supplier Desmond & Sons.
Quite simply we looked at what we and our suppliers were doing and cut out any duplication by creating a single organisation to design, specify and procure our childrenswear.
The Zip project combines the very best attributes of a supplier and a retailer in one organisation and aims to enhance our product offer, bring clothes faster to market and reduce costs in doing so thus improving both prices for customers and margins for the company.
The first products will be in store this summer.
In creating Zip we have brought 120 skilled jobs to the garment industry in Northern Ireland.
10 Marks and Spencer Group p. l. c. In addition, Childrenswear is keen to involve personalities who are fans of Marks & Spencer, so we were delighted in February 2002 to sign David Beckham, a real style icon and role model, to help with our boyswear range.
The first products will arrive in stores in September 2002.
A traditional Marks & Spencer Christmas Celebrities also played a key role in our successful Christmas trading.
Our television advertising featured wellknown gures such as Honor Blackman, Matthew Pinsent, Zoe Ball and Hugh Laurie, genuine fans of our stores and products, who reminded us that Marks & Spencer is Christmas in three words.
We really pulled out all the stops to provide our customers with gift ideas and inspiration, and special Christmas food lines, over 70% of which were new or improved from last year.
We introduced 254 special gift shops and set about creating magic and sparkle and real theatre in our stores.
We were pleased to see customers respond positively to these product innovations and promotional activity, which were backed by enhanced designs in certain ranges such as knitwear.
We also benefited from improvements in the t of clothing and availability of lingerie all of these factors contributing to our successful Christmas trading.
Customer satisfaction was generally far higher, and this, combined with strong sales, meant we put 25% less stock into our post-Christmas sale.
A fresh new look for more and more stores Underpinning our successful Christmas and the clothing launches of autumn and spring, was our continuing store renewal programme.
This covered over 100 stores this year, and now over 65% of sales space has the new look.
We recognised at the start of the financial year that with only 23 stores refreshed to the new concept, many of our customers had yet to see the new look Marks & Spencer.
So in summer we devised and tested a lower cost, more rapid renewal process in two stores, St Albans and Reading.
We learnt a great deal from this process to form a solid basis for our renewal programme.
Our research shows customers are highly aware of the changes taking place and nd the stores brighter, more modern and easier to browse around, with eye-catching and inviting displays.
When stores are renewed we treat their relaunch as a real opportunity to get local communities involved, with events like fashion shows and wine-tasting.
In this way, local media are always very supportive of the changes taking place at stores up and down the country.
Of course the success of our renewals and launches is also very much down to the hard work and support of our stores greatest assets, our people.
Our colleagues generally now feel far prouder of their stores and their roles within them.
Importantly, the renewals lead to sales increases, which more than cover the costs of the work.
Alan McWalter Director Group Marketing The Magic and Sparkle Christmas advertising campaigns were important elements of our total marketing effort, strengthening the trust people place in us and making Marks & Spencer a destination shop at Christmas.
com 11 To bring lapsed, or not-so-regular shoppers back in to assess the renewed Marks & Spencer, we organise cardholder events, special promotions for Chargecard holders.
Successful in enticing shoppers back, the events have the added bonus of recruiting significant numbers of new cardholders, including 19,000 in two days in October.
We will be continuing our store renewals programme next year, improving at least another 100 stores by November 2002.
We will also revise our original trial stores to reect the new best practice and, as soon as possible, address the remaining stores in our portfolio.
After that, refreshing our stores will be an ongoing process, so Marks & Spencer branches will always present a bright and contemporary face to our loyal shoppers.
Another one of our stores has also enjoyed significant renewal during the year.
Thousands of customers every week take advantage of the convenience of our website to order clothing, home goods, owers, hampers and much more.
We have invested in the capacity of the site, which is now a top 10 retail site in the UK.
Many more people also visit the site not to buy goods, but to discover the information they need about our stores, products and services.
Constant innovation drives our Food business Innovation keeps us ahead of the competition when it comes to convenient speciality foods, and we introduced 600 new products in autumn and a further 500 in spring.
By launching 1,000 lines every year approximately 25% of the products we sell we constantly refresh the choice customers nd in our stores.
We celebrated 21 years in the sandwich business having been the first company to sell pre-packed sandwiches with Chef Specials, a gourmet range developed for us by six of the UKs leading chefs.
We also ran a food advertising campaign reminding everyone of the premium quality of our produce, meat and sh.
All these initiatives helped our food business maintain market share this year in an increasingly competitive environment.
Our customers continue to trust us to lead the market in setting even higher standards for the safety and origin of our food.
In previous years we were the first to guarantee all our products as GM free and have been selling only free range eggs since 1997.
This year we extended this commitment on eggs to their use as an ingredient in all our prepared foods, and will achieve this by the autumn.
On pesticides we have removed a further 79 that are commonly used, giving us an industry leading position.
As a 100% own brand business, Marks & Spencer is uniquely placed to make this type of commitment.
Marks & Spencer Other major food retailers 2001 2002 Customer perception of food quality Justin King Business Unit Director Food People trust the quality of our food and clearly love it, so were looking at ways to make it accessible to more people, more often.
com 0 12 12 Marks and Spencer Gr Marks and Spencer Group p. l. c. oup p. l. c. www.
Get home, kick off my shoes, pour a glass of something cold and curl up on the sofa with a chicken curry from Marks & Spencer heaven.
Delicious, nutritious, well prepared and well-thought-out food ranges for busy bodies of all kinds thats the order of the day at Marks & Spencer.
And with our new Simply Food stores, were looking to sell more food to more people, more often.
com 13 Keith Bogg Business Unit Director Home and Direct Nowadays, people update and refresh their home more often, and customer feedback tells us were serving them well with inspirational solutions.
I believe there is a large opportunity for Marks & Spencer in our Home department.
One of the years key food successes was the pilot of a new style of high street food store, Simply Food.
Customers love our convenient food but it isnt always convenient for them to visit our branches.
Thats the reasoning behind these stores, the first two of which opened in Surbiton and Twickenham in July 2001.
Offering busy customers a quick stop, top-up shop, during extended hours, the shops are a real success and we are committed to opening 20 more over the coming year, with a further 30 to follow.
Of course this commitment may be subject to overcoming property issues, but we are confident in our plans.
Not only is our food offer suited to this small format, but our supply chain is better suited than our competitors to servicing small high street outlets.
We also opened three slightly smaller Simply Food outlets at main line railway stations, as a joint venture with Compass Group, and these, too, have exceeded their targets.
Were exploring a number of other similar opportunities to make our popular food available to even more people, more often.
One of the most successful elements of our store renewals programme has been our Caf Revive coffee shops.
Now numbering 94, the cafes represent one of the most successful coffee shop chains on the high street, serving over 500,000 customers a week, and taking over 2m in Christmas week alone.
As well as the refreshments available, including our Caf Revive blend itself, customers enjoy the relaxed ambience, natural light and views.
This year we will be adding 49 more Caf Revives.
As demonstrated by our coffee shops, were always listening to customers in our attempts to nd better ways of using sales space in our Food business, which is why we have taken 34 deli counters out of our stores, but added 92 new bakeries.
We are also embarking on a five year, 35m a year refrigeration renewal programme, to help maintain our reputation for food quality.
Building on successful growth in Home and Beauty As part of our renewal programme, we assigned an extra 200,000 sq ft of space to Home and after trials at Merry Hill and Bromley, have extended our new Home concept to 27 larger stores.
The look features dramatic lighting, friendly and efficient customer service areas and improved displays.
We now display complete room ideas, or shops within shops, such as a kitchen shop, bed shop and bath shop.
While we maintain high product quality, customers enjoy a wide range of price options following the same segmentation logic of our clothing good, better, best.
This particularly increases our appeal to younger customers, including those equipping a first home.
These new ideas have increased Home sales at the 27 stores by over 10% and have been received very well by colleagues and customers alike.
In fact we are convinced by customer reaction to our new concept that there is a huge opportunity for the Marks & Spencer brand in this fragmented market and we are currently looking at ways of introducing new products and services and making these more accessible to our customers.
14 14 14 14 Marks and Spencer Gr Marks and Spencer Gr Marks and Spencer Gr Marks and Spencer Group p. l. c. oup p. l. c. oup p. l. c. oup p. l. c. By adding 50 more Beauty shops we completed our large store Beauty renewal programme and now have 80 in these stores.
We have been working hard to position ourselves as a real destination on the high street for Beauty having added over 700 Beauty lines during the year, bringing in outside expertise such as Danielle Ryman the aromacologist.
Weve also updated many rm customer favourites, and have been developing ranges to appeal to all age groups.
In spring, we launched our new Enhance range of cosmetics, which is available in all stores.
Also, recognising that only 2% of our customers regularly buy our Beauty products, we are raising awareness through sampling, which began in May 2002, with one million free samples.
People are the lifeblood of our stores success We launched our Foundations For Success programme to set out new ways of working in stores, and new levels of customer service to aim for.
The initiative focuses attention on power hours, the key times of day when each different store is at its busiest, and everyone available helps on the sales oor.
The programme also ensures regular team briengs and a concentration on all the little efficiencies and shopkeeping tasks that add up to making it really easy and enjoyable for our customers to shop.
Above all, it has encouraged colleagues to become accountable for the performance of their store.
This, along with a new bonus scheme based on store sales targets where colleagues can earn a bonus above their salary, and the general recovery in sales, has seen a major leap in the motivation of the people within Marks & Spencer, which we believe now shows in the service we provide.
We hope that by building on the Foundations For Success we can progress to the point where Marks & Spencer is recognised as the clear market leader for service standards.
Training also plays a major role in improved customer service, and weve decked out a model store of 30,000 sq ft at White City for just that purpose.
Colleagues visit to improve their sales and service techniques and learn about visual display principles.
We have also implemented a training module for all our lingerie sales teams to help them advise customers on the most appropriate underwear.
Similarly, 500 colleagues working in our new Home service centres can take advantage of a customer service training package.
Uniquely on the high street, both these training courses can lead to a BTEC qualication.
Changing the way we work also applies to all the central administration and support roles, and work to create an inspirational and efficient business environment is well under way.
We are calling this the Grand Union Programme, and one major part is the relocation of activities from Baker Street to purpose-built premises at Paddington Basin.
This is scheduled for completion by March 2004, and gives us the opportunity to release the financial asset we have in Baker Street.
Barry Stevenson Jack Paterson Retail Director Business Unit Director, People are the key to the Beauty and Lingerie success of any organisation, Continuous product so Im delighted to report that innovation is at the heart of my colleagues in our stores our Lingerie range and is a have got their confidence key element in making us the back and are as keen as I am number one destination shop to see Marks & Spencer once for Lingerie.
It is this same again recognised as the clear inherent philosophy that is leader for customer service.
steadily driving the growth of our Beauty business.
15 Marks and Spencer Group p. l. c. www www.
com 15 15 Little details matter to me.
Thats why I love my cream crocks from M&S they go with absolutely everything!
Complete room displays portraying different lifestyles and friendly service centres have put our homeware products in the spotlight, with new soft furnishings, bed linens and household and kitchen accessories proving great favourites with customers.
16 16 16 16 Marks and Spencer Gr Marks and Spencer Gr Marks and Spencer Gr Marks and Spencer Group p. l. c. oup p. l. c. oup p. l. c. oup p. l. c. 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 Mar 02 Customer returns for quality issues 1994 2002 In describing our performance over the year it is also important to recognise the efforts of the many able managers we have added to our teams, from outside the Group as well as from within.
In fact, it has become generally easier to recruit talented staff, as more and more people are attracted by the opportunity of being part of the growing number of successes at Marks & Spencer.
Close working relationships with suppliers We have helped our suppliers refocus their activities into industries, such as knitwear, or lingerie, both to play to their core strengths and for greater efficiency in our dealings with them.
Suppliers have also responded well to the Key Performance Indicator KPI programme established in autumn 2000.
Our suppliers were involved in creating these KPIs and within each industry are measured and ranked on quality, production and despatch, exibility, design and cost.
We release the gures each season and there is clear evidence of suppliers responding to this feedback.
The acid test is the percentage of product returned by customers, and this has been falling steadily quarter by quarter, exceeding our targets.
Customer complaints too are down, 35% on last year.
With a specic focus on our top 500 lines, availability has also shown a marked improvement, exceeding our targets.
Christmas was particularly good in this respect as we had 100 million more stock in our stores rather than warehouses this year.
Our long standing UK-based suppliers have re-positioned most of their manufacturing facilities overseas, with 25% still produced in the UK and 75% abroad.
All of our plants are visited regularly by our buying teams to ensure they consistently meet our performance requirements.
We also commission independent auditing to check compliance with our Global Sourcing Principles and with the standards set by the Government-sponsored Ethical Trading Initiative, of which we are a member.
However, with the move towards overseas production, we made sure of keeping a high level of response and production exibility.
We also maintain exibility in our menu of supply chain options.
Our main choice is the collaborative approach, in which we work closely with our partners on design and development before they then manufacture the goods.
But in some cases we manage all development work before specifying our exact requirements.
And we are also using alternative supply methods such as our joint venture childrenswear company, Zip project, or per una, where we have delegated the entire management of a category to a dedicated and exclusive supplier.
com 17 17 17 Laurel Powers-Freeling Chief Executive Marks & Spencer Financial Services I believe that Financial Services is something of a secret weapon in the Group, and my objective is to re-invigorate our classic credit business, and reach the point where our customer offer is seen as essential to have in-store.
Financial Services In Marks & Spencer Financial Services we have concentrated this year on a comprehensive review of our business, perhaps one year behind the similar review and focus on the Companys UK Retail activities.
Overall our financial performance and our review indicated that we have been operating in some product areas where we have not grown to sufficient scale to compete effectively in the market.
In other areas we have not made the most of our advantages and opportunities.
Therefore we are restructuring our business to focus our efforts on what we do best and where we can achieve most.
In some areas, such as Group Stakeholder Pensions, we will be scaling back our activities to allow us to concentrate on our very loyal Marks & Spencer Retail shoppers.
We know that our business will benefit by offering our Retail customers the financial products they really want, at prices they want to pay and with greater access through our stores.
We will concentrate on our card activities and lending and we will be looking to reinvigorate our classic credit business.
Approximately 20% of store transactions are still made on our own Chargecard.
But there are still many customers who dont have a card, or dont even know much about our financial services.
While this arena has become more competitive of late, we believe with our brand name, and by altering our pricing structures to be more attractive, we have a clear opportunity to succeed.
Later this year we intend to pilot a combined credit and loyalty card in two regions of the UK, as part of a plan to strengthen and extend the relationship with our customers.
We will also continue to introduce Financial Services Centres to improve our financial services offering for shoppers in stores.
Corporate Social Responsibility The concepts of environmental performance, company responsibility and sustainability are becoming increasingly important to all major corporations.
As a company, Marks & Spencer has always been much more than a collection of shops.
Throughout our existence we have always aspired to establish a broader role in the community and act in a socially responsible way, and people trust us to do so.
Our current management is keen to remain true to these core values, appreciating also the solid business and shareholder benets of engendering this trust.
To this end we have a committee, led by Luc Vandevelde, to bring leadership and to demonstrate an even stronger commitment to corporate social responsibility across the Group.
Furthermore, we recognise now that many different stakeholder groups, not least investors, the Government, our customers and our colleagues within the Group, wish to know more about our activity under the Corporate Social Responsibility CSR umbrella.
While we have addressed the issue in recent annual reviews, we will be publishing an interim CSR report in November 2002.
This will act as an introduction to our first full CSR report which will accompany our next annual report in June 2003.
18 18 18 Marks and Spencer Gr Marks and Spencer Gr Marks and Spencer Group p. l. c. oup p. l. c. oup p. l. c. www www www.
Mummy worries about what we eat.
She worries about whats in our dinners.
She likes Marks & Spencer because they worry too!
We take issues such as ethical sourcing and safety very seriously indeed.
Thats why we spend so much time making sure that all our food products including a range of nutrition-rich meals for children are prepared by suppliers who share our insistence on quality and high standards.
com 19 19 19 Graham Oakley Company Secretary, Chief Legal Advisor Our continuing commitment to social responsibility is demonstrated by Luc chairing our CSR committee, which provides the Board with an overview of the social, environmental and ethical impacts of the Groups activities.
In this review we have already referred to some of the initiatives which will feature in these reports.
But its worth reecting on some of the other activities throughout the Group designed to improve life for all sorts of different people, over and above the charitable donations we make as individuals and as a Company.
A variety of programmes organised by the Princes Trust and Business in the Community offer our managers opportunities to develop their skills through volunteer work and secondments to charitable organisations.
And in an effort to help tackle the issue of social exclusion, we have been piloting schemes which offer work placements to help homeless people back into society, and assist in the rehabilitation of offenders.
We also donate unsold foods to a wide variety of charities who provide meals to those in need.
As mentioned earlier, we still take a lead on food integrity issues: another example of this has been the establishment of nut-free factories to rule out problems for the increasing number of people prone to anaphylaxis, rather than simply carrying on as before and adding a warning label.
We were also named Compassionate Supermarket of the Year 2002 by Compassion in World Farming CIWF, the UKs leading farm animal welfare group.
Our initiatives also include those which care for the environment indeed we are now placed 14th in the Business in the Environment FTSE 300 Index, the highest-ranked general retailer in the listing.
Were also developing a new strategy for how we can help in appropriate ways with the countrys health agenda, and currently run successful initiatives relating to breast cancer and disabled access to public places.
For many decades now, Marks & Spencer has been actively involved in improving the quality of life for a wide range of communities, and in the early days of the 21st Century our commitment to society remains as strong as ever.
We want to be the most trusted retailer wherever we trade, trusted by all people whose lives our business touches our customers, our colleagues, our suppliers and their staff, and the communities in which we operate.
In securing our recovery and continuously building for our future, our aim remains to do this as a leading socially responsible business.
20 Marks and Spencer Group p. l. c. Board Members Luc Vandevelde Roger Holmes Alan McWalter David Norgrove Laurel Powers-Freeling Alison Reed Chairman and Managing Director Director Group Director Strategy and Director.
Chief Executive Finance Director Chief Executive UK Retail Marketing International of Marks & Spencer Age 45.
A Chartered in February 2000. in January 2001.
He in January 2000. in September 2000.
She joined Previously Chairman joined the Company He joined the He joined the Company November 2001.
She Marks & Spencer in and CEO of Promodes, from Kingsher where Company from in 1988 and has been was previously Manag- 1984 from Touche Ross which he joined in he was Chief Executive Kingsher where he a divisional director ing Director at Lloyds & Co. Alison has held 1995.
During this time of the Electrical Sector was Marketing Director of Europe: worldwide TSB responsible for an extensive range of he built Promodes into and a main board with Woolworths and franchising: menswear Wealth Management.
financial and commercial an international retailer director.
Previously he previously Marketing and strategy before She joined Lloyds TSB management roles.
Her with operations across was Finance Director and Development taking up his current in 1994 as Group senior positions have Europe, Asia and with B&Q in 1994 Director at Comet executive role.
Finance Director for included Commercial South America and and, three years having spent his earlier Davids previous career Lloyds Abbey Life and Executive for the Home merged Promodes later, he transferred career at Unilever and includes Assistant was subsequently & Gifts group, Divisional with Carrefour in 1999. to Woolworths to Spillers Foods.
Alan Secretary with HM Director of Finance and Director for Logistics Chairman of ECR become Managing is non-Executive Treasury, The First Retail Development and Group Financial Europe.
Prior to Chairman of National Bank of within UK Retail BankController.
She was born in Belgium and Kingsher, Roger Constantine Holdings Chicago, and Private ing.
After graduating appointed UK Retail has spent most of spent seven years as Limited and a Council Secretary to Prime from Columbia and Finance Director in his career working a strategy consultant Member of the Minister Margaret Massachusetts Institute 1999.
She is also a internationally, for McKinsey & Co.
Incorporated Society Thatcher from 1985 of Technology, she non-executive director including 24 years latterly as Principal, of British Advertisers.
Other worked for McKinsey of HSBC Bank plc, with Kraft where he specialising in retail A fellow and past directorships include & Co. in the US and a position she has nished as CEO of and consumer goods.
Europe and briey at held since 1996. the French and Marketing Society.
Morgan Stanley before Italian operations.
joining Prudential plc and subsequently Lloyds TSB.
Brian Baldock CBE Tony Ball Jack Keenan Kevin Lomax Paul Myners Dame Stella Graham Oakley Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Rimington DCB Company Secretary, Director Chairman Non-Executive Director Chief Legal Advisor Chairman Age 46.
NonChief Executive and was previously Deputy A founding member retired as Chairman of in January 1997. qualied as a Solicitor Executive Chairman Managing Director CEO, Guinness UDV of Misys in 1979.
He Gartmore Investment Her career with the in 1982 and began his from June 1999 BSkyB since June 1999. and a board member was Non-Executive Management Limited Security Service career with the Navy, to February 2000.
He was previously of Diageo plc until Chairman of Misys at the end of last spanned 27 years Army, and Air Force Chairman of Sygen President and CEO 2001.
He joined from May 1980 until year.
His current and she was the first Institutes NAAFI.
International plc, of US Company International Distillers June 1985, since directorships include woman to be appointIn 1985 he joined non-executive director Fox Liberty Networks, and Vintners IDV as when he has been Chairman of Guardian ed Director General Marks & Spencers of Cornhill Insurance plc, after serving as Chief Executive in 1996 Executive Chairman, Media Group, Nonand the first person in Legal Department Chairman of Wellington President and and was appointed to leading Misys through Executive Director of that position to have and was appointed Pub Company plc, COO of Fox Sports the Board of Grand a period of significant mm0 and his most their name made Head of Legal in 1990.
Kevin has recent appointment to public.
She is also a In addition, in 1997 and Chairman of First beginning of his to this he spent more wide-ranging the Board of the Bank non-executive director he was appointed Artist Corporation plc.
career with BSkyB than 30 years in experience of the of New York.
Company Secretary Brian is past Chairman in 1993, Tony was marketing and general industrial sector member of the with responsibility of The Lords Taverners, Head of Production management positions including previous Financial Reporting for Internal Audit, a fellow of the and Operations with the General Foods executive positions Council.
Paul is also a Risk Assessment Royal Society of Arts, of Sky Sports and Group and Kraft Foods with Hanson plc, Director of the Royal and Insurance.
a companion of the General Manager International, rising to Wellman Incandescent Academy, a Fellow of In September 2000 British Institute of of Broadcasting.
Chairman, Kraft Foods Ltd, the Central the Royal Society of Graham assumed Management and a International.
Jack is Trading Group plc Arts and Chairman of corporate responsibility fellow of The Chartered currently a nonand STC.
Director of the Tate St Ives.
for Human Resources Institute of Marketing.
executive director the Royal Opera House.
reporting directly to of The Body Shop the Chairman.
International plc, Tomkins plc and General Mills Inc.
He is also a patron of the advisory board of the Independent Cambridge Centre for Audit Committee International Business Remuneration and Management.
com 21 Summary reports The Summary Financial Statement on pages 22 to 26, the Summary Remuneration Report on pages 27 and 28 and the Summary Directors Report on this page are summaries of information contained in the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The aim is to provide shareholders with the key financial information in a clear and concise manner.
For this reason, the Summary Financial Statement does not contain all the information to give a full understanding of the results of the Group and state of affairs of the Company and the Group.
The Directors Report, the full accounts and the Auditors Report on those accounts, which is unqualied, are contained in the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2002.
Copies may be obtained free of charge from the Company as noted on page 29.
Summary Directors report Principal activities The principal activities of the Group are Retailing and Financial Services.
Financial Services includes the operations of the Groups retail financial services companies, which provide account cards, personal loans, unit trust management, life assurance, personal insurance and pensions.
Review of activities and future developments A review of the Groups activities and of the future development of the Group is contained in The Year in Review on pages 4 to 19.
Dividends The directors have declared dividends as follows: m Ordinary shares Interim paid, 3.7p per share last year 3.7p 105.2 Proposed final, 5.8p per share last year 5.3p 133.7 Total ordinary dividends, 9.5p per share last year 9.0p 238.9 The final dividend will be paid on 19 July 2002 to shareholders whose names are on the Register of Members at the close of business on 31 May 2002.
Directors Current members of the Board are shown on page 20, with details of membership of principal Board committees.
Alison Reed and Laurel Powers-Freeling were appointed executive directors of Marks and Spencer p. l. c. on 11 July 2001 and 6 November 2001 respectively.
Jack Keenan was appointed non-executive director on 1 September 2001.
Robert Colvill retired from the Board on 31 December 2001.
As part of the capital reorganisation a new company, Marks and Spencer Group p. l. c. was incorporated on 23 July 2001.
The original directors were Andy Ryde and Melissa Andrews who resigned on 22 January 2002 when the directors of Marks and Spencer p. l. c. were appointed as directors of Marks and Spencer Group p. l. c. On 2 April 2002, Paul Myners was appointed non-executive director of Marks and Spencer Group p. l. c. Summary Corporate Governance The Group is committed to high standards of Corporate Governance and complies with all the provisions of the Combined Code.
A detailed statement of how the Group applies the principles is set out in the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held at 11.00 am on 10 July 2002 at the Royal Festival Hall in London.
The Notice of Meeting together with explanatory notes is given in the booklet which accompanies this report.
Auditors report Auditors report to the members of Marks and Spencer Group p. l. c. We have examined the Summary Financial Statement set out on pages 22 to 26 and the amounts disclosed relating to directors remuneration on page 28.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement in accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the Summary Financial Statement within the Annual Review with the Annual Report and Financial Statements and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Summary Financial Statement.
Basis of opinion We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 The Auditors Statement on the Summary Financial Statement, issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Opinion In our opinion the Summary Financial Statement is consistent with the Annual Report and Financial Statements and Directors Report of Marks and Spencer Group p. l. c. for the year ended 30 March 2002 and complies with the requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
 Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors, London, 20 May 2002 22 Marks and Spencer Group p. l. c. Summary profit and loss account 52 weeks ended 30 March 2002 52 weeks ended 31 March 2001 Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations Total operations operations Total As restated As restated As restated m m m m m m Turnover 7,619.4 516.0 8,135.4 7,342.6 733.1 8,075.7 Operating profit Before exceptional operating charges 629.1 14.7 643.8 480.9 13.9 467.0 Exceptional operating charges 26.5 26.5 Total operating profit 629.1 14.7 643.8 454.4 13.9 440.5 profit loss on sale of property and other xed assets 41.2 41.2 83.0 0.2 83.2 Provision for loss on discontinued operations 224.0 224.0 Loss on sale termination of operations 366.7 366.7 1.7 1.7 Net interest income 17.6 17.6 13.9 13.9 profit loss on ordinary activities before taxation 687.9 352.0 335.9 383.6 238.1 145.5 Taxation on ordinary activities 195.1 12.6 182.5 146.3 3.2 149.5 profit loss on ordinary activities after taxation 492.8 339.4 153.4 237.3 241.3 4.0 Minority interests all equity 1.1 1.5 0.4 0.5 2.0 1.5 profit loss attributable to shareholders 493.9 340.9 153.0 237.8 243.3 5.5 Dividends 238.9 238.9 258.3 258.3 Retained profit loss for the period 255.0 340.9 85.9 20.5 243.3 263.8 Earnings per share 5.4p 0.2 p Adjusted earnings per share 16.3p 11.2p Dividend per share 9.5p 9.0p Notes to summary profit and loss account 2002 2001 m m Turnover from continuing operations UK Retail 6,575.2 6,293.0 International Retail 693.4 686.5 Financial Services 350.8 363.1 Total 7,619.4 7,342.6 Operating profit from continuing operations before exceptional charges UK Retail 505.2 334.8 International Retail 33.3 41.9 Financial Services 84.2 96.3 Excess interest charged within Financial Services 6.4 7.9 Total 629.1 480.9 www.
com 23 Commentary The layout of the profit and loss account shows the same discontinued operations for this year and last year separately.
The left hand column for each year, which shows the results from continuing operations, gives a clearer understanding of the underlying and future trading performance of the Group.
We have adopted a new accounting policy on deferred tax due to a new accounting standard being issued.
As a result we have restated the comparatives to comply with the new policy, reducing opening net assets by 79.6m and increasing last years tax charge by 6.8m.
Turnover UK Retail sales including VAT of 665.0m for the 52 weeks comprise clothing, footwear and gifts 3.8bn last year 3.6bn : home 0.4bn last year 0.4bn : and foods 3.1bn last year 2.9bn.
A summary of the sales performance including VAT for the year is given below: 14 weeks to 12 weeks to 15 weeks to 11 weeks to 52 weeks to % increase decrease on last year 7 July 29 Sept 12 Jan 30 March 30 March Clothing, footwear & gifts 9.1 0.8 8.0 16.5 3.4 Home 1.5 6.6 9.9 6.2 4.9 Foods 5.9 4.9 6.0 6.0 5.7 Total 2.6 2.8 7.3 10.9 4.5 Operating profit The increase in UK Retail operating profit before exceptional charges results from the 4.5% increase in sales excluding VAT, an improvement in gross margin due to better buying practices and less merchandise being sold at reduced prices, partly offset by a 3.6% increase in operating costs.
The increase in operating costs arises largely as a result of an additional 52.8m of performance bonuses for management and store staff shared across 56,000 employees, 26.0m of additional pension costs following an actuarial valuation of the pension scheme, offset by a decrease in other operating costs due to savings in consultancy fees, marketing, IT and closure of the Direct clothing catalogue operation.
Continuing International Retail includes Kings Super Markets in the US as the intended disposal has not yet been completed.
Kings Super Markets contributed 12.6m to operating profit last year 11.9m.
Excluding Kings, operating profit from retained International businesses Republic of Ireland, franchises and Hong Kong is down 31.0% at 20.7m.
Within this, there was an encouraging performance in the Republic of Ireland but some of our franchises partners experienced difficult trading conditions.
Our business in Hong Kong, which we have decided to retain and run as if it were a franchise, also traded below last years level in a weak economy and incurred approximately 5m in restructuring and abortive sale costs.
Financial Services operating profits decreased by 12.1m to 84.2m largely as a result of an increase in bad debt charges and negative investment returns, in line with the underlying markets, on funds held by our captive insurance company.
These were partly offset by reductions in operating costs.
Exceptional items Asset disposals generated a profit of 41.2m.
This includes a gain of 50.0m on the sale and leaseback of properties.
Brooks Brothers, which was sold for 157.1m, gave rise to a book loss of 376.7m.
The loss reects a charge of 368.2m for goodwill which was written off to reserves when Brooks Brothers was acquired and which we are now required to charge to the profit and loss account.
The costs to date of exiting the Continental European operation have been 136.8m, including trading losses of 42.5m.
The provision for Continental European closure costs made last year has been utilised against these costs and we have released 10.0m as we now expect the closure of Continental Europe to cost less than originally anticipated.
Taxation The charge for taxation of 182.5m represents 54.3% of the profit before tax.
Excluding the effect of exceptional items the tax charge for the year is 195.7m giving an effective tax rate of 29.6% last year 32.9%.
Earnings per share An adjusted earnings per share gure of 16.3p last year 11.2p has also been calculated, which excludes the effect of all exceptional items referred to above.
24 Marks and Spencer Group p. l. c. Summary balance sheet AT 30 MARCH 2002 2001 2002 As restated m m Fixed assets Tangible assets 3,381.2 4,118.9 Investments 50.3 58.3 3,431.5 4,177.2 Current assets Stocks 325.3 472.5 Debtors 2,619.3 2,629.3 Cash and investments 816.1 414.4 3,760.7 3,516.2 Current liabilities Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 1,750.8 1,981.6 Net current assets 2,009.9 1,534.6 Total assets less current liabilities 5,441.4 5,711.8 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 2,156.3 735.1 Provisions for liabilities and charges 203.8 395.3 Net assets 3,081.3 4,581.4 Shareholders funds including non-equity interests 3,080.9 4,565.8 Minority interests all equity 0.4 15.6 Total capital employed 3,081.3 4,581.4 Approved by the Board 20 May 2002 Luc Vandevelde, Chairman and Chief Executive Alison Reed, Group Finance Director Commentary Tangible xed assets relate mainly to our properties and their tting out, and also to equipment and computers.
The decrease in net book value of 737.7m since March 2001 reects the following: additions relating to our capital investment programme of 290.5m: depreciation charges for the year of 249.6m: the disposal of Brooks Brothers 76.4m : the sale and leaseback of property: the closure of the Continental European business: and other disposals of property and assets during the year.
Stocks have decreased largely as a result of the sale of Brooks Brothers and the closure of Continental European operations.
Underlying this is a decrease in customer advances within Financial Services of 76.2m partly offset by a debtor for the sale of the French stores.
Cash and investments have increased by 401.7m primarily due to the fact that at the end of March only 1.7bn of an estimated 2.0bn had been returned to shareholders.
Total creditors due within and after more than one year have increased by 1,190.4m reecting the increase in the level of debt from the issue of two public bonds, further issues under the Medium Term Note programme and the raising of funds from the securitisation of property assets.
Provisions for liabilities and charges have decreased by 191.5m largely as a result of: utilisation of prior year provisions in respect of redundancy costs and the closure of the Direct catalogue business within UK Retail: utilisation of prior year provisions against trading losses, redundancy and closure costs in respect of the closure of the Groups operations in Continental Europe: and a reduction in deferred tax relating to disposals in the period.
Shareholders funds have decreased by 1,484.9m reecting the capital restructuring and subsequent redemption of B shares and the purchase of own shares totalling 1,769.9m during the year offset by retained profits of 282.3m, excluding the adjustment to goodwill for Brooks.
com 25 Summary cash ow information FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 MARCH 2002 2002 2001 m m Operating activities Net cash inow before exceptional items 1,123.7 706.7 Exceptional operating cash ows 30.0 30.3 Cash inow from operating activities 1,093.7 676.4 Returns on investments and servicing of finance 36.8 12.6 Taxation 179.4 164.6 Capital expenditure and financial investment 176.0 258.2 Acquisitions and disposals 261.6 5.9 Equity dividends paid 256.7 258.6 Cash inow before funding 1,132.0 13.5 Commentary Cash inow from operating activities of 1,093.7m can be split between Retailing cash inows of 853.5m last year 654.2m and Financial Services cash inows of 240.2m last year 22.2m.
Net interest received during the period has increased largely as a result of the timing of interest payments.
Taxation is partly paid in arrears and part of the outow reects the payment of the tax due for the previous year.
The remainder is in respect of this periods quarterly tax payments.
Capital expenditure and financial investment generated a cash inow of 176.0m.
This largely reects the payments to acquire tangible xed assets of 285.7m offset by sale proceeds of 455.6m arising from the sale and leaseback of property and the disposal of other assets.
The cash inow from acquisitions and disposals of 261.6m represents monies received on the disposal of Brooks Brothers and the closure of Continental Europe offset by any disposal or closure costs incurred.
Equity dividends paid of 256.7m represent the previous years final dividend and this years interim dividend.
Cash inow before funding of 1,132.0m, together with new debt in the form of public bonds and securitisation of the property portfolio has been used to fund the redemption of B shares and the purchase of own shares.
Overall net debt, after returning 1.7bn to shareholders, has increased to 1,907.0m last year 1,277.8m.
The net debt breaks down into net debt within Retailing of 475.0m last year net funds of 369.4m and net debt within Financial Services of 1,432.0m last year 1,647.2m.
A level of gearing has been introduced into the Retail balance sheet.
2 Excess interest charged within Financial Services of 6.4m 2001 7.9m: 2000 nil: 1999 25.5m: 1998 22.7m should be added back to arrive at total operating profit before exceptionals.
com 27 Summary remuneration report The full report on directors remuneration complies with the Combined Code and is set out on pages 14 to 20 of the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2002.
Copies of these can be obtained, free of charge, from the Company as noted on page 29.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee, chaired by Dame Stella Rimington, recommends to the Board an appropriate reward framework to allow the Company to attract and retain its senior management.
Remuneration policy The Company aims to align the interests of all employees closely with the interests of shareholders in securing the Groups recovery.
Total remuneration comprises xed pay, variable pay and benets and is externally benchmarked.
The performancerelated element now forms a more significant proportion of the total potential package and, consistent with the focus on delivering results, is set against agreed targets to deliver improved business performance.
There are two components to variable pay: annual bonus and long-term incentives in the form of share schemes.
A requirement has been introduced this year that the executive directors within five years of 1 June 2002 or within five years of appointment whichever is the later should hold shares whose market value at that time is equivalent to or greater than their then current gross annual base salary.
profit sharing and SAYE schemes, encouraging employees at all levels to acquire and hold shares in the Company, are key elements of the policy.
Employees have maintained their strong commitment to share ownership in recent years, and currently 42,700 employees hold approximately 31 million shares in their own right and 31,000 employees hold options on 78 million shares under the SAYE scheme.
Annual Bonus Scheme The Annual Bonus Scheme is designed to reinforce the relationship between individual and corporate performance and reward.
The targets are determined annually by the Committee and incorporate a mixture of financial measures and business targets.
The achievement of targets for all executive directors is assessed by the Committee.
The current maximum bonus for directors is 50% of base salary for on-target performance and up to 100% for exceeding targets.
Chairmans bonus Under the terms of Luc Vandeveldes service contract, on recruitment in February 2000, the Company set strategic and qualitative targets for the award of his first annual bonus in 2001, which were subsequently met.
However, in advance of the Committee meeting in May 2001 to determine his bonus award, he informed the Committee that he wished to: Waive any entitlement to a bonus for the year under review.
This included 100% of 13 months salary totalling 704,000 and an opportunity to enhance this, over time, by a further 112,000: Reduce his notice period entitlement from 12 months to nine months.
Last year the Committee agreed the following in relation to the Chairmans bonus for the year to 30 March 2002: Award bonus of 100% of annual salary if financial targets set by the Committee were met: Add to this bonus potential a sum equal to half of last years waived bonus 352,000 if those same financial targets were met: Issue shares to him in May 2002, equal to the value of the other half of the waived bonus 352,000.
Long Term Incentive Plan To align directors remuneration more closely with shareholders longer term interests, the Company has a Share Option Scheme with stretching earnings per share targets and will propose at this years AGM to introduce a Share Matching Plan with total shareholder return measured against comparator groups of companies.
New directors Alison Reed, an existing member of senior management, was appointed to the Board as Finance Director on 11 July 2001.
Laurel Powers-Freeling was recruited and appointed to the Board on 6 November 2001 as Chief Executive of Marks & Spencer Financial Services.
Jack Keenan was appointed as a non-executive director with effect from 1 September 2001.
Paul Myners was appointed as a non-executive director with effect from 2 April 2002.
Service contracts All members of senior management have service contracts.
These contracts can be terminated with 12 months notice from the Company with the exception of Luc Vandevelde, whose contract entitles him to nine months notice, and the non-executive directors whose service agreements are terminable on three months notice.
28 Marks and Spencer Group p. l. c. 1 Directors emoluments profit Total Total 8 9 10 Salary share Benets Bonus 2002 2001 000 000 000 000 000 000 Chairman and Chief Executive 1 Luc Vandevelde 654 16 206 1,358 2,234 834 Executive directors appointed from 2 Roger Holmes 1 January 2001 431 n a 52 431 914 796 Alan McWalter 300 8 43 300 651 330 David Norgrove 18 September 2000 272 7 19 272 570 143 3 Laurel Powers-Freeling 6 November 2001 114 n a 119 100 333 n a 4 Alison Reed 11 July 2001 239 6 20 239 504 n a Non-executive directors appointed from 5 Brian Baldock 34 n a n a 34 81 Tony Ball 1 September 2000 34 n a n a 34 20 6 Jack Keenan 1 September 2001 20 n a n a 20 n a Kevin Lomax 1 September 2000 34 n a n a 34 20 Dame Stella Rimington 50 n a n a 50 50 Retired directors retirement date 7 Robert Colvill 31 December 2001 289 7 104 173 573 415 Sir Michael Perry 11 July 2001 11 n a n a 11 34 Sir Ralph Robins 11 July 2001 11 n a n a 11 34 Sir David Sieff 11 July 2001 11 n a 3 n a 14 39 Former directors n a n a n a n a n a 1,202 Total 2,504 44 566 2,873 5,987 3,998 1 Luc Vandevelde was the highest paid director both this year and last.
His annual salary was increased from 650,000 to 700,000 with effect from 1 March 2002.
2 With effect from 1 January 2002, Roger Holmes annual salary was increased from 425,000 to 450,000.
His emoluments for 2001 include compensation for loss of earnings from his previous employer of 654,000, awarded on his recruitment.
3 Laurel Powers-Freeling was appointed to the Board on 6 November 2001 on an annual salary of 320,000.
In compensation for loss of future earnings from her previous employer she has received: a payment of 100,000 included under benets and a further 100,000 included under bonus.
4 Alison Reed was appointed to the Board on 11 July 2001 on an annual salary of 330,000.
5 Brian Baldock relinquished the role of non-executive Chairman on 28 February 2000 but continued to assist the Chairman in the transition period to the AGM in July 2000 after which his annual fee was reduced to 34,000.
6 Jack Keenan was appointed as a non-executive director on an annual fee of 34,000.
7 Robert Colvill retired from the Board on 31 December 2001 but remained as a full-time employee until 31 March 2002 to oversee the transactional elements of the business restructure as well as continuing to manage Financial Services whilst succession was secured.
His annual cash bonus was therefore set against transaction targets relating to the business restructure.
The Committee decided that as he agreed to remain with the Company beyond his normal retirement date, a compensatory payment should be made of 15% of his salary for the period from 1 July 2000 to 31 March 2002 for the self-funding of his pension arrangements included under benets.
His emoluments for the three months to 31 March 2002 amount to 177,000 and these are excluded from the table above.
8 In line with all other employees, executive directors are allocated profit sharing based on a percentage of their earnings following the qualifying period.
9 Benets include the provision of cars, fuel and travel.
Included in the benets for Luc Vandevelde is a supplement of 16% of base salary to compensate for the fact that he is not a member of the Company Pension Scheme.
In addition, under the terms of his service contract, the Company provides accommodation in London on which he is assessed for tax.
A payment is also made to Roger Holmes, Alan McWalter and Laurel Powers-Freeling in respect of pension in the form of a supplement of 10% of the difference between the pension earnings cap and their base salary.
Laurel Powers-Freeling is also provided with accommodation in Chester, to accommodate her working pattern two days in London, three days in Chester the location of our Financial Services operation.
A taxable benefit arises which is met by the Company.
10 This years annual bonus for executive directors has been awarded at a level of 100% of base salary as financial targets have been signicantly exceeded.
An explanation of the bonus awarded to Luc Vandevelde is given on page 27.
No bonus was awarded last year.
See footnote 3 above in relation to Laurel Powers-Freeling and footnote 7 in relation to Robert Colvill.
11 Paul Myners was appointed as a non-executive director on 2 April 2002 on an annual fee of 34,000.
2 Termination payments As disclosed in last years annual report, a total of 2,742,000 was paid to directors who retired during last year as compensation for termination of their service contracts 12 months salary and benets and loss of pensionable service.
In addition to last years payments they are entitled to compensation for the senior management bonus payable for this financial year on a pro-rata basis as follows: Clara Freeman 65,000, Guy McCracken 97,000, Peter Salsbury 140,000, Roger Aldridge 48,000 and Joe Rowe 48,000. www.
com 29 Shareholder information Financial calendar Record date to be eligible for final dividend 31 May 2002 Annual General Meeting Royal Festival Hall, London 11.00 am on 10 July 2002 Final ordinary dividend for the year to 30 March 2002 to be paid 19 July 2002 Redemption date for B shares B share dividend payment date 25 September 2002 Interim results to be announced 5 November 2002 Record date to be eligible for interim dividend 15 November 2002 Interim ordinary dividend to be paid 10 January 2003 Ordinary shares There are 352,374 holders of ordinary shares who receive dividends at rates declared either by the directors or at the annual general meeting.
The next occasion when the B shares can be redeemed for 70 pence per share is 25 September 2002.
Holders of B shares will be contacted shortly before this date with further information.
Capital Gains Tax For the purposes of Capital Gains Tax the price of ordinary shares on 31 March 1982 was 153.5p each which, when adjusted for the 1 for 1 scrip issue in 1984, gives a gure of 76.75p each.
Following the capital reorganisation in March 2002, the Inland Revenue has confirmed the base cost for CGT purposes was 372.35p 81.43% for the ordinary shares and 68.75p 18.57% for the B shares.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan The Company operates a scheme to enable shareholders to buy shares in the market twice a year using their dividends.
Details are available from the Registrars.
Individual Savings Account ISA The Group operates an ISA in which you can hold cash, Marks and Spencer Group p. l. c. shares or unit trusts tax free.
For further information please call freephone 0808 002 2222.
American Depositary Receipts ADRs The Company runs an ADR programme to enable US investors to purchase Marks and Spencer Group p. l. c. shares in US Dollars in the over the counter market.
For further details please contact Morgan Stanley Trust Company of New York, PO Box 842006, Boston, MA 02284-2006 telephone 781 575 4328 www.
com Registrars Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA telephone 0870 600 3995 www.
co. uk Registered Ofce and Head Ofce Michael House, Baker Street, London W1U 8EP telephone 020 7935 4422 Registered Number 4256886 Company Secretary and Group Legal Advisor Graham Oakley Additional copies & audio tape Additional copies, or an audio tape giving highlights, can be obtained by calling freephone 0800 591 697.
Website The full Annual Report and Accounts with downloadable les are available online on the Marks & Spencer website at www.
com Postal Share Dealing A postal dealing facility is available through the Companys stockbroker for the purchase and sale of Marks and Spencer Group p. l. c. shares.
Further information is available from Cazenove & Co Limited, 12 Tokenhouse Yard, London EC2R 7AN.
ShareGift Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which makes it uneconomical to sell, may wish to consider donating them to charity through ShareGift, a registered charity administered by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation.
Further information is available by calling 020 7337 0501 or www.
org How to check your shareholding Lloyds TSB Registrars offer a service that enables you to check your holdings in many UK companies and helps you organise your investments electronically.
You can register for this portfolio service which is easy to use, secure and free if you have access to the internet by logging on to www.
co. uk Design and production: Paufey Printing: St Ives, Westerham Press Copywriting: Richard Owsley, Graham Jones Printed on Revive Silk made from 75% post-consumer recycled bre and 25% chlorine-free bleached pulp.
THE QUEENS AWARD FOR ENTERPRISE INNOVATION 2000
