Notes to the accounts 1 Accounting policies a Accounting convention The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain freehold and leasehold properties, in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
The Group has adopted FRS 19, Deferred Tax, in these accounts.
The adoption of this standard represents a change in accounting policy and the comparative figures have been restated accordingly.
Restatement details are presented in note 20 to these accounts.
The Group continues to follow the transitional arrangements permitted by FRS 17, Retirement Benefits, and the additional disclosures are presented in note 5 to these accounts.
b Basis of consolidation The Group accounts include the assets, liabilities and results for the period of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
c Turnover and other operating income Turnover comprises sales, rents receivable from licensed properties and other trading income of the Group, exclusive of intra-Group transactions and VAT.
Other operating income comprises mainly rents from unlicensed properties.
d Stocks Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes direct materials and a proportion of appropriate overheads.
e Deferred taxation Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed by the period-end balance sheet date, which give rise to an obligation to pay more or less tax in the future.
Timing differences are differences between the Groups taxable profits and profits as stated in the accounts.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted, and assets are only recognised where probable.
f Tangible fixed assets i Freehold and leasehold properties are stated at valuation or at cost.
Plant, furnishings, equipment and other similar items are stated at cost.
ii Freehold buildings are depreciated on a straight line basis over 50 years.
iii Other tangible fixed assets are depreciated on a straight line basis at rates calculated to provide for the cost of the assets over their anticipated useful lives.
Leasehold properties are depreciated over the lower of the lease period or 50 years and other tangible assets over periods ranging from three to 15 years.
Own labour directly attributable to projects is capitalised.
Valuation of properties Trading properties are revalued professionally by independent valuers on a five-year rolling basis.
In previous years, trading properties were valued on a three-year rolling basis.
The Directors have reviewed the accounting policies and considered it more appropriate to revalue properties every five years rather than three years.
In the Directors opinion, this change has no material impact on the financial statements.
When a valuation or expected proceeds are below current carrying value the asset concerned is reviewed for impairment.
Impairment losses are charged either to the revaluation reserve to the extent that a previous gain has been recorded, or to the profit and loss account.
g Fixed asset disposals Profit on fixed asset disposals is net sale proceeds less carrying value of the assets.
h Pensions Pension costs for the Groups Final Salary Pension Scheme are charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the cost of pensions over the average working life of employees, in accordance with the recommendations of qualified actuaries.
Variations from the regular cost are spread over the average remaining service lives of the employees.
Pension costs for the Groups GPPP are charged to the profit and loss account in the period incurred.
i ESOP The assets of the trust are recognised as fixed asset investments until the shares have been vested unconditionally to specific employees.
Any permanent diminution in the value of the shares is recognised immediately as a charge to the profit and loss account.
