McCarthy & Stone plc Accounting Policies The following accounting policies have been used in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Group accounts.
Basis of accounting The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modified by the revaluation of certain fixed assets, and in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
The true and fair override provisions of the Companies Act 1985 have been invoked.
A separate profit and loss account for the parent company has not been presented as permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act, 1985.
Turnover and profit by source and destination are primarily derived from one continuing activity, the UK housing business and thus no segmental disclosure has been made.
Basis of consolidation All subsidiaries prepare their accounts to 31 August and their results are included in the Group accounts in full except where a subsidiary or business has been acquired or disposed of during the year, in which case its results are included or excluded from the date control passes.
Turnover This represents the invoiced value of sales net of discounts excluding value added tax and inter-company transactions.
Turnover and profit on sales are recognised upon legal completion.
Investment properties Investment properties are valued on the following bases: i Reversionary interests On the sale of a unit the Group includes in its fixed assets the freehold or leasehold reversionary interest at a multiple of the ground rent receivable, which approximates to current market value, with a corresponding credit to cost of sales.
ii Other investment properties Equity interests arising from a sales incentive scheme are included in investment properties assets at the value of the equity interest.
iii Rental properties On the sale of the first unit in a development the Group includes in its fixed assets its rental interests at a multiple of the rent receivable with a corresponding credit to cost of sales.
In accordance with Statement of Standard Accounting Practice 19 investment properties are normally revalued annually and the aggregate surplus or deficit is transferred to a revaluation reserve: no depreciation or amortisation is provided in respect of freehold investment properties and leasehold investment properties with over 20 years to run.
Although the Companies Act would normally require the systematic annual depreciation of fixed assets, the directors believe that this policy of not providing depreciation is necessary in order for the accounts to give a true and fair view, since the current value of investment properties, and changes in that current value, are of prime importance rather than a calculation of systematic annual depreciation.
Depreciation is only one of the many factors reflected in the annual valuation, and the amount which might otherwise have been shown cannot be separately identified or quantified.
McCarthy & Stone plc Page 49 McCarthy & Stone plc Accounting Policies Other investments Other investments are recorded at cost.
Provision is made against the carrying value of Other investments when the Directors consider that there has been a permanent diminution in value.
Investments in joint ventures are recorded using the gross equity method.
Other tangible fixed assets Long leasehold land and buildings are shown at historic cost.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Freehold buildings are depreciated over fifty years.
Leasehold land and buildings are depreciated over fifty years or the remaining life of the lease, if lower.
Fixtures, fittings and equipment are written off in equal annual instalments in order to write off their cost over their estimated useful lives of between 3 and 10 years.
Stocks Stocks are valued at the lower of average cost and estimated net realisable value.
The cost of work in progress and finished stock comprises the actual cost of land purchases, which are accounted for from the date of contract exchange, actual building costs and production overheads.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less net book cost and further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised on all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less, tax have occurred at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences reverse, based on tax rates enacted at the balance sheet date.
Leased assets and hire purchase contracts Assets used by the Group which have been funded through finance leases and hire purchase contracts are capitalised and the resulting future obligations are included in creditors.
All other leases are operating leases and the rental charges are taken to profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the life of the lease.
Pension schemes The company and its UK subsidiaries operate a defined contribution pension scheme.
The amount charged to the profit and loss account represents contributions payable to the individual policies effected by employees with independent insurance companies in funds separate from the company's finances.
