Financial review Financial review Jim Malone Jim Malone Chief Financial Officer It is a hugely exciting time to join, I am inspired by the with the turnaround at such an early opportunities here at Misys and the chance to be part stage.
We have set out a clear strategy of the senior team driving this turnaround.
and identified cost savings that allow us to invest back into the business for future growth.
As the new CFO, my priority will be to ensure we implement and achieve robust processes and operational efficiency throughout the business.
This will enable us to increase transparency for all our stakeholders and give them a better sense of how we are progressing over the turnaround period.
28 Misys plc Annual Report 2007 Misys is changing Operating results for the year ended 31 May 2007 Revenue Operating profit Margin 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 m m m m % % Banking 270 256 47 36 17 14 Healthcare 284 293 46 44 16 15 Central costs 10 9 Like for like results 554 549 83 71 15 13 Changes in exchange rates 31 6 Disposals 3 Acquisitions 9 2 Adjusted results 563 583 81 77 Exceptional items 40 17 Other 4 2 Statutory operating results from continuing operations 563 583 37 58 i.
The statutory operating profit from iv.
The businesses acquired in the To assist the reader, the table above continuing operations is analysed current year and prior year shows the results for all businesses by business into Banking 33.9m contributed incremental revenue and owned throughout both periods on a like 2006: 22.3m, Healthcare 26.0m adjusted operating profit in 2007 for for like basis.
It also reconciles these to 2006: 45.4m and Central costs Banking: revenue of 3.2m and profit the figures for revenue and operating of 23.0m loss 2006: 10.0m loss.
of 0.7m and for Healthcare: revenue profit on an adjusted basis and as 5.6m and losses of 2.7m.
reported in the income statement.
Restating the results for 2006 using During the year we entered into an the average exchange rates for 2007 v. Exceptional items in the current year agreement to dispose of Sesame, which has decreased 2006 revenues by consist of: turnaround programme completed on 8 June 2007.
The results 30.7m Banking: 7.2m and 34.0m Banking: 11.8m: Healthcare: for Sesame are excluded from revenue Healthcare: 23.5m and operating 15.9m and Central costs 6.3m : and operating profit in continuing profit 5.8m Banking: 1.8m, terminated offer process announced operations, and are included at the foot of Healthcare: 4.0m.
The most on 9 June 2006 and terminated on the income statement, above attributable significant impact is from the 29 September 2006 and executive profits.
Accordingly, Sesame does not movement in the US dollar, where team costs within Central costs appear in the reconciliation above.
the average exchange rate in 2007 7.2m: and profit on disposal of was US$1.92:1 compared to businesses in Banking 1.0m.
Adjusted results are stated before US$1.78:1 in 2006. exceptional items, gains and losses on vi.
Other items include losses on embedded derivatives and amortisation iii.
The business disposed of in the embedded derivatives in Banking of acquired intangibles.
current year, related solely to Banking 0.2m 2006: 0.3m gains and and contributed revenue of 0.2m in amortisation of acquired intangibles the current year 2006: 3.5m and in Banking 2.8m 2006: 1.9m and adjusted operating profit of nil Healthcare 1.3m 2006: 0.5m.
Misys plc Annual Report 2007 29 Financial review Financial review developing partnerships with the development costs and acquired Group and divisional performance potential to meet strong but currently intangibles as a result of actions taken unaddressed market demand.
to deliver the turnaround programme.
The information in this section is presented on a like for like basis.
The The division incurred net exceptional We analyse revenue under five headings: like for like results are stated before charges of 11m, with 12m including exceptional items, gains and losses on 11m impairment and write-off of ILF embedded derivatives, amortisation of capitalised development costs and ILF is the revenue generated when Misys acquired intangibles and the impact of acquired intangibles as a result of sells the right to use a software product acquisitions and disposals in the current actions taken to deliver the turnaround including significant upgrades to a and prior year.
All figures are quoted in programme.
ILF declined by 5%, principally sterling using average exchange rates as a result of the poor performance for the year ended 31 May 2007.
Group Maintenance Revenue for the year at 554m was 1% all figures in millions 2007 2006 When a customer buys software they above that of the previous year.
Banking ILF order intake 42 51 also enter into either a maintenance or revenue increased by 6%.
Healthcare recurring licence fees RLF contract.
Operating profit at Closing ILF order book 23 26 These contracts provide technical 83m was 17% ahead of last year, with support or trouble-shooting assistance, the operating margin increasing in such as helpdesk support.
A maintenance both divisions and by two percentage Revenue at 284m was 3% below last contract will also provide routine points overall.
year overall with only maintenance and upgrades and enhancements, and transaction processing revenue growing.
maintenance also includes fees for Banking support contracts for hardware.
On a ILF revenue was down 15% at 45m like for like basis, both Banking and all figures in millions 2007 2006 with ILF order intake decreasing more Healthcare recorded good growth rates substantially by 18% to 42m.
ILF order intake 82 81 in maintenance.
Closing ILF order book 29 30 In Healthcare our strategy is focus and Transaction processing differentiation.
We are concentrating Misys provides transaction processing on the fast-growing ambulatory and services based on EDI services, which is Banking delivered reasonable growth connected communities segment of the an electronic link between parties that with total revenue at 270m up 6%.
On 22 July 2007 we wish to exchange data.
Transaction Initial Licence Fees ILF order intake at announced that we were rebalancing our processing revenue has grown, driven by 82m was just ahead of the prior year, Healthcare portfolio by disposing of our the focus on connectivity in Healthcare.
resulting in ILF revenue increasing 2% Diagnostic Information business and from last year.
The closing order book at our CPR business.
In addition we have Professional services 29m was slightly lower than last year.
signed commercial agreements with the Professional services showed muted purchasers that open new distribution growth up 2% compared with last year, Maintenance revenue at 123m, grew channels for our solutions and support with strong growth in Banking offset by by 5% demonstrating strong customer our strategy of connecting communities.
Professional services revenue showed good growth of 10% at 52m.
Maintenance revenue showed good Hardware growth at 123m, 8% ahead of last year, Sales of hardware, principally within Operating profit at 47m was 31% ahead demonstrating strong customer loyalty.
Healthcare, were impacted by the of last year reflecting a particularly weak We have continued to see the benefits reduction in ILF revenue in that business.
Operating margin of the Payerpath acquisition with was 17% for the full year 2006: 14%.
transaction processing revenue growing Group costs by 3% at 68m.
The net charge for the year, at 10m, In Core Banking the focus is on is broadly in line with last year.
These profitability and consolidating the product Operating profit at 46m was 5% ahead costs, as have those within the divisions, lines around the Misys BankFusion of last year, reflecting an improvement in benefited from a reduction in the charge platform.
The strategy provides the operating margin from 15% to 16%.
for share-based payments, as a result of customers with more flexibility and changes to the schemes as part of the choice.
In Treasury & Capital Markets the The division has incurred an exceptional turnaround programme.
We are working to charge of 16m including 12m expand our distribution channels and are impairment and write-off of capitalised 30 Misys plc Annual Report 2007 Misys is changing Revenue profile 2007 2007 2006 Statutory Like for like Like for like Continuing operations m % m % m % ILF 128 23 128 23 134 24 Maintenance 248 44 246 44 231 42 Transaction Processing 84 15 80 14 76 14 Professional Services 83 15 80 15 79 15 Hardware 20 3 20 4 29 5 563 100 554 100 549 100 Within Group costs, exceptional charges intangibles and exchange gains and which follows equally strong cash of 13m have been incurred.
This is in losses on debt previously hedging generation in previous years, results relation to the terminated offer process goodwill written off to reserves.
from the Groups rigorous focus on cash and previous executive team 7m as and cash management by operating well as recruitment costs and other Acquisitions and disposals businesses.
consulting costs associated with the Within Banking, the Group completed turnaround programme 6m.
Trapedza was acquired The net cash flow from discontinued in August 2006 and SC Fino in December activities was 3m, a reduction from the Other financial information 2006 for a total consideration, including previous year of 12m which included Unless otherwise stated, the information expenses, of 4m, which resulted in the the General Insurance business.
The in this section is presented on an as recognition of goodwill of 3m.
current year figure was primarily the reported basis.
result of the profit after taxation of the Discontinued operations Sesame business, adjusted to add back Finance costs In May 2007 the Group entered an the non-cash impairment of goodwill and The interest and other finance costs agreement to dispose of the Sesame after the payment of amounts included charge for continuing operations at 15m business which has been shown under within IFA Network provisions, net of the was 4m lower than last year.
In the current associated receivables.
due mainly to lower borrowings offset year, this business generated profit after partly by increased average interest rates.
tax of 1m comprising impairment of Cash payments in respect of interest of Interest cover, including results from goodwill upon being classified as a 13m is broadly in line with the charge in discontinued operations and before discontinued operation of 17m after the income statement and is lower than exceptional items, gains and losses on taxation which has been included within the previous year due to lower financing embedded derivatives and amortisation of Exceptional items, an operating profit of costs.
The cash payments in respect of acquired intangibles, was over six times.
14m and net finance income of 4m.
taxation at 17m is slightly ahead of the prior year and significantly ahead of the Profit before taxation The prior year results also include the charge within the income statement due Statutory profit before taxation, at 22m, results of General Insurance which was to exceptional taxation items which was 17m below last year reflecting the disposed of in 2006. benefited the latter.
As a result net cash improvements in operating profit offset by flow from operating activities of 56m higher exceptional costs.
The tax charge In calculating the adjusted EPS figures, was 21m below last year.
on continuing ordinary activities at 8m is the operating profits noted above have significantly below last year as a result of been included within this calculation Net cash outflow from investing activities exceptional taxation items.
The underlying whereas impairment of goodwill has of 27m compared to the previous years effective tax rate, based on the adjusted been excluded.
inflow of 96m, the latter benefiting from profit before taxation of continuing and the disposal of the General Insurance discontinued operations, at 17% was Cash flow and net debt business.
Capitalised expenditure on slightly below last year.
Adjusted profit The Group has maintained its strong developed software and other capital before taxation excludes exceptional cash performance with net cash flow expenditure was at a similar level to the items, gains and losses on embedded generated from continuing operations prior year.
Accordingly the net cash flow derivatives, amortisation of acquired of 83m 2006: 92m.
This performance, generated by operating activities after Misys plc Annual Report 2007 31 Financial review Financial review capitalised development costs and other Such investments are more likely to be Risk factors capital expenditure was 32m compared made during periods of economic growth.
However, the Healthcare business is not Our business is influenced by a number considered to be as sensitive to the state of risks and the more significant of these As a result of these various cash flows of the economy, as the US propensity to are described below.
However, the net debt at 31 May 2007 was 159m, spend on healthcare has less sensitivity financial performance of our business excluding cash balances within Sesame to the condition of the US economy.
could be adversely affected not only by of 68m, compared with 95m last year these factors but also by the risks that we which was net of 96m cash balances Market Strategy do not presently consider to be significant within Sesame.
The markets in which we operate or by other risks that are presently move quickly.
Entering and exiting new unknown to us.
Not all of the risks that Earnings per share segments of the market, developing new are identified below are under the direct and proposed dividend products and discontinuing others can control of Misys but in most cases we Basic EPS at 3.1p is 40.9p below last have substantial lead times.
To do this have built systems and controls into the year, principally due to the profit on the successfully we need to predict future Group operations to monitor and, where disposal of the General Insurance areas of demand and the future possible, mitigate the potential damage business in 2006 and the exceptional capabilities of our competitors.
The that could result from these risks see charges in the current year.
speed at which the market develops can also the Corporate governance report.
sometimes make it difficult to obtain Adjusted EPS adjusted to exclude quality information on the changing Risks arising from the markets in which exceptional items, gains and losses on demands of customers which may result we operate embedded derivatives, amortisation of in decisions being made with imperfect acquired intangibles and exchange gains data.
Failure in this area could result in Implementation of new strategic plan and losses on debt previously hedging us making investments in the wrong As described elsewhere in this document goodwill written off to reserves at 14.6p product or failing to invest in a product we are in the early stages of a three 2006: 14.3p was 2% above last year.
In that will enjoy a successful market.
In to five year turnaround programme the opinion of the Directors the adjusted view of this, the strategy, which has been intended to deliver increased value to our basic EPS provides more comparable and developed from established market facts, customers and increased returns to our representative information on continuing is comprehensively communicated shareholders.
The strategic plan includes and established trading activities of the throughout the senior management team a focused strategy and a simplified, Group.
The Board is recommending a and employees of the businesses and its integrated portfolio for each business.
final dividend of 4.71p per share.
This implementation is regularly reviewed The changes will take time to implement will raise the full year dividend to 7.53p, against delivery of defined targets.
and their effects will take three to five an increase of 5% over last year.
years to be fully evident.
Implementation Competition may result in additional costs and there is We operate in highly competitive no guarantee that the proposed changes markets that are characterised by rapidly will result in an improvement to changing technology, industry standards performance and financial position.
and customer needs as well as by frequent new software applications and The plan includes a set of actions, products.
If we do not respond effectively with agreed priorities, that are being we may lose market share and the implemented by a new management business could suffer.
We believe that team that is experienced in implementing we have a relatively small number of changes of this nature and who have significant competitors in each vertical personal incentive packages that align market that we serve.
However, some of them very closely to the interests of these competitors could, in the future, shareholders.
pose a greater competitive threat, particularly if they consolidate or form Economic cycle strategic or commercial relationships The market demand for the products among themselves or with larger and offered by the Banking division is well-financed companies.
sensitive to an economic downturn.
The strength of its revenues is reliant upon Consequently one of our key strategic banks continuing to seek competitive objectives going forward is to seek advantage and greater efficiencies from partnerships, collaborations, strategic technology and this encourages them to alliances and acquisition opportunities make further investments in this area.
32 Misys plc Annual Report 2007 Misys is changing with a view to complementing our releases of such third party applications, Risks arising from operations existing product and services portfolio.
or if such third party applications were These risks are managed through to be withdrawn or discontinued, then People identifying appropriate partners and we may incur significant costs in People are our greatest asset and the agreeing suitable commercial terms eliminating these third party components market for quality technology skills and that are mutually beneficial.
Likewise from our products and our ability to management is very competitive.
It acquiring or disposing of companies deliver new systems and maintain remains a constant challenge for us to gives rise to execution risks in identifying existing customers could be adversely attract, retain, develop, incentivise, and valuing the target, managing the affected.
Suppliers are consequently manage and motivate our staff.
If we process to best advantage and integrating chosen that have stable strategies that were to lose members of management or separating the target business.
These match ours and produce a mutually or employees who possess specialised tasks are therefore performed to a set of beneficial relationship that is carefully market knowledge and technology skills, procedures by a dedicated team that call managed by both parties.
we may not be able to manage our upon external resources as required.
operations effectively or develop new Infringement of intellectual application software products and Product development property rights services.
We therefore take talent There are many risks in bringing a product We own substantial intellectual property management very seriously and our development project to a conclusion on rights and generally protect our people are appraised regularly and are schedule and within budget.
This process proprietary application software products given individual development plans and is managed by developing a product and services by licensing rights to use other incentive packages.
We are also roadmap that identifies the enhancements the application, rather than selling or committed to on-going succession that will be made to successive versions licensing the computer source code.
Our application software We also protect their proprietary software products and services are complex and and services by copyright law.
Possible Contract implementation may contain undetected errors, failures, infringement of our intellectual property We see ourselves as business partners performance problems or defects.
The rights could cause loss of revenue, to our customers, supplying them with early releases of a product will have been adversely affect business operations business critical systems.
Often the subjected to beta tests but not the more and damage our trademarks.
system will transcend departmental stringent test of widespread use by large boundaries within the clients numbers of users.
Consequently, despite Furthermore, there is always the risk organisation and may be a part of a vigorous pre-release testing, problems that we have inadvertently infringed larger project involving other suppliers.
may not become apparent until the system the intellectual property rights of a The process of introducing a system in is used in production environments.
There has been substantial such an environment may be disruptive However, the product development litigation in the software applications to the client in the short term, and the teams network extensively amongst industry regarding inadvertent implementation may include a protracted themselves and beyond to ensure best infringement of intellectual property schedule which is subject to project practice is followed.
There may be patents relevant management by the client or by others.
to our product line that are unknown to This gives an increased risk of delay in Changes in the industries which us.
If any such claim against us were execution with consequential risks to Misys serves successful we may need to re-design the expected cash flows and profits.
Consolidation in the industries that we product which would demand further serve could adversely affect our existing investment in that product, take a licence Key suppliers revenue or the potential for growing on the infringing intellectual property Certain of our products are dependent revenues.
There has been, and continues within the product which may not always upon inputs from key suppliers.
We are to be, consolidation in the global financial be possible on acceptable commercial dependent on the performance, service services industry and international and reliability of operating systems, terms or even cease to sell that product financial services institutions are middleware, databases, programming and accept the decline in revenues.
An increasingly providing services from a language compilers and similar software intellectual property claim made against single location, both of which could lead infrastructure, all of which we obtain us and any action taken by us to protect to a smaller market for our products from a large number of third party their intellectual property rights would and services.
Such third party applications be a drain on management attention and may suffer from defects or errors which disruptive to our business and could could adversely affect the performance of cause delays in product development.
our application software products and The risk is mitigated through our services.
Moreover, if we are unable to contractual arrangements and by adapt our application software products the careful adherence to our policy and services to function with new on open source software.
Misys plc Annual Report 2007 33 Financial review Financial review Government regulation product liability litigation.
In addition, exchange rate: for example between We are subject to the laws and future revenues and profits could be entering into a sales contract and regulations of a number of countries harmed if customers believe that our receiving payment.
However, the covering a wide variety of areas affecting systems are unreliable.
translation risk which arises when international transactions, including consolidating the financial results of export controls, anti-corruption Terrorist attacks the overseas entities is not hedged.
We legislation and data protection Terrorist attacks like those of also run the economic risk that results, requirements.
It can sometimes require 11 September 2001 in the United States, for example, from the cost base of the extra time and costs to ensure that local and subsequent attacks in Bali, Madrid development centres being unrelated to regulations are complied with.
and London, could damage the global the currencies of the markets in which economy and affect our customers the end products are eventually sold.
Attack by IT viruses investment decisions over an extended As an IT business, attacks by IT viruses period of time.
As a vendor of application Some of the countries in which we have will always be a threat that requires software products and services to operations control the repatriation of sound IT infrastructure and virus sectors including banking, which are earnings and capital.
These controls may protection software.
Furthermore vulnerable to uncertainty and global vary at short notice and consequently the Banking and Healthcare divisions economic conditions generally, we create a risk of delaying or even both obtain significant revenues from operate in a sector of the economy that preventing cash flows back to the UK.
A disruption may be impacted by the effects of any to service would, in time, result in such attack.
customers reverting to traditional means of conducting business and so Software as a Service SaaS circumventing the service we provide.
Our new strategic plan includes the Finally if third parties misappropriate delivery of existing products in SaaS our users information, we may be liable format.
This is expected to provide a for substantial damages, our reputation robust and profitable revenue stream may be damaged and our users may be in due course but it raises the risk of deterred from using our application adversely affecting the existing model software products and services.
under which customers pay an initial licence fee and then recurring licence Reliance on key locations fees.
This risk will be mitigated through and systems failures careful market segmentation.
We have operations in over 30 countries and customers in over 120.
This Financial risks geographic diversity reduces reliance on the success of any one economy and any Tax risks one location but also exposes parts of the We may be subject to tax audit in any business to the risk of political unrest.
of the countries in which we operate, We maintain significant research and in accordance with the local practice.
development operations in Bangalore and This introduces an exposure to new tax Manila and political or social instability risks, such as a challenge to our in either of these areas could seriously transfer pricing policies, and it raises the harm the research and development possibility of the same profits being taxed operations.
Likewise we have a number in more than one country.
Furthermore, of other key locations such as helpdesk tax legislation is complex and often support, transaction processing centres results in lengthy negotiations before and large administrative centres.
All of certainty of the tax treatment to a our operations are vulnerable to damage complex transaction is achieved.
or interruption from floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, flu Fluctuations in exchange rates pandemic and similar events.
We have Geographic diversity leaves us exposed disaster recovery plans and business to fluctuations in exchange rates with the interruption insurance, but these highest exposure being against the US measures may still result in a level dollar and the Euro.
Where possible we of disruption.
Such damage and routinely hedge currency exposures on interruptions could reduce revenues trading transactions that would otherwise and profits and could result in claims or give us a risk from movements in the 34 Misys plc Annual Report 2007 Misys is changing predominantly in US dollars.
However, Treasury controls and operations the floating rate nature of the debt gives the Group an exposure to interest rate The Group has in place treasury policies fluctuations.
In managing this we have that are reviewed annually by the Board sought a balance between the certainty and more regularly by the Treasury of interest charge and the flexibility to Committee that comprises certain permit our borrowing levels to change executive Directors and a non-executive dramatically, such as following a Director.
The policy covers all significant substantial corporate transaction.
areas of treasury activity, including Consequently the Group has protected foreign exchange, interest rate, liquidity the interest charge on US$200m of the and credit risk.
The Group has a bank debt from increases in interest rates centralised treasury that provides a via an interest rate cap that matures in service to the corporate centre and to December 2008.
This gives the Group a the operating businesses.
Its primary mixture of floating rate and capped debt.
function is to manage the foreign exchange, interest rate, liquidity and The Group has operations in over credit risks arising from the operations of 30 countries and trades in over 120. the business.
It is not a profit centre and Subsidiaries may trade in currencies other enters into derivative contracts solely for than the functional currency of their the purpose of hedging the exposures operation and in such cases the currency that arise in the normal course of is usually sterling or US dollars.
The Groups policy is not to Groups policy to eliminate transactional enter into speculative transactions.
currency exposures through forward foreign currency contracts as soon as the The Treasury Committee is responsible contractual commitments to receive or for ensuring that the Group operates pay the foreign currency is known.
within the treasury policies agreed by the Board.
Regular reports are made to the The Group is also subject to a currency Board from the Treasurer and from the exposure on the translation of the net Treasury Committee.
assets of, and profits earned by, its overseas subsidiaries which are primarily The Group finances its operations those located in the US and Europe.
through a mixture of retained profits, new This exposure is not hedged.
equity, loan notes and bank borrowings.
It is policy to ensure that the Group has The Group invests its cash and cash sufficient financial resources to support equivalents, and enters into contracts the business and, as a result, substantial for derivative financial instruments, with committed facilities are maintained.
The institutions of high credit quality, and Group also has a policy to ensure that it limits its exposure to any one maintains a comfortable margin between counterparty.
The Groups revenue is committed facilities and the likely peak derived from various industries and could borrowings during a year.
be directly affected by the overall conditions of those industries.
The large The core debt financing of the Group is number of customers, their geographical provided by a revolving facility of US$659m distribution, and the reasonably short 333m at 31 May 2007 exchange rates.
collection terms mitigates the credit risk This comprises a tranche of US$585m, associated with this.
The Group routinely which matures in March 2010 and a monitors its exposure to credit losses second tranche of US$74m, which and maintains an allowance for matures no later than December 2008. anticipated losses.
During the year the maturity of the second tranche was extended from a final maturity which had been March 2008.
These facilities allow the Group to borrow funds in any major currency at the related floating rates of interest.
The Group has substantial investments Jim Malone in the US and consequently the debt Chief Financial Officer, Misys plc drawn under the revolving facility is Misys plc Annual Report 2007 35 Financial review
